
                               1 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 31, 2005

Redwood refuses to rule out our exit from the EU

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 572 words


JOHN Redwood, one of Michael Howard's key lieutenants, last night refused to
rule out a British withdrawal from the European Union if a Tory government
failed to renegotiate its membership.

Mr Redwood, the Tory Party's deregulation spokesman, has for years been arguing
for a full-scale renegotiation in order to claw back powers seized by Brussels.

Brought back into the shadow cabinet in a reshuffle last year, Mr Redwood said
soon after being appointed that the Tories were 'ruling nothing out' as they
considered changes to British membership of the EU.

His tough rhetoric is designed to neutralise any threat posed to the Tories by
the anti-EU UK Independence Party.

In an interview with the Financial Times, Mr Redwood confirmed a Conservative
government would go to Brussels with a 'renegotiation package' assuming Britain
votes No in the referendum on the new EU constitution expected next year.

It would include withdrawal from the common fisheries policy, more control for
the UK on the social chapter and employment and 'whatever powers are required'
to allow the UK to control immigration, Mr Redwood said.

In his interview, he stopped a long way short of suggesting Britain would leave
the EU. He said his party was 'not envisaging' such an outcome and dismissed as
a 'Labour lie' the claim that the Tory policy was tantamount to withdrawing from
Europe.

Tory leader Mr Howard believes his stance of resisting any further integration
and seeking negotiated withdrawal from certain aspects of EU membership has put
the Tories in the centre ground of the debate.

Asked if Britain would stay in the EU, no matter what, Mr Redwood said: 'I'm
saying that we will negotiate a better deal for Britain.' Pressed to say whether
that deal would be within the framework of the EU, Mr Redwood replied: 'I've
said what I want to say. We will negotiate the best deal for Britain.' Labour
Ministers insist the Tories' approach is unworkable. Before an EU country can
secure major changes, the other 24 member states need to agree.

There will also be concerns that hardening the rhetoric on Europe could reopen
party divisions by unsettling the pro-European Left of the party.

Mr Redwood also pledged that the Tories would slash vast swathes of red tape if
they won power including many EU regulations, following talks with partners.

He said he had a 'pile of paperwork more than seven feet high' of regulations
and performance targets he aimed to scrap if his party won power.

The Tories are promising a deregulation Bill within months of winning office.
One of its main aims would be to reduce the burden of red tape on small
companies.

PUPILS who attack teachers will face up to six months in a young offenders'
institution under a Tory government, the party will pledge today.

Pupils inflicting more than superficial injuries would face tougher sentences.
Parents who are violent towards teachers would be jailed or fined Pounds 5,000.

Courts would be asked to treat assaults on teachers as seriously as those on
policemen. Attacking an officer is regarded as aggravated rather than common
assault and carries a heavy penalty.

Shadow Education Secretary Tim Collins will unveil the measures today when he
addresses the NAS/UWT teaching union conference in Brighton.

If elected, the Tories could introduce a Teacher Protection Bill in time for the
autumn term this year.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 31, 2005

JAILED TEACHER MADE 15 CALLS FOR HELP TO POLICE . . .SHE WAS IGNORED; AS MOTHER
LAUNCHES APPEAL OVER SHOOTING YOBS, FAMILY REVEALS HER DESPAIR

BYLINE: By Paul Broster and Richard Moriarty

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 822 words


A WOMAN teacher jailed for shooting at yobs who terrorised her family launched a
bid for freedom last night as she defiantly defended her actions.

Linda Walker, 48, spoke out for the first time as her family told how she had
been let down by the justice system.

Her decision to appeal against her conviction came after her children and
partner paid an emotional visit to the special needs teacher at the women's
prison where she will endure her six-month sentence.

Mrs Walker, who had enjoyed a blemish-free, 25-year teaching career before the
controversy, was jailed after firing an air-pellet pistol close to yobs who had
plagued her family with vandalism and abuse.

Yesterday son Craig, 17, told how the family had complained to police 15 times
but the gang was allowed to run amok, forcing his mother to take the law into
her own hands.

In a statement from her cell in Styal Prison, Cheshire, Mrs Walker said: "We
have applied to appeal against the conviction on the grounds of new evidence
which proves that what I was telling police with regard to these boys coming to
our house uninvited was correct.

"I shot an unloaded air pistol at the pavement when a convicted criminal invaded
my personal space, taunted me to shoot him and refused to move away from me."

Despite evidence in court that pellets were fired from the gun, one of the
grounds for Mrs Walker's appeal will be her insistence that it was not loaded.

Earlier her partner Jim Cavanagh, a 56-year-old college lecturer, visited Mrs
Walker at Styal for an hour along with her teaching assistant daughter Donna,
20, and son Craig.

Breaking his silence for the first time, he told the Daily Express:

"Linda was coping as well as could be expected in the circumstances, but who
knows how time will take its toll on her in there.

"She is not a lady who is used to the surroundings of a prison and it will be a
difficult time.

"Her statement is the start of the bid to get her out of jail because she does
not deserve to be in there. All our thoughts are with her."

Craig, a student nurse, revealed that the family had suffered two years of
torment at the hands of the gang, despite repeated pleas to police.

"All the time we have telephoned about things but they have never even turned
up, " he said.

"They are supposed to be there and protect you when you are in danger, and you
ring them up and they don't come and it starts getting to you.

"Mum hadn't gone out there to hurt anyone. She was just fed up with our house
getting vandalised and she wanted to defend her property."

Craig also revealed that the family had received menacing phone calls from the
yobs at their home in Urmston, Manchester, because he is gay.

The hate campaign also included the gang stealing fish from the family's pond,
kicking in their front door and ripping wing mirrors from cars in the driveway.

Mrs Walker now also faces losing her job and her position is being considered by
Salford City Council.

She snapped in August last year after she found Craig's car covered in
washing-up liquid.

Storming from the house with her partner's gas-powered Walther CP88 pellet
pistol - normally used to scare squirrels away in the garden - she marched up to
the tearaways and allegedly fired six times into the pavement.

One of the gang, Robert McKiernan, 18, has convictions for burglary, theft and
criminal damage, while another youth, 16-year-old Nicholas Viollett, had been
convicted of shoplifting just one day before the incident.

Mrs Walker, who works at New Park School in Salford, was found guilty of affray
and possessing a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence following a trial
at Minshull Street Crown Court, Manchester.

But outrage continued to mount over her prison sentence yesterday.

Ukip's MEP for London, Gerard Batten, said he was "incensed" by the decision.
"Criminals just do not fear the law any more, while decent people are easy prey
and are easier to punish, " he said.

"This woman has had her life ruined by a prison sentence, while the criminals
laugh. Petty crime is out of control.

"The point is that ordinary decent people are being driven to distraction and if
the law doesn't protect them they are bound to go over the edge." Greater
Manchester Police said officers had only been called to the Walkers' home three
times and added that all allegations had been "fully investigated".

Mrs Walker, who has won praise from Ofsted inspectors, is head of food
technology and year 11 at New Park High School.

During her trial, jurors were told that Mrs Walker admitted she had "gone out
looking like a mad woman possessed", but added: "I was totally, totally
distressed."

She said: "I can't say I'm sorry I confronted the lad. I think I needed to do
that to get rid of my anger. That's why I am running around with a gun. I have
had enough, I have simply had enough."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               3 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 31, 2005, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 745 words


A new boss takes the reins at troubled Royal Academy

VThere is another episode in the highbrow soap opera being played out by senior
staff at one of our country's most august cultural institutions, the Royal
Academy of Arts.

On Tuesday, the RA quietly appointed a secretary to replace Lawson Fitt, a US
banker who resigned in controversial circumstances a few months back.

In conditions of near secrecy - bizarrely, there was no public announcement -
one Mary Ann Stevens began work in the role, which equates to that of chief
operating officer.

Her appointment follows a series of embarrassing resignations at the academy.
Fitt's departure - over a public falling out with the exhibitions secretary,
Norman Rosenthal, above - was followed by that of its president, Professor
Phillip King, and a curator, John Wilkins.

Another big beast, Professor Brendan Neiland, quit last year over a scandal
involving unauthorised transfers of £80,000.

According to The Art Newspaper, Stevens has "an intimate knowledge of the art
world and should find it easier to deal with academicians than her predecessor".

Her management skills are untested, but she's an ally of the colourful
Rosenthal.

Although Stevens has been told her role will last for at least a year, the RA
yesterday called it "temporary".

As to the lack of a formal announcement, a spokesman said: "It was an internal
appointment, so no external statement was required."

Vic Reeves shot my chicken

VVIC REEVES was sacked as the voice of "Oi, Churchill!" car insurance this week,
after being charged with drink driving.

If upsetting the health and safety lobby wasn't bad enough, the comedian is now
in trouble with an even more fearsome foe: the animal rights brigade.

In an interview with this newspaper yesterday, Reeves' wife - the former lap
dancer Nancy Sorrell with whom he is pictured, left - revealed he recently put a
terminally ill pet chicken out of its misery, with a rifle.

"His head was hanging off, but he didn't die straight away," she explained. "We
had to shoot him 10 times. It was awful."

Over to the RSPCA. "If he didn't seek prompt treatment from a qualified vet, an
offence under animal cruelty legislation has been committed," says a spokesman.

"Shooting a small animal 10 times can't be considered humane. On another note,
Vic Reeves can't be a very good marksman."

Good Evan(s)!

VWHY DOESN'T Evan Davis, the BBC's perky economics editor, ever appear in his
shirt sleeves?

"Evan has a whopping great tattoo down one arm," reports an acquaintance. "It's
a trendy black, tribal design that you'd expect to see on someone like David
Beckham. If viewers caught sight of it, they'd choke on their cornflakes."

Despite the sober nature of his day job, Davis, above, enjoys self-adornment.
His BBC nickname is "tinsel tits" - his nipples are pierced - and he's said to
sport an exotic piece of body jewellery known as a Prince Albert.

Political football

VALASTAIR CAMPBELL will be tempted to cease spinning next Saturday, when his
beloved Burnley FC play at Gillingham, who are battling relegation from the
Coca-Cola Championship.

By way of a tribute, the matchday sponsor has asked him to be guest of honour at
the match. He'll get a free lunch in the directors' box, and a chance to meet
the players afterwards.

Sadly, the gilded invitation is likely to be turned down. "The official sponsors
are none other than the UK Independence Party," I'm told. "If Campbell accepts,
he'll have to sit next to their candidate for Burnley at lunch. Given that
choice, I'd rather take my chance on the terraces."

VAnother day, another celebrity steps forward to jollify the general election
campaign. Sharon Osbourne - reality TV star and wife of Ozzy - has been invited
to contest the Yorkshire seat of Hemsworth.

In a move reminiscent of the recent launch of Lawrence Llewellyn-Bowen's Purple
Party, a local action group has asked Osborne to stand on a "law and order"
ticket. She was recently the victim of a high-profile burglary.

Her spokesman said yesterday that she was "seriously considering" the offer and
there are inevitable plans for a TV documentary to follow the campaign.

Chances of success are limited, though: sitting Labour MP John Trickett enjoys a
majority of over 15,000, and the bookmakers Ladbrokes rate Osbourne as a 100-1
outsider.

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               4 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 31, 2005, Thursday

HOWARD'S MIKE THE KNIFE

BYLINE: LORRAINE FISHER

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 181 words

HIGHLIGHT: ATTACK: Gorman and Tory Howard


MICHAEL Howard had something of the knife about him over Howard Flight's
sacking, a leading former Tory said yesterday.

Teresa Gorman attacked the Tory party leader saying: "Mr Howard has more than
something of the night about him. He has something of the knife about him.
Howard Flight deserved no such brutality."

Mr Howard was nicknamed Dracula after MP Anne Widdecombe once said he had
"something of the night about him". Mrs Gorman accused Mr Howard of "spitting in
the eye" of Mr Flight by telling him he could not stand as an MP again after he
was taped saying the Tories planned secret public spending cuts.

Ms Gorman, who is not a a member of the Ukip but was speaking at its women's
conference in Bournemouth, said: "Howard Flight is one of the best things that
has happened to the Tory Party. He has all the makings of a future Chancellor.

"Yet the way he has been treated has been abominable.

"Michael Howard is creating problems by appearing to want to be seen as a man of
discipline, but he seems to be doing this at the behest of the Labour Party."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               5 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 30, 2005, Wednesday

A MOST UNLIKELY STORY;
 WHILE FOR SOME WRITERS REJECTION SIGNALS THE DEATH KNELL TO ANY

BYLINE: DOMINIC PRINCE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1813 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Writer's block (clockwise from left): Betsy Bell, George Courtauld, and Homer
Sykes; Jonathan Evans; Paula Soplloway; Toby Madden


History does not relate which individual publishers turned down J K Rowling's
Harry Potter manuscript, or indeed whether they are still in the publishing
game. Imagine the stigma and the shame, let alone the figure of fun they must
now be. Yet Rowling is not alone in rejection. William Golding's Lord of the
Flies, Irvine Welsh's Trainspotting, Jonathan Coe's What a Carve Up!, and the
Booker Prize winner Yan Martel's Life of Pi were all given the thumbs down by a
host of London publishers.

While the aforementioned writers all finally found publishers to produce their
work, for many others, rejection simply becomes a spur to pursue their dream of
publication alone. There is a new breed of writer who, passed over by big
publishers, decide to go it alone and self-publish. Not as an exercise in
vanity, but because they genuinely feel that the publishers have got it wrong.
Driven by determination and a belief in their own judgement, they are now helped
by the wealth of new technologies that make self-publishing easier - and cheaper
- then ever before.

I first met George Courtauld last November, when a mutual friend took us out for
lunch. Courtauld, a headhunter, had published a book called The Pocket Book of
Patriotism. The book had grown from a poster he had designed for his children
that featured key events in history interspersed with features such as
Churchill's speeches, the Ten Commandments and the text of Magna Carta.

As charming as he was, I suggested to Courtauld that the best chance he had with
his book was to try to shift it in bulk to the UK Independence Party. "People
said that I'd be mad to publish a book with no experience of publishing. They
also said that patriotism is a dirty word. There were only a few people who
thought that it was a good idea," says Courtauld.

A week or two later, he had a party to launch The Pocket Book of Patriotism in
London. A slim volume, it looked old-fashioned, like a school textbook from the
Fifties, and had a certain quaintness. During the evening, he sold 560 copies at
£6.99 each. By the end of the following week, he'd sold his entire print run of
10,000.

Courtauld soon found himself being feted by the Daily Mail, The Daily Telegraph
and The Sun, whose editors had all been invited to the party. The Pocket Book of
Patriotism proved to be a useful little textbook, while simultaneously tapping
into a lucrative market that publishers had overlooked. After the initial
publicity, sales took off by word of mouth.

Even an established writer can find it difficult to shift as many as 10,000
books in a short space of time. That Courtauld sold out his first print run in a
week is testament to his determination and courage. He ordered a second print
run of 25,000 copies, and within a week he had orders for over 37,000 more. "It
was all done from home," says Courtauld. "The postman used to come into the
kitchen each morning and pour out sackfuls of post on to the floor - it looked
like Mount Everest!"

But when he first started to tout the book last autumn, only two small,
independent bookstores, John Sandoe in Chelsea and Heywood Hill in Mayfair,
would stock it. The big outlets turned him down flat. "They said there was no
market for it. Every single one of them turned it down. Then, Sandoe took six
and Heywood took 25 - there was no feeling like it. The petty triumph of getting
31 books into bookshops was fantastic; I went home and opened a bottle of
champagne immediately."

The book has now sold over 167,000 copies, and the big wholesalers are begging
to be supplied. And, Courtauld adds, with no small amount of glee, "I'm about to
bring out an illustrated version of the book in conjunction with Ebury Press
Ebury was one of the seven publishers who originally turned him down ".

Meanwhile, The Pocket Book continues to sell. Although he won't discuss how much
he has made, Courtauld does say, "It has been profitable". That maybe something
of an understatement - even if he's only making £2 a copy (and that is almost
certainly an understatement), he has made more than £300,000 since Christmas.

Nobody really knows how many self-publishers there are in the UK, but type self-
publishing into Google and you will see that there is no end of help for those
interested. Websites such as Publish and Be Damned (www.pabd.com) are a good
starting point. Some estimates say that there are tens of thousands of
self-publishers, but one thing's for sure, the technology has made it much
easier. The internet has brought down the cost of self-publishing, and much of
the work can be done over the internet and on a home computer. A typical
self-publish venture can get off the ground for a few thousand pounds now,
whereas previously you'd be talking about a minimum of £10,000.

You might think that the photographer Homer Sykes would be well-known enough to
have all of his work published in the mainstream, but two of his 12 books were
self-published. His most recent is a beautiful social portrait called Hunting
with Hounds that he brought out at the end of last year. I met Sykes at the
Waterloo Cup hare-coursing event in February, when I bought a copy of the book
for £20. I was his 199th customer; he'd sold nearly £4,000 worth of books over
the three-day event.

"Profit is not the motive. The reason I do it is to get my work seen by a wider
public, and it's nice to make a profit and bypass the publisher," he says. Sykes
had already self-published a previous book called On the Road Again, a record of
his four trips over 30 years travelling America on a Greyhound bus. That book
was profitable and generated a lot of work for Sykes, so it was clear to him
that this was the route to take. "I love hard work, so I produced it, funded it
and saw it off the press, and then got down to selling it. I have a main
distributor selling into bookshops, and then I handle the non-traditional
outlets such as fishing shops and gun shops. I also sell it out of the back of
my car to interested focus groups. I sold 600 copies over Christmas in that
way," he says.

The first print run of Sykes' book was 2,225, but they have all been sold and
he's upped the ante slightly for the second one with 2,500. With many publishers
working on margins of 600 per cent, it makes clear commercial sense to
self-publish.

However, not all self publishers are so successful. Louise Haines, the editorial
director of the publishing company Fourth Estate, says that most of the
unsolicited manuscripts she gets are rubbish. "You do make mistakes from time to
time, of course, and when you do you kick yourself. But we get thousands of
manuscripts sent to us, and they go into what is known as the Slush Pile. Now,
sadly, there are fewer people to go through it because there are fewer
resources. In the old days, we had a reader, now we just don't have the time or
money, and obviously mistakes are made. I've turned down books that have gone on
to do incredibly well elsewhere," she admits.

One of the reasons that Tim Stafford published his own book, The Journal of
Mortimer Fish, was to be in control of the publication process. He wrote the
book, a charming and amusing read about the life and times of a terrier dog
(Mortimer Fish) as a cathartic exercise following the very sudden death of his
wife from cancer in January 2000. "I hawked it around and sent it to at least 40
publishers and they all wrote back saying they weren't interested. In the back
of my mind, I'd thought about doing it myself so, when the local publisher
Dovecote Press turned me down, I decided to go ahead on my own," says Stafford.

To be fair it was the Dovecote Press that got him going. They told him that he
should have a go at publishing the book himself and were full of enthusiasm and
encouragement. "Publishing had gone into a downturn, so I thought that I would
try to do it myself. If you send a book to a publisher, it is rather like
sending a child to boarding school - you are not quite sure how they are going
to come back," says Stafford.

So, was it worth it? "Oh yes," he says, "It has been great fun and it's selling
by word of mouth. People ring me and say, I've just been staying in a house and
your book was in my bedroom. I think it is wonderful and I would like to order
six copies please'."

The book sells at £7.95, and the first edition of 1,100 sold out. The second
edition, which cost £1,200 for 1,000 copies has sold 300 so far. But now
Waterstone's is plugged into the book, and Stafford expects to sell the
remaining 700 copies shortly.

"I went round the smaller bookshops myself because Waterstone's had said no.
Then, when it did say yes, it asked for a 45 per cent discount on the cover
price, and wanted me to pay the postage. I said that a maximum discount of 30
per cent was all I would give it, and it could bloody well pay the postage
itself." It did, and Stafford has made a nice little profit, both emotional and
financial from The Journal of Mortimer Fish. So much so that he is busily
working on a follow-up. "It will be in a similar vein, but it will be about
hunting," says Stafford.

Betsy Bell was not only turned down by publishers, she had the indignity of
being turned down by an agent. "I'd written a student cookbook and no one wanted
it. I went to Ebury Press and it said no, I went to an agent and the answer was,
Without a TV series, the answer's no'." Bell lives in Yorkshire but had two boys
at Central St Martins College of Art in London who were rapidly running out of
money. "The reason was simple, they were having breakfast at Starbucks, lunch at
Pret A Manger and dinner at McDonald's!"

By 2002, having been turned down by everyone, she decided to print the book
herself. One thousand copies of Hard Up and Hungry were duly printed, and Bell
got down to selling. "Foyles, Blackwell's and Ottakar's, as well as Books for
Cooks in Notting Hill were all brilliant. People really got behind the book."

And so was the book, according to reports. "The first 1,000 copies cost £3,000
and I was selling them at £10 a copy, even with a 40 per cent discount to the
shops, it was still a very good business for me," says Bell. At 134 pages, with
82 recipes and pictures, the book just sold and sold and sold, like all the
mainstream publishers said it wouldn't. "It's unashamedly middle class, with
lots of cheap food, and it was great fun to do. We sold a lot of copies and I
loved doing it, I loved proving the publishers wrong," says Bell.

And guess what Betsy did next? After two years of publishing, she felt the book
had become a drag and no longer warranted her attention. "It had gone from being
great fun to being a chore. I'd made a bit of money and it was time to get out."
She recently sold it to Ebury Press, the company that, all those years ago, had
turned it down.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           March 30, 2005, Wednesday

Travellers' tales

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 96 words


Asylum-seekers, who will be a huge issue in the election campaign, take centre
stage tomorrow in their own show. Skinless, billed as a "burlesque cabaret",
takes the stories of the impoverished (or, for the UKIP voters, lazy and
exploitative) travellers who seek respite on our shores.

It is the work of John Wright, who founded the award-winning theatre companies
Trestle and Told by an Idiot, and uses songs and monologues based on real cases
to look at the journey of a newly arrived asylum-seeker. It's at the Oval House
before a hoped-for West End run.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           March 30, 2005, Wednesday

The ads of March

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: Business; 53

LENGTH: 178 words


PATRICK EVERSHED, the veteran fund manager at New Star Asset Management, has
laid out another £14,000 of his own money for a front-page advert in The Daily
Telegraph in support of the Conservatives. The president of the Cities of London
and Westminster Conservative Association, a regular advertiser, says: "It is
time to unite behind Michael Howard and The Conservative Party."

Not brilliant timing from a City man, just after Howard sacks the party's City
spokesman, I suggest? "It took four weeks to get in," says Evershed. "Things
happen. As a result of what's happened, it's even more important everyone does
rally around Michael Howard."

At the time he booked the ad, he was concerned about the eurosceptic vote
drifting off to the UKIP and so letting in Labour. On Flight's sacking, Evershed
is diplomatic.

"You certainly won't find me criticising Howard Flight," he says. "But all of us
in the Conservative Party have got to be extremely careful we don't say
something that would allow the Labour Party to say we're cutting services."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 29, 2005, Tuesday

Pay more council tax? I'll go to jail

BYLINE: Heather Nicholson

SECTION: Features; Times2; 10

LENGTH: 1183 words


A retired vicar and his wife are taking a stand on council tax rises above
inflation. Heather Nicholson reports

ALFRED RIDLEY is a retired vicar who is prepared to go to prison on a point of
principle: that pensioners, and anyone else living on a low, fixed income,
should not be required to pay council-tax increases above the rate of inflation.

Talking to him and his wife, Una, in their neat semi-detached home in Towcester,
Northamptonshire, about a possible prison sentence is surreal. The Rev Alfred
Forbes Ridley, a law-abiding citizen, is not gung-ho about going behind bars.
Far from it. He is 70 and has a heart condition. "I am fit but not terribly
fit," he says. "If I were sent to a category A prison that would be hard, but I
presume I would be sent to an open prison and that would not be so bad."

He finds himself in this extraordinary position because last April a council tax
bill from South Northamptonshire Council for £1,038.65 dropped through his
letterbox. This was a 6.8 per cent increase over 2003, when the couple's tax was
£974.51. Like many other pensioners since last April, he decided to take a stand
and pay only a 2.5 per cent cost-of-living rise above last year's community
charge.

By August the council decided that it was not going to accept the Ridleys'
underpayments and they were summoned to appear in court for non-payment of
council tax. Ridley says: "The chairman of the bench said that she understood
our point of view but had to stick to the law. A liability order was granted
against us."

They ignored the order -and the bailiffs arrived. Una Ridley, who gives piano
lessons, explains in a soft voice the bizarre rules of engagement with bailiffs.

Three times they have knocked on her front door with the intention of "removing
goods for sale at public auction" to recover enough money to pay their taxes.
Most of us would quake. She is resolute.

"So long as you make yourself secure, close all the downstairs windows and all
the upstairs ones, too, the bailiffs cannot make an entry," she says. "They are
not allowed to break the door down, so you have to make sure that they cannot
get in easily.

"Alfred talked to them through the glass panel so that they could see each
other.

The first bailiff was a young man who looked a bit intimidating; he had a shaved
head, but he had a quiet voice and spoke politely. Eventually he pushed a form
through the door and left.

"The third bailiff came at 7.30am and I had a nice little chat through the
bedroom window, when I told him that nothing had changed; we were not moving our
position.

He said 'Right' and left us a committal notice telling us that we could go to
prison for up to 90 days for 'wilful' non-payment of the community charge."

With their unpaid taxes and the bailiffs' costs, they now owe £635.15. But they
are not the only ones protesting. Councils raising community charges last year
have been challenged by ordinary householders in many places. Pensioners and
local bureaucrats are meeting across courtrooms the length and breadth of
Britain, and huge costs are being incurred.

Many people will remember the diminutive Elizabeth Winkfield, of Westward Ho!,
who, at the age of 83, was summoned to Barnstaple Magistrates' Court in Devon
for withholding £98.80 of her £747.81 council tax. Other protesters were
chagrined when it was discovered that she was a member of the UK Independence
Party, and she sold her story to a tabloid newspaper through Max Clifford, the
publicity guru who was working for UKIP at the time. But that does not
invalidate pensioners' genuine grievances.

Bills now arriving on our doorsteps have suspiciously modest increases, but the
protesters are not fooled. They know that after an election the tax is likely to
rocket again. And there is the threat looming of properties being rebanded.

In Wales, where rebanding has already happened, some householders' tax liability
has increased by between 12 and 33 per cent, according to Christine Melsom of
IsItFair, a group that campaigns against the current council tax system. "We
were led to believe that the ups would be balanced by the downs," she says. "But
for every four houses that have been moved up in the property bands, only one
has moved down."

The Ridleys live on a basic state pension of £131.20, plus a Pounds 400-a-month
church pension, which means that they do not qualify for the pension credit
-which Help the Aged says is so complicated to claim for that thousands of
poorer old people don't get it anyway.

Ridley is well aware of the biblical lesson "render unto Caesar" and is not
making a stand against paying taxes per se -just against what he considers to be
unfair increases. And he is not proposing to sacrifice his liberty simply for
his own ends. "I am doing this for everyone affected by these increases as much
as for myself," he says. "Therefore I think it is the right thing to do.

"We have thought it through. Other people cannot afford to protest because they
have young families to look after, or they are elderly and on their own. We are
independent and we can give each other strength and support."

His wife adds: "We do sometimes get depressed and wound up. But it helps
enormously when we get a phone call from other people having difficulty paying
and who are taking a stand. That fires us up again. We can warn them about court
procedures which are so baffling that, if you are not used to going to court,
can catch you out.

"We nearly missed our own case because of a misunderstanding on the part of the
court usher; it was so traumatic after everything we had been through. I don't
think it was deliberate but it is easy in the circumstances to become paranoid."

No one disputes that deciding who pays what in local taxes is a complex issue.
But according to IsItFair, the less income you have, the higher percentage you
pay in council tax.

In a statement, South Northamptonshire Council says that it is obliged to take
recovery action against taxpayers who do not keep up to date with their
payments.

"We issued council-tax bills to 34,186 households this year," it says. "Since
April 1, 2004, 1,533 summonses have been issued and the courts have granted 846
liability orders."

The Ridleys are learning more than they ever wanted to know about the law, which
makes them anxious but not intimidated. They expect their final summons to
arrive in May, when a prison sentence could be handed out.

The thought of a member of the Establishment (he still takes services
occasionally) having a "record" does not disturb the former vicar, because he is
determined not to surrender.

"I believe we can call on a duty solicitor but I'm not sure that we will," he
says. "As I am retired, I don't have a bishop but I asked the Church of England
pensions board if what I am doing would affect living in their house, and they
said no.

"I tried to speak to our MP, Tim Boswell (Con), but he told us that we had to
obey the law. Going to prison is the right answer for me."

www.isitfair.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 27, 2005, Sunday

THE PERILS OF HOWARD AND THE NUCLEAR OPTION

BYLINE: NORMAN TEBBIT

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 592 words


Howard Flight's careless remarks on the scope for public spending economies seem
to have ended his political career. They leave endless argument over whether
Michael Howard's nuclear response will choke off Lib-Lab claims of a
flesh-creeping secret agenda or inflate a storm in a teacup to a political gale.
Mr Howard believes Mr Flight's remarks, if left unpunished, would raise doubts
over his own political integrity. That he regards as a capital offence.

Ken Clarke remains free to flout Howard's European policy - but not to suggest
Mr Howard has a secret one. Any Tory is free to press for more or less public
expenditure, but not to imply Howard has a secret cuts agenda.

There is clear logic in that, but politics is about judgement as well as logic.
Many Tories will question if Flight should be virtually expelled from
Parliament.

Margaret Thatcher was tolerant of the indiscreet comments of some ministers
about her policies, and there are Thatcherites who see Flight's downfall as
fall-out from the struggle between the Tories' traditionalist and modernising
wings. They see nothing remarkable in Flight's view that the James Review might
have thrown up technically feasible savings, which were rejected as politically
unacceptable. After all, Thatcher could have saved money by closing down British
Leyland - but she didn't. Thatcherites would say the electors are bright enough
to see that while prices are going down, and quality going up, at Tesco,
Waitrose, M&S and BHS, every service provided by government is getting dearer
and quality is falling.

They believe that voters could be persuaded that there are huge savings to be
had without cuts in services.

Ask a room full of teachers: "Who, outside your schools, adds value to your work
in the classroom?" Members of the National Union of Teachers are aware of the
town hall and Whitehall bureaucrats costing money that could be better spent.
Nurses and doctors facing cut backs today see the burdensome cost of area,
regional and national bureaucracy. Thousands of police are almost confined to
barracks, imprisoned by mountains of Home Office paperwork.

Thatcherites are aware that, when privatised British Airways and British Telecom
suffered losses, it was the shareholders, not the taxpayers, who paid, and good
management which cut costs and prices to survive. And who ever saw a government
department do that in the past eight years?

I would be surprised if a Michael Howard administration exhausted the scope for
savings in its first five years. The Flight affair may, or may not, affect the
election outcome but we will never know. What a pity that the culture of spin,
smear, distortion and lies should inhibit open public discussion over the costs
of providing services such as health and education, which all parties agree
should be maintained.

Between what is too risky to debate for fear of scaremongering distortion (or
just plain lies) and what is politically incorrect to mention, there will soon
be very little that mainstream politicians can discuss with the electors. No
wonder the splinter parties, BNP, Ukip, Greens and Respect are gaining support
and only half the electors are expected to vote.

And what a pity we are left to guess whether the taping of Howard Flight was an
Alastair Campbell operation or the work of a left-leaning Conservative
journalist on The Times? Norman Tebbit, now Lord Tebbit, is a former chairman of
the Conservative Party. He was Secretary of State for Trade and Industry between
1983 and 1985

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 27, 2005

NEWS BACKGROUND: The Tory who fell to earth: Flight's unguarded words risk
exposing rift over tax cuts between right-wingers and Howard loyalists

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1333 words


WHEN he rose to speak to a gathering of just over 50 in the vaulted cellars of
the Adam Street Club last Wednesday, Howard Flight believed himself among
friends.

The millionaire investment banker trotted through his routine 15-minute speech
about the James report, outlining Tory plans to slash so-called waste from
public spending and channel some of the cash back into tax cuts. He even loyally
- if perhaps somewhat over-optimistically - predicted a Tory victory by a
majority of around 25.

So when one of his audience asked if the party could go further, he thought his
answer - that the Tories could find more savings once in power, that James had
been 'sieved' to exclude some of his more dramatic ideas - was not outrageous.

Flight has argued the same thing to colleagues for years. Party officials had
also already fingered Flight, increasingly frustrated since his demotion from
Shadow Treasury chief secretary last year, as chief suspect for similar
briefings to the press.

But even as the audience cheered, somewhere among them was a mole with a tape
recorder. Within 24 hours, the recording had been handed to the Times ,
headlines were screaming of a secret plot to slash spending by much more than
Michael Howard had publicly pledged if he got in, and Flight's eight-year
Westminster career was over. It was not quite the instant coup de grace Howard's
aides make out - it required at least two swings of the axe, over two days - but
the ruthlessness of the response has left the party stunned.

Flight has spent much of the weekend holed up at his wife Christabel's family
fruit farm in rural Worcestershire, avoiding what he calls the 'bedlam' around
him. But he is doggedly carrying on constituency duties - and will attempt a
comeback.

'I remain an absolutely committed Conservative and where I am in a sense
sympathetic to Michael is that what matters is winning this election,' he told
The Observer yesterday.

'Although I am personally apologetic and embarrassed that this has caused all
this silly furore, the really big issue in this general election is who can get
better tax payer value for public expenditure.'

To his friends, Flight is just the latest victim of a series of successful
Labour 'stings'. One shadow Cabinet Minister yesterday accused Labour of
mounting an organised dirt-digging campaign nicknamed 'Operation Black Watch',
involving systematic taping of meetings of right-wing think-tanks in search of
frontbench indiscretions.

The Tory Chairman, Liam Fox, has been covertly recorded telling a Commons
meeting that tougher asylum policies could woo back deserters to the UK
Independence Party, while the frontbencher Gerald Howarth was taped discussing
political correctness at a dinner organised by the right-wing Freedom
Association: both tapes were passed to Labour-friendly newspapers.

Fraser Kemp, the wily assistant to general election co-ordinator Alan Milburn,
is known to monitor the websites of organisations such as Conservative Way
Forward, a Thatcherite grouping stuffed with Eurosceptics and zealous
taxcutters, for promising snippets. Flight's meeting was advertised on the
website, and open to all comers.

None the less, the affair was uniquely damaging because it risked exposing the
simmering rift between right-wingers who consider Howard's tax cut package too
timid, and loyalists who argue that the climate has changed - that state
spending is now seen by many voters as essential to public services, and tax
cuts as a possible threat. Flight's comments risked wrecking a year-long
strategy of reassuring voters that there were no cuts to frontline services
lurking in the shadows.

Shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin, an old friend of Flight, suggested the MP had
found himself trapped between the two camps: 'I imagine what happened probably
is that he found himself under pressure from people at that meeting with those
views and he didn't fancy telling them that he is very sorry but we weren't
going to live up to their expectations. This is something that I have got used
to telling such groups, and it isn't comfortable.'

Fears of further aggravating Tories who agree with Flight have led shadow
ministers to stress his views themselves are not unacceptable: Letwin describes
them as 'perfectly understandable', although adding that he does not share them.

Which is why on Thursday afternoon, when Flight was first rung by Howard after
the Times had approached party headquarters, only his resignation as
vice-chairman was required. There was no mention of his fitness to serve as an
MP. By the next morning, everything had changed.

AS LYNTON Crosby, the Tories' Australian election strategist, told a gathering
of the Gloucestershire county set in the Cotswolds last weekend, successful
politicians cannot be sentimental about their targets. Or, as he put it: 'If you
are going to do duck shooting, you go where the ducks are, not where you would
like them to be.' By Friday, Flight was a sitting duck.

Three gleeful Cabinet ministers - Alan Milburn, Ruth Kelly and John Reid - laid
into him at the party's morning press conference, accusing him of letting the
'cat out of the bag' about Tory spending plans. Howard's integrity, his personal
honesty, was now at stake. The hand of Crosby, who spent yesterday morning
closeted in party headquarters with Fox, has inevitably been detected in
Howard's ruthless response. In fact, just as central is likely to be Howard's
notorious temper: the leader is thin-skinned about personal criticism and
reacted furiously.

After checking with the party's inhouse legal officer that he could be removed
from their approved candidates list - effectively barring him from standing
under the Tory banner - Howard's office placed another call to Flight, this time
telling him that he was no longer to be an MP.

Standing in his Kent farmhouse kitchen - chosen to convey a relaxed, homely air
- Howard then told the cameras his action demonstrated the desire to be 'totally
straight' with the public: 'We will not promise one thing before an election and
do something else after.'

Privately, aides described Flight's remarks as 'absolutely outrageous',
insisting he had got what he deserved. None of that, however, deterred the MP
from claiming that he deserved to fight on, telling the Sun that he had the City
behind him and that 'I have been the guy turning them on and opening their
wallets' - the implication being that donations might dry up without him. His
wife is an active fundraiser, while he helped to run the Conservative City
Circle, the party's charm offensive in the Square Mile, launched in a flood of
champagne this month.

But one senior aide suggested he had got 'ideas above his station': the key
relationship with big donors is through co-chairman Lord Saatchi, the
advertising tycoon. By the end of the day, when Flight's constituency
association chairwoman Angela Litchfield - under heavy pressure from the party
leadership - issued a statement saying that despite being 'extremely sad' at his
departure the association was now seeking a new candidate, the battle appeared
over.

The Flights, however, are not giving up. The first sign of a fightback came
yesterday morning, when Lord Tebbit - who once employed the young Flight as an
assistant in his Epping constituency - failed to say during a radio interview
that in Howard's place he would have taken the same actions.

As for the MP himself, he plans to spend the weekend canvassing constituents for
support - even as his association looks for a replacement.

Party headquarters has being deluged with calls from hopefuls seeking the
nomination for a rare plum seat in one of the most solidly Conservative counties
in England. 'Millions of people may be jetting off for their bank holidays this
weekend, but about 200 Tories are heading for Arundel,' says one Shadow Cabinet
minister. This week will decide if they have had a wasted journey.


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             March 27, 2005, Sunday

Watch it, Michael -beheaded MPs talk

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 1148 words


A Conservative politician almost nobody has heard of has been sacked for saying
his party intends to make greater cuts in public expenditure than we have been
led to believe.

Every general election has its defining moment, some incident plucked from the
relentless debate that later comes to symbolise why one party lost and another
won. Perhaps 20 or 30 years from now we will look back at May 2005 and say to
ourselves wistfully -Ah, yes. The Howard Flight election: that was a good one.

Michael Howard's intention in sacking Mr Flight from his post of deputy chairman
was presumably to stop such a thing happening; to expunge the country of any
memory of Mr Flight. Unsacked, Mr Flight would have been harried and pursued
every waking hour for the next week or so. And at the end of that time there
would be lodged in the mind of the public the notion that the Tories can't be
trusted, they're not telling us the truth about their spending plans -no matter
how often Mr Flight publicly grovelled and recanted (which he has already done).

Mr Howard would look a little weak for tolerating such a blithe dismissal of
party policy at this crucial time. So I suppose it was right to kick him out of
his post.

During the election campaign four years ago, Oliver Letwin, a member of the
shadow Treasury team, drifted similarly off-message and was indeed most
vigorously harried and pursued.

He was not found by the press because Michael Portillo, the then shadow
chancellor, locked him in a suitcase for four weeks and refused to let him out
until the campaign was over.

Letwin simply disappeared from the face of the earth and was not seen until
every vote had been gathered in. This, incidentally, is what Labour has done
with Gerald Kaufman at every election since 1979, for different reasons.

Another member of the shadow Treasury team back then was a certain Mr Howard
Flight, which perhaps offers us a clue as to why he opened his mouth so
entertainingly last week. Perhaps he thought he would be afforded the same sort
of treatment as that meted out to Mr Letwin and quite fancied the idea.

I think we would all prefer to spend four or five weeks locked in a suitcase
than hare about the country, devoting every last joule of human energy to
haranguing uninterested or hostile voters. But if he thought that, he was wrong.

For this time around the Conservative party is led by someone with cojones who
will, what's more, slap them out on the table. At least when advised to do so by
Mr Lynton Crosby.

So Mr Howard did not merely sack Mr Flight: he has also disbarred him from
standing as a Tory MP. Short of sequestering his assets and ordering a cull of
his first born, it is hard to imagine a more profound overreaction.

More remarkably, the Arundel and South Downs Conservative Association declined
to man the barricades in support of its chosen candidate. Its chairman ran up
the white flag as soon as the call came through from Conservative Central
Office.

Flight looks as if he is out, friendless and, I daresay, very bitter.

All of which will be a problem for Mr Howard. The second, draconian sacking will
make Flight more difficult to forget than if he'd simply been deprived of his
deputy chairmanship. I suspect he will not allow us to forget him over these
next few weeks.

The risk is he could be there, right up until polling day, delivering his fiscal
encomiums in radio and television studios. Just how deeply, Mr Flight, will the
Tories eventually start hacking away at the public services, he will be asked
repeatedly.

He will each time pause, shake his head and deliver himself of a very damaging
answer. There is no longer any party machinery capable of stopping him. Is that
what Mr Howard and Mr Crosby want?

Of course, Michael Howard will be seen as "strong", which everybody seems to
agree is a good thing in a leader. But there is strength and there is brute
force. There is a reflexive brutality that can seem vindictive or petulant and
even, at times, an expression of political weakness.

Filmed sitting at his kitchen table on Friday evening, laying down the law and
looking resolute, Mr Howard seemed to suggest that everybody in the Conservative
party was required to sign up to every last detail of party policy: there can be
no debate. But, as Orwell had it, only a thug or an idiot could support
absolutely everything in a party manifesto.

While we might concur, in general, with the notion of collective responsibility
for frontbench politicians, especially on the cusp of an election, is it really
the case that there is no home anywhere within the 1922 committee for someone
who believes that public spending should be restricted a little more tightly
than the manifesto presently suggests?

Labour politicians have proclaimed gleefully that Mr Flight was sacked for
"telling the truth". But there are plenty of Tory MPs who worry far more that he
was not telling the truth but merely indulging in wishful thinking -and more's
the pity, frankly. The real problem for Mr Howard -after Mr Flight has delivered
himself of 200 or 300 malevolent interviews, perhaps under the colours of UKIP
or Veritas -is the suspicion that his party lacks a strategic vision.

While Mr Howard has got off to a good start with his guerrilla campaign shooting
gypsies and ending immigration, etc -we, the voters, are not very sure where he
stands philosophically on the subject of public expenditure, although we might
guess. Those who do attempt to map out the future in a little more detail have
been summarily silenced and extravagantly punished.

Certainly, Mr Howard has shown us his ruthless side of late. Party individuals,
be they idiots or principled ideologues, who have caused him problems have been
dealt with in a manner that would do credit to the leader's Transylvanian
antecedents.

There are quite a few heads on poles lining the road to Tory HQ.

The clever Danny Kruger was deprived of running against Tony Blair in Sedgefield
for having suggested that there should be some "creative destruction" of public
services. The entrepreneurial Jonathan Sayeed was removed for flogging guided
tours of the House of Commons to rich American tourists. And now we have the sad
case of the summarily dispossessed Mr Flight.

The message is clear enough: no deviation from party line, no self-indulgence
-be it philosophical or, in Mr Sayeed's case, pecuniary. Mr Howard is attempting
to erase the image of a party staffed with ill-disciplined half-wits, and I
suppose we should wish him well in this endeavour.

But there is a point at which strength begins to teeter into authoritarianism.

Many of us are asking much the same sort of questions as those raised at the
Conservative Way Forward group last week and we are still bereft of an answer.

rod.liddle@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             March 27, 2005, Sunday

Cattle trail

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 85 words

Because of EU regulations, a cow can be tracked from its birth to the day it
ends up on your dinner table. However, the Government cannot trace the numerous
asylum-seekers and illegal immigrants it has let in.

The UK Independence Party has studied this matter and now has a new policy in
its manifesto. Instead of the current practice of giving every asylum-seeker a
human rights lawyer (paid for by you and me), they will be given a cow.

Grham Cannon

UKIP Parliamentary candidate

Colne, Lancashire

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               13 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 March 26, 2005

HOWARD SACKS BIGMOUTH; GAFFE MP FLIGHT IS DUMPED

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 300 words


TORY leader Michael Howard has sensationally expelled his deputy chairman for
plunging the party into a pre-election crisis.

Right-wing MP Howard Flight dropped a bombshell by claiming the Tories had
secret plans to slash spending on public services.

He scored the amazing own goal by telling a meeting of City bigwigs his party
were hiding the true scale of massive cuts to sneak an election victory.

Furious Mr Howard immediately sacked him as the party's deputy chairman and
distanced himself from Mr Flight's "personal views".

And yesterday he effectively ended the blabbermouth MP's Conservative career by
banning him from standing for the Arundel and South Downs seat at the looming
general election.

The worried Tory leader desperately launched a damagelimitation campaign.

In a TV interview, Mr Howard denied they were planning huge spending cuts and
said: "If you believe in honesty you have to act on it. That's why I have done
what I have done today."

Tony Blair said the row proved the Tories wanted to return to the old days of
Thatcherism.

The PM said: "The fundamental point is that the Conservative Party has not
changed.

"That's why it is important that the country does not go backwards."

Mr Howard later issued a statement saying: "We will be straight with the British
people.We will not say one thing in private and another thing in public."

Last night Mr Flight vowed to fight Mr Howard's decision to bar him as a Tory
candidate. He said: "The issue of candidates has to be done in a proper
constitutional way. To do otherwise would expose Michael to attack."

The UK Independence Party has announced that its chairperson Petrina Holdsworth,
52, will fight Michael Howard for his Folkestone and Hythe seat at the General
Election.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               14 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 26, 2005, Saturday

UKIP v Howard

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 49 words


The UK Independence Party has announced that its chairman will stand against
Michael Howard, the Tory leader, in the forthcoming general election. Petrina
Holdsworth, 52, a barrister, will stand for the Folkestone and Hythe seat where
Mr Howard will be defending a majority of 5,907.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             March 25, 2005, Friday

Swing to Tories will not be enough to topple Blair

BYLINE: By Anthony King

SECTION: News; International Pg. 012

LENGTH: 988 words

ALTHOUGH the Conservatives almost certainly cannot remove the Blair Government
from office, YouGov's latest monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph suggests
that they stand a good chance of cutting deeply into Labour's parliamentary
majority.

With polling day probably less than six weeks away, the Tories seem poised to
take 30 to 40 seats from Labour, though few or none from the Liberal Democrats.

The substantial six-point lead that Labour opened up over the Tories last month
has now largely disappeared. Last month 38 per cent of voters told YouGov they
would back Labour at an early general election. That proportion has now fallen
to 35 per cent.

The Conservatives, meanwhile, have edged up two points to 34 per cent, leaving
only the narrowest of margins between the two parties.

Two features of YouGov's recent surveys for The Daily Telegraph are remarkable.

One is that, as in the case of other opinion polls, the surveys' findings on
voting intention appear acutely sensitive to whichever party's political agenda
currently dominates the media. In the immediate aftermath of last week's Budget,
Labour was up. However, as soon as the Conservatives began to capture the
headlines with their initiative on illegal gipsy camps, Labour went down.

The implication is that a small but measurable segment of the electorate lacks
settled views and may head off in any direction at a May election.

Such voters used to be called "floating voters". They still appear to be
floating, but more like feathers on air.

The other feature of YouGov's data is, if anything, even more remarkable.

Although Labour has lost support from time to time in recent months, the Tories
have failed to gain it. At the moment, 34 per cent of voters say they are
inclined to back the Conservatives. That statistic has not risen above 34 per
cent since April last year.

What seems to happen is that, even when the Conservatives score points off the
Government, as they frequently do, the principal beneficiaries are not usually
the Tories but other parties <!-- 2212(unknown) --> a fluctuating combination of
Liberal Democrats and minor parties such as the UK Independence Party, Respect
and the Scottish and Welsh national parties.

Conservative posters at the moment are asking: "Are you thinking what we're
thinking?" The trouble from the Tories' point of view is that even when the
answer is "Yes" -- as it frequently is -- the effect is putting voters off
Labour but without as yet drawing many of them towards the Conservatives.

If YouGov's latest results were replicated at a general election, the Tories
might feel they had won the campaign but Labour would still be comfortably in
power.

In policy terms, there is no secret about the two major parties' electoral
strengths and weaknesses. Until the 1990s most voters regarded the Conservatives
as the sound party, the reliable party, on the economy. Now-adays the sound
party, the safe pair of hands, is Labour.

The financial chaos of the early 1990s under John Major and the Conservatives
and Gordon Brown's subsequent success as Chancellor have left a profound
impression, one that looks like lasting.

A glance at the section of the chart headed "Best party to handle" makes the
point. YouGov asked respondents to indicate which party they preferred on a wide
range of issues. As can be seen, Labour is preferred on almost every aspect of
economic management as well as on most of its traditional welfare state issues.
Any poll conducted in the 1980s would have painted a very different picture.

The Conservatives' areas of strength are on a much narrower front. Apart from
being marginally ahead on taxation in general and council tax in particular, the
Tories are still in the lead only on law and order and asylum and immigration.

On issues of this kind -- what Americans call "gut" issues -- Tory policies
continue to have widespread appeal but at the same time are benefiting the Tory
Party itself less than its campaign strategists must have hoped.

However, most voters are not calculating machines and formal policy declarations
are not everything. Image also matters -- people's more "touchy-feely" sense of
what the various parties symbolise.

One of the reasons for Labour's relative decline since 2001 is undoubtedly the
belief of a large majority of voters, currently 63 per cent, that the Blair
Government has not proved "honest and trustworthy".

However, the figures in the chart suggest that few voters believe a Howard
Government would turn out to be any more trustworthy.

The figures show plainly that neither major party has an overwhelmingly positive
image but they also show that Labour's image is broadly more favourable than
that of the Conservatives.

In particular, far more voters dismiss the Tories than dismiss Labour for being
"out of tune with modern Britain", "stuck in the past" and "wanting to help only
a minority".

It may take a new generation of Tory leaders to persuade a critical mass of
voters that the Conservative Party has changed in some fundamental way.

The election campaign -- even though it has not formally begun -- has already
had one striking effect.

Last July YouGov found that 55 per cent of voters reckoned that the two major
parties' policies were "much of a muchness" whereas only 32 per cent thought
their policies were "very different".

In YouGov's latest survey those figures have changed markedly. The proportion
believing the parties' policies are virtually indistinguishable has fallen
sharply from 55 per cent to 41 per cent. The proportion believing there are
significant differences between the two parties has risen from 32 to 41 per
cent.

Both major parties set out to persuade voters that, when the day comes, the
choice they are asked to make will be meaningful. It seems they have already had
a considerable measure of success.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               16 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 25, 2005

G2: Real lives: When Kilroy came to stay: 'What Gypsies are getting away with
must be stopped,' says Robert Kilroy-Silk. So what happened when he agreed to
spend four nights on a Travellers' campsite? Daniel Lee asks them

BYLINE: Daniel Lee

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1441 words


It is not easy to find the Hope Lane Travellers' site on the border of
Cambridgeshire and Norfolk. It sits in the middle of dramatically flat,
windswept marshland at the end of a long road dotted with newly built houses
outside the hamlet of St John's Fen End. The site is home to 24 Traveller
families, among them Clifford and Janie Codona.

They moved there in February, after being evicted from their previous home at
Woodside camp in Bedfordshire. Clifford and his wife Janie had lived on the
17-acre Woodside site, owned as a cooperative by its 27 families, for eight
years. They shared it, in the traditional Gypsy fashion, with their extended
family: son Mark, his wife Leanne, and their three-year-old son Jacob; daughter
Lisa, her husband Billy and their 10-month old son Billy Levi. Now the family
has mostly been scattered round the country to find accommodation.

In the weeks leading up to their eviction, the family became so desperate about
their situation that they agreed to offer a bed on the encampment to one of
their most outspoken critics. Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television
presenter and member of the UK Independence party, is now leading his own party
Veritas which he promises will speak "the truth" about asylum and immigration.
"What Gypsies are getting away with in some parts of the country," he has
written, "is totally wrong and must be stopped." But he had agreed to take part
in a Channel 4 documentary in which he stayed with a Gypsy family to experience
their lifestyle close up. Clifford agreed to host him, he says, "to open
(Kilroy-Silk's) eyes to the reality of Gypsy life", though they also hoped that
the attendant publicity might allow them to stay at the site. (In the end it
made no difference; they were evicted and Leanne and Jacob are the only members
of the extended family who live with Clifford and Janie at Hope Lane.)

The couple wipe their feet and remove their shoes as they step into their
trailer. It is large - about 20ft by 9ft - scrupulously clean and tidy with an
almost-overflowing vase of flowers in the corner, dividing the seats that run
around the walls. A double divan is just visible through the partially open
bedroom door and a television perches on a shelf. The kitchen and bathroom
facilities are in separate trailers nearby.

At the initiative of the production companies behind the programme, Kilroy-Silk
agreed to spend four nights staying in a caravan near the Codonas. "To start
with it was a rich man-poor man situation," says Clifford. "He's a man that has
nothing to worry about, and I have everything to worry about. We had to get that
out of the way first. When a person like him comes to visit you have to think
why he wanted to do it. He had his own motives. Sometimes he was pleasant, when
he was trying to understand my circumstances, and he would sit and listen to
what I was saying. But he was often unpleasant. He couldn't be ordinary if he
tried."

The politician was respectful and polite, say the couple, offering to take his
shoes off when he entered their van, and asking frequently whether particular
behaviour was acceptable or unacceptable. "He did keep things pleasant, even
though we were in the middle of a horrific eviction. He did try to help us clear
up when were finally evicted, but the council wouldn't give us time for
anything. We had conversations off camera, and he tried to get us to change our
ways, but he was quite friendly."

Clifford insists he can't understand why people don't like Travellers. "Isn't it
a great British tradition to be able to hitch a caravan to your car and drive
off wherever you like? Why would anyone want to give up that way of life?" But
he is afraid for himself and his community's future, particularly since the
Conservatives and a number of tabloid newspapers have once again made Gypsies a
hot political issue. As chairman of the National Travellers Action Group,
Clifford is used to speaking out, which is why he felt comfortable participating
in the programme; the other residents of the Hope Lane site, however, declined
to be interviewed or photographed. "Travellers are used to discrimination, but
now things have got really bad," explains Janie, a qualified teacher and a
Travellers' rights advocate employed by the local authority. "Travellers are
afraid of being attacked, taunted, of losing their homes."

Even though the Woodside site sat on land owned by the Travellers it lacked one
critical qualification: planning permission for it to be a permanent Travellers'
site. The council insisted on the numbers of residents being reduced and the
Codonas were among the casualties after a long battle through the courts. They
now fear the council will try to acquire the land to meet the legal fees.
"There's so much money to be made from property these days that we are being
pushed off land that has any value," says Clifford. "We are treated as non-
citizens, but, contrary to popular belief, the vast majority of us pay council
and income tax and vote when we are allowed to register. Yet, we are not allowed
to have enough sites and we often can't even get bank accounts, because banks
don't recognise our sites as permanent."

Unsurprisingly, the millionaire politician found the place quite different from
his usual accommodation. "It is quite small," he says, soon after arriving at
the trailer. "Don't you find it claustrophobic?" Matters are not helped when
Clifford tells him he cannot use his bathroom, because it goes against the
strict customs of the community. "It is not because we think you are dirty, it
is just to maintain the purity of our unit as Romany Gypsies," he explains.
Kilroy-Silk is not impressed, and he is even more underwhelmed with his own
toilet, 30 yards from his caravan. "There's not much in the fridge, which
worries me," Kilroy complains, before adding to camera, "They legitimise all
this mess by saying it is their possessions, but they should just get rid of it,
clear it up." Janie, however, says the mess is due to the chaos brought about by
the impending eviction and her husband explains that it can easily be cleared.
"Why should you come on my land and tell me what to do with my possessions?"
Clifford asks his visitor.

In the end, Kilroy's four-night stay did not quite work out as planned; he was
not happy with his washing facilities and found the cara van damp and draughty
with a window that wouldn't close properly. Mid-Bedfordshire district council
had refused to give permission for another large trailer-style caravan on the
site, and he didn't want to stay in a touring caravan. Instead, he checked into
a local hotel for two nights, though he did spend two nights on a council-run
Travellers' site at Mansion Lane near Slough, staying with Janie's parents, Jane
and Charlie. "I know you've done your best, but it won't work," Kilroy-Silk
tells Clifford as he leaves, with a pat on the shoulder.

"I think he was more friendly with Janie's parents, because they are more of his
age group," says Clifford. "I think he sees my generation as rogues and
vagabonds."

The couple insist that they are not the scoundrels that some of Kilroy-Silk's
support ers might think. "We've been spat at, insulted and we had to take one of
our sons out of school because he was being persecuted by other children," Janie
Codona says. " We are the victims, not the settled community."

Traveller life is and has always been tough. Clifford will get up at dawn to
check the health of the many dogs he breeds. He would also usually check on the
horses, but, like his family, these have also been scattered around the country
by the eviction. He has made it his business to earn money by getting to know
the building and scrap-car-part trade.

And life for the Codonas looks like it can only get tougher. For the time being,
four members of the family are legally entitled to stay with the Hope Lane site,
but they cannot settle there.

"I started off thinking that Kilroy was going to be open minded, because he had
agreed to stay with us," says Clifford, "but whether he will, remains to be
seen. He really needs to spend a lot more time with us to find out more. You
see, we can't help knowing what the settled community is like, because it's all
around us, but not many people from the settled community have ever been to a
Gypsy camp.

"I think he learned a lot from the experience, but whether or not he will change
his views is another question. If he can get a political career out of
condemning me and the other Gypsies, he will do it."

Kilroy and the Gypsies is on Channel 4 on April 4 at 8pm


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               17 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 25, 2005, Friday

Sorting the sheep from the votes

BYLINE: Philip Howard

SECTION: Features; 69

LENGTH: 699 words


Duke Humphrys (The Chorus): Now entertain conjecture of today, When petty lust
and overwheening laws Fill the wide screen of Westminster, and Excite the
prejudices of the BBC.

Now all expect the dissolution Of Parliament 'ere May the fifth, so that Thou
man o'th' Docklands Light Railway - And Woman too, in these proud, bustling
Times, Of equal opportunities to vote - May thy frank election make of who Shall
rule the roost o'the ruck of state.

For Election is when scurvy politicos, Like the round earth, are flattened at
the polls.

So fly we now, as oft with Icarus did, Fair Kimberley, unto proud Westminster,
Where sits the warlike Saint Antony Blurr, Like to the smirk on Mona Lisa's
lips, Fair set for Sedgefield, and for Polling Day.

Macblurr: Forward not backwards, up not down, Argal, In not out, new not old,
invest not tax, Or vice versa, versa nary vice.

I'll not appear on thy vile programme show, To be interrupted and Hectored as
well, By John and James and other chummy Names.

Go tell the Tories, I don't seek them now, But could lead on to Queen Camilladom
come, Without impeachment; for, to say the sooth, Though 'tis no wisdom to
confess so much, Unto a presenter of craft and vantage, My Blairites are with
failure much enfeebled, My cohorts lessened, and those few I have, Almost no
better than so many Lib-Dems.

Voters, know yourselves; down on your knees, Thank postal voting for this good
man's love.

Ye loved me once: give me another chance.

Howard: Now speeds the gipsy traveller to his site, Unsanctioned by the laws of
man or Blurr, Driving the latest Saab or 4x4.

We shall find ways to move him on apace, By retrospective legislation, Stopping
permission for illegal camps.

Now sins the teenage Magdalene with abortion; Now comes th'illegal immigrant, as
well As the starveling asylum-seeker to our ports, To take our jobs and social
benefits, And Lebensraum, and sense of Britishness, On this our septic isle set
in a fishless sea.

We'll kick Johnny Foreigner out, without his feet Touching the ground, like to
th'Egyptians.

New Labour's binge-drinkers are vexation to your youth, But mine shall be a
comfort to your age.

A smarmy Oliver come to judgment! For school dinners I undertake to feed them
honey and rich milk, Great plates of beef, home-grown organic lamb, Instead of
Turkey Twizzlers and potato crisps, And fizzy drinks and Mars and Snickers, And
such trash from boiling, bloody cauldrons Of the weird sisterhood, dispensers of
junk food:

Round about the dispenser go; In the pizza's pastry throw.

Burger that in doubtful bun Days and nights hath thirty-one Swelter'd tallow,
obesely got, Boil thou first i'th' charmed pot.

Expenses of a Eurocrat, Make the CAP rich and fat.

Double, double toil and trouble:

Fire burn and chip fat bubble.

Are you thinking what we're thinking?

Well, Fool, what's in thy Manifesto?

Charles (The Fool): Plato's or Zeno's, Sirrah? 'Tis neither Manifest nor
Manifold.

Nay, 'twill be this hour ere I have done weeping. All the kind of the UKIP have
this very fault. I have received my proportion of the ThouGov Poll, like the
Prodigious Son, and am going with Sir Proteus to the European Court. Kilroy was
here. But not for long. We oppose compulsory manifestos: We propose Manifold
compasses.

We oppose Little Shrub and Blurr on Iraq: We propose Never Again. For, like
Diogenes, we have been too much i' th' sun, and the climate will change.

Howard: Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep; And at Blurr's grinning
show ye voters sleep.

How can you trust a single word he faxes?

After you vote, he will put up your taxes.

Macblurr: And you would privatise the NHS, And tax obese Fat Cats a great deal
less, Thou serial opportunist. Now confess My Third Way's still the most prudent
way to go:

So much all Gould's focusing groups do show.

Fool (sings): When postal votes get lost in the post, And nobody knows who has
cheated the most, When posters hang on the garden wall, Then some silly ass is
in for a fall.

Then we'll stay at home and vote for Big Brother, And elect, if we must: none of
you: any other.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 24, 2005

WHY MY OPINION OF POLLS HAS GONE SO LOW

BYLINE: Simon Edge

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 707 words


CALL ME sad but I have always wanted to be canvassed for an opinion poll.
Whenever I see one in a paper, I feel a stab of envy - who are all these people
who have been asked for their views, when no one asked for mine? I have lost
count of the times I have eagerly responded to someone with a clipboard, only to
find it's a survey on life insurance, or I'm being asked to part with 50 quid a
month to save albino whales.

But last week it happened. Other passers-by were giving her a wide berth but I
had spotted the woman's Mori insignia and I knew my moment had come.

"Can I ask you some questions about the Government and that?" she asked
doubtfully. You could have knocked her down with her pencil when I said yes.

After all these years of waiting, however, it turned out to be a let-down.
First, which party would I vote for?

Lib Dem. Would I consider any others? Yes, if I lived a couple of constituencies
away I would vote Respect, which has the best chance of unseating New Labour.

That's not on my list, she said. Is it the same as the UK Independence Party?

Surely it isn't pedantic to expect a canvasser for Britain's top political
pollster to have heard of the parties standing for election?

She asked what I thought of the Government and, when pressed, told me I had a
choice of options ranging from one (very satisfied) to six (totally
dissatisfied). That was easy enough: six.

Then she asked what political issue was most important to me. It's an odd thing
but you can have the clearest idea of what you believe but when put on the spot
you stutter and stammer like people on The Weakest Link who can't remember the
capital of France. I said it was the war, Tony Blair's contempt for human rights
and his willingness to put us all at risk of terrorism to do George W Bush's
bidding.

At least, I tried to say that but it probably didn't come out that neatly.

She certainly didn't have a box for it.

It would help if you showed me the options, I said. Oh no, that wasn't allowed,
she replied, pulling the clipboard closer to her chest. I could still read it
upside down and we agreed on something that vaguely fitted.

Did I feel strongly about anything else? Did I! I could see "transport" from my
upside-down vantage point, so she ticked that. Public services, health, I
continued, warming to my theme, but I was only allowed two issues. Anyway, I
haven't got "health", she said, moving briskly on to a bunch of questions about
the economy, about which I had nothing useful to say.

SHE concluded by asking me to sign the form, in a box which said "interviewer's
signature".

I told her I thought that was for her to sign. She looked astonished but on
closer inspection conceded I was right.

I mention all this because polls have become an issue again. When John Major won
his surprise victory in 1992, everyone wanted to know why the pollsters had said
Neil Kinnock would win.

It was the same thing when Bush defeated John Kerry last autumn.

This year, politician after politician has said that what they hear on the
doorstep - the deep hostility to Tony Blair from both Left and Right - bears no
relation to the published polls.

This phenomenon is presented as an extraordinary oddity, as if polls getting it
wrong defied the laws of physics: they are scientific, so they must be right and
it must be the politicians on the knocker who have been speaking to the wrong
kind of voter.

THAT'S what I thought, too, until I was canvassed by someone who knew little
about British politics, had not read her own form and was more interested in my
first answer than my considered opinion.

I'm a political obsessive who thinks about this stuff all the time yet even I
was nonplussed by having to come up with instant answers to fit boxes I was not
supposed to see. What chance was there of someone who is less bothered than I am
giving a meaningful answer?

I don't mean to be unkind to my canvasser. She probably had a quota to fill by a
certain hour and had no time to hang around. And I've no doubt she wasn't paid
enough to bring expert - or even any - knowledge to the job.

I simply invite you to bear it in mind the next time someone says the polls
don't lie.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               19 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 24, 2005

LE TANTRUM!; CHIRAC DEMANDS AN END TO BRITAIN'S £3BN-A-YEAR EU REBATE, BUT WE
STILL PAY MORE THAN ANYBODY ELSE

BYLINE: From Kirsty Walker in Brussels

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 411 words


TONY Blair and French president Jacques Chirac were embroiled in a ferocious
exchange over Britain's EU rebate yesterday.

An angry Mr Chirac made clear that he wanted the UK to be forced to give up its
£3billion-a-year sweetener. It was the president's second tantrum during the
Euro-summit.

Earlier, during a summit dinner, Mr Chirac - desperate to prevent French voters
throwing out the new EU constitution - had launched an extraordinary tirade over
proposed liberalisation of labour laws.

Britain's EU rebate was won by Margaret Thatcher 20 years ago and effectively
compensates the UK for the poor financial deal it secured when it joined in
1973.

Even allowing for the rebate, Britain's net contribution will leap from
£2.4billion last year to £4.5billion in 2007/8, making it the biggest net
contributor to Brussels's coffers.

Without the rebate, the UK's net contribution would be 14 times that of France.
But Mr Chirac thundered:

"The cheque can no longer be justified. It is from the past."

Mr Blair's official spokesman insisted the rebate remained justified, adding:
"The British Government's position has not changed one iota."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw warned EU leaders that Britain would block any
attempts to scrap it.

Negotiations over the issue are due to start in June but Mr Straw said:

"We have an absolute veto." Asked if he would use it, he replied: "Yes."

Mr Chirac's comments sparked anger in Britain. Ukip leader Roger Knapman said:
"The rebate is set in stone. There is absolutely no reason to negotiate it. If
we lose our rebate the British taxpayer is going to be bled at such a rate that
I think everyone will go off the European project."

The row came after Mr Chirac also launched a bitter attack on moves to relax job
markets. He claimed this would expose French workers to cheap labour from new EU
states.

"Ultra-liberalism is the communism of our current time, " Mr Chirac thundered.
He warned that the "services directive" was turning the public against the new
EU constitution.

Polls show the French are set to reject the constitution in May's referendum
there. Mr Chirac's spindoctors later claimed that the EU Commission had been
forced to dump the services directive as a result.

But Britain, which backs the plans to enable companies in any of the 25 member
states to offer services in any other, made clear the legislation may be
redrafted but is still on track.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               20 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 24, 2005, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 742 words


Paxman declares BBC boss Thompson clearly insane'

VJeremy Paxman has never been one to shy away from a fight, but Newsnight's
rottweiler-in-chief may have bitten off more than even he can chew - after
launching a scathing attack on the BBC's director-general.

In a private e-mail to a colleague, which is about to become very public,
Paxman, right, says that Mark Thompson, far right, "is quite clearly insane".

The comment follows a lengthy correspondence, in which Paxo's colleague Anthony
Massey claims he was once attacked and "bitten" by Thompson in the BBC newsroom.

"Gosh!", writes Paxman. "I wish I'd got this earlier... The bloke is quite
clearly insane."

Massey goes on to detail other tales of bullying, including an (unsubstantiated)
report that Thompson attempted to throttle a picture editor when he was editor
of the Nine O'Clock News during the late 1980s.

"Bloody hell," responds Paxo. "If any of this came out, he'd be toast."

Paxman's correspondence with Massey took place earlier this year, while he was
preparing to interview his DG on the subject of - among other things - the BBC's
programme of redundancies.

The exchange was intended to form a background to that interview, but came to
light when it was leaked yesterday.

Through a spokesman, Thompson yesterday admitted the biting incident, but
described it as "a bit of horseplay that backfired". He formally denies ever
throttling a member of staff.

Sarah doesn't mind

the Gap

VSARAH JESSICA Parker is said to be "mortified" at her (supposed) replacement as
the face of Gap clothes by the soul singer Joss Stone.

Strange, then, to hear that SJP, left, just e-mailed Gap's executive
vice-president, Jeff Jones, to ask what all the fuss is about.

"The first SJP knew about this row was when she was sent recent English
newspaper clippings, so she asked what's going on," I'm told.

"Jeff's reply said that he'd no idea. Joss Stone isn't going to be Gap's new
face anyway, and the row's been totally cooked up by the press."

A Gap spokesman adds: "SJP was a brand ambassador, and was used in all our
global TV, print and in-store adverts for three seasons. Joss Stone is in just
one TV advert, which will only air in the US. She's certainly not our new face."

A flat refusal

VMICHAEL FLATLEY, left, is an accomplished swordsman, but there are times when
the squillionaire Lord of the Dance star fails to "score".

The aristocratic supermodel Jasmine Guinness recalls being on the receiving end
of Mr Flatley's charms after meeting him for the first time.

Says a chum: "Flatley was pretending to be a hypnotist, saying: Jasmine, look
into my eyes, I am going to LA in my private jet, and you are coming with me.'
Jasmine found it faintly revolting, and told him to get lost."

Quite right, too: Miss Guinness is a woman of impeccable taste, and remains
devoted to her fiance, Gawain Rainey, with whom she is shortly to have a second
child.

Kilroy hat-trick?

VCOULD THE former Labour and UKIP politician Robert Kilroy-Silk be about to part
company with his third political party? There are rumours of an ugly power
struggle at the top of his new "firm", Veritas.

According to senior party sources, Kilroy-Silk was threatened with replacement
as leader at a recent meeting of his own ruling executive. Apparently, a leading
financial backer is unhappy at the "direction" of things.

Putting meat on this bone is tricky, though. The official Veritas press officer
strongly denies any putsch. As well she might. Her name is Jan Kilroy-Silk, and
she's the former chatshow host's wife.

VThe first PR stunt of the election silly season is upon us. Ann Winterton, the
Tory MP for Congleton, has been sent a pedometer by her Labour opponent, Nick
Milton, in an effort to see if she is (in his words) "one of the laziest MPs in
Britain".

It follows this column's discovery - reported in October - that Winterton hasn't
held a constituency surgery for 21 years. The revelation followed her brief
suspension from the Tory party for telling a tasteless joke about cockle-pickers
killed in Morecambe Bay.

"I'm challenging Winterton to get off her bum and record the number of steps she
takes in the election campaign," says Milton. "I'll also wear a pedometer, and
we'll post the results on my internet site." The wonders of modern democracy!

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               21 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 22, 2005

Education: Three of a kind: They compete for members, and spend Easter fortnight
trying to outdo each other for headlines. But as their annual conferences begin,
the leaders of the main teacher unions come together for an unprecedented joint
interview. By Will Woodward and John Crace

BYLINE: Will Woodward and John Crace

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 4064 words


There is unanimity among the union chiefs: no way are they going to tell us how
they are going to vote at the general election. "It's a toss-up between Ukip and
Veritas," says Steve Sinnott, leader of the National Union of Teachers, but he
is joking. The two other general secretaries, Chris Keates, of the National
Association of Schoolmasters/Union of Women Teachers, and Mary Bousted, of the
Association of Teachers and Lecturers, avoid it similarly. Their unions are in
the TUC, but they aren't going to tell their members to vote Labour, or anybody
else for that matter.

To their credit, this question provides the only blatantly evasive answer from
the three of them in an unprecedented joint interview with the leaders of the
three main classroom teacher unions, on the eve of their annual conferences.
It's timely, for this month marks something of a moment in the chequered,
tortured history of the teacher unions.

Bousted, 46, in one sense the veteran of the scene, is leading her second
conference this week in Torquay. Sinnott and Keates, both 53, have had much
longer careers near the top of their unions but the NUT's Easter weekend
gathering in Gateshead and next week's NASUWT meet in Brighton mark their first
as general secretaries. There's not a dinosaur among them, and the three come
relatively light on the political and emotional baggage that characterised their
predecessors. When they greet each other at the Guardian's offices, there are
kisses and easy banter, and the debate is good-natured.

But differences do emerge - over policy, approach to the government and
relations with each other. As we meet, the National Association of Head Teachers
was deciding to pull out of the national agreement on workforce remodelling - a
deal that the ATL and NASUWT signed up to, but the NUT under Sinnott's
predecessor, Doug McAvoy, did not. It was only a year ago that the NUT called
the other two unions "collaborators". Sinnott, however, is eager to get teacher
union merger back on the agenda; Keates much less so. And while between them
they represent an awful lot of people (the NUT, with 239,796 paid-up members,
just holds on to its lead by a short head over the NASUWT on 223,486, with the
ATL some way behind on 108,730), they also acknowledge that their conferences
don't always show them in their best light.

We're nearing the general election. What's your end-of-term report on the
government and how would you grade it?

Steve Sinnott: There's a balance sheet of good and bad. If you go round schools
you see a real and considerable improvement in school buildings. There's
positive stuff in relation to the expansion of early years and nursery
education. This will benefit the key kids, the most challenging youngsters from
difficult backgrounds. There's also been some big pluses in class size
reduction. On the down side, more needs to be done in relation to workload and
we need to do more work in persuading the government to make policy on the basis
of hard evidence - the academies programme is a case in point. I'd give them a
C+.

Chris Keates: On the plus side, the government has recognised that unions are
part of the solution and not the problem. They've had the courage to grasp the
issue of amending teachers' contracts to tackle workload and to combine it with
the standards agenda. They've also fought to bring in higher teacher salaries
along with greater transparency within the education system. On the minus side
is the choice agenda. They are misguided in thinking that what parents want is
more choice. What parents actually want is high-quality schools in their
locality. They don't want to transport their children all over the country - and
in any case that kind of mobility is only open to a few parents. And while
they've moved some way on accountability issues, it is still performance league
tables that are driving the education agenda. I'd give them a B.

Mary Bousted: There's no doubt this government has increased both the capital
funding and the funding per pupil, and you can see the changes. How and where
you educate children are important matters of social justice. Children in state
schools have every right to be educated in good buildings with good equipment,
and with a well-qualified and well-provisioned workforce, and the government's
investment has had benefits. The work that government has done in social
partnership with unions has changed the nature of the education environment.
Where we are most disappointed is with the government's conservatism on
assessment, curriculum and accountability. Teachers now want to see the
government's rhetoric on choice extended to them. B-.

What do you make of Ruth Kelly?

Keates: It's early days. Our contact has been very positive, and we're delighted
she's renewed the commitment to social partnership that Charles Clarke
initiated. She's had some big agendas - the 14-19 white paper, for instance -and
the signs are positive. It would be churlish and inappropriate to make any
judgments at this stage on someone who has come into such a big job. But I think
she has demonstrated her commitment to education.

Bousted: She seems very able and the fact that she's a parent is a big plus.
She's not afraid to put forward the parent perspective, even when it's not
always well received. However, I do think her response to Tomlinson was a big
missed opportunity, and has not gone down well either in my union or the world
of education in general. If Labour wins the next election I hope it rediscovers
the courage of its convictions. The curriculum is not right; the testing
regime's not right and tinkering around the edges won't help.

Sinnott: She's clearly committed to education and I think she has a good grasp
of all the issues. I have yet to meet her formally. However, she has said she
wants to meet and she has agreed to have a mature and adult relationship with
the NUT. The test for both of us is to see whether all competing interests can
play a full part in the future. The idea of the biggest teaching union in
England and Wales not playing a part on issues of pay, curriculum and assessment
is just absurd. But we're still struggling to find a convenient date and it's
now unlikely to be before the NUT conference.

Are you concerned she seems to be less independent of No 10 than Charles Clarke?

Bousted: There's a degree of misogyny and patronisation about how Ruth Kelly is
portrayed. People forget the work involved in getting on top of a big brief and
pushing the agenda forward. People think because she's a woman and a parent that
she won't be able to be her own person. They wouldn't say the same about David
Miliband. It may be - we don't know yet - that her agenda may be closely shared
by Tony Blair, but there's no evidence to suggest that Charles Clarke wasn't
working very closely with No 10.

Keates: She's also come in as secretary of state in the run-up to an election.
So the sort of things you might do during a normal term of office are very
different from what you do during a campaign. This is an added pressure for her,
and I think every head of a government department gets added involvement from No
10 at times like this.

Sinnott: There's evidence that every secretary of state - even those who have a
reputation for being able to look after themselves - gets pressure from Downing
Street. So the fact that Ruth Kelly might be making decisions as a result of
pressure from No 10 shouldn't surprise us. We can judge her not by what she does
in the first six weeks but what she does over a two-year period.

The reason you haven't met her, Steve, is because of the NUT's refusal to sign
the workload agreement. What effect has this had?

Sinnott: Everyone has lost out. The NUT has lost out, other teachers'
organisations have lost out and teachers have lost out. We think the NASUWT and
ATL have made a mistake, but they're not going to say that as they don't believe
it. The simple fact is that we're not going to be signing the agreement and we
have to move on. We want to work with government and the other unions, and we've
started to find ways of constructively working together in the future. We've
settled our difference with Unison (which represents support staff in schools)
on the workload agreement in terms that are beneficial to both teachers and
support staff.

Bousted: I don't buy the argument that unions working in social partnership with
government haven't been able to hold their own in debates. Let's look at what's
come out of the social partnership: classroom teachers have much better rates of
pay; there are now real salary levels for teachers to remain in the classroom.
We now have an agreement on a subject that was the main topic of conference for
years, and whilst the workload agreement doesn't give everything we want, it's
the first time that government has acknowledged that workloads for teachers are
excessive and have tried to do something about it. Those unions that negotiated
with government got a good outcome for their members.

Keates: There's still some way to go but the progress has been enormous,
especially around contractual changes. Cover has been a huge issue at conference
for years, and we now have contractual agreement on a reduction, and teachers
can now earn well over £35,000. It's all very well for unions to have policies
but if they sit on a shelf and are ignored by government for 20 years then
they're not very useful. We've removed automatic impositions that governments
had put on pay and conditions, and we've got two national negotiating forums on
pay and conditions of service. There are also wider benefits of social
partnership, for instance, on educational visits, reducing risks to teachers and
false allegations against teachers. That doesn't mean there isn't more to do,
but I do feel more confident about negotiating a good deal for our members
inside the social partnership rather than outside.

What do each want to get out of this year's conference?

Keates: Conference is a hugely important annual event because it brings
like-minded people together to discuss what's gone right and what's gone wrong.
This year's conference will send out clear messages both on pensions and the
frustrations that some teachers feel about the way some headteachers act as if
they are above the law when it comes to implementing national agreements.

Bousted: This year we have a political forum where delegates can question
members of each party on their education policy, which should make an
interesting debate. I think teachers understand Labour policy because they're
living it, but the Tories and the Lib Dems might be a bit of a secret garden.
There will also be a debate on pensions, early years and the choice and
specialisation agendas. I expect there to be quite a heated debate about
academies and the evidential base on which the government is proceeding.

Sinnott: Some good publicity would be useful. I would like people to see the NUT
at its best, and we're at our best when we're discussing some of the key issues
in the classroom. I would like to see teachers explaining how things are working
in the classroom, because these debates can be inspirational. There will also be
some lively sessions on assessment and testing, immigra tion and the impact of
social class on a child's education. We'll also be discussing retention, and
we're campaigning with the NASUWT and the ATL on this. I'd also like to say how
pleased I am that Chris has invited me to speak at her conference. I don't think
a general secretary from one union has spoken at another's annual conference
before. It's a tremendous move and opportunity. There's a rumour I've got to
stand on the conference platform singing I've Got You, Babe.

Keates: Of course we have our differences over the workload agreement, but Steve
and I go back a long way together and it's vital we all have a good working
relationship with one another. I'm pleased that Steve felt able to come to our
conference, speaking on a topic - international work - where Steve has an
excellent record.

So why not have just one union?

Keates: This is clearly a big issue and I would never say never. I would say
that it's not high on the agenda, but what is high is a constructive working
relationship with our TUC affiliates. That in itself starts to create a climate
where people want to debate that issue in a sensible way. Not so long ago that
would have been impossible as relations between the unions were so poor.

But it was a priority for Eamonn O'Kane, your predecessor, and your election and
that of Christine Blower as deputy general secretary of the NUT have been
interpreted as putting back the cause of teacher union unity.

Keates: Eamonn passionately believed that the idea of one big teaching union was
best for the profession and he took those views to conference, but conference
decided the time was not right for that debate. The general secretary has to
abide by the will of its members and we have a very clear mandate on this. So
it's not a question of what I personally would like: it's what our national
executive and members want. The national executive is 100% behind developing
better working relations with other unions.

Sinnott: Professional unity is what teachers want. They know it's the right
thing because they know that unity is strength. While we're divided, different
governments can play the game of keeping us apart. I'm passionate that one big
issue I want to work on with Chris and Mary is better relations, and I'm clear
that this should result in a merger. All three of our unions came about because
of mergers. We've got to end the aberration of 70 years of disunity within the
teaching profession. Three people of our quality should be able to solve the
problem and end the aberration. Three years ago, it was claimed it was going to
be a historic year for the teaching profession. But just a few months ago
(relations were) dire and we don't know where we'll be in three months' time. I
hope we're closer towards unity than we are now.

Bousted: We're not closer than we were three years ago, and it would be foolish
to claim that the events of the past three years haven't left deep and lasting
problems. They're not insurmountable, but you can't airbrush problems out and we
can't pretend things haven't got nasty. Steve has made it clear since becoming
general secretary that he has moved on from that. But you've also got to look
very closely at the issues. The three unions have different traditions,
different methods of approaching key topics. What you have to do first is to
listen to the members. Is there a huge surge within ATL for a merger? No,
there's not. You've also got to be sure that if there were one union, that it
represented all parts of the teaching spectrum, and that one section should not
dominate.

What effect do you think the conference season - which can often seem to be two
weeks of teachers whingeing - has on the public and on your members?

Bousted: If all conference delegates did was whinge then the idea that people
got fed up with two weeks of conferences would hold good. But I don't think
that's what people do. I've seen some tremendous debates at conference and I
would like to see more of the positive side reported. It's too easy to focus on
the sensational and confrontational. It's also important that conference should
be well organised. We've had members looking at the way we debate, how we
arrange the day and whether the right range of activities is taking place. It's
quite likely that in future conferences will be arranged differently. We spend
about £500,000 per year on conference so it's important members get good value
for money and that they end up with something they find useful.

Sinnott: What goes on in conference often doesn't play well outside. To some
extent that's within our control, and to some extent it isn't. The Daily Mail
will have a particular line, the Guardian will play it out sometimes, television
will show some of the debates on a selective basis. There's often not a lot
going on elsewhere over the Easter period, and the teacher conferences tend to
get a lot of coverage as a result. Sometimes we don't put on our best clothes or
wash our faces properly before going on TV, and I think we should pay more
attention to that, but to characterise the conferences as whingeing is a
caricature. There are some debates at all three conferences which any union
would be proud for teachers and parents to witness. They would see people
displaying a real commitment to their profession with a deep understanding of
the processes at work in their children's education. I'd love to get that on the
10 o'clock news, but I can see it's not particularly newsy.

Keates: I don't see the conference as whingeing, because it's vital that our
members have a proper forum to air the real concerns they have about their
ability to do their job and do the best they can for the children in their care.
It is important, however, that we shouldn't just cut to the chase and focus on
the problems, and there is a natural tendency for this to happen when you've
only got four minutes to speak. We do also suffer from selective reporting. I
don't say this in a critical way: that's what the media has to do. But it
doesn't make things any easier. One reporter said to me: "Social partnerships
are really boring." Delegates have to take seriously the idea of how they would
like the teaching profession to be viewed. Therefore people must be listened to
politely, regardless of their views. This doesn't mean you can't have robust
debate, or that I won't tell members where I think they have got it wrong in my
right of reply. It does the profession no good at all when speakers are seen to
be shouted down or treated with disrespect.

What differences do you think the rank and file really see between the unions,
especially between NASUWT and ATL as both have signed the workload agreement?

Keates: I think they understand we have always taken a strong stand on
discipline, though the others are falling more in line with us. The test of any
union is the membership. Ours are not backward in coming forward. We have to be
responsive to what they want. Why people join a particular union is less
straightforward; some want to get involved in policy issues, others just sign up
with whichever rep they know and like within the school staffroom. It's the
retention figures that show whether you're in touch with your members.

Bousted: Most NQTs would be hard pressed, if asked, to distinguish between the
three unions. It's easiest to differentiate on caricature. The ATL might be seen
as the union for the gentry who like discursive debate on education, the NASUWT
might be the union for the slightly more hard line, while NUT is for teachers
who position themselves more to left. But all shades of opinion are represented
within our organisations. What is different is the way each union is organised -
the democratic systems within them and the way that activists operate.

Sinnott: The other caricature is that the NUT is only concerned with teachers.
But what's fascinating about all three of our organisations is how alike they
are becoming. Our policies are becoming more similar, our structures are
becoming more similar and the composition of the membership is becoming more
alike.

You can say what you like about testing, working in academies, specialist
schools and so on. But in the end, your members have to go and work in these
organisations and implement a lot of the things you don't like. Are you
concerned there's an air of unreality about the kinds of things your executives
and activists call for?

Bousted: Some of the more extreme motions on the debate do contradict what
members are doing on the ground. But the moment conference believes that what it
says on the platform will have a direct outcome, either in terms of members'
working lives or government policy, then it's an act of hubris too far.

I think city academies are a good idea, but there are a range of views that will
be expressed because we have members who will say, "Hey, I'm working in one of
these". We have a large membership from the independent sector and yet there
will be some members of the executive and some people in the union who believe
the independent sector shouldn't exist.

So what you do first of all is to make sure that, wherever your members work,
they are entitled to excellent service, both in terms of professional
development and when they are in need. Having made that clear, then conference
delegates have a right to come to policy decisions about key issues.

Sinnott: Most of the debates that take place are about key issues facing
teachers and they're not unreal, they are rooted in the day-to-day reality of
teachers. Just occasionally I think it's the case that when you get people
together who feel passionately about things and are given a profile at
conference, then they get carried away and the rhetoric rolls off their tongues
and you do create expectations that will not be met.

It's also true that occasionally we end up achieving some of the things we think
are unachievable and unreal. There are several areas where this has happened.
It's fantastic - and I praise the government for it - that we're moving towards
18 being the school-leaving age. The idea of universal nursery education was
seen to be far-fetched when some of our members were talking about it. So
sometimes we can get ahead of the agenda.

Bousted: Another recent example is the moving away from external testing at key
stage 1. I have no doubt that the intense pressure exerted by the teaching
unions and their members forced the government's hand on this. The beginning of
change in the accountability culture, the change in Ofsted inspection, the
workload agreement - all these things came as a result of our combined pressure.

Keates: We evaluate each of the things governments do, and work out what we
agree with, what we don't and what we believe our members will be facing in
schools on a daily basis. Our responsibility is to make our members' working
conditions better, and we will therefore take whatever steps we can to influence
what is happening to them in schools. So while it may be fine to have a policy
that says performance and pay should not be related, it's pointless if hundreds
of your members are having their performance assessed and decisions made about
their pay.

What we believe we have to do is to get in on the ground and mitigate against
some of the worst things people might try to do, and get as fair and transparent
a system as we possibly can. If you think having a policy is the end in itself,
then you will disappoint the members. Policies should be living documents. This
doesn't mean you can't have principles and make a difference, and we've done
that on a number of issues.

What do you make of the headteacher unions taking a more adversarial stance with
the Department for Education and Skills?

Keates: The headteachers are on the side of the headteachers. I don't think
their stance on the workload agreement is helpful to us at all. There's a group
of headteachers - by no means all - who now think they are above the law, and
that they know what's best.

Sinnott: I want it on the record that the NUT is a headteacher's organisation.

Bousted: Any headteachers' organisation that thinks that, at this stage, it can
withdraw from the workload agree ment, which is now a contractual obligation, is
not living in the real world.

If you could have one achievable wish over the next year, what would it be?

Sinnott: That everybody recognises that all teachers' organisations have to be
involved in discussions on teachers' pay and conditions of service and on taking
education service forward.

Keates: An improvement in the working conditions for teachers.

Bousted: A reduction in the number of teachers retiring early through ill health
and stress.

Weblinks

EducationGuardian.co.uk/ schools Up-to-the-minute schools news

EducationGuardian.co.uk/ schools/comment Staffroom talking points

EducationGuardian.co.uk/ schools/teach For those who can

EducationGuardian.co.uk/ schools/kafka More from the academy


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               22 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 22, 2005, Tuesday

Historic first for election rivals

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 25

LENGTH: 774 words


THE West Yorkshire town of Dewsbury seems an unlikely place for a revolution in
British politics. But voters in the former mill town will soon have a choice of
Muslim candidates for both Labour and the Conservatives for the first time at a
general election.

Dewsbury's would-be Muslim MPs are both British-born with family roots in
Pakistan and both hold prominent positions in their national parties.

Both are trying to woo a Muslim vote that makes up nearly a quarter of the
population, as well as a wider community dismayed over unemployment, the failing
local hospital and immigration that has changed the character of the town.

Shahid Malik, 37, is a seasoned political activist on Labour's national
executive.

Born in Burnley and an adviser to the Government's Neighbourhood Renewal Unit,
he has crossed the Pennines after trying for several other seats.

Sayeeda Warsi, a 33-year-old lawyer, is the Tories' first female Muslim
candidate and a race adviser to Michael Howard. She founded a charity for Asian
widows and orphans, is proud of her arranged marriage and hopes to represent the
town where she was born.

The contest will be watched to see if Mrs Warsi can overturn the 7,449 majority
of Ann Taylor, Labour's retiring MP, with the Liberal Democrats taking anti-Iraq
war votes and the British National Party (BNP) standing after winning a council
seat last June. But the clash will also be watched for signs of the worst
aspects of "Punjab politics", with the rivalry heating up and the BNP ready to
capitalise on disillusionment among white voters.

It was Mr Malik who began to ruffle feathers last year by speaking out against
what he calls "clan-based" politics. He said: "I took on some of the worst
aspects of the Asian sub-continent and some of the politics there and it caused
a great deal of offence to one or two people. It was a challenge to move away
from the where-were-your-ancestors-from type of politics to a meritocracy.

"The former has the ability to get people elected who cannot articulate on your
behalf and reinforce the worst racist stereotypes. There were still far too many
councillors in this country who did not have a decent command of English and
that disadvantaged them and the electorate, especially the white electorate."
But he is now at the centre of a row over just the kind of politics he attacked,
splashed across a local paper which is openly hostile to his candidacy. Mr Malik
speaks darkly of a row being stoked between the two candidates to drive voters
to the BNP, something which the local newspaper strongly rejects.

The unpalatable phrase for what has happened in areas of Dewsbury is "white
flight", creating almost entirely Asian communities. Mr Malik says the far right
has got a toe-hold in Dewsbury only because of a failure of leadership.

He says: "It is because people do not connect with each other. It really is
parallel lives and I hope to bring the kind of leadership that brings some of
that down."

He believes in "sensible immigration" and thinks that Conservative plans for
quotas will fan racism rather than solve it, as Mr Howard claims.

Mrs Warsi backs the tough Tory line on immigration. She even has a better answer
than Mr Howard to the question of whether Tory policies would have prevented
their own families from settling in Britain.

"My parents came to this country at a time that Britain needed them to come and
build up this country after the Second World War. We have to do what is right
for Britain today and letting people hang around for four years in an
incompetent immigration and asylum system and telling them they have to go back
after their children have settled is diabolical."

She is concerned that Muslims have "almost become today's bogeyman" and attacks
Hazel Blears, the Home Office Minister, for warning Asian-looking people that
they will be stopped by police.

Watching the battle heat up between Mr Malik and Mrs Warsi are the Lib Dems, in
third place in 2001. The BNP candidate, David Exley, is also confident of adding
to the 2,076 votes which saw him elected to Kirklees council.

Kingsley Hill, 66, the Lib Dem candidate, does not believe that he is
disadvantaged by not being Muslim. A former local headteacher, he said: "I can
win the election because I am saying what they want to hear not because I am of
a particular belief. Free tuition, no war in Iraq and no more wars."

*2001 General Election results: A Taylor (Lab) 18,524; R Cole (Con) 11,075; I
Cuthbertson (Lib Dem) 4,382; R Smith (BNP) 1,632; B Smitherson (Green) 560; D
Peace (UKIP) 478. Labour majority: 7,449


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               23 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 March 20, 2005

BUDGET OFFERS NO WEAPON OF MASS DISTRACTION

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 874 words


After six months of sulking and plotting, Gordon Brown has wreaked his revenge
on Alan Milburn, as we report on page 1. After leaving his arch-rival to absorb
blame for a faltering Labour election campaign, the chancellor will, in the next
few days, step in to rescue it.

Brown, runs the argument, will better rough up the Conservatives. And his return
will be seen as key victory over Milburn in the struggle to succeed Tony Blair
after the election. But Brown is overrated as an electioneering machin,e and is
already faltering. Rather than be dismayed at his return, the Conservatives
should wish him well in his battle with Milburn and take heart that this battle
will be their last.

For weeks, Brown had been expected to produce a Budget laden with political
weapons. Instead, it was more of a spud gun whose potato bullet barely crossed
the Commons floor. A one-off £200 (E288, $ 382) bung to pensioners is unlikely
to make them forget their council tax bills, which have doubled to £1,000 a
year. Telling working families they can keep £5 a week of their pay is hardly
emancipation.

So useless was the Budget as a campaigning tool that, the next morning, Tony
Blair was back under siege for repeating Browns claim that Tory plans to
decelerate the rate of public spending increase equated to a public service cut.
This is worth examining, as it is a taste of the logic Brown will use to fight
the election. Accustomed to dodgy maths, he has chosen an absurd date in the
future: 2012 (that is, the election after next) and compared the two spending
plans. By then, the Tories estimate their spending will be up by a shameful 30%,
to £663.5bn. Labour would increase it by 36%, to £698.4bn £35bn apart. Here is
Britains depressing choice: two spendthrift parties who will increase the
government burden on the economy.

It is ideologically important for Brown to say the Tories would cut public
spending, even though this is manifestly untrue. So he says it anyway, claiming
that their slower trajectory (4% versus his 5%) means there will be a £35bn cut
by 2011-2012. But Brown omits the 2012 deadline to produce a poster saying
falsely The Tories will cut £35bn from public services. This has been attacked
as crud,e misleading and ambiguous by kinder political commentators. But it is
worse.

If Blair or Brown made this claim in a London Stock Exchange document, they
would be prosecute.d They are seeking to govern on a standard of accuracy below
that of a company floating on the Alternative Investment Market. With so many
genuine flaws in the Tories half-baked policies, it is staggering that Labour
should essentially centre its campaign on a lie. Wors,e it risks exposing its
biggest weakness: stretching the truth until it snaps.

All this may remind people what Blair did before the Iraq war: took a complex
cas,e stripped out the caveats and distilled it down a falsehoo.d The £35bn
claim comes from the same kitchen of spin that served up the 2002 Iraq dossier.
Yet Brown will not retreat. Rather then risk seeing the £35bn becoming an
allegory for Labour lies, he will have it repeated again and again. He is
gambling that the public is too stupid to distinguish deceleration from reverse.

Brown places great store on the stupidity of voters: as shown when he ran last
years campaign for European Parliament elections and pretended the economy was
somehow an issue. Result: Labour was beaten by the Tories, and both ceded ground
to the United Kingdom Independence Party, which fought on Brussel-srelated
themes. So Browns wand, which failed on Budget day, hasnt been working for some
time.

Whats mor,e luck seems to be with the Tories at the moment. Each day, a fresh
surprise seems to be sprung on Labour, some engineered by the Conservative
Party, most of them bolts from the blue. Last week, a Nottinghamshire police
chief said he hasnt enough money to catch murderers. Then the Catholic church
offered unsolicited support to Howards stance on abortion an issue randomly
thrown into the debate by Cosmopolitan magazine.

Rather late in his political career, Howard has started giving straight answers
to issues like gay rights and abortion, deliberately contrasting his style to
Blairs evasiveness. Privately, he seems to be genuinely enjoying the fight. And
with reason. At this stage in the 1997 campaign, Mori gave Labour a 25
percentage point lead over the Tories. In 2001, it fell to 19 points. Now it
stands at only two points. But even this would deliver Labour a 45-seat
majority. It may be the best thing for the Tory party. It has hit on some good
ideas but left them woefully underdevelope.d It is simply not ready for
government in six weeks tim,e and risks tearing itself apart should it find
itself in power.

The Tories have been outflanked by the Labour reform agenda Milburn champions.
But if Brown becomes leader, Labours market-based experimentation will be
shelved, leaving this field clear for the Conservatives.

So Browns ascendance over Milburn may hurt in the short term, but it is no bad
thing for the Tories. Howard will still lose this election, but what we might
now be seeing is the Conservatives starting to win the election after next.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2005 Sunday Business Group

                               24 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 20, 2005, Sunday

BUSHELL ON THE BOX: AL'S GRIN AND TONIC

BYLINE: GARRY BUSHELL

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 40,41

LENGTH: 372 words

HIGHLIGHT: CLEVER: Al


THE Pub Landlord does for celebrities what Jamie Oliver has done for sales of
Turkey Twizzlers.

Al Murray's comic monster subjected every famous face at his Audience With to a
barrage of rib-tickling abuse.

He told Dean Gaffney: "I used to worry about you being acted off screen by that
dog."

He asked Dr Fox: "Can you sing, son? No? Then who are you to judge?"

And told Gordon Ramsay: "F is for food, mate; wash your mouth out, you're
filthy."

The Landlord has outrageous opinions on everyone. The Yanks were written off as
"a nation of feckless poofs", who "speak their mind even when there's nothing in
it".

The American Dream doesn't impress him. The British don't have a dream, he said
"because we're AWAKE."

It was a bravura performance, and few were spared. I even copped it for wearing
a fetching white suit. Hard to believe, I know. And hard to take from a bloke in
a blazer and a polyester tie. If he went to a tailor's and asked to see the
cheapest jacket in the place they'd show him the mirror.

But the jokes kept coming. The Scots "can communicate directly with modems". The
French "have a town called Brest and none of them thinks it's funny". He's like
the grandson Alf Garnett never had, or the provisional wing of UKIP.

Not that anyone would kip at his gigs, you wouldn't dare. As a sop to these PC
times, Murray undermines the Landlord's views by making him a loser. He's a
repressed gay - bottoms up! His wife has left him. He can't pull. He sees women
as unobtainable fantasy figures; the real thing scares him.

WOMEN go on hen nights, he said, cos they "see themselves as hens, puffed-up
clucking creatures; little more than egg-laying machines, woken up each morning
by a persistent cock".

Now if Jim Davidson had done that line, it'd be sexist. Being in character lets
Murray get all the laughs and none of the disapproval. Clever...but not quite in
the Garnett league.

Alf would have taken on asylum and mad mullahs. Murray goes for soft targets.

It's far easier to have a pop at Westlife than risk provoking a Jihad. Alf would
call him a "bloody public school poofta".

But well done ITV for putting laughter back on Saturday night TV. More soon,
please.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               25 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             March 20, 2005, Sunday

Kilroy's party appeals for candidates who can pay their own way General election
hopefuls are asked if they can fund their own deposit and campaign - then
ordered to send pounds 50 with application form

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY AND TONY FREINBERG

SECTION: News; Pg. 011

LENGTH: 455 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk has launched an appeal for people with money to spare and an
unblemished personal history to stand as parliamentary candidates for his
anti-European Union party, Veritas.

An application form for general election hopefuls that was seen by The Sunday
Telegraph asks whether applicants would be able to fund their own pounds 500
deposits and finance their own campaigns. They are also asked: "Is there
anything in your past which might cause the party embarrassment?"

Applicants must also complete a United States-style personality test in which
they are asked to respond to such statements as: "Playing by the rules is more
important than winning."

They are charged pounds 50 to submit their form -- and are advised that they
will get their money back only if they are not selected as a candidate.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter, launched his Veritas party last
month, claiming that it would be the true defender of Britain's borders -- with
tough policies designed to stem "uncontrolled" immigration and to restore the
country's sovereignty.

He struck out on his own after walking out on the United Kingdom Independence
Party (Ukip) when he failed to become its leader after an internal power
struggle. So far Veritas has received more than 300 applications from
prospective candidates, and has accepted 91.

Mr Kilroy-Silk plans to run for Parliament in the constituency of Erewash in the
east Midlands. The seat is currently held by Liz Blackman, a Labour with a
majorty of 6,932 over the Conservatives.

His efforts to raise money from prospective candidates caused amusement among
rivals last night.

Chris Heaton-Harris, a Conservative MEP who has served alongside Mr Kilroy-Silk
in Brussels, said: "You would have thought Kilroy could stump up a bit of cash
to help his candidates.  "This is obviously his next step in his quest to rule
the world but he will come crashing back to earth in Erewash on May 5."

Mark Croucher, a spokesman for Ukip, said: "All the smaller parties may have
cash problems but nothing to the extent of charging people for the privilege of
interviewing them. That is, quite simply, ludicrous."

Alex Stevenson, a co-founder of Veritas, claimed that the application form was
out-of-date, even though it can still be downloaded from the party's regional
internet websites.

Mr Stevenson said: "The initial paperwork went out to the first 12 to 14
candidates and was retracted after a couple of days in early February. All those
who didn't want to leave the money as a donation were offered a refund but no
one took me up on that."

Veritas hopes to field between 100 and 150 candidates at the general election,
widely expected to take place in May.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               26 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 18, 2005

FOX HAS ELECTIONS IN HIS SIGHTS

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 126 words


AFTER two elections playing away from home, Edward Fox tells me he will be going
to the polls on May 5, the probable date, to vote Conservative again.

The Jackal - that was where we met, on the film set - is the first to admit
politics seldom detain him but his heart is in the right place. It beats for
England.

Having been lured by Ukip he recognises that, in the Euro elections of last June
10, Tories and Ukippers were, in a sense, on the same side. But in May it would
be crazy for former Tories to vote Ukip and thus against the Conservative
candidate.

In seats where the Tory could have a chance of toppling the Labour or Lib-Dem
Brusselsgroveller, a vote for Ukip (let alone Veritas) is really a vote for four
more years of Blair.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               27 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 17, 2005, Thursday

Save your constitution cash, urge politicians

BYLINE: By David Rennie in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 004

LENGTH: 277 words

THE Government yesterday urged the European Parliament not to spend any public
money explaining the proposed European constitution to British voters, saying
the parliament's plans for an "information campaign" in the United Kingdom would
be "entirely counterproductive, and inappropriate".

Labour, Conservative and UK Independence Party MEPs presented a rare united
front in opposing the European Parliament's proposal to earmark some pounds
80,000 for public information efforts in Britain, as part of a wider pounds 5.7
million information campaign that was approved by MEPs on Tuesday night.

So alarmed is the Government at the prospect of headlines denouncing
"interference" from Brussels, in advance of next year's referendum on the
constitution, that the Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, wrote to the parliament's
president, Josep Borrell, in advance of the vote, asking him not to earmark or
spend funds in Britain.

European parliamentary officials insist that all information efforts will be
neutral, and indicated that their efforts in Britain would be restricted to
printing copies of the constitution and sponsoring debates involving speakers
both for and against the new treaty.

However, the parliament's members have made no secret of their ardent desire for
the constitution to be ratified, and the Conservatives said that bias was
inevitable.

Last month, the Government also let it be known that it has asked the European
Commission not to spend money promoting the constitution in Britain. The
commission, the European Union's independent-minded executive arm, said it would
still send materials to any citizen that requested them.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               28 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 17, 2005, Thursday

Cash to promote constitution

BYLINE: Anthony Browne

SECTION: Overseas news; 36

LENGTH: 300 words


The European Parliament is to spend £86,000 to promote the European constitution
in Britain, despite a plea from Downing Street not to intervene in next year's
referendum campaign.

The money will be drawn from an Euro 8 million (£5.5 million) fund available to
the Parliament to promote the constitution before referendums in eight European
Union countries.

The Strasbourg-based Parliament insists that the money will be used in Britain
to provide neutral information on the constitution and to sponsor debates.

The British Government had urged the European Parliament not to intervene in
Britain, fearing that a campaign to promote the constitution could backfire.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, has appealed to Josep Borrell, President of
the European Parliament, to block the funds. The Government has already
persuaded the European Commission, the EU executive, not to spend "a single
penny" on propaganda in Britain.

A Government spokesman said: "We have urged the Parliament not to spend any
money in the UK. It would be totally counterproductive and inappropriate."

Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the Conservative group in the Parliament, said that
he did not believe that the money would be used to promote balanced debate. "I
fear it will be a propaganda exercise advocating only the pro-constitution
view," he said.

Referring to the total campaign, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader in the
Parliament, said: "This is a monstrous abuse of taxpayers' money, an attempt to
bully the electorate into voting for this totally unacceptable constitution."

The Government said that although the amount of money was "nugatory", it was
against the principle of the matter and would appeal to the European
Parliament's office in London to stop the money being spent.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               29 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 March 16, 2005

CLARKE U-TURN ON GAY REFUGE; FURY AT MINISTER'S 11TH-HOUR INTERVENTION

BYLINE: by ROSS KANIUK

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 329 words


HOME Secretary Charles Clarke was under fire last night after he saved a gay
asylum seeker from deportation.

Vadim Salyava was being driven to Gatwick Airport to be sent home to Belarus,
when the van did a U-turn and took him to an immigration centre in Dover, Kent.

The 21-year-old claims that as a homosexual he would be killed if he was forced
to return to his eastern European homeland.

Mr Clarke intervened after Salyava's desperate partner asked him personally to
help as a last resort. He is understood to have immediately passed on his
concerns to junior Home Office Minister Des Browne.

But last night the UK Independence Party hit out at Mr Clarke for getting
involved.

A UKIP spokesman said: "Cabinet ministers should not get involved, not when the
legal procedures have been gone through.

"If they pick out individual cases to look at, the whole thing becomes a bit
arbitrary.

"It's extraordinary that when the Government manages to deport so few people,
here is one who has exhausted the procedures stacked in his favour - and then
there's a request like this from the Home Secretary.

"Then the whole deportation process for this person can be stopped altogether."

The spokesman asked: "Is the Government willing to deport anyone at all for
anything?"

But Mr Clarke, the Norwich South MP, defended his action saying Salyava's
boyfriend was one of his constituents.

He said: "Like any other constituency Member of Parliament I regularly take up
individual cases.

"The final decision, of course, lies with the relevant minister - who in this
case is Des Browne MP."

Salyava, who was living in Norwich with his boyfriend, is now waiting to hear if
he can return to Norfolk while the Home Office considers a final decision on his
case.

He arrived in England last June on a one-year work permit which allowed him to
work only at Gatwick's Hilton Hotel.

But he decided to quit his job and live with his boyfriend.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               30 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 14, 2005

DEAR SUN

SECTION: LETTER

LENGTH: 90 words


EU staff and their families cannot "dodge justice". Immunity from prosecution,
whether for a secretary or European Commissioner, does not extend to their
private life.

So if a young thug throws a brick at a window, the example UKIP uses in The Sun,
they cannot not escape punishment "because daddy works for the EU".

Neither will a Commission employee be let off for motoring offences. They would
be subject to the full force of the law, just like everybody else.

IAN BARBER Acting Head

European Commission in the UK


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               31 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 March 13, 2005

BELOW THE RADAR IS WHERE ELECTIONS ARE FOUGHT

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 815 words


Friday was another busy day in the news diary. The Terrorism Bill caused the
political thermometer to boil over, and overshadowed the government's launch of
the report by the Africa Commission. Michael Howard was scheduled to be in
Brighton for a Conservative conference; Charles Kennedy was heading for the
Welsh Liberal Democrats; and in recent days we'd seen the Prime Minister making
an early morning visit, accompanied by a posse of cameras, to the police in
south London, Meanwhile on late night television a cabinet minister got into a
scrap with a BBC interviewer. An election really must be just around the corner.

The activity is frenetic but - leaving aside the Newsnight encounter between
health secretary John Reid and Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman - the level of
tension between politicians and broadcasters is rather low. It's one of the
modern myths that we're always in a state of war, whereas the truth is that rows
between the two sides are more the exception than the rule. There is always
monitoring of each other's positions, but we are not at the moment under siege
from letters of complaint or hectoring phone calls. Normal life continues. The
party representatives turn up for interviews; we analyse the policy launches;
and the public politely stifles the yawn prompted by all this so far before an
election.

So why are relationships between the media and the politicians in a period of
relative calm? Partly, I suspect, it's because everyone saw the horrors of
taking conflict too far in the Hutton Inquiry; and some of it may be a
calculation that constructive engagement is a more effective way for parties to
get a fair deal. Whether it lasts is another matter. An election campaign is one
of the biggest tests for journalists and it would be na ve to imagine there
won't be the odd misjudgment. Politicians can also get scratchy under pressure
and some of them - not just John Prescott - lash out.

What will most electrify this campaign is if the contest becomes closer. The
election of 2001 is remembered as a limp affair: everyone knew the outcome from
day one. This time it looks more fluid. Labour are still ahead in the polls, but
by less than at this stage in 2001 or 1997 - and the Conservatives have scored
some campaigning hits. The UK's politics are in transition into something closer
to continental multi-party politics. The Liberal Democrats are the third force
in Britain, but UKIP and the Greens picked up seats in the European elections;
the nationalists are the main opposition in Scotland and Wales; and Northern
Ireland has four big parties to stir into the mix.

This makes the campaign much more difficult for the broadcasters to cover. On
the one hand, there is our democratic duty to reflect all the parties with a
significant following - while on the other hand it would be impossible to cover
an election meaningfully if every issue attracted a dozen soundbites.

As it happens, our parliamentary first-past-the-post system squeezes most
constituencies back into a two-horse race, but the nature of those contests
varies hugely. There are, of course, the traditional Tory-Labour battlegrounds.
But in many leafy suburbs the fight is between the Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats while in some big cities, like Newcastle and Liverpool, the Liberal
Democrats will be trying to drive Labour out of their heartlands. The parties
seem to agree that British politics is fracturing into a series of
micro-elections.

Politicians won't abandon the national campaigns, and the wish to star on the
Ten O'Clock News will be as great as ever. But all the parties are setting store
on a regional approach, too. Some party loyalists say this is a move to avoid
the cynicism of the national journalistic pack, which prompts the rejoinder from
those cynics that it's an attempt to avoid the tough questions. But it makes
sense for a party fighting hard in the south-west of England to perch on a
studio sofa in Plymouth rather than London.

And the electronic campaigning will get even more local than that. New
technology allows the parties to reach people by text or e-mail without any need
for conventional broadcasters, and sophisticated polling claims to be able to
pinpoint the swing-voters who decide the fate of each constituency. It may not
be just a matter of knocking on their doors or sending them letters: there are
the murkier techniques of "push-polling" and other devices imported from
America.

So this points to the real task for journalists. They must cover the national
campaigns because they still matter; but they also have to keep a beady eye on
the electioneering going on "below the radar". Once again, an opportunity for
politicians will be a challenge for journalists - and vice versa. The days ahead
will be ever more frantic for both.

Roger Mosey is head of news, BBC TV


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2005 Sunday Business Group

                               32 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 March 13, 2005

FRIDAY WAS ANOTHER BUSY DAY IN THE NEWS DIARY.

BYLINE: Roger Mosey;

LENGTH: 914 words


Friday was another busy day in the news diary. The Terrorism Bill caused the
political thermometer to boil over, and overshadowed the government's launch of
the report by the Africa Commission. Michael Howard was scheduled to be in
Brighton for a Conservative conference; Charles Kennedy was heading for the
Welsh Liberal Democrats; and in recent days we'd seen the Prime Minister making
an early morning visit, accompanied by a posse of cameras, to the police in
south London, Meanwhile on late night television a cabinet minister got into a
scrap with a BBC interviewer. An election really must be just around the corner.

The activity is pretty frenetic but - leaving aside the Newsnight encounter
between health secretary John Reid and Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman - the
level of tension between politicians and broadcasters is rather low. It's one of
the modern myths that we're always in a state of war, whereas the truth is that
rows between the two sides are more the exception than the rule. There is always
monitoring of each other's positions, but we are not at the moment under siege
from letters of complaint or hectoring phone calls - and normal life continues.
The party representatives turn up for interviews; we analyse the policy
launches; and the public politely stifles the yawn prompted by all this going on
so far before an election.

So why are relationships between the media and the politicians in a period of
relative calm? Partly, I suspect, it's because everyone saw the horrors of
taking conflict too far in the Hutton Inquiry; and some of it may be a
calculation that constructive engagement is a more effective way for parties to
get a fair deal. Whether it lasts is another matter. An election campaign is one
of the biggest tests for journalists and it would be na ve to imagine there
won't be the odd misjudgment. Equally, politicians can get scratchy under
pressure and some of them - not just John Prescott - lash out.

What will most electrify this campaign is if the contest becomes closer. The
general election of 2001 is remembered as a limp affair: everyone knew the
outcome from day one. This time it looks more fluid. Labour are still ahead in
the polls, but by less than at this stage in 2001 or 1997 - and the
Conservatives have scored some campaigning hits since the turn of the year. It's
also ever more apparent that the UK's politics are in transition from the old
two-party system into something closer to continental multi-party politics. The
Liberal Democrats are the third force across the country, but UKIP and the
Greens picked up seats in the European elections; the nationalists are the main
opposition in Scotland and Wales; and Northern Ireland has four more big parties
to stir into the mix.

This makes the campaign much more difficult for the broadcasters to cover. On
the one hand, there is our democratic duty to reflect all the parties with a
significant following - while on the other hand it would be impossible to cover
an election meaningfully if every issue attracted a dozen soundbites. We focus
more on parties already represented at Westminster and those who are realistic
contenders for UK-wide power. As it happens, our parliamentary
first-past-the-post system squeezes most constituencies back into a two-horse
race, but the nature of those contests varies hugely. There are, of course, the
traditional Tory-Labour battlegrounds. But in many leafy suburbs the fight is
between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats while in some big cities,
like Newcastle and Liverpool, the Liberal Democrats will be trying to drive
Labour out of their heartlands. The parties seem to agree that British politics
is fracturing into a series of micro-elections.

The politicians' response to this is interesting. They won't abandon the
national campaigns, and the wish to star on the Ten O'Clock News will be as
great as ever. But all the parties are setting store on a regional approach,
too. They'll be shuttling their best performers to BBC and ITV stations across
the UK - aiming to capture the agenda in different TV markets and submitting
themselves to questions from local radio as much as from the big beasts of Radio
4. Some party loyalists say this is a move to avoid the cynicism of the national
journalistic pack, which prompts the rejoinder from those cynics that it's an
attempt to avoid the tough questions. But it makes sense for a party fighting
hard in the south-west of England to perch on a studio sofa in Plymouth rather
than London.

And the electronic campaigning will get even more local than that. New
technology allows the parties to reach people by text or e-mail without any need
for conventional broadcasters, and sophisticated polling claims to be able to
pinpoint the swing-voters who decide the fate of each constituency. It may not
be just a matter of knocking on their doors or sending them letters: there are
the murkier techniques of "push-polling" and other devices imported from
America.

So this points to the real task for journalists. They must cover the national
campaigns because they still matter; but they also have to keep a beady eye on
the electioneering going on "below the radar". Once again, an opportunity for
politicians will be a challenge for journalists - and vice versa. The days ahead
will be ever more frantic for both.


Roger Mosey is head of news, BBC TV (please check this is the way we usually
publish his title)


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2005 Sunday Business Group

                               33 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 13, 2005

CROSS BENCHER; LEADER COLUMN

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 63 words


UKIP MEP Nigel Farage delights in winding up his Europhile colleagues in
Brussels. His latest wheeze is to wheedle ?150,000 out of the European
Parliament's information budget - which is meant to promote the EU - to spend on
the No campaign in France's May referendum on the new EU constitution. "You
know, " he chuckles, "I can't tell you how much I'm hated over here!"

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               34 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             March 13, 2005, Sunday

Howard turns a blind eye to Tories who urge EU exit

BYLINE: BY MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: News; In Brief; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 576 words

TORY candidates are openly campaigning on a pledge to withdraw from the European
Union if the Conservatives form the next government, with tacit agreement from
the party leadership.

Up to 30 Conservatives in hotly-contested seats are making the pledge as the
party attempts to extinguish a general election challenge from the UK
Independence Party.

Election literature from key seats seen by The Sunday Telegraph shows candidates
campaigning for "an independent Britain" -- meaning withdrawal from the EU.

The pledge goes much further than official party policy, which is for a
renegotiation of Britain's membership of the EU and opposition to the new
European constitution.

Michael Howard has always insisted that he does not want to take Britain out of
the European Union, but senior Tory officials have revealed that he has
signalled to candidates that he is content for them to unleash the full extent
of their anti-European passion during the forthcoming election campaign.

One leaflet released by Douglas Carswell, the Tory candidate for Harwich in
Essex makes clear that the party is offering voters an exit strategy. In a
section marked "Europe isn't working" the leaflet says: "The EU doesn't know
where to begin to solve Europe's problems. That's because it is the problem.
Douglas Carswell, who has been campaigning against the European Union for over
15 years, wants to represent local people in Parliament because he believes that
'Britain must be an independent country - trading with Europe, but governing
ourselves.'-"

Mr Carswell, 33, is one of 21 candidates receiving funding from Lord Ashcroft,
the former Tory treasurer.

Harwich, held by Labour with a 2,596 majority, is a key Tory target. In 1997 it
saw the largest vote in the country for the Referendum Party at 4,923 or nearly
10 per cent of the vote. Ukip are stepping up the pressure this time by fielding
the MEP Jeffrey Titford.

On his website, the Tory hopeful echoes Mr Howard's "I Believe" statements with
a banner headline declaring: "I believe in an independent Britain."

He states: "England is being dismantled. The EU allied to John Prescott is in
the process of carving up our country into regions, each to be governed directly
by Brussels."

Mr Howard endorsed the candidate personally by visiting the constituency and
posing for photographs with him four months ago. A local Labour activist
commented: "We can't believe he has not been censured by the leadership. This
guy goes further than Ukip."

Last night Mr Carswell, who until recently worked for Mr Howard in the
Conservative policy unit, said: "The reality is the EU is not going to exist in
12/18 months time with this constitution.  "The EU as we know it is about to
disappear. So it seems to me the perfect opportunity to say we want free trade
with Europe but to govern ourselves."

Other candidates advocating a much tougher line on Europe than official Tory
policy include David Chambers in Stafford. He wrote to a Ukip member in the
Labour-held seat in September to say that if Mr Howard failed to negotiate the
return of powers from Brussels "I would call for a referendum to be held. Do the
British people wish to remain in the EU -- yes or no? I would vote no and I
would campaign to that effect."

Mr Howard is desperate to avoid a repeat of Ukip's breakthrough in the European
elections last year and in the Hartlepool by-election when it pushed the Tories
into fourth place.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               35 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             March 13, 2005, Sunday

INFLATED IMPORTANCE No help at all? That'll be pounds 40,000 please

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: News; Christopher Booker'; s Notebook; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 760 words

There has been a remarkable twist to the bizarre story of Per Lindstrand, the
world-famous Swedish balloonist. His firm, based since 1978 in Oswestry,
Shropshire, has lost millions of pounds in the past 18 months, due to the
takeover of aviation safety regulation in the EU by the new European Aviation
Safety Agency (Easa), and the ensuing bureaucratic chaos.

Until September 2003, as I have several times reported, Lindstrand Technologies
was the world's leading manufacturer of aerostats, giant tethered balloons
costing pounds 500,000 each. But when the UK's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)
had to hand over certification of all aircraft to Easa, it overnight became
illegal, thanks to a quirk in British law, for Dr Lindstrand to sell his
aerostats anywhere in the EU, including Britain. This gave a complete monopoly
to his only competitor, the Franco-German firm Aerophile.

For 18 months, despite solemn promises by the CAA and British ministers to
resolve this absurd anomaly - promises made both to me and to Owen Paterson, Dr
Lindstrand's MP - he was still subjected to unending obfuscation by the CAA,
which also charged him more than pounds 40,000 in regulatory costs while it
failed to solve the problem. He lost millions of pounds' worth of orders and was
forced to lay off a fifth of his 90-strong workforce.

Then Ashley Mote, who was elected last June as a UKIP MEP and now sits as an
independent, was approached by one of his constituents, Peter Smith, with a
similar problem.

Mr Smith's Intheairnet, a Berkshire firm supplying electronic equipment to some
of the world's most expensive private jets, faced disaster. Since the CAA handed
over its certification powers to Easa, he could no longer get certification for
his products without going through a ludicrously cumbersome system which
involved getting separate approvals from each of his customers and disclosing
all his technical secrets to firms which were his direct competitors.

Mr Smith gave Mr Mote details of eight other specialist firms likewise facing
disaster. Mote had also read in this column of Lindstrand's problems, and
therefore arranged a meeting in Cologne with Dr Norbert Lohl, Easa's head of
certification. On March 4, having been presented with the horrifying story of
how all these British firms were about to go out of business, Dr Lohl expressed
surprise that such a problem had arisen.

He emphasised that it is now he, not "national authorities" such as the CAA, who
is in charge of aviation certification in the EU. He promised that Lindstrand's
aerostats would be given certification without delay and that he would quickly
sort out the problems affecting the other firms. He emphasised that all
certification issues should now be brought straight to him, because national
authorities are only there to do Easa's bidding.

Last week this was confirmed to me by Dr Daniel Holtgen, Easa's head of
communications, who several times stated "we are here to provide solutions". Dr
Lohl separately confirmed to Mr Mote that Easa Type Certification of
Lindstrand's aerostats valid in all EU member states had been "issued on 4 March
2005".

Obviously for Dr Lindstrand it is the best possible news that his 18-month
nightmare has come to such a miraculous end. But this weird episode leaves a
trail of chilling question marks. The CAA, which until September 2003 was one of
the most respected aviation safety regulators in the world, has been downgraded
to the status of a mere branch office.

Why was it allowed to charge Lindstrand more than pounds 40,000 to achieve
nothing, when its powers had all been handed over to the new EU agency?

Why did neither the CAA nor British ministers explain this, dishonestly
pretending they had the power to resolve a crisis which only the handover of
their powers to the EU had created in the first place?

Why do Dr Lohl and Dr Holtgen now insist that the British firms should have come
to them long ago about these problems, when until January this year the Easa
website asked people not to contact them because they were not yet ready for
business?

It is hard not to suspect that something of a public relations operation is now
being mounted to convey that, in the name of EU integration, Easa is an
efficient, user-friendly organisation only "here to provide solutions".

We must recall that we now rely on Easa to ensure that the EU's aircraft do not
fall out of the sky: yet consider what a price has already been paid by
countless aviation firms for the chaotic fashion in which it has been set up.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               36 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             March 13, 2005, Sunday

Fox can tell

BYLINE: By Tim Walker

SECTION: News; Mandrake; Pg. 036

LENGTH: 208 words

WHEN IT WAS deemed to be a viable life form, UKIP was proud to trumpet Edward
Fox as one of its most distinguished supporters. This the party can do no
longer. "I really don't approve of this idea that what an actor thinks about
this or that political party should have any sway over anyone, but, for the
record, I shall be voting Tory at the next election," the affable Fox tells
Mandrake. "I never really had any formal links to UKIP, but I did approve of its
general principles and was saddened that it did not live up to its earlier
promise.  "I am now concerned that parties such as this one - which clearly has
no chance of making any real impact - should act as a distraction in the
forthcoming general election and help New Labour retain its grip on power."

Fox, who will be touring in Shaw's You Never Can Tell this summer, says the last
political figure that he really believed in was the late Sir James Goldsmith and
was proud to have been associated with his Referendum Party. In his finest
Edward VIII voice, he endorsed the short-lived party at its inaugural 1996
conference. "There ought to be a memorial of some kind erected to Sir Jimmy's
memory," says Fox. "His was a brave and selfless voice in the political
firmament."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               37 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 11, 2005

HICKEY

SECTION: Scottish Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 517 words


HOW amused I was to see that cyclists have been banned from the centre of Fort
William because they keep getting in everyone's way and knocking down decent,
law-abiding pedestrians! It is particularly gratifying as thousands of "bike
fans" were about to descend on the pretty lochside town for the frightful
Mountain Bike World Cup, whatever that nonsense is all about. I have sent a
letter of congratulations to the councillors and staff of Highland Council's
Lochaber Committee.

A NARROW escape.

Mrs H tried to buy tickets for a theatrical thingamajig featuring that dreadful
Yank woman, Miss Joan Rivers. Mercifully, there were no decent tickets left. But
Mrs H then says: "G---, use your influence!" Naturally, I think quick and hard
and reply: "It is quite unthinkable that I, a scion of the great Hickey dynasty,
would stoop to asking favours, using the cachet of the family name or my vast
influence!" Mrs H looks at me as though I have taken leave of my senses.

AT ABOUT 3am, Hickey woke with a start, my heart pounding. I had forgotten my
invitation to the UKIP's annual conference.

Has it taken place? Or is it still to convene? I only ask because, the other
day, I received an invitation to attend with the promise of a "hot meal
provided". I know political parties must tempt us to their exciting conferences,
but isn't the promise of a "hot meal" somewhat declasse? Even the Socialists
give you a bottle of Buckfast Tonic Wine so as to feel "at one" with their
membership.

WHY, I wonder, are Mr Jack and his chums so against smoking?

On the back of yesterday's third packet of Senior Service, I work out that if no
one died from smoking, the cost to the NHS would rise three-fold as so many
people would live longer and then have to have hip replacements, brain scans,
heart surgery, Viagra tablets, etc, etc. before taking up valuable spaces in
geriatric wards and lunatic asylums if, as would be more likely, they reach a
non-smoking but dribbling dotage and decrepitude.

SO, a ban on smoking will not apply in the country's lunatic asylums, eh? My own
observations have demonstrated the huge risks to life and limb of allowing the
weakheaded to march around hospital grounds puffing to their heart's content
(sic). Sir Peregrine Hickey spent 40 years or more in the Greenock Asylum for
Gentlefolk. Most of the time things were quite peaceful, except that the very
reason he was there in the first place was his penchant for torching buildings
with his Great War "Firecracker" lighter.

MY ATTENTION has been brought to a woman called Ms Christine Grahame, a Nat MSP.
Ms Grahame, I learn, has of late not only been involved in trying to do down
private education out of envy and malice, but has also questioned the spending
of taxpayers' money on providing protection for our beloved royal family. I note
that the woman lists among her recreations "maintaining friendships". What can
this mean? We public school types loathe her, as does Prince Chas, etc. Perhaps
the entry is shorthand for enjoying naughty romps. You can never tell with a
middle-aged Nat.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               38 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 11, 2005

Brown's trump past its play-by date says Letwin: As the Tories prepare for their
spring conference the shadow chancellor insists a 'Gordon to the rescue' budget
will no longer work

BYLINE: Michael White and Larry Elliott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1076 words


Gordon Brown plans to use next week's budget as a "Gordon to the rescue" event
in which he trumps the Tories' £4bn package of tax cuts and saves Tony Blair's
faltering election campaign, Oliver Letwin predicts today.

But the chancellor's tried-and-tested tactic of massaging the public accounts to
allow himself scope for tax cuts of his own is "past its sell-by date" and will
no longer work with sceptical voters who no longer believe what politicians tell
them, the shadow chancellor says in a pre-budget interview with the Guardian.

Middle-income voters will be grateful for any cuts, but not enough to re-elect
Labour, whom they know will raise taxes if it wins a third term.

But as they gather for their spring conference in Brighton this weekend, Michael
Howard's troops have an unexpected spring in their step after a decade of
frequent Tory retreat.

"I'm worried about us winning, I'm worried about the fact that I said I would
resign if I don't deliver," the shadow chancellor jokes. He is referring to
Conservative campaign promises to protect key public services, cut public debt
and lower taxes - and be sacked if they fail.

Mr Letwin dismisses predictions that Labour's focus on the Tories' James review
- to cut Whitehall waste and up to 235,000 jobs - will frighten voters because,
he says, £23bn of the £35bn Tory cuts deployed in ministers' speeches is already
in the government's own waste-cutting Gershon review programme.

The real difference is therefore £12bn - not £35bn as Mr Blair and Mr Brown keep
claiming - and will not be "the end of civilisation as we know it", despite
their scare stories, he suggests. Mr Brown counters that the gap really is £35bn
because all the savings proposed in Sir Peter Gershon's public sector review
have been included in the government's plans.

The chancellor intends to make Tory cuts a central issue of the election
campaign and will argue that reducing public spending by £35bn would be the
equivalent of sacking every nurse, doctor and teacher in the country.

With the Tory election campaign suddenly energised in the past month, Mr Letwin
admits that Mr Brown has the upper hand in the budget battle because the
Treasury has economic information that no one else possesses.

The chancellor has been telling Labour MPs and activists that he will not be
tempted into a pre-election giveaway. Instead he will produce a budget "for the
long term", which will address the challenges to Britain from the rapidly
developing economies of China and India.

The Conservatives remain convinced this is a smokescreen. The government will
use the budget to try to halt the momentum gained by the opposition over the
past few weeks. Like other chancellors - "back to the 18th century" - Mr Brown
will flatter the figures and create scope for tax cuts and spending increases of
between £2bn and £5bn, deliberately more than those promised by Mr Letwin.

At the same time he will claim his budget is tax-neutral to prevent City
pressure for higher interest rates to offset the inflationary effect of a
pre-election give-away, his Tory shadow predicts.

Mr Letwin admits there is not much he can do about it, except to warn voters.
Michael Howard's right-hand man is increasingly confident that the Brown
strategy no longer works.

Nor will it change the basic fundamentals of economic management in Britain
after eight years of a Brown chancellorship. Although Mr Brown faces no
immediate crisis, most outside experts agree that a £12bn "bloody great black
hole" is about to appear in his spending plans. It must be filled by cuts or tax
rises.

Mr Letwin is getting his retaliation in first because he knows Mr Brown will
dominate media coverage on budget day, next Wednesday, March 16. He believes the
chancellor will:

* Redistribute or repeat the announcement of existing spending commitments to
raise the feelgood factor

* Remove small sums from one budget and use the money to increase others,
pensions for instance

* Raise taxes on unpopular targets, high-earning City types, for instance, and
introduce new devices to curb tax-avoidance loopholes, so he can "create
headroom" for cuts.

What Mr Letwin, a former merchant banker, calls the "intellectually beautiful
position" which Mr Brown has is that whatever savings a chancellor claims to be
able to make from closing tax loopholes - providing they are not laughably high
- are later impossible to prove or disprove. "It is fail-safe device" to justify
extra spending.

But the shadow chancellor is deadly serious when he argues that Mr Brown has
consistently over-estimated his revenue receipts since 2000 and is certain to be
at the limits of his own golden rule in the present cycle and the next.

Mr Brown will have to raise taxes, though he will cut some on budget day,
possibly directing the same £1.3bn the Tories have earmarked to ease pensioners'
council tax bills, but doing it in a way that helps the poorest pensioners.

Mr Letwin believes that Labour is attacking a "slightly old world" view of the
Tories who have changed since Mr Howard took over. Eighteen months ago the new
Tory leader and his shadow chancellor decided they would only campaign on public
service reform delivery, over-regulation and taxes if they could promise to pour
money saved into such services.

Labour strategists believe the Tories are still vulnerable on the economy, and
have not rethought what Conservatism means in an age of global competition and
rapidly changing technology.

Ever the optimist, Mr Letwin argues that "below the radar" leaflets, private
polling and focus groups show that voters believe Labour's reforms have not
delivered and that taxes will go up if it is re-elected.

The Tories, he admits, have not yet persuaded people that they will cut taxes.
But every time they say they will, more people accept that, at least, they will
not put them up.

The shadow chancellor spent much of the last election in semi-hiding in his West
Dorset constituency after loose talk about spending cuts became a campaign
issue. Six months ago the United Kingdom Independence party, which did not
contest the seat in 2001, reversed its decision, hoping to destroy his 1,414
majority.

But Mr Letwin says he is more worried about the Liberal Democrat challenge.

conservatives.com/conference Conservatives' spring forum

guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 9, 2005, Wednesday

KEVIN MAGUIRE: BNP GETS A RIGHT KICKING

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 211 words


THE vile BNP is in retreat with the far-right party's leader Nick Griffin
complaining that Michael Howard and the Tories have nicked some of his racist
clothes.

Certainly, it's true that UKIP and even orange-skinned Robert Kilroy-Silk's band
of Veritas buddies might also squeeze them on the right.

But the real reason the BNP is on the ropes is because people are joining forces
to defeat the fascists. "Dagenham Together" is a case in point. This weekend in
that part of East London hundreds of home helps, dustmen, car workers, council
staff, binmen, posties and shopworkers will leaflet 55,000 homes.

Trade unions, faith groups and community organisations banded together after the
BNP won a council seat and boasted of taking more than a dozen next year.

That's unlikely to happen now and the BNP, trounced in a seat it expected to win
after a similar campaign in Stoke last week, is heading back to obscurity.

Dagenham Labour MP Jon Cruddas , left, highlights two lessons from what is
happening in Dagenham, Stoke, Oldham and other towns.

The first is that united action remains the most effective weapon against them
and the second is that there is nothing inevitable about the rise of the BNP.

Hats off to Jon and the others.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               40 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 8, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Even scarier than Kilroy: A coup against social Europe has
been foiled - for the time being

BYLINE: George Monbiot

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 986 words


There is a group of men and women seeking to make life as difficult as possible
for the progressives who support the EU. They are members not of the UK
Independence party or the French National Front, but of the European commission.
Whenever we try to persuade our compatriots that the EU helps to defend human
rights, protect the environment and ward off the market fundamentalism of the
US, they find some means of proving us wrong.

No one has wrongfooted us as deftly as a Dutchman called Frits Bolkestein, who
was, until November, the internal market commissioner. In January last year, he
produced a directive that claimed to be harmonising the rules governing Europe's
service industries. It was promoted, as all such measures are, as a means of
creating "millions" of jobs, and it could indeed help to stimulate the European
economy. But it also appears to impose on member states a compulsory
commercialisation of public services, while destroying their ability to defend
us from corporate exploitation. It is - or was - due for approval by the end of
this year.

The gremlin inhabits a clause called "the country of origin principle".
Companies, it says, "are subject only to the national provisions of their member
state of origin". What this means is that if a construction firm based in
Lithuania is working in the UK, it need abide only by Lithuanian laws. Every
enterprising corporation will want to relocate its HQ to the state with the
weakest regulations.

And then it gets really weird. The state responsible for enforcing the rules
will be the one in which the company is based, not the one in which it is
working. If, for example, the Lithuanian company forced workers in the UK to
risk their lives on dodgy scaffolding, our Health and Safety Executive wouldn't
be able to do a damn thing. Instead, the Lithuanian equivalent would have to
send its inspectors over here, and, hampered by any number of translation
problems, seek to defend the lives of British workers.

Given the way such markets work, the company they were monitoring would, more
likely than not, be a British one flying a Lithuanian flag of convenience. But
if that company is threatening your safety on a building site in Brixton, you
will have to protest to the authorities in Vilnius.

This is a formula, in other words, for a complete breakdown of the enforcement
of the laws restraining corporations. In the name of "bringing down barriers",
it would raise such barriers to anyone trying to defend their rights that
effective public complaint becomes all but impossible. This is, of course, the
point.

You have to read the entire text to understand what its effects will be. In the
preamble, for example, it tells you that an exemption from the country-of-origin
rule should be possible for matters "related to the safety of services". But in
article 19 you discover that the exemption applies "in exceptional circumstances
only". I would not like to be the trade union lawyer who tries to make use of
that safeguard.

At first sight, the country-of-origin principle looks odd. The purpose of the
internal market reforms was surely to engineer a single set of standards across
the EU. This rule, in theory, could lead to 25 sets of standards in the same
country. But soon you realise that it will indeed harmonise standards - at the
lowest levels to be found in the EU. Once corporations move their nominal
addresses to the countries with the weakest rules (just as ship owners register
vessels in Panama or Liberia), the countries with stricter laws will discover
that to stay in the market, they must drag their own standards down to match the
weakest ones.

The directive has caused a massive rumpus in almost every member nation, but not
in the capital of Europhobia. Here in the UK, while entertaining our customary
panics about the banning of church bells, corgis and curved bananas, we remain
ignorant of the real threats to our sovereignty. That's the trouble with
Eurosceptics - they're never around when you need them.

But last week, with no help from our own champions of self-determination, all
hell broke out in Brussels. Charlie McCreevy, the new internal market
commissioner, admitted that the services directive was "not going to fly" and
suggested that "another commissioner might have approached (this issue) in a
different fashion" - which is about as rude as any Eurocrat has ever been about
another.

It's not over yet. The corporations and their supporters have gone berserk. The
Financial Times, which has consistently misrepresented the concerns of the
directive's opponents, thundered that McCreevy "cravenly sounded the retreat
before battle had even formally commenced". Malcolm Harbour, a British Tory MEP,
accused the commission of disrupting democracy. (Funny how Tory concerns about
sovereignty evaporate when a policy is good for big business.) Peter Mandelson
urged the commission not to "retreat in the face of illegitimate pressures", by
which he appears to mean Europe's people.

Directives such as Bolkestein's test the Euroenthusiasm of anyone with an
interest in social justice to breaking point. For those of us who recognise that
absolute sovereignty is impossible in the face of globalisation, and that ours
is a choice not between alignment and isolation but between alignment with
Europe or alignment with the US, his proposal suggests that we might as well
give up: either way we get market fundamentalism. Men like him, and Mandelson
and Jose Manuel Barroso, have done a better job of sabotaging the European
project than any number of Kilroys or Le Pens.

Their proposal will doubtless resurface, and when it does the people of these
benighted islands owe the rest of the EU a little more public vigilance and
solidarity. But for now, though we played no part in it, we can celebrate a rare
victory for an old ideal.

www.monbiot.com


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               41 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 8, 2005, Tuesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 741 words


Withheld: Blair refuses to name his 1,900 best friends

For a man who talks so earnestly about "open" government, Tony Blair is
strangely reluctant to allow the workings of his own private office to fall
under the spotlight.

In January, Pandora reported that the Prime Minister, right, had marked the
festive season by sending a total of 1,900 official Christmas cards, up from
1,600 in 2003, at a cost of several hundred pounds to the taxpayer.

Intrigued by this statistic - and wondering who all Blair's new friends might be
- I made a formal request to see the names of the recipients, under the new
Freedom of Information Act.

Sadly, Downing Street has refused to play ball: yesterday, they wrote to say the
list was exempt from disclosure, because it contains "personal information",
which cannot be revealed because of data protection laws.

It's a traditional excuse for Blair to use when he wants to cover something up.
And it doesn't work: last month, Lib Dem MP Norman Lamb overturned a similar
ruling to secure a list of dinner guests invited to Chequers in the past two
years.

"I suspect Downing Street's defence won't wash here either, or it would have
been the basis for denying me a list of names too," Lamb tells me.

With that in mind, Pandora has launched a formal appeal. Let's hope that -
unlike Lamb's - mine takes less than 18 months to process.

Grand dame to lend approval

FORTY YEARS after she achieved fame in Mary Poppins, Dame Julie Andrews is to
cast a critical eye over the new musical about London's most famous nanny.

The screen siren, left, will this month fly to the capital - using an aeroplane,
rather than an umbrella - to attend a gala performance of the West End show.

The visit is a signal honour for Julian Fellowes, who reworked the script. "A
lot of people have been waiting for Julie to snipe at the show, but she's been
tremendously generous about it from the beginning," he tells me.

"I'm old enough to remember the books, but for anyone of my wife's age or
younger, Julie Andrews quite simply is Mary Poppins."

In a neat role-reversal, Fellowes - who won an Oscar for the script of Gosford
Park - recently crossed the Atlantic to promote his own novel Snobs: "It seems
to have done the trick," he adds. "It's a bestseller over there now."

The naked truth

JAMIE OLIVER is back in the nation's good books, with his campaign to improve
the calorie-ridden junk that passes for school dinners.

Not everyone is singing his praises, though. The TV producer Pat Llewellyn - who
"discovered" Oliver, left, when he was working at the River Cafe - is said to be
irked by the chef's endorsement of Sainsbury's.

The reason, I'm told, is that Llewellyn invented the "Naked Chef" concept on
which the supermarket's adverts are modelled.

"Although Pat doesn't want any money, she does feel a bit peeved," says a chum.
"She's no fan of supermarkets, so some of his ads - particularly the one
endorsing salmon farming - fly in the face of what she stands for."

UKIP man walks

A SCALP! Last month, Pandora revealed that the UK Independence Party intended to
field a convicted criminal, one Damien O'Connor, as its candidate in Manchester
Central.

Now I gather that Mr O'Connor - who was "done" for a £9,000 housing benefit
fraud in 2000 - has decided to stand down after photocopies of this column began
circulating amongst party members in the North West.

"Mr O'Connor decided to resign as a candidate in the interests of the UKIP,
following adverse press coverage," says a party spokesman. "We appreciate the
gesture, and are confident he will remain a valued member of UKIP."

It's reassuring to know he's still a man they can do business with.

The accident-prone English National Opera has been dealt a blow. Two of its
foremost divas, Giselle Allen and Stephanie Marshall, have simultaneously fallen
pregnant, forcing them to pull out of a forthcoming revival of Cosi fan Tutte.

A search is now on for suitable replacements to take the pivotal roles of
Fiordiligi and Dorabella. Time is not on the ENO's side, though: rehearsals are
already underway, and the show is scheduled to hit the stage in May.

"If the truth be told, we're in a bit of a panic," says a source. "It's ironic
really, because a rough translation of the opera's title is Women are all like
that'."

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               42 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 7, 2005

IT'S POTTY

BYLINE: Michael Lea

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 194 words


EU plant workers can dodge law

LOWLY EU officials in charge of PLANTS have been officially declared above the
law -along with their families.

The eurocrats have been granted diplomatic immunity normally reserved for
high-ranking foreign envoys.

Staff in charge of food, trains and translation can also escape punishment for
offences committed. The pen-pushers are exempt from certain tax and customs
duties -and relatives get the benefits, even if they do not work for the EU.

Diplomatic immunity is meant to protect envoys being jailed on politically
motivated charges.

But the concessions allow officials to escape prosecution for minor crimes like
motoring offences. In more serious circumstances they may also dodge justice by
being reprimanded or deported.

UKIP MEP Jeffrey Titford said: "It is one law for hard-working British citizens
and their families, but quite another for those civil servants and offspring
fortunate to be on the EU gravy train.

"Imagine if some young thug slings a brick through your window and the police
arrest him.

"How would you feel if they had to let him go because daddy works for the EU?"


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               43 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 7, 2005

GONE POTTY

BYLINE: Kim Kelly

LENGTH: 321 words


EU plant growers can dodge the law

LOWLY EU officials in charge of PLANTS have been officially declared above the
law - along with their families.

The eurocrats have been granted diplomatic immunity normally reserved for high-

ranking foreign envoys.

Staff in charge of food, trains and translation can also escape punishment for
offences committed.

The pen-pushers are exempt from certain tax and customs duties - and relatives
get the benefits, even if they do not work for the EU.

Diplomatic immunity is meant to protect envoys being jailed on politically
motivated charges. But the concessions allow officials to escape prosecution for
minor crimes like motoring offences.

In more serious circumstances they may also dodge justice by being reprimanded
or deported.

Sinn Fein councillor Daithi Doolan said the revelations would further increase
the Irish public's suspicion of Eurocrats.

Wedge

He fumed: "Serious questions need to be asked and we need answers.

"For many years there have been suspicions that EU officials are above the law
or apply laws to suit themselves.

"This knowledge will further drive a wedge between European citizens and the
Eurcrats. We need to build a Europe of equals, not a Europe for Eurocrats.

"We see people waiting for hospital beds and for social housing yet Eurocrats'
needs are put before the needs of European citizens."

Mr Doolan, councillor for Dublin City Council - South East Inner City, said his
party had launched

a draft document on the EU constitution at this weekend's Ard Fheis.

"We are gravely concerned that the privileges granted to Eurocrats are being
further strengthened and this will further erode democracy."

And UKIP MEP Jeffrey Titford said: "It is one law for hard-working citizens and
their families, but

quite another for those civil servants and offspring fortunate to be on the EU
gravy train."


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               44 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             March 6, 2005, Sunday

Pulling power of Gordon, the Heineken man

BYLINE: Peter Kellner

SECTION: Features; News Review 4

LENGTH: 1076 words


Labour is set for a third term but the size of its victory rests on the
chancellor's growing appeal outside the party, writes Peter Kellner.

Beware the fog of war. This injunction applies to election campaigns just as
much as to military battles. The past fortnight has provoked much false
excitement, triggered by two opinion polls that seemed to show a sharp reduction
in Labour's lead. For 48 hours, the media had a new story to tell, and they duly
pounced on it: the Conservatives were recovering; the coming election might be
far closer than anyone had thought.

Then came two further polls, telling a different story. Labour was consolidating
its lead; the Tories were stuck.

The prosaic truth is that the underlying state of the parties is probably much
as it has been for the past three months. Unless something dramatic happens in
the next eight weeks, Labour is heading for a third successive victory, but with
a reduced majority. The Conservatives will gain seats, but not many. The Liberal
Democrats will also gain seats, but still remain stranded in a distant third
place.

The latest Sunday Times/YouGov election prediction reflects all this. Labour's
majority will be roughly halved. The Conservatives will gain about two dozen
seats, but still not breach the 200 mark -which would still leave them well over
100 seats short of the 324 they need to win a majority in the Commons.

Compared with last month, the predictions for Labour and Tory support have edged
up a point each, at the expense of the Lib Dems and other minority parties. The
Lib Dems show signs of their support stalling.

Some way off to their right, Robert Kilroy-Silk's decision to set up his new
party, Veritas, seems to have done far more to undermine support for the UK
Independence party than to expand his own electoral fan club.

Of course, much could change between now and the probable election date of May
5.

Political forecasts are like economic forecasts: they can be upset by events
that nobody can predict, such as last week's dispute over Margaret Dixon's
cancelled NHS operations.

Every new opinion poll will be scoured by party strategists for signs of shifts.

The trouble is that polls may be the best indicators we have, but they are not
infallible. They should be regarded as slightly blurred snapshots of the state
of the race a few days before they are published, rather than a crystal-clear
picture.

This applies with extra force to the most quoted number: the size of Labour's
lead. By definition the lead is the difference between two numbers, each of
which is prone to sampling error. Depending on the size of the sample, the
margin of error on Labour's lead can range from four to six points.

When one takes two successive polls from the same company, and looks to see
whether the lead has changed, then the problem becomes even more acute. For us
to be certain that Labour's lead has either widened or narrowed, it must change
by at least 6% in YouGov surveys, 7% in Populus and Mori surveys, and 8% in ICM
and CommunicateResearch surveys.

None of the recent shifts recorded by any of the polls has been high enough to
pass these tests. That does not mean that Labour's lead has stayed exactly
constant in recent weeks. It does mean that any shift has been too small to be
caught by the pollsters with absolute certainty.

As a result, the three things that can be predicted with complete confidence are
that between now and election day, individual polls will report a change in the
gap between Labour and the Tories, that these findings will generate breathless
party claims that the Tories (or Labour) are surging (or slumping), and that a
number of these stories and claims will be wrong.

Suppose, though, some of these stories turn out to be right, and Labour's lead
does widen or narrow significantly. What could cause such a shift? March 16 is
the one date in the pre-election calendar that might be decisive. This is when
Gordon Brown presents his ninth budget.

The chancellor now looks as if he will have more room to manoeuvre than anyone
thought likely even a few weeks ago. In the grand order of things, the amounts
of money at his disposal won't be huge; but they could be enough for this most
politically astute of ministers to provide a perfect launch pad for Labour's
election campaign.

Much could turn on whether undecided voters judge that Brown has enhanced his -
and the government's -reputation for running the economy well and spending tax
revenues wisely, or whether (as the Tories argue) he is storing up trouble for
the future and, meanwhile, wasting the money he has.

For the moment, it must be said, Brown's reputation is riding high. In recent
weeks the polls have all found that the chancellor is far more popular than the
prime minister. Among Labour supporters, both men are liked to much the same
degree. It is among non- Labour voters that the differences show up. Tony Blair
has lost the cross party appeal that he used to enjoy.

In contrast, Brown has widened his appeal. It may come as a surprise to those at
Westminster who view Brown as a more tribal Labour politician than Blair, but
among the public at large, the chancellor is admired by most Liberal Democrats
and a large minority of Conservative supporters.

In particular, Brown is popular among many of the voters who have deserted
Labour since 2001. When people are asked how they would vote if Brown rather
than Blair were prime minister, Labour's lead invariably widens markedly. Much
of this is due to Labour defectors (especially to the Lib Dems) returning
"home".

Whereas Blair's reputation seems to have been permanently tainted by the charge
that he misled us at the time of the Iraq invasion two years ago, Brown's
reputation has survived that episode unscathed. That, above all, is why he is
Labour's Heineken man: the politician who can reach former Labour voters that
Blair can no longer reach.

That is also why it was so important a few weeks ago for Labour to shut down the
stories of feuds between the chancellor and prime minister -and why next week's
budget is so important: not only for its contents, but also for its impact on
Labour's election campaign. Whether Blair and Alan Milburn like it or not, the
size of Labour's majority in the next parliament could turn on the degree of
harmony they manage to achieve with Brown, their greatest electoral asset.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               45 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 3, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Bring your own party: Elsewhere

BYLINE: David McKie

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 780 words


Fed up with conventional political parties? Looking for something different? If
so, what about the Data Correlation party? A manifesto published four years ago
has a certain tingle. "We find ourselves not just at the crossroads of the aeons
but of British electoral history. . . a chance to fling open the door of change
and step through the portal of potential into the vestibule of enhancement
beyond. . ."

Or, if you'd rather take a less spoofy route to the vestibule of enhancement,
what about the New party? It is committed to bringing real life experience
rather than political dogma to the business of government, and that famously
astute man of business, Sir John Harvey-Jones, seems to think it is on the right
lines. "There can be very few people," their website quotes him as saying, "who
are satisfied and happy with the current political choices available to them . .
. For that reason, I personally wish the New party every success. It is in all
our interests for them to succeed." And then there's the English Democrats party
- formerly the English National party - for which John Stonehouse was briefly an
MP when its leader was Frank Hansford-Miller, who used to address meetings in
Trafalgar Square while dressed as a beefeater. Or the England First party ("it's
our England, let's win it back"), based in Blackburn. Or the Freedom party,
"formed in response to a lack of a democratic British political party which
represents the core values of most of our people. . ." (Oh, please, not another
of those!) ". . .but which is not like so many such organisations an
embarrassment to be associated with". Thank goodness for that.

Though people increasingly complain that there's no real choice, the choice has
rarely been wider than it is likely to be in May. Fifty years ago, the average
number of names on a constituency ballot sheet was 2.2: artificially low because
some MPs were still returned unopposed, but nevertheless reflecting a politics
which essentially was Conservative v Labour. The Liberals stood in only 110
seats out of 630 in 1955. The nationalists in Wales fought 11 of 36 seats, the
nationalists in Scotland just two out of 71.

Of the 76.7% of electors who seized on their chance to make a choice from these
mingy ballot sheets, 49.7% backed the Conservatives, 46.4% Labour and a paltry
2.7% the Liberals, with other parties accounting for just 1.2% of the vote.
Contrast that with 2001, an election in which only 59.4% voted. The number of
candidates then was 3,319, with an average choice of five per constituency. That
was below the figure for 1997, when a record 3,724 candidates stood (5.7 per
constituency), mainly because the Referendum and Natural Law parties had left
the field. But in May, or whenever it will be, we'll be offered among others the
UK Independence party, its Kilroy-Silk spin-off, Veritas, and George Galloway's
Respect, which is likely to make a bigger impact than the Socialist Alliance of
2001. So the range of choice may grow wider again.

The independent fringes of electoral politics have always included both
candidates who do little more than take their chance to advertise their beliefs
(a Jesus and his Cross candidate, for instance, in Birmingham in 1983) and
parties which are rather more than simply one-person bands, which run to
executive committees and deputy chairmen, and meetings in which people sit
around late at night talking of Breakthrough.

J ust a few of these parties last. Some remain politically active but cease to
put up candidates: the Referendum party, for instance, is now the Democratic
Movement. Others will soldier on, election after election, as the Workers'
Revolutionary party has done, apparently undeterred by the paucity of their
rewards. But most will just disappear. The Greens - the Ecologists of 1983 -
made it. But what became of such hopefuls of 20 years ago as the MDP (1), the
WCPPP (2), the WPWS (3) and the TVCABL (4)?

The one surprise so far for the coming election is that more have not yet sought
to emulate Dr Richard Taylor, who fought Wyre Forest at the last election for
the KHHC (5) and, against all the form book precedents, won it, knocking out
Labour. Others with hot local causes must surely be tempted to follow. And why
not? The route to the vestibule of enhancement may just possibly lie that way.

(1) Modern Democratic party; (2) Workers Charter party with Pensioner Power; (3)
Workers party for a Workers' State; (4) Tactically Vote Conservative, Annihilate
Bennites & Livingstonites; (5) Kidderminster Hospital and Health Campaign. For
information on minor parties, see www.psr.keele.ac.uk

McElsewhere@aol.com


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               46 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 01, 2005, Tuesday

Hurley loses taste for travel

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN ISABY

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 021

LENGTH: 254 words

MaxMara "face" Catherine Hurley (right) may have spurned a medicine degree for
the catwalk, but she is now returning to her academic roots. For I hear that the
25-year-old beauty -- who dropped out of Oxford to start modelling -- has
decided to quit the catwalk and embark upon a degree in nutrition and dietetics
at King's College, London. "I don't like the displacement of modelling," she
told me at the recent launch of the West End club Umbaba. "You have to travel to
so many different countries around the world, stay there for two weeks living
out of a suitcase, and then pack up and move on again. It's all too much."

Not that Hurley - who is not related to Elizabeth -- is totally turning her back
on modelling: "I'll still be doing magazine and television campaigns."

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom made a name for himself last year after his comments
about the propensity of the modern woman to clean behind the fridge.

Interesting to learn, then, that a female colleague on the European Parliament's
women's rights committee -- Polish MEP Urszula Krupa -- has nominated him for
its Equal Opportunities prize.  "Godfrey has spoken out highlighting specific
areas of employment legislation that militate against the employment of younger
women," she says.  "As a successful businessman himself, his views carry some
authority."

The winner will be announced on March 8, International Women's Day -- not a day
usually marked by Bloom.  "Believe me, I'll celebrate it if I win," he grins.

Celia Walden is away

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
