
                               1 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 30, 2005, Friday

Labour's majority cut to 2,680

BYLINE: By Kate Devlin

SECTION: News Pg. 011

LENGTH: 312 words

LABOUR retained Robin Cook's Westminster seat last night but with the majority
massively reduced from more than 13,097 to 2,680.

Jim Devine, the late MP's election agent, polled 41.8 per cent of the vote,
beating the Scottish National Party candidate Angela Constance into second place
with 32.7 per cent. The swing from Labour to the nationalists was 10.22 per
cent.

The by-election was called after the former foreign secretary's sudden death
last month.

A rock-solid Labour seat, Livingston, made up of a new town and several former
mining villages, was widely expected to return Mr Devine.

But the 38.6 per cent turnout benefited the SNP, which has a number of local
councillors, and made the contest closer. The turnout at the general election
was 58.5 per cent.

The Liberal Democrats were third with more than 14 per cent of the vote, and the
Conservatives trailed in fourth, winning less than seven per cent of the vote.

In his acceptance speech, Mr Devine paid a warm tribute to his predecessor.
"This is a place that no one wanted to be," he said. "Robin Cook was an
outstanding parliamentarian and he served this constituency with distinction for
many years. I hope to continue the work he did for this constituency."

Mr Devine, a trade union official with Unison, has held several key positions in
the Scottish Labour Party and had been Mr Cook's agent since 1983.

Party chiefs will be relieved at the win during the party's conference week.

Livingstone by-election

James Devine (Lab) 12,319 Angela Constance (SNP) 9,639

Charles Dundas (Lib Dem) 4,362 Gordon Lindhurst (Con) 1,993

Majority 2,680

Peter Adams (UKIP Scotland) 108, John Allman (Alliance For Change) 33, Melville
Brown (Independent) 55, Brian Gardner (Socialist Party of Great Britain) 32,
Steven Nimmo (Scottish Socialist Party) 407 David Robertson (Green) 529

Turnout - 38.6 %

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 29, 2005, Thursday

Dr Fox's Europe remedy could restore Tory health

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 029

LENGTH: 410 words

'Change to win," says David Cameron. "Time to win," counters Kenneth Clarke.
"Modern Conservatism," suggests David Davis. Thankfully the Conservative
leadership election is not a caption-writing competition. Yet, also thankfully,
the launch of these underwhelming slogans is offset by a statement of real
substance by another candidate.

Most things said by the leadership hopefuls are promises of what they would do
in government in 2009 - an event remote in time and, some would say, in
possibility. Yet Liam Fox promises to do something within his power as
opposition leader this December: to withdraw the Tories from the European
People's Party in the European Parliament.

One can see why. The EPP, though nominally centre-Right, nevertheless supports -
according to its most recent manifesto - "the realisation of the United States
of Europe", the ending of Britain's budget rebate and an unattractive range of
corporatist social policies.

It is quite right that the Tories withdraw from the EPP. But is it important?
The seating plan in the European Parliament does not set many pulses racing. Yet
there are two good reasons why Dr Fox's initiative deserves applause.

For years, it was believed that the Tories' "influence" was best served by
sitting among the big centre-Right parties of the Carolingian axis, such as the
CDU from Germany and Jacques Chirac's UMP party from France. Now that there are
large and successful parties from eastern Europe in the parliament, that
argument looks quite threadbare. The new government in Poland, the party which
holds the Czech presidency, and equally respectable groups from Denmark,
Portugal and the Baltics, would all be worthy partners; the Conservatives would
then lead the third largest bloc in the parliament and be a real force for
institutional reform and the restoration of national sovereignty.

The second reason to applaud concerns domestic politics. Surveys show that the
British public is largely, and strongly, Euro-sceptic. Yet for all the Tories'
chest-beating on the subject, membership of the EPP quite justifies the charge
that they say one thing in Britain and do another in Brussels. It was this
perception of dissembling that, in part, contributed to the best-ever UKIP vote
and the worst-ever Tory vote in the 2005 election. If the party adopted the
policy set out by Dr Fox it would be taking a major step towards restoring its
integrity - and recovering its electability.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               3 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 2005, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 813 words


Poster war raises tempers in contest for Cook's old seat

On this by-election day, the battle to succeed Robin Cook as MP for Livingston
has descended into a row that does little credit to the great man's political
legacy.

The Scottish Labour Party has landed itself deep in the doo-doo after posters
endorsing its candidate Jim Devine were discovered in a number of 'illegal'
sites across the constituency.

Although the local council has ordered the offending posters to be taken down,
Labour activists were last night unceremoniously refusing to shift them.

The farcical stand-off follows a complaint by local Liberal Democrats, who
discovered Cook's former activists erecting posters in the middle of traffic
islands and on the verges of dual carriageways.

'This is against the rules, so we made a formal complaint to the local council,
which was upheld,' they say. 'But amazingly, the posters are still there, in
clear breach of the rules.'

A spokesman for Devine admits that the council has found against them on the
matter, but denies having been formally asked to move the 'illegal' election
posters.

'There has been a bit of a comedy of errors,' I'm told. 'The council put out a
press statement saying we should move the posters. However, they didn't actually
phone us to tell us to move them.'

'Until they do this, our position is that we haven't been properly told to move
the posters, so we're going to carry on regardless.'

Cunning, aren't they?

Doorknob trouble on Jo's first night

The first night of Joseph Fiennes' new West End play An Epitaph for George
Dillon on Tuesday came within a whisker of disaster.

During the first act of the show Fiennes, left, is required to seduce his
co-star, Zoe Tapper, before dragging her off to the bedroom.

Unfortunately, when it came to the crucial moment, a doorknob came off in
Fiennes' hand leaving him stranded on stage.

There followed an uneasy pause, before Fiennes (in a feat of improvisation)
dragged his enamoured co-star off through an alternative exit.

'Thankfully, I managed to stay in character ,' recalled Fiennes, during the
after-show party at Mint Leaf restaurant. 'I had to take her in the kitchen, as
it were. First nights are always terrifying, so I'm just glad it's over.'

During the interval, the theatre called an emergency handyman to fix the faulty
set. 'The lock broke, so we threw it in the bin,' says a spokesman. 'It won't be
happening again.'

Death Wish in the park

Michael Winner, who is about to celebrate his 70th birthday, has made a timely
announcement concerning his posthumous legacy.

In a postscript to the new paperback edition of his autobiography Winner Takes
All, the bon viveur, right, says that he intends to be buried in St James' Park.

'I've now decided that I want to be buried on the site where the National Police
Memorial is,' he writes. 'I'm not sure anyone has ever been buried in a Royal
Park. Actually I think some dogs were! But I shall pursue this vigorously.'

Vigorous or not, he'll have an uphill struggle. 'We have indeed never buried
anyone,' says the Royal Parks Authority. 'On that basis it looks like he'll get
a no, but we wouldn't be able to say for sure until an official request came
through.'

Food fight

Gary Rhodes recently refused to appear in a public debate with Giles Coren, but
he isn't the only superchef to have taken against the restaurant critic.

At a GQ party this month, the sommelier from one of London's top restaurants
became involved in a heated argument over one of Coren's reviews. Says a
witness: 'he shouted that Brian Turner is out to 'get' Giles.'

Coren recalls being given a 'hard time', but insists: 'despite what you've
heard, it never got physical. I told the sommelier to calm down, because we were
supposed to be at a party.'

Either way, poor old Coren's on a few hit lists at present. His name crops up in
relation to an unsavoury revelation in Michael Ashcroft's new memoir about his
legal battles with The Times.

Last flutter for Westminster's EU flag

Here's a row of the sort you couldn't make up: the EU flag fluttering outside
the European Parliament building in Westminster was yesterday declared illegal.

For this development, we must thank the UK Independence Party. They made a
formal complaint to Westminster Council after discovering that planning
permission has not been granted for it.

Under UK law, all flags " apart from national ones " must be OK'd by local
authorities before being fixed to buildings, since they are officially
classified as advertising material. The EU flag is not a national flag.

'The general public should be protected from this sort of false advertising
promoting worthless tat,' reckons UKIP's bullish MEP Nigel Farage. 'This is the
most important victory for consumer power in decades.'

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               4 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 26, 2005, Monday

Lack of proper debate might just be enough to carry Labour home

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 14

LENGTH: 1370 words


The voters in Glasgow Cathcart go to the polls on Thursday in a by-election to
find a new MSP to succeed Lord Watson.

Magnus Linklater takes the temperature of the constituency.

THE former Lord Provost and I are clutching a single umbrella as we help each
other up the Castlemilk Drive in the teeth of an old-fashioned Glasgow
rainstorm.

"Why are you doing this at your age?" I ask the 79-year-old Pat Lally.

By this stage, we have negotiated our way out of the rain and into the
headquarters of the Pensioners' Action Group where we are offered a cup of tea,
a salad sandwich, and a towel. Lally mops his domed head and grins the famous
grin that once ran Glasgow.

"Because of the lack of party democracy," he said. "Because Labour is no longer
the party I joined. Because it's been stolen away from the people."

This might sound odd coming from a man who once ruled the city with a rod of
iron.

"Ah, but in those days every member of the party had a say," he said. "That's
the difference -the members made the decision." I wonder whether Lally, standing
now as an Independent, can live up to his nickname of Lazarus and rise again to
challenge Labour's hold on Glasgow Cathcart, where, last time around, it won by
just over 5,000 votes. "Oh yes, I expect to win," says Lally with disarming
candour. "New Labour is simply not acceptable to the people of Scotland."

That, in a word, is why nerves are on edge in Cathcart this week. If Labour is
ever to be challenged seriously in the West of Scotland, this is where it might
happen. On paper, the omens for the party are not propitious. Its poll rating is
low. Its achievements are widely derided. Voter apathy is rampant. And its
parliamentary representative is languishing in Barlinnie prison on a charge of
wilful fire-raising. Lord Watson of Invergowrie was jailed for trying to set
fire to the curtains of an Edinburgh hotel and has been thrown out of the party.

The candidate who has taken his place is Charlie Gordon, who was, for six years,
leader of the city council. His approach to campaigning is as coldly
professional as Pat Lally's is folksy. While Lally stops to chat with every
passer-by, most of whom seem to recognise him, Gordon is interested only in
blitzing as many voters as he can reach. He and his party sweep up by a recently
renovated tower block in a snazzy new people-carrier. A team of up to a dozen,
including at least three MSPs, and the local Westminster MP, Tom Harris, spread
out to take the block in sections.

Gordon positions himself at the corner, while his canvassers knock on doors in
groups of three. Since it is mid-afternoon, the response is limited. When,
however, a door opens, even a crack, the candidate leaps forward, and announces
himself. Instead of steering clear of the Watson affair, he uses it as his
opening gambit. "Do you know why this by-election is taking place?" he asks.
"It's because your former MSP, Mike Watson, has been sent to prison on serious
charges. It's nothing to do with the Labour Party. Can I count on your vote?"

This seems an odd approach, but the purpose seems to be to distance him from his
predecessor. As he explains later: "We want to counter the suggestion that the
Watson affair has damaged the party. If someone says to me, 'You're all the
same', my answer is: 'Excuse me, I don't have a criminal record'." It is hard to
gauge the response, because Gordon and his helpers are not much interested in
prolonged political debate. Turnout on the day is the only aim. "Will you be
supporting us on October 6?" is the one question asked. Most people say "Yes",
but only, one suspects, as a way of getting the door closed again. Just one lady
refuses categorically. "I can't stand that Tony Blair," she offers. "You can't
believe a word he says."

Gordon seems oddly thrown by this, the first and only bit of genuine political
debate I encounter. His reply is more bluster than conviction, but that may be
because he is, famously, no friend of Jack McConnell, Scotland's First Minister,
Blair's ally in Scotland.

For Labour, turnout is critical. They are counting on the opposition being split
three ways, with Lally, the Liberal Democrats and the Scottish Socialists taking
votes on the Left away from the SNP, the main challenger. But if turnout falls
below 40 per cent, which is a possibility, anything could happen. Labour had a
5,000 majority out of an electorate of 48,000. The SNP need a swing of 11 per
cent to win, and, so far, there is little evidence that they have gathered the
momentum to do it, despite repeated visits to the constituency by the party
leader, Alex Salmond, and droves of SNP activists.

Part of the reason may be the somewhat low-key approach of their candidate,
Maire Whitehead, a 64-year-old former head teacher, who has lived and worked in
the constituency for 30 years and fought it several times. She has chosen the
proposed closure of the Accident and Emergency unit at the ancient Victoria
Infirmary as her casus belli. She is, of course, not the only one to do so -all
the opposition parties are doing the same. She also has the problem of having
served on the trust that took the decision to move "blue light" services to the
Southern General, and open a new building in the area without an accident
emergency unit.

"I was only on it for a year," she says, "and I welcome the new building. But I
want to see both run together. It beggars belief that we should be closing down
the best-run casualty service in the City." The closure of the "Vicky", law and
order, and the proposed takeover of ScottishPower, which might threaten local
call centre jobs, appear to her the biggest issues. It is crucial for the SNP
nationally that they do well here. To win or at least to close the gap is the
party's top priority.

Cathcart was once the true-blue constituency of Teddy Taylor, whose picture
still hangs in the surprisingly spacious headquarter of the Conservative
candidate, Richard Cook. But when the boundaries changed, and the more deprived
territory of Castlemilk was moved into the constituency, the Tory vote was
squeezed almost to extinction. Cook, however, remains cheerful, as do his jaunty
team of loyal workers. He has fought Cathcart three times, and at the last
Holyrood election, came third, just ahead of the Scottish Socialists, whose star
is now on the wane.

He believes that Labour's days are numbered. "This has been a single-party state
for as long as most people can remember," he says. "But there's been a gradual
realisation that things could be a great deal better. There's been a very low
level of aspiration around here, and we are countering that by fighting a very
positive campaign."

He is disappointed that the only thing his opponents can think of to do is to
alter his posters so that the second "o" of his name becomes a "c". "I thought
of putting out another saying 'Don't get Cocky, vote for Cooky', but instead
we've just been changing it back. You'd think the level of debate would rise a
bit above this."

Debate, however, is strangely absent from this by-election. With no hustings
planned, and very few public meetings, the voters seem thus far disengaged. That
could, in the end, be a critical issue. If apathy were to win the day, everyone
would be the loser.

GLASGOW CATHCART

HOLYROOD 2003 ELECTION:

Electorate 49,017 (turnout 45%): Labour 8,742; SNP 3,630; Conservative 2,888;
SSP 2,819; Pat Lally 2,419; Lib Dem 1,741.

Labour majority 5,112

THE CANDIDATES

LABOUR: Charlie Gordon, 53, leader of Glasgow City Council, 1999 to 2005.

SNP: Maire Whitehead, 64, former head teacher of St Mirin's primary school.

CONSERVATIVE:Richard Cook, 34, commercial manager, Biffa Waste Services.

SSP: Ronnie Stevenson, 59, social worker and Unison steward.

INDEPENDENT: Pat Lally, 79, former Lord Provost of Glasgow.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS: Arthur Sanderson, 63, former teacher in Africa.

GREEN: Chloe Stewart, 31, former Oxfam worker, now employed by NHS.

INDEPENDENT: Christopher Creighton, Secretary of Newlands and Auldhouse
community council.

UKIP: Bryan McCormack, 39, former Labour party activist and trade unionist.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           September 25, 2005, Sunday

EU to spend £135m building 'dancing pregnant goddess'

BYLINE: Nicola Smith

SECTION: Home news; News; 5

LENGTH: 559 words


TO its Belgian architect it is a "dancing pregnant goddess" that symbolises the
entry of women into politics, but to the layman it looks more like an Easter egg
in a 120ft-high wood and glass box.

The latest £135m addition to a long list of expensive European Union
constructions in Brussels has sparked controversy before the foundations have
even been laid.

The building will be home to European ministers from 2013 when they come to
Brussels for EU summits. Work on the project -which will be part-financed by
British taxpayers -is to begin next April.

The new creation will use crystal glass and old oakwood frames from all over
Europe to symbolise the "cultural patchwork" of the 25-nation bloc.

The design was chosen earlier this month from a list of 48 applicants by a panel
of Belgian and European diplomats and the International Union of Architects. It
is a joint Belgian, Italian and British creation.

Philippe Samyn, head of Samyn and Partners, a Belgian firm of architects, said
his building reminded him of a "delicate wooden box in which you have a silk
envelope that protects a jewel or a fine glass object".

The "dancing pregnant goddess", as he nicknamed it, was an attempt to get away
from the masculinity of most government buildings, which tend to be "stiff,
strong and imposing".

The building will house the most important meetings and functions. One of its
principal features will be the flood of daylight that, it is hoped, will make
decision-making more "comfortable".

The collapse of the last summit in June was blamed in part by some participants
on the depressing atmosphere of the meeting rooms and the breakdown of the
air-conditioning.

Future meetings will take place in light-filled rooms that benefit from
skylights, glass floors and "sophisticated lenses to concentrate the daylight".

Samyn admitted it was his secret hope that the "human and friendly" design would
make the atmosphere at European summits easier. "When you treat people better
and care for softness then everything goes better," he said.

Buro Happold, a Bath-based engineering firm, is structural engineer on the
project. Nick Nelson, a partner in the firm, said one of the most "interesting
challenges" was the railway line that will run through the building's basement.

The announcement of the winning design -which some in Brussels have started
calling the "egg" or "urn" -has provoked predictable mirth.

"You're joking? Honestly, this has just gone mad," said Timothy Kirkhope, leader
of the Conservative MEPs.

Chris Davies, leader of the British Liberal Democrats, was ready to give it the
benefit of the doubt. "If an imaginative structure can help inject a bit of
vision into ministers' thinking, it will be money well spent."

EU officials argue the building is necessary to cope with the union's
enlargement to 25 countries.

The construction of yet another EU building looks set to generate more argument.

New office blocks are being built in Luxembourg and Brussels to serve the
European parliament, which already has premises in the Belgian capital and
Strasbourg.

Some critics have questioned whether the building will ever stop. "If we are
building for a newly enlarged Europe, will we have to build a new one for
Turkey?"

asked Nigel Farage, a UK Independence party MEP.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 23, 2005

EU'S DAILY LAW BLITZ

LENGTH: 80 words


BRUSSELS has drawn up a staggering 230 new laws every DAY in the last two
months, a study showed last night.

Penpushers have flooded the EU with 1,843 directives since July despite vowing
to slash red tape.

Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said he would stop the EU becoming a
"bureaucratic monster" by scrapping 69 pending laws.

But UKIP leader and MEP Roger Knapman said: "The promise to scrap these pieces
of red tape are merely drops in the ocean."


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               7 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 23, 2005, Friday

Looking west -with a nervous glance back at a painful history

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: Overseas news; 42

LENGTH: 1667 words


In the third stage of his journey from the Adriatic to the Baltic, David
Aaronovitch sees how Poland and Lithuania are emerging from the shadows of their
past and dealing with the problems they have inherited.

INTO Poland, and a great agora of railway sidings filled with rusting goods
trucks, and a small station pizzeria, help to announce the stop at Oswieczim.
Did that building stand there at the time, and if so, could it be seen from the
trucks taking people to Auschwitz-Birkenau?

I realise, for the first time, that the sites of the camps were not chosen for
their isolation, but for their proximity to rail lines. Round about are towns,
flat farmland and occasional woods. Nothing is hidden here.

At 10pm in Cracow the leader of the centre-right Citizen's Platform, Jan Rokita,
is discussing constitutional amendments. He is expected to become Prime Minister
after next week's parliamentary elections.

He has the animation of someone who thinks that he's winning. And what he offers
Poland is, essentially, Britain. "The open model of British society and economy
is very close to the Polish situation," he says, "not the German and French
model of high social protection, closed society. I think the liberal choice is
the way to the real welfare state."

The French and Germans have opted for the closed, whereas, "Polish society is
the most open in Europe, the biggest supporter of the next expansion to Turkey
or Ukraine -in spite of the Catholic tradition here. And I think that Angela
Merkel is mistaken on the Turkish issue, influenced by internal German political
reasons ... the followers of the CDU are a bit xenophobic," he says.

And yours aren't? "We are not for isolationism. The more Europe will be afraid
of Turkey, the more they will be afraid of the Polish plumber."

Rokita's view is that Western European opinion-formers had a declared and an
undeclared reason for worrying about the accession to the EU of the countries of
the East. The declared reason was the fear of grotesque levels of subsidy being
needed for basket-case economies and agriculture. But the real reason is that
they were "frit"; that they couldn't take the competition. "French society,
German society doesn't want eagerly Polish students, Polish workers, Polish
plumbers.

Doesn't want eagerly Polish agricultural products that are better, tastier and
cheaper. Our political problem," he concludes happily, "is our success."

A lot of this rings true -we expected the newly acceding countries to act as a
drag on our competitiveness, and the opposite has happened.

On to Warsaw. In a square a man in a shiny suit is lecturing passers-by about
how the mayor of Warsaw is in league with the Americans and the Jews. The man in
the suit is from the League of Polish Families, which last year won lots of
seats in the European election and formed an alliance at Strasbourg with our
very own UKIP.

And, like our own UKIP, promptly took a welcome dive in the polls.

Passers-by lecture him back, and not politely.

In any case, the Mayor of Warsaw, Lech Kaczynski, is an unlikely target for
accusations of a lack of patriotism. A candidate for the presidency (his twin
brother is attempting to become Prime Minister), Kaczynski's Law and Justice
Party campaigns on the need for family values and to remember how awful Russia
and Germany are.

Kaczynski has made the reclamation of history an important part of his
mayoralty.

His was the genius behind the establishment last year of the Museum of the
Warsaw Uprising. One of his aides, Marcin Roszkowski, 27, is a director at the
museum, and showed me round.

"We were the losers in the winner's camp," he tells me in the museum's re
created 1930s cafe. On the victorious side, the Poles ended up occupied and
subjugated "betrayed by Stalin, by Roosevelt, by Churchill".

The 1944 uprising left 150,000 Polish dead, while the Russians stayed camped
across the River Vistula. Then, to add to the injury, in the Communist era the
facts of the uprising were systematically suppressed. But is this history or
politics?

"In Berlin the Germans were saying that they were also victims in World War Two.

This was an answer to that."

And an answer, too, to the present Socialist Party Government, with its close
ties (as Roszkowski sees them) to Russia. "The new government will have a
totally different view of history."

Why? What will change is: "The attention that is placed on the Katyn case, and
on energy policy in Poland, where most oil comes from Russia. We are like a
colony of Russia." He is particularly incensed by the recent German decision to
build a gas pipeline from Russia to Germany via the Baltic, thus bypassing
Poland.

In the Cafe Bristol, I meet Wawrzyniec Smoczynski (call him Lawrence), 29
year-old foreign editor of Przekroj magazine, an Eastern European intellectual
with the face of a composer, who explains to me why I should take Roszkowski's
comments seriously.

Lawrence thinks that I fail to understand the unique Polish perspective. Like
many Western Europeans I would rather snuggle up to the Russians. "It's very
difficult for us to accept that the policy to appease Russia is the best way of
getting democratisation."

Unfortunately Lawrence is also underwhelmed by his own politicians. He will be
voting "none of the above". And that feels ominous.

One final day's train journey takes me northeast to the industrial town of
Bialystok and then due north, through stands of silver birches into Lithuania,
the country that my father's parents left a century ago.

Beside the tracks are small farms with a horse, a pig, six or seven geese and an
elderly man and woman doing the chores. In the cities, however, everything is
changing. On the north bank of the Neris river in the capital, Vilnius, there
are new buildings going up everywhere. Lithuania is a success story.
Economically, at any rate.

Politically it's another matter. I travel by bus to the second city, Kaunas, to
meet Leonidas Donskis, Dean of the Political Science and Diplomacy School at the
Vytautas Magnus University of Kaunas, a smiling, bright man and presenter of a
non-confrontational current affairs programme. He shudders when I mention the
pipeline and energy policy. "The whole country's political life," he tells me,
"has revolved around this question."

It went something like this. A few years back there was a split between
President Adamkus and his Prime Minister, Rolandas Paksas, on the issue of
whether the Mazeikiu Nafta state oil refinery should be sold to the American
Williams corporation. The Russians also wanted the refinery, and this contest
led to Paksas standing for the presidency on a populist anti-American ticket,
backed by Russian money and PR companies. Paksas narrowly won the election and
Yukos got the refinery.

"The Russians," says Donskis, "backed Paksas." Unfortunately for them their man
was subsequently accused of corruption, impeached and dismissed from office.
Last year Adamkus was re-elected. Donskis remains disgusted and marks a
relationship that has been visible on other parts of this journey. "There is a
fusion of the media world, politics and business and this fusion is a big
problem. It is a shamelessly obvious feature of public life.

"Lithuania," he continues, "escaped this time. But there is no normal political
life. The nouveau riche can simply rule our political system."

Every time this class fails, it reinvents itself through populism. And though
the economy is dynamic and foreign policy -the work of young technocrats -is
respected abroad, he believes that what he calls the "degeneration" of political
life will catch up with the economy eventually and drag it down. Donskis reposes
his confidence in the young and in civil society more than in conventional
politics which, he characterises as appealing to the worries of the old. Maybe
in five to ten years, he muses, the students whose laughter we can hear coming
from a nearby lecture theatre will be able to influence politics in a less
corrupt, more open, more progressive direction.

So, I ask him, is there any other Eastern or Central European country that he
would take as a model? "Slovenia is a wonderful country. It combines the
Balkan/Slavonic tradition with Western political culture. I like Slovenia."

Which, of course, is where we started.

POLAND

Capital Warsaw

Population 38.6million, minorities 2%

Language Polish

Resources Manufactured goods, machinery, forestry, coal and agriculture

GDP per capita (est 2004) $ 11,210 (£6,197) 46% of EU average

A centenarian's view Poland -a 1,000-year-old state that once had an empire -
was partitioned between Prussia, Austria and Russia in 1795. It re-emerged in
1916 and a republic was declared in 1918. Wars were fought with Ukraine, Soviet
Russia and Lithuania to define borders. A 1926 coup formed the basis of
governments until 1939, when Germany invaded. Partitioned under the
Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, after the war it became part of the Soviet bloc. The
rise of Solidarity provoked martial law, then liberalisation that ended in
election victory in 1989 as the Iron Curtain collapsed.

LITHUANIA

Capital Vilnius

Population 3.4million, ethnic Lithuanian 80%, minorities include Russians 7%,
Poles 7%

Language Lithuanian

Resources Processed foods, petroleum products, textiles, agriculture, forestry,
fishing

GDP per capita (est 2004) $ 11,390 (£6,296) 46% of EU average

A centenarian's view Independence from Czarist rule declared in 1918. The
country was soon at war with Poland, which took Vilnius. A series of
authoritarian nationalist governments followed, Vilnius was recovered with the
partition of Poland in 1939. A year later Lithuania was invaded by and annexed
to the USSR.

Germany invaded in 1941 and Lithuania's large Jewish community was virtually
exterminated. The Communists returned in 1944 and Independence declared in 1990.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 22, 2005

Comment & Debate: A Shout with the Elegies: Elsewhere: Composer Mark-Anthony
Turnage may be just what Tunbridge Wells needs

BYLINE: David McKie

SECTION: Guardian Comment and Debate Pages, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 724 words


To the surprise of his friends, the composer Mark-Anthony Turnage, whose music
is predominantly urgent and urban and often infected with jazz, and whose titles
include Three Screaming Popes, Blood on the Floor, and Two Elegies Framing a
Shout, has recently moved to the spa town of Tunbridge Wells, Kent. I know this
because the BBC presenter Verity Sharp announced it on television when his new
trumpet concerto, From the Wreckage, was played on the last night but one of the
Proms. Turnage was there, looking a trace uncomfortable, when the disclosure was
made. He was wearing a suit in the manner of one who would not wear a suit
unless he was forced to and a shirt with a crumpled collar. He was also, it was
revealed, an Arsenal supporter: a faint echo here, perhaps, of Nigel Kennedy,
though Nige supports Villa.

This sense of the high incongruous was, I suspect, at least in part attributable
to whoever invented the formula Disgusted of Tunbridge Wells, a convenient
umbrella term for every peppery old military man who ever took up his pen to
write to the Daily Telegraph wondering what the world was coming to. But
Tunbridge Wells was not installed in this phrase by accident. It was chosen
because the town had the image, ahead of all other favourite watering places, of
being the territory of the genteel. And much of that is still so. I found a
little island of early-21st-century disgustedness in a notice board in Mount
Ephraim Road papered with recent declarations by Ukip and the Freedom
Association, flanked by cartoons in one of which a squaddie was asking: "Is it
politically correct to say 'fight', sergeant major?" There is also, I see from
the Kent and Sussex Courier, outrage over the prospect that the town may soon be
invaded by an Ann Summers sex shop.

And yes, Tunbridge Wells (or Royal Tunbridge Wells, as it rather likes to be
called, having been blessed with that prefix in 1909), is quite pungently
genteel. There is even something rather ungenteel about the way it parades its
gentility - its long connections with royalty and the aristocracy. A teatowel on
sale in the Pantiles - the elegant shopping precinct which has grown up round
the spot where a visiting aristocrat discovered in 1606 the chalybeate spring
that gave this place its purpose - sets the tone: pictures of strolling gentry,
about to take the waters; the original site of the 18th-century Assembly Rooms,
"where gentry in all their finery came to dance the minuet and try their luck at
the gaming tables"; the Musick Gallery, "where musicians entertained the
strolling gentry", playing something, one supposes, unobtrusive and tinkly, and
nothing like From the Wreckage.

And yet it's an undeniably pleasant place in which to wander about on a sunny
September day. It is good at green spaces. Climb the street called Mount Sion,
past enviably elegant houses, and you come to a spot called The Grove, where
small dogs and small children tentatively make each other's acquaintance under
the trees. And a little beyond is Calverley Park, where a crescent of houses by
Decimus Burton looks down on the kind of space which sometimes gets called a
pleasance: its calm interrupted only by the trill of a burglar alarm and the
sounds of the builderly bangings - reminding us that, like Decimus Burton, we
live in an Age of Improvement. And the way the lush green common washes right up
to the edge of the town must surely endear it even to those with no great
delight in the ways of the gentry.

Nor can it be said that the town has wholly resisted change. The old opera house
(1902 - architect: JP Briggs) is now a JD Wetherspoon, though a very discreet
one which retains the proscenium arch and the plushy red boxes and the circle
and gallery with which Briggs delighted the town. The porticoed temple across
the road, once the Congregational church, is now a branch of Habitat. And at the
far end of the high street one comes upon Graceland Palace, "the world's first
Chinese Elvis restaurant". Not very Royal Tunbridge Wells; yet not raucous or
vulgar. Perhaps what Tunbridge Wells needs if it wants to shed its reputation
for excessive gentility is a Shout to go with its Elegies; just a hint here and
there of a Screaming Pope. But now it's acquired Mark-Anthony Turnage; so that's
all right then.

McElsewhere@aol.com


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 17, 2005, Saturday

CHEQUERED PAST OF TAX CAMPAIGNER

BYLINE: MARTIN HICKMAN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 257 words


The fuel-tax campaigner who called the nationwide protests this week has a
chequered business career and a colourful past.

Andrew Spence, a farmer from Co Durham, demanded drivers flock to refineries on
Wednesday. In the event, only a few dozen people turned up.

In the days after the fuel-tax protests of September 2000, when he was arrested
outside a refinery in Jarrow, Mr Spence was feted as a hero in the North-east.

But 10 years ago, he had a haulage business with a £1m turnover and 18 workers.
It was wrecked by BSE and he was made bankrupt. He set up another truck business
but that too ran into problems.

The 38-year-old father portrays himself as a reluctant agitator. He told a
journalist in November 2000: 'All I want to do is sit on my farm. I'm a working
lad, I have no political aspirations.'

Yet the following June he was standing against Tony Blair in Sedgefield at the
general election for the UK Independence Party, collecting 974 votes. He failed
to stand for UKIP at the Hartlepool by-election last year.

During the foot-and-mouth crisis in 2001, he threatened a 'rural revolt' against
the Government. In 2002, he announced plans to tour pubs and agricultural shows
with a mechanical rodeo bull. A year later, the Northern Echo reported that he
was quitting Britain for France 'where things are cheaper'. This spring,he
reported that 12 of his lambs had been killed in horrific circumstances,
possibly by the 'Durham Puma'.

And he still says Wednesday's protests were 'a massive victory'.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 17, 2005

BUSH VOW TO STAMP ON RACISM

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 206 words


PRESIDENT Bush yesterday vowed to rebuild America's hurricane-blitzed Gulf Coast
- wiping out poverty and racial injustice in the process.

Speaking at a service for Hurricane Katrina victims at the National Cathedral in
Washington, the US leader said: "As we clear away the debris of a hurricane, let
us also clear away the legacy of inequality.

"One day Americans will look back at the response to Hurricane Katrina and say
that our country grew not only in prosperity but in character and justice."

Last night an EU bigwig was slammed for

virtually accusing Mr Bush of racism - for allegedly letting down black victims
of Katrina.

European Commission vice-president Margot Wallstrom said in an internet blog:
"You can make your own judgment about what role the colour of the skin still
plays in the USA."

UKIP leader Roger Knapman hit back: "Her knee-jerk anti-Americanism really does
scrape the barrel."

Hundreds gathered at St Paul's Cathedral in London yesterday to remember the 800
dead.

Meanwhile, officials in Louisiana have taken custody of 50 children separated
from their parents by the storm.

Nearly 2,000 anguished parents who fled the floods were still hunting missing
youngsters.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               11 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 16, 2005, Friday

Nominations in for by-election

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 31

LENGTH: 120 words


Ten candidates will do battle in the by-election to fill the parliamentary
vacancy left by the death of Robin Cook. Nominations closed at 4pm yesterday for
the Livingston by-election, caused by the death of the former Foreign Secretary
last month. Voting takes place on September 29; Labour is defending a majority
of more than 13,000.

BY-ELECTION CANDIDATES: Peter Adams (UKIP Scotland), John Allman (Alliance For
Change), Melville Brown (Independent), Angela Constance (Scottish National
Party), James Devine (Labour), Charles Dundas (Liberal Democrat), Brian Gardner
(Socialist Party of Great Britain), Gordon Lindhurst (Conservative), Steven
Nimmo (Scottish Socialist Party), David Robertson (Green).


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 15, 2005

Sceptics bombard Euro paean

LENGTH: 860 words



HIGHLIGHT: Attempts to bring the EU to the public via the blogosphere are
proving counterproductive, writes Nicholas Watt.


On rainy afternoons in Brussels, when their mind-numbing work becomes a little
too much to bear, European Union officials amuse themselves by tapping into the
blog of aMargot Wallström/a, the woman charged with bringing the EU closer to
its citizens.

With its liberal sprinkling of exclamation marks, the blog reads like the work
of an earnest and slightly overwhelmed sixth former who has been given a glimpse
of the dizzying world of high European politics.

"I'm off to the airport (again!) shortly, this time to take part in a conference
in Milan," writes the European Commission vice-president in her latest entry
after recalling a discussion she recently overheard about teenagers' interest in
tattooing and body-piercing. "I don't expect to see many tattoos or piercings
there! Perhaps one day the politicians will be the ones with tattoos and the
kids will be wearing suits as protests."

Such gems have been seized on by Eurosceptics who have taken to bombarbing the
Wallström blog. "Your comments are offensive in their banality," writes Greg
Lance-Watkins of Chepstow. "The entire EU farce is moving us all inexorably and
inevitably to collapse."

Highly excitable Eurosceptics, who spend hours foaming over their keyboards on
the Wallström blog discussion forum, will never be won round. But there is
growing irritation in Brussels that Ms Wallström, Sweden's representative on the
European Commission, has allowed herself to become an object of parody for
neutral people and even pro-Europeans. Critics say this is undermining the
deadly serious business of attempting to sell the EU after the rejection of the
European constitution by French and Dutch voters.

The entire European elite - encompassing Brussels bureaucrats and most of the 25
national leaders - was so badly shaken by the 'no' votes that it is trying to
work out ways to show that the EU is relevant.

Tony Blair, who privately believed from the outset that focusing so much energy
on a grand constitution would show that the EU was dangerously out of touch,
believes the EU will only become more relevant if it can deliver practical
benefits, like jobs. This explains why he has invited fellow leaders to an
informal summit at Hampton Court palace at the end of next month to discuss the
sustainability of the European social model.

Jos. Manuel Barroso, a fellow reformer who is drawing up a paper for the
mini-summit, declared this week that he will preside over a bonfire of
unnecessary regulations. To the astonishment of arch-federalists, the European
Commission president said he hoped to prove his worth by being relatively
inactive - to allow himself to concentrate on practical steps - rather than
drawing up grand political projects.

Even the European Parliament, which is often lampooned as a depository for
failed or never-to-succeed politicians, is doing its bit. Josep Borrell, the
president of the parliament, this week launched a new website which is designed
to make it more accessible.

Some of the most sophisticated thinking has come from a surprising quarter,
however. When Ms Wallström can be prised away from her blog she has made some of
the most acute observations - in speeches and at press conferences - on how the
EU can do more to connect.

One of her most important messages, which is echoed by Britain's European
Commissioner, Peter Mandelson, is that European leaders can no longer rely on
the argument that the EU has preserved peace on the continent. "New generations
of Europeans have no memory of world war two and they take peace for granted.
Thank God," she said in a recent speech.

Echoing Tony Blair, she says the EU should abandon grandiose projects like a
constitution and show it can fight unemployment, poverty, organised crime,
terrorism and drug-trafficking. "A democracy that does not deal with these
important questions will soon be called into question," she wrote over the
summer as she announced an overhaul of how the commission communicates with the
outside world.

Her musings have received a mixed reception, according to a range of MEPs
contacted by Guardian Unlimited. Nigel Farage, the United Kingdom Independence
party MEP who wants to pull Britain out of the EU, says: "I want Margot
Wallström to do a lot more of this marketing. I would like her to speak in every
town hall across Britain - she is worth four to five million votes to the no
campaign if we ever get a referendum."

Caroline Lucas, the mildly sceptical Green MEP, believes it will take more than
speeches and new websites to improve the EU. "This is just scratching on the
surface. Nothing fundamental has changed because there is a lack of democracy.
The European Commission is giving the green lights to GMOs .genetically modified
crops. even though a majority of member states have voted against them and
public opinion is overwhelmingly opposed."

Even Chris Davies, a Liberal Democrat MEP who is a passionate pro-European,
questions the need to employ a commissioner to reach out. "I wish Margot
Wallström would go back to her old job as environment commissioner. She was
passionate, had a high profile and did far more good. She's now disappeared off
the face of the earth."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               13 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 15, 2005

9 IN POLL FIGHT

SECTION: BY-ELECTION

LENGTH: 72 words


NINE hopefuls will fight it out in the Holyrood by-election in Glasgow Cathcart
on September 29.

Labour defend a majority of 5,000 in the vote, caused by shamed Lord Watson's
resignation.

The candidates are: Richard Cook (Cons), Christopher Creighton (Ind), Charlie
Gordon (Lab), Pat Lally (Ind), Bryan McCormack (UKIP), Arthur Sanderson (Lib
Dem), Ronnie Stevenson (SSP) Chloe Stewart (Green) and Maire Whitehead (SNP).


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               14 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 15, 2005, Thursday

Doolally campaign marches to different tune

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 34

LENGTH: 686 words


Angus Macleod reports on a colourful campaign launch from comeback king aiming
to spring a by-election surprise.

THERE have been some extraordinary press conferences by Scottish politicians.

George Galloway used one to confess he had had "carnal knowledge" of charity
worker colleagues. Jack McConnell, before becoming First Minister, used one to
confess an affair with a woman who was not his wife.

Yesterday's campaign launch by Pat Lally, standing as an independent candidate
in the Glasgow Cathcart by-election, rivalled even these. Not that the 79-year
old former Lord Provost of Glasgow, once affectionately described as having "a
face like a Hallowe'en cake", confessed to anything.

But the press conference held in Edinburgh, 50 miles from the actual
constituency, was part farce, part political surrealism. Scribes scratched their
heads trying to remember if they had been to a press conference where the
candidate and supporters broke into song.

"We're on the march with Lally's Army" was the ditty they chose, borrowing the
song from Scotland's 1978 World Cup campaign. It was an unfortunate choice. That
World Cup campaign is remembered for the shame it brought on the nation as the
bubble of hyper-bole surrounding the team burst in spectacular fashion when
confronted by the might of Peru and Iran.

But Mr Lally, known as "Lazarus" because of his penchant for political
comebacks, and his supporters, who included three independent MSPs, were
unabashed. Such was their chutzpah, they appeared incapable of being embarrassed
by anything. Mr Lally added to the fun by answering questions with withering
one-liners that had journalists struggling to decide whether to take a note or
burst out laughing.

Mr Lally, who will campaign against local hospital cutbacks and for a better
deal for pensioners, said of Jack McConnell, the First Minister: "His name is
vaguely familiar. Basically I agree with everything the new Labour candidate
said about the First Minister." That put-down was a reference to the remarks of
Charles Gordon, the Labour by-election candidate, in a 2003 interview that the
First Minister reflected the views of the last person who sat on him and that to
call Mr McConnell a pragmatist was "to impute to him a certain sophistication".

Mr Lally did not miss the chance to attach the "new Labour" label to Mr Gordon,
something that is guaranteed to displease the candidate, who has confessed in
print to having a low opinion of what he once called "new Labour bulls***".

On his age, which some consider a disadvantage in the heat of a political
campaign, Mr Lally was undaunted: "I will not stand for any more than three or
four parliaments. At some stage I would like to spend more time with my family,"
he said with a straight face.

When asked why he had opted for an Edinburgh launch, Margo MacDonald, one of the
independent MSPs supporting Mr Lally, intervened to say that it was to make it
easier for the journalists. "We brought Lazarus to the mountain as the mountain
could not go to him," she said, mixing metaphors, religious references and a
host of other things with abandon.

Mr Lally will not win but he has the capacity to hurt the candidates of the
bigger parties. Yesterday the SNP allowed their worry about his intervention to
show when they issued a press release for the second time in three days
insisting that the by-election was a two-horse race between themselves and
Labour.

The indefatigable Mr Lally will bring more than a hint of old-fashioned
unpredictability and colour to the contest. Could it be that in Cathcart, after
September 29, that campaign song will be remembered for reasons other that the
1978 disaster in Argentina?

FULL LIST OF CANDIDATES

RICHARD COOK (Scottish Conservative)

CHRISTOPHER CREIGHTON (Independent)

CHARLIE GORDON (Scottish Labour)

PAT LALLY (Independent)

BRYAN McCORMACK (UKIP Scotland)

ARTHUR SANDERSON (Scottish Liberal Democrat)

RONNIE STEVENSON (Scottish Socialist Party)

CHLOE STEWART (Scottish Green)

MAIRE WHITEHEAD (Scottish National Party)


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 14, 2005

Fuel protests: Campaign Leaders

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words


With a few exceptions the organisers of the fuel protest today are the same cast
of farmers, hauliers and businessmen who drew spontaneous support from the
public five years ago and crippled the country's fuel supplies.

They come from all parts of the country and claim their businesses are
struggling as fuel prices breach the £1-a-litre mark in some areas.

Fathers, grandfathers and affluent professionals, they became figures of hate
and admiration in equal measure in 2000 when they called the first protests.
They communicate through emails, mobile phone texts and internet blogs to draw
together like-minded individuals and call for public support.

But this time round they have not drawn the support of the biggest haulage
organisation in the UK, the Road Hauliers Association, representing 10,000
truckers.

The protesters include:

Andrew Spence

A haulier and a farmer from Consett, County Durham. Mr Spence was a member of
the Road Hauliers Association but left believing its tactics were not radical
enough. The 38-year-old father of three has vowed to overthrow the government.
He tried and failed to become the Ukip candidate in the Hartlepool by-election
last year and describes himself as a "normal working class person".

The Greene Family

Mike and Mark Greene and their father Alan are leading the protests in south
Wales. They have been organising fuel demonstrations for five years and can
gather like-minded activists together quickly. The Greenes, hauliers who trade
under the name M&M Greene, claim their fuel bill has risen by £500 a week over
the last eight weeks.

They say they have been forced to take two of their 10 vehicles off the road and
let one driver go to survive.

Captain Gatso

A professional who drives a company car and pays the higher rate of tax, Gatso
is one of the figures in the shadows. He refuses to use his real name and
changes mobile phone numbers regularly. He owns several properties and is not a
haulier or a farmer. He is also campaigns against speed cameras on behalf of
Motorists Against Detection.

Richard Haddock

A beef farmer from Plymouth, he led the protests at refineries five years ago.
Now he wants the public to protest on Sunday at petrol station forecourts and
says he will protest at every filling station in the region at the start of the
Labour party conference on September 25.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 14, 2005

Inflammable material

LENGTH: 1570 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's roundup of the best of the
day's papers.


BREAKING NEWS: At least 82 people have been killed in a suicide bombing in
Baghdad. More details at guardian.co.uk.

FUEL CRISIS WAS 'SELF-FULFILLING PROPHECY'

At first glance it appears that the Independent has taken on the Mail's mantle
this morning. "Panic at the pumps" it exclaims on its front, surrounding its
headline with pictures of "sold out" and "no fuel" signs from garage forecourts
around the country.

But the paper blames "weekend media reports of a looming crisis" for the
shortages, saying that petrol stations across the country experienced three
times their normal business. A neat little graphic on the inside pages
illustrates the background to the "man-made crisis", and the "self-fulfilling
prophecy" of panic buying as a result of fears of panic buying reported in the
newspapers.

In its leader the paper has no truck with the lorry drivers who are threatening
to blockade the refineries and forecourts and calls on the chancellor to stand
firm, resist calls to reduce fuel tax and stop blaming Opec. He has an
opportunity now, the paper says, to promote and environmentally sustainable
Britain and "to push for a transition to a post-fossil fuel global economy".

A firm line from the government is also at the heart of the Guardian's stance on
the fuel issue. It is the chancellor's macro-econonic duty to hold out, says the
paper's leader, and adds that many of the protestors are farmers who are already
in receipt of half-price fuel. "One admires their cheek for holding out the
begging bowl again, but they need to getback to the real world," says the paper
sternly.

In a piece on the campaign leaders, the same cast of farmers, hauliers and
businessmen who led the protests five years ago are fingered. They include a
failed Ukip candidate, a beef farmer from Plymouth called Richard Haddock (no,
really) and a shadowy figure called Captain Gatso, a "professional who drives a
company car and pays the higher rate of tax ... he refuses to use his real name
and changes mobile phone numbers regularly". He says, "Lorry drivers don't sit
reading the Sun all day. They are not thick... we use .email. accounts which are
not in our real names."

If they were to read the Sun, however, they could pass the time between sending
encrypted emails by cutting out and sending off a little petition which urges
"Get it down Brown". It's "highway robbery", moans the red-top. They might
prefer to skip the Mirror, however, which calls them "Yorkie-munching hooligans
of the road".

According to the Telegraph, the government has added the "final touches" to its
emergency plans to stop fuel protestors bringing Britain to a halt. Up to 1000
military drivers could be drafted in. The paper's Matthew d'Ancona believes that
the government has only itself to blame for the situation. He argues that fuel
duty has become "profoundly symbolic" and that the government's response has
been "intellectually shambolic - stubbornness in principle, in practice
appeasement".

* Independent: Panic at the pumps

They protest too much

* The campaign leaders

* Telegraph: Blair will bring in Army to beat fuel blockade

* Times: Matthew d'Ancona

ENGLAND REVEL IN THEIR CUP

"Tired and emotional," says the Telegraph, kindly. "Off his Fred!" exclaims the
Sun (and the Mirror less kindly, next to a large front page photo of an
unshaven, bleary-eyed Andrew 'Freddie' Flintoff who has started to bear a strong
resemblance to a gerbil. Concerns about binge drinking seemingly forgotten, the
papers are amused by the England cricket team's 24-hour celebration of their
Ashes win.

"Sozzled Freddie Flintoff proved he was England's king of the swingers yesterday
- by downing glasses of vodka for BREAKFAST," approves the red-top, and provides
a transcript of cricketer's speech to the crowd's in Trafalgar Square yesterday
for those unlucky enough to have missed it. "Iss been a great series. Um. If.
Um. If I'm bein' oniss with you David, I'm strugglin'. Um... Not been to bed
yet. Um. Behine these. Behine these glasses there's a thousan' stories..."

While the rest of the papers feature red, white and blue pictures of the
Trafalgar Square celebrations and the triumphant team, it's left to the Mail to
put the boot in. With mission accomplished on "petrol pump panic" (Wraps
passim), the paper devotes its front to the angry claim that the Ashes win was
"soured" yesterday by a "furious row" over the public's right to watch cricket
on terrestrial TV.

Last year the England and Wales cricket board signed a GBP20m four-year-deal
with Sky which will give the satellite broadcaster a monopoly over all domestic
coverage. "Labour's great cricket sell-out" scorns the paper, accusing the prime
minister of jumping on the bandwagon of the England win. "The fact is that New
Labour hate everything cricket stands for, perceiving it as a middle-class sport
embracing traditional values with imperial overtones," it says, and warns that
the game has been "driven out" of schools by "politically correct teachers".

The Guardian features the debate over future TV coverage of cricket on its
sports pages as part of an interview with the culture secretary, Tessa Jowell.
She pledged that a review of listed events, which are guaranteed to be shown on
free-to-air terrestrial channels, will take place around 2008-2009. The Sun also
makes space for the coverage controversy in a leader and, unsurprisingly, has no
qualms about the Sky deal. "Cricket fans will be paying to support cricket. That
seems right to us," says the paper, shamelessly, with nary a mention of its
proprietor's interest in the matter.

* No TV cricket review until 2008

* Sun: Ashes hero's off his Fred

* Sun: From Ashes to lashes

UN UNDER REVISION

"Can 150 presidents and premiers reshape UN?" is the Times's rhetorical question
this morning. Hopes are not high. In fact, according to the Times, they are
"dashed". The paper says that plans to remake the UN for the 21st century have
been the victim of wrangling between rival camps, and the draft summit
declaration has been stripped of most of its bold ideas.

As negotiators continue to try to agree on a final text, the Independent agrees
that whatever does emerge from the three-day-meeting - the biggest gathering of
world leaders under a single roof - will fall far short of what was intended.
The paper says that the proposed summit agenda, which was seen as a "bargain"
between the developed and developing nations, has been picked apart by, most
notably, the US. The country's ambassador to the UN, John Bolton, made no fewer
than 750 proposed amendments to the text.

The Guardian adds that Tony Blair is worried that the progress made at the G8
summit at Gleneagles will be watered down. The paper devotes its top leader to
the summit and comments that, "as ever, divided states make for a United Nations
with a heart of gold but limbs of clay."

* Poor nations lose

* Divided they stand

* Times: Can 150 presidents and premiers reshape UN?

* Independent: UN's reform plans hang in balance as vital summit begins

BRUSSELS GAINS NEW POWERS

The Times leads today with yesterday's ruling by the supreme court in Brussels,
which gives the European Commission the power to harmonise criminal law across
the EU. The Times's take on the development is that it will allow Brussels "the
power to jail British citizens".

The ruling emerged from a test case on environmental law and gives the
commission the right to decide when breaches of agreed policies are so serious
that they should be treated as criminal It is "as ominous as it is deluded,"
says the paper in a leader, and warns that "democracy yesterday suffered a
grievous defeat in a court whose contempt for sovereignty verges on the
criminal".

* aBrussels wins right to force EU countries to jail polluters/a

* Europe wins the power to jail British citizens

LET DOWN BY ACTIVISTS

Captain Gatso, Farmer Haddock and other gas-guzzlers should watch out. The
latest threat to their driving habits could come not from petrol pumps but cycle
pumps. Drivers who park 4x4s overnight in Paris are waking up to find them
immobilised after night-time raids by a group of young activists - the Degonfles
(the deflated ones) - who are taking a stand against the antisocial urban tanks
by letting down their tyres.

"They expel the air slowly without setting off the vehicles' alarms, fixing open
bicycle pump hoses to the tyre valves and returning later to collect their
equipment. They leave a leaflet explaining their action," says the Times.

According to the leader of the group, Sub-Warrant Officer Joker, "We think that
our action makes the owners look like wallies. We operate once a week and we try
to deflate 30 per evening."

The police can do nothing as, they say, it is not a crime against property as no
property has been damaged. Owners, however, are taking matters in their own
hands. "We have received death threats," says Joker. "That's perfectly in
keeping with the mentality of the 4x4 people who want to crush everything in
their path."

* Times: Eco-warriors go into battle against 4x4s - with cycle pumps

COMING UP ON GUARDIAN UNLIMITED TODAY

The much-hyped fuel protest which led to panic buying at the pumps failed to
materialise today, with a handful of demonstrators taking part.

Tony Blair will urge other world leaders to join him in a crackdown on imans who
incite terrorism.

Conservative leadership contender David Davis will present himself as the
standard-bearer of 'a new Tory idealism'.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               17 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 14, 2005, Wednesday

Europe wins the power to jail British citizens

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 941 words


BRUSSELS has been given the power to compel British courts to fine or imprison
people for breaking EU laws, even if the Government and Parliament are opposed.

An unprecedented ruling yesterday by the supreme court in Europe gives Brussels
the power to introduce harmonised criminal law across the EU, creating for the
first time a body of European criminal law that all member states must adopt.
The judgment by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg was bitterly fought
by 11 EU governments, including Britain, and marks a dramatic transfer of power
from national capitals to Brussels.

Diplomats said that it was political dynamite in many countries, but the
European Commission welcomed the ruling, on a test case about environmental law,
as a landmark that sets an important precedent. It gives the Commission the
right to decide when breaches of agreed policies are so serious that they should
be treated as criminal.

The Commission said that it would use its new powers only in extreme
circumstances, but its officials are already talking about introducing EU crimes
for overfishing, deliberate polluting, money laundering and price fixing.

EU members have always insisted that the power to set criminal law goes to the
heart of national sovereignty and must be decided by national governments and
parliaments. The Luxembourg judges ruled, however, that national governments
could not exempt EU law from being upheld by criminal sanctions.

Jose Manuel Barroso, the President of the Commission, said: "This is a watershed
decision. It paves the way for more democratic and more efficient lawmaking at
EU level."

A British government official said: "We firmly believed it was inappropriate to
harmonise criminal law at EU level. We believe criminal law is a matter for
member states co-operating intergovernmentally." He added that they would
consult other countries to consider the options, although the governments have
no right of appeal against the court.

Some national government officials said that the issue was so sensitive that EU
lawmaking would grind to a halt and member governments would refuse to pass
legislation rather than accept harmonisation of criminal law.

One diplomat said: "This stuff is political dynamite in the UK, Holland, Italy,
Scandinavia, and Eastern Europe, where they are as keen on their sovereignty as
anyone. Imagine how Italians would react if their criminal law was rewritten at
EU level. Ironically, it means less will be done at EU level."

Member states have fiercely guarded their sovereignty over criminal law. The
Commission took them to court after they blocked it from introducing harmonised
criminal law for pollution. The Court of Justice, which has a record of
promoting European integration, ruled in the Commission's favour, concluding:
"The European Community has the power to require the member states to lay down
criminal penalties for the purposes of protecting the environment."

The Court said that although as a general rule criminal law does not fall within
EU powers, that "does not prevent the Community legislature...from taking
measures that relate to the criminal law of member states which it considers
necessary".

The ruling means that the Commission can propose an EU crime that, if passed by
the European Parliament and a qualified majority of member states, must be
adopted by all member states. This means that Britain could be forced to
introduce a crime into its law if enough other members support it. It also gives
the Commission the power to compel members to enforce EU criminal law if
governments drag their heels or if their courts refuse to sentence people.

Timothy Kirkhope, the Conservative leader in the European Parliament, said:
"This appears to be a worrying erosion of British sovereignty. It is a
significant transfer of power to the Commission."

Gerald Barling, QC, a leading European expert at Brick Court Chambers, said:
"The ruling is significant. It is the European Commission flexing its muscles."

The ruling was welcomed by most MEPs, who will now have the powers to pass
criminal law and not just civil law. Chris Davies, the leader of the Liberal
Democrats in Europe, said: "Europe needs an umpire to ensure fair play between
member states and to dismiss the cheats. The European Commission is the only
body that comes close to fitting that role."

The Court ruling did not establish whether Brussels had the right to set
criminal sanctions but officials made clear that they intended to do so.

Leading article, page 19

Wedding rights, page 28

WHAT THEY SAID ABOUT THE RULING:

"The European Community has the power to require the member states to lay down
criminal penalties" - The European Court of Justice

"This judgment breaks new ground. It strengthens democracy and efficiency in the
EU" - Jose Manuel Barroso, Commission President

"We firmly believed it was inappropriate to harmonise criminal law at an EU
level." - British government spokesman

"This Court ruling gives more teeth with which to bite" - Chris Davies MEP,
Liberal Democrats

"... a worrying erosion of British sovereignty. It's a significant transfer of
power to the Commission" - Timothy Kirkhope MEP, Conservative

"Anyone who thought that the French and Dutch voters throwing out the
constitution was the end of integration should look at this closely" - Nigel
Farage MEP, UKIP.

"This stuff is political dynamite" - An EU diplomat.

"The British Government has completely misjudged the ability of the European
Court to extend the power of European Union" - Neil O'Brien, Vote No


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 14, 2005, Wednesday

With Labour not sitting comfortably, the election battle begins

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 26

LENGTH: 1007 words


Personality clashes, hotel fires and forgotten lines...Angus Macleod reports
from Glasgow on the start of an unusually lively poll contest

CHARLIE GORDON could be forgiven for thinking that in his desire to become
Glasgow Cathcart's new Labour MSP he wouldn't, to borrow the old Irish joke
punchline, have started from here.

Usually by-elections are held when the sitting member dies or retires through
ill health. The contest on Glasgow's south side, which got under way properly
yesterday, has come about because Lord Watson of Invergowrie resigned after
admitting a serious criminal offence of wilful fire-raising in a hotel. He may
well be sent to jail a week before polling day on September 29.

These are not the most propitious of circumstances for the chippy Mr Gordon, and
the former leader of Glasgow City Council has had to come up with a ready answer
for any voter who inquires how he can explain his predecessor's pyrotechnic
predilections.

His terse answer to journalists yesterday was that "it was a terrible crime but
it wasn't the Labour Party who set fire to the curtains; it was one man". He
hopes, in short, that separating the party from the man will be enough to
satisfy most Cathcart voters. It isn't the only trap that Mr Gordon had to
navigate at his campaign launch in a community centre in the sprawling
Castlemilk council housing estate.

He was accompanied at the launch press conference by Jack McConnell, the First
Minister. Now, to say that Mr Gordon, in his former role as Glasgow's civic
head, and Mr McConnell have not been the best of friends in the past is like
saying that Tom and Jerry had their little differences.

Their mutual dislike became all too apparent when the First Minister tried to
parachute Charan Gill, an Asian millionaire who was not even a Labour Party
member, into the seat. It may have looked easy as ABC (Anyone But Charlie) for
Mr McConnell, but he reckoned without the hostility of the local party, who
quickly put paid to his ploy. They wanted Mr Gordon and regarded Mr McConnell's
intervention as downright rude.

We also have evidence of Mr Gordon's views of the First Minister. He was asked
yesterday about an interview he gave in 2003 when he said of Mr McConnell:
"People are going to say Jack's a pragmatist but that is to impute to Jack a
degree of sophistication. Whether it is a case of him being influenced by the
last person who sat on him, or it may be more Blairite than that, and he looks
at the headlines and says 'they say we should do X'. Translation -'Mr McConnell
is a First Minister who governs by headline and whatever he thinks will keep
London happy'." As an endorsement of the First Minister, it was less than
ringing.

Mr Gordon, to his credit, however, did not attempt, when confronted by his own
words yesterday, to claim that he had been completely misquoted or that he had
since changed his mind. He had, he said, been only "ruminating". It had been an
example of his "exuberant debating style". He quickly added: "The question is
whether Jack McConnell and I can work together to deliver for Glasgow." Indeed.

The feeling of a lack of togetherness at the launch was only heightened when Mr
McConnell accidentally caused part of the stage backdrop extolling Mr Gordon's
political virtues to crash to the ground.

Still, Mr Gordon acquitted himself well, despite the hostile questioning he had
to endure, and he quickly got on to his own track record as council leader on
jobs, housing, schools and tackling unemployment. He and the Scottish Executive
had, he claimed, "delivered big time" for the city.

He also at least answered questions himself. The problem with Maire Whitehead,
the Scottish National Party candidate, when she launched her campaign in a local
restaurant a couple of hours later, was that her deputy party leader didn't
allow her to answer questions.

Whether it was on council tax, the threat to the accident and emergency service
at the local Victoria Infirmary or the future of ScottishPower (which employs
2,000 people in Cathcart and may well soon be the subject of a hostile takeover
by a German company), no sooner had Ms Whitehead begun to explain where she
stood than Nicola Sturgeon would interrupt.

It was as if the SNP haven't yet had time for their candidate to learn her lines
and, from the evidence yesterday, she needs to do so quickly. Her explanation
(before Ms Sturgeon took over) of how she would lower council tax which, to
paraphrase, amounted to "first, cut council jobs, then give the same people
other jobs" left something to be desired in terms of cogency.

Richard Cook, the Conservative candidate, was much more modest yesterday. He
eschewed a launch and simply went for a chat with journalists and a
photo-opportunity in the rain outside the infirmary. Mr Cook came a creditable
third in 2003 -not bad for a Conservative in Glasgow -and showed why, easily
fending off the same questions that had caused Ms Whitehead more than a little
difficulty.

The Liberal Democrats, Scottish Greens and Scottish Socialists have still to
launch their campaigns in a by-election that could produce as bitter a battle as
Scottish politics has seen in years. Pat Lally, a former Glasgow Lord Provost,
who took nearly 11 per cent of the vote last time, is also standing as an
independent, giving an already fascinating contest added spice.

May 2003 result: Labour 8,742 (39 per cent); SNP 3,630 (16 per cent);
Conservatives 2,888 (13 per cent); SSP 2,819 (13 per cent), Pat Lally Local
Health Concern 2,419 (11 per cent); Liberal Democrats 1,741 (8 per cent).

Labour majority 5,111 (23 per cent).

Turnout 45.5 per cent.

THE CANDIDATES

CHARLES GORDON (Scottish Labour)

MAIRE WHITEHEAD (Scottish National Party)

RICHARD COOK (Scottish Conservative)

ARTHUR SANDERSON (Scottish Liberal Democrats)

PAT LALLY (Independent)

CHLOE STEWART (Scottish Green Party) RONNIE STEVENSON (Scottish Socialist Party)

BRYAN McCORMACK (UK Independence Party)


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               19 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 12, 2005, Monday

The party faithful

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 023

LENGTH: 40 words

Sir - So "Clarke wins backing of Tory faithful" (report, September 10). But it
is not the votes of the faithful he needs to win: it is those ex-Tories who, at
the last election, did not vote, or voted UKIP.

Rodney Howlett

Amersham, Bucks

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               20 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 10, 2005, Saturday

UKIP given £170,000 from Europe...to fight Europe

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 13

LENGTH: 506 words


LABOUR MEPs have denounced as a "disgraceful abuse" a grant of Euro 250,000
(£170,000) of European taxpayers' money to the UK Independence Party to campaign
for Britain to leave the EU.

The UKIP, which has accused the EU of spending public funds to promote European
integration,will use the money to begin a campaign for a referendum on
withdrawal.

It will start on Monday with a series of advertisements in national newspapers,
including The Times, and a website. It is thought to be the first time that EU
money has been used to push for withdrawal from the union.

The UKIP, which has ten MEPs, received the money from a fund for providing
"information" to the public, which is given to all political groups.

Stephen Hughes, a Labour MEP, said: "This is a disgraceful abuse of
parliamentary funds. It's wrong that money meant for promoting the work of the
institution is being used to undermine it -they are using the money to undermine
everything we work for. We should have a review of the rules." Gary Titley, the
Labour leader in the European Parliament, told the European Voice newspaper:
"This fund was originally intended for the dissemination of information, rather
than for political campaigning. I would seriously question whether this is an
appropriate use of Parliamentary money."

The UKIP accused its Labour counterparts of hypocrisy.

Nigel Farage, the parliamentary leader of UKIP, said: "It is a perfectly valid
use of the money -we are delighted with the irony of the situation. I did not
hear complaints from Mr Titley when his own group spent their information budget
interfering in the referendums in Ireland, Denmark, France, Holland and Malta.
All we are doing is a little to redress the balance."

There were cries of foul recently when the European Parliament voted to spend
its entire information budget promoting the European constitution, and nothing
to promote arguments against it.

The European Commission, the EU executive, also spends millions of pounds a year
promoting European integration through support for several federalist think
tanks, information campaigns in schools and universities, seminars and
conferences, and a vast network of university professorships.

The UKIP decided to campaign for a referendum after the government dropped plans
for a poll on the European constitution after the French and Dutch no votes. The
Government has also dropped plans for a referendum on British membership of the
euro. Eurosceptics believe they can overwhelmingly win any referendum on
European issues.

Polling for the UKIP suggests that a majority in Britain would like a vote on
membership of the EU. The campaign is named "Let the People Decide", the same
used by the billionaire Sir James Goldsmith, founder of the Referendum Party, to
campaign for a vote on the euro.

Mr Farage, who hopes to collect two million signatures on a petition, said:
"We're looking to raise the whole question of why, for over 30 years, we have
never had a say on the EU."


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               21 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 8, 2005

I WON'T VOTE TORY AGAIN IF CLARKE BECOMES LEADER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 60 words


KENNETH Clarke as Tory leader? I bet Labour and Ukip are rubbing their hands
with glee. I for one, as a long-time Conservative supporter, would not vote for
the Tories when the time comes if he indeed leads the party. Ukip would have my
vote and many people I know have said the same. Leopards and spots comes to
mind.

M A Spiegleman, Ampthill, Beds

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               22 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 8, 2005

Protesters threaten to blockade oil refineries: Cut fuel tax now or face
complete shutdown, hauliers warn

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 518 words


The spectre of blockaded fuel terminals and motorways paralysed by crawling
tractors and trucks returned to the political agenda yesterday as farmers and
road hauliers denounced the rise in fuel prices triggered by Hurricane Katrina's
destruction of oil installations.

Protesters who organised the stranglehold on British refineries in September
2000 threatened a similar "complete shutdown" next week if fuel taxes are not
cut until US production returns to normal.

Andrew Spence, the farmer and haulier at the centre of the campaign five years
ago, said a longstanding plan would be reactivated at 6am on Wednesday if relief
was not given to commercial fuel users. He said: "We want to see an immediate
reduction in taxation to bring fuel prices down or there won't be a refinery in
the country left open. Every one will be blockaded."

The government reacted calmly to the threat, which comes after a period in which
Mr Spence and his radical allies have lost credibility. Similar warnings before
the general election in May - when Mr Spence said Tony Blair would not have
enough fuel to drive to the polling station - proved to be scaremongering. Mr
Spence also failed to win the nomination to stand for the UK Independence party
in Hartlepool.

The Treasury emphasised that recent price rises, which have brought the cost of
petrol to £1 a litre at some stations, were clearly not of the government's
making. A spokesman said: "We believe the biggest priority in terms of reducing
fuel costs must be working with the American government to restore production
levels affected by the Hurricane Katrina disaster.

"We also need to maintain pressure on Opec to set their oil production at levels
consistent with more stable and sustainable prices. But more than half the fuel
used in the UK bears little or no fuel duty at all, including the red diesel
used by farmers like Mr Spence, and the fuel used in industrial production,
heating of homes and workplaces, and rail and bus transport.

"So seeking to address the problem of high oil prices through road fuel duty
alone would do nothing for the majority of consumers."

The government has none the less reined in fuel taxes and import duty which
account for about three-quarters of the cost of a litre of standard petrol and
diesel. Last year's planned inflation increase was abandoned because of
"volatile" oil prices and the rate of road fuel duty has fallen 12% in real
terms since 1999, about 6p a litre.

But there was some political sympathy for the protest. Alex Salmond, the leader
of the Scottish National party, said: "In some places in Scotland the price of a
litre is now £1.10. No wonder people are angry and they have a right to be angry
and a right to protest."

Price rises after Hurricane Katrina continued yesterday, with Virgin Atlantic
announcing a "reluctant" increase from £24 to £30 in the surcharge for fuel on
all one-way flights.

The campaign group Greenpeace urged the government to stand firm against threats
of a blockade in the interests of the environment.

guardian.co.uk/petrol


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               23 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 8, 2005

Matthew Tempest meets Green party chair Hugo Charlton

LENGTH: 934 words



HIGHLIGHT: Matthew Tempest meets Green party chair Hugo Charlton, and finds him
in bullish mood as the party conference gets under way


Hugo Charlton, chair of the Green party since 2003, is not a stereotypical
environmentalist. An Eton-educated criminal barrister, he joined the party at
its 1989 peak, when the party shocked the political mainstream (and itself) by
coming third in the European election. I spoke to him in Lancaster just before
the party conference began.

You meet as the world's leading superpower feels the power of nature in the
shape of Hurricane Katrina, and seems unable to cope ... what's your reaction?

It epitomises what we've been saying for the past 30 years, first to ridicule,
now to respect. It's almost like a biblical parable, seeing the floods and the
looting, but it shows what we've always maintained - being concerned about the
environment does not preclude a concern for social justice, because
environmental disaster leads to social disaster, as we're seeing in New Orleans
and the Gulf coast. The poor are getting it first, as they always do.

Climate change, which Katrina must be linked to, is showing the inadequacy of
the American system and the American dream. It is the failure of the free market
system to cope, and, last but not least, its authoritarian response - they can't
cope, so they start shooting.

My personal view is that as far as climate change is concerned, we may already
be too late. The tipping point is past. We need to be developing post-disaster
policies to cope with the aftermath of these events, let alone working towards
reducing their likelihood in future.

This is your first conference since the general election, in which you failed to
meet even your first objective of winning your first MP at Westminster - so how
do you feel the mood of the troops is?

Sound, actually. Not getting the seat .in Brighton Pavilion, where principal
speaker Keith Taylor came third. is a disappointment, but we're operating under
first past the post, and with virtually no financial backing. The Green party
has a sum total of about two and a half full time paid staff, and a budget of
around 250,000 - compare that with the millions that Ukip had to spend, let
alone the big three parties.

Now, as a small party, the first rule of general elections is "no cockups", and
I think we did that. Just look at Ukip and Robert Kilroy-Silk blowing up in
their faces. As a former Territorial Army man, I always say just surviving is
half the battle.

And what's struck me, as a veteran of these things, is we've finally shaken off
the "silly" tag. We don't get as much coverage as the big parties, but there was
no mention of beards and sandals this time. Sure, Simon Hoggart .the Guardian's
sketch writer. poked fun at us, but that's what he is paid to do. But apart from
that, we got taken seriously, albeit as a small party.

We put out the most worked-out and sustainable manifesto in our history.

Perhaps we didn't make enough of the celebrities that were supporting us - Franz
Ferdinand, Alex Cox making the election broadcast, Tim Roth the actor backing
us. But there you go - we don't have paid press officers, and sometimes its as
much as you can do to keep all the plates spinning at once.

This is a quiet lull time in politics - the general election out of the way, no
European, Scottish or Welsh elections next year. What is the Greens' target for
next May's local elections?

Good question! To which I don't know the answer - this is one of the things to
be discussed at conference. We need to substantially increase the number in
London, which is a bit of a desert for us at the moment.

Of course, one of the big differences between us and the big parties is that our
first rate people become councillors. Whereas with Labour, the Tories and Lib
Dems, their best people become MPs, and they leave the councils for the
second-raters.

One of the criticisms of the Greens is that the past decade has seen a huge
explosion in what's commonly known as the anti-globalisation movement - plenty
of street protests, Seattle, Genoa etc, yet you haven't turned that into
concrete votes and party membership.

That's a huge question. The politics of the anti-globalisation, or global
justice movement, to give it its proper name, is a genuine, new, post-Marxist,
criticism of capitalism. It's therefore slightly arcane and hard to get over to
a mass audience. Consumerism is so entrenched in society that the majority of
people don't make the link between their radical intellectual politics of the
"anti-globalisation movement" and their own particular political grumble, be it
Iraq, or increased immigration, which is a product of globalisation.

So how about an alliance, or a link-up, with the other fringe leftwing party,
Respect, if you are going after the same anti-globalisation audience? This was
mooted at the time of the last election, but fell through.

Many in the Green party are very antipathetic to Respect. I've always argued for
some sort of understanding with them, not least because we are both "fellow
travellers" on the left, but the reality is that the closer you are
ideologically, the more you compete for the same vote.

So any agreement at a local level, in the Green spirit of devolution, is up to
local parties, but a formal, national alliance is out of the question.

And the question of the Greens having a leader? This has bedevilled the party
for as long as I've been covering your conferences.

I used to be very against a change in our flat hierarchy structure, not least
because of the trouble leaders seem to create for their parties!

However, Caroline Lucas .Green MEP. has done such a good job for us that I could
be persuaded to have a single speaker who could speak on our behalf.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               24 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 06, 2005, Tuesday

Young steps from the shadow

BYLINE: By Tim Rich

SECTION: Sport; Today in Sport: J; ACKIE STEWART CELEBRATION Pg. 003

LENGTH: 787 words

YOU can tell how good a sportsman is by the way the men who attempt to replace
him wither in his shadow. How many Australian wicketkeeping careers perished
during the years that Rodney Marsh kept to Dennis Lillee? How many Italian
goalkeepers watched Dino Zoff pull on the grey jersey and dreamed in vain for
the catastrophic performance that would give them their hour and a half under
the spotlight.

Gary Neville's excellence as a right-back can be judged by the men who would
take his shirt. When, with rather less fanfare than accompanied David Beckham's
injury, Neville's broken metatarsal forced him out of the 2002 World Cup, Danny
Mills had his moment in the Far Eastern sun and then fell off the radar.

Glen Johnson, someone young, talented and worthy of pounds 6 million of Roman
Abramovich's money, ought to have been a worthy understudy for the Manchester
United defender, although given his terrible performance in Denmark, you wonder
if Sven-Goran Eriksson will ever trust him again.

Luke Young had not even been in England's squad for last month's surrender in
Copenhagen, which given the result might have been the best place for him. On
Saturday, in Cardiff, he found himself lining up against Ryan Giggs in the
Millennium Stadium. His attitude mirrored the game. Initially, as the Welsh
crowd did their worst, Young confessed to nerves. "It was my first start, and a
qualifying game for England, but the longer the game went on, the more
comfortable I felt."

The one uneasy sensation he had was that at Charlton there would have been
rather more applause accompanying a 1-0 victory away from home than England
received after their stuttering display in Cardiff. "If we had won a game for
Charlton playing the way we did, I am not sure we would have had the same
reaction that we did.

"It just gives you an idea of what goes on behind the scenes with England and
with the press - it is a big thing playing for your country. It is, like Michael
Owen says, that when you play an international all eyes are on you, every
mistake is highlighted the next day."

You would not call playing for Charlton languishing in obscurity but when asked
why he thought he was chosen, Young's answer ought to have given pause for
thought to those, who like his former team-mate Scott Parker, exchanged regular
football at Charlton for something more glamorous but less secure at Stamford
Bridge. Young said he was chosen because he was playing regular football.

The irony is that when Young decided four years ago that he had to leave
Tottenham managed by Glenn Hoddle for the rather less glittering surroundings of
Alan Curbishley's Charlton, he was described as a centre-half. Young was a
versatile footballer, happy to fit in anywhere, and as he admitted in the mock
gothic surroundings of England's hotel in the Northern Ireland equivalent of
Surrey, this carried its own pitfalls.

"Wherever there was an injury I was filling in. Alan Curbishley went to me and
said: 'If you want to be a right-back, here's your chance. I can play you here
and it's best that you come now'. When you make it into the first team, you're a
young player and happy to fit in anywhere but as you get to a certain age, you
feel you need to make a position your own."

Neville was an obvious template: "The manager always says that he doesn't do
anything silly."

In his first season at the Valley, Young might have pined for White Hart Lane.
"I blew hot and cold but Alan Curbishley stuck with me and, hopefully, I have
repaid him in the last couple of years." This might be the season when Charlton,
pioneers of the six-month football season, repay a manager driven to the brink
of despair by a group of individuals keener than the UK Independence Party to
avoid involvement in Europe.

"Darren Bent has made a big difference to us," he said. "He is finishing chances
that we didn't put away in the past. Previously, it was a bit of an effort for
us to get to sixth or seventh in the league with 10 games to go and we were just
dragged down by tiredness really."

What strikes Young about Curbishley, whom he said could be a long-term successor
to Eriksson, was his personal touch, a quality some claim the England head coach
lacks. "He [Curbishley] talks to you a lot and you know what he wants from you,"
he said.

"If he is not quite happy with an aspect of your game, he will pull you in and
explain it to you one-to-one. If he is going to leave you out, he will explain
it to you in private and list the reasons why. You know where you are."

In the bowels of the Millennium Stadium, Eriksson, as is his wont, was rather
less effusive. "As I walked past, he said: 'Well done.' I think he was pleased
to get the win."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               25 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 6, 2005

End EU secrecy, MEPs urge Blair

LENGTH: 449 words



HIGHLIGHT: A cross-party coalition of MEPS has urged Tony Blair to use the
remaining time of his EU presidency to push through reforms lifting the veil of
secrecy on Brussels law-making.


A cross-party coalition of MEPS has urged Tony Blair to use the remaining time
of his EU presidency to push through reforms lifting the veil of secrecy on
Brussels law-making.

The campaign, launched by a letter in the Times today and an official
proclamation in the European parliament, calls for the prime minister to end the
practice of holding council of ministers meetings behind closed doors.

The PM has already acknowledged there is a strong case for reform, when he
addressed a full session of MEPs in the European parliament in June, ahead of
taking over the revolving presidency.

But the leaders of the Liberal Democrats, Conservatives, Labour, Greens and Ukip
- all five of the parties representing the UK in Brussels and Strasbourg - are
now urging him to carry through the change before Britain's presidency comes to
a close at the end of the year.

According to the signatories, requiring the council of ministers to meet in
public when debating new laws - and therefore acting as a legislative assembly -
would only require a modification of the council's standing orders, with a
simple 13-strong majority of the EU's 25 members.

The letter begins: "The principles of openness and transparency should apply
whenever European laws are being made. They are essential if national
parliaments are to hold ministers to account for their actions."

The letter concludes: "In June, the prime minister told the European parliament
that there was a strong case for making the change. We urge the government to
take the initiative and bring about this reform during its current presidency of
the EU."

The Labour party leader in the European parliament, Gary Titley, told the Times:
"We still have this medieval way of making decisions in the EU; people hide
behind other member states, and blame them. It increases people's sense of
cynicism, but what we need is some straight talking."

The Conservative group leader, Timothy Kirkhope, said: "Making laws behind
closed doors is plainly wrong."

Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat leader in Brussels, said: "We are agreed
across the political parties that it is quite wrong for ministers to continue
debating EU laws behind closed doors in Brussels. The prime minister has the
chance here to get a quick win for Britain and for Europe."

The Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, said: "It is monstrous we have no idea how the
government votes, and we have no idea whether they stand up for British
interests. While we are in the EU, we want it to be as open and democratic as
possible."

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "No formal proposals have yet been made but
we are reflecting on measures and looking at more innovative ways to demonstrate
the council's openess."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               26 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 6, 2005, Tuesday

British EU leaders urge Blair to end secret law-making

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 544 words


TONY BLAIR must use his power as President of the EU to end the "medieval"
practice of European legislation being decided behind closed doors, according to
an unprecedented joint declaration by the leaders of all British political
groups in Brussels.

Critics claim that the Council of Ministers, the EU's supreme law-making body,
which decides two thirds of all Britain's laws, is the only legislature outside
the Communist dictatorships of North Korea and Cuba to pass laws in secret.

The campaign -launched by a letter in The Times today and an official
proclamation in the European Parliament -demands that the Prime Minister use his
six-month EU presidency to open up debates and votes at the council to public
scrutiny.

The proclamation, the first time that all British political groups have joined
forces in Brussels, is particularly embarrassing for Mr Blair because it is
signed by Gary Titley, the leader of the Labour Party in the European
Parliament. It is also signed by the heads of the Liberal Democrats, the
Conservatives, the UK Independence Party and the Greens.

The British political leaders insist that opening up lawmaking will restore
public confidence in the EU, which is often seen as remote and undemocratic.
"The principles of openness and transparency should apply whenever European laws
are being made. They are essential if national parliaments are to hold ministers
to account for their actions," they write.

The British party leaders are confident of securing the support of the majority
of MEPs in a motion in the European Parliament, putting increasing pressure on
Mr Blair to respond. Ministers from all 25 countries meet regularly in the
Council, and debate and vote on EU legislation, the last hurdle it must pass.
After they legislate, they usually give wildly different views of the debate,
each explaining how they triumphed.

Mr Titley said that it makes the EU seem dishonest: "We still have this medieval
way of making decisions in the EU; people hide behind other member states, and
blame them. It increases people's sense of cynicism, but what we need is some
straight talking."

Mr Blair only needs to get the support of 13 of the 25 member states to make the
change. Although Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands are supportive,
southern European countries fear it would be difficult to have honest debates -
and to horse-trade. Many of the arguments used in Brussels against openness are
those used by British MPs when journalists campaigned more than a century ago to
be allowed to report parliamentary debates.

Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat leader in Brussels, said: "We are agreed
across the political parties that it is quite wrong for ministers to continue
debating EU laws behind closed doors in Brussels. The Prime Minister has the
chance here to get a quick win for Britain and for Europe."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said: "It is monstrous we have no idea how the
Government votes, and we have no idea whether they stand up for British
interests.

While we are in the EU, we want it to be as open and democratic as possible."

Timothy Kirkhope, the Conservative leader, said: "Making laws behind closed
doors is plainly wrong."

Letters, page 16


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               27 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 6, 2005, Tuesday

Call for EU transparency

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 200 words


From Mr Chris Davies, MEP for North West Region (Liberal Democrat), and others

Sir, The principles of openness and transparency should apply whenever European
laws are being made. They are essential if national parliaments are to hold
ministers to account for their actions.

It is unacceptable that Europe's most senior law-making body, the Council of
Ministers, continues to meet behind closed doors when its members are debating
new laws and it is acting as a legislative assembly. This practice could be
ended, and a useful improvement in the conduct of EU business achieved, by a
simple modification of the Council's standing orders requiring the support of
just 13 of the 25 member states.

In June, the Prime Minister told the European Parliament that there was a strong
case for making the change. We urge the Government to take the initiative and
bring about this reform during its current presidency of the EU.

CHRIS DAVIES (Leader, British Liberal Democrat MEPs) NIGEL FARAGE (Leader, UKIP
MEPs) TIMOTHY KIRKHOPE (Leader, Conservative MEPs) JEAN LAMBERT (Vice-President,
Green Group of MEPs) GARY TITLEY (Leader, British Labour MEPs) European
Parliament Brussels


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               28 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 5, 2005

G2: Pass notes No 2,638 Livingston

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 307 words


Excuse me, I'm just trying to walk down the street here in this charming West
Lothian town, but you're in my way. Yes, I was wondering if you'd have a moment
to -

No, look, I don't have time to take part in your survey. That wasn't why I
stopped you. I just wanted to ask if you'd ever thought about -

Giving my life to Jesus? No offence, but I'm not religious. Now, I really must
be on my way. Actually I was wondering if you wanted to be a Westminster MP.

This isn't usually how they're selected, is it? No, but times are desperate.
There's about to be a by-election in Livingston, Robin Cook's old constituency,
and Ukip can't find anyone to stand. I thought I'd help out.

Surely they have better methods? No. According to a note on the party's website,
"Ukip in Scotland will shortly be selecting a candidate. . . if you are
interested, or know of anyone interested, please let me know and I will pass
details on straight away."

Any qualifications needed? "It would help," the notice adds a little sheepishly,
"to have potential candidates who are Scottish."

So Ukip aren't just a handful of swivel-eyed Little Englanders after all? No!
They're an authentic Scottish party, dedicated to representing those of us
"north of the border", as we Scots like to say, here in Scotland.

You mean they care about a wide range of Scottish issues, instead of just
banging on about saving the pound? Ukip is committed to saving whatever the
money is they use in Scotland, too.

Oddly, your answers aren't convincing me that Ukip has Scotland's interests at
heart. You're not suggesting that they're just trying to extract a bit of media
coverage out of a high-profile by-election, are you?

It does look that way. Well, perhaps these special Ukip bagpipes will convince
you, then.

Or perhaps not. Fair point.


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               29 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 5, 2005, Monday

UKIP POLL PLEDGE

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 19 words


EX-ARMY officer Peter Adams, 57, is to stand for the UK Independence Party in
the Livingston by-election.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               30 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 5, 2005, Monday

Poll challenger

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 16

LENGTH: 43 words


The UK Independence Party announced that it had selected a candidate for the
by-election triggered by the death of Robin Cook. Peter Adams, 57, a former army
officer from Kirkcaldy, has been chosen to fight for the Livingston seat later
this month.


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               31 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 4, 2005, Sunday

TONY BRA!;
 MANDELSON BID TO SPARE BLAIR'S BLUSHES

BYLINE: BY NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words


PREMIER Tony Blair has ordered Peter Mandelson to sort the "bra wars" row with
China immediately - in case it embarrasses him when he flies there today.

He wants Mandy - EU Trade Commissioner - to end the dispute, which is set to
DOUBLE the price of bras in shops.

As EU President, Mr Blair will head trade talks in Beijing tomorrow. But he is
desperate not to be caught up in the textiles quotas storm, which led to three
million bras, 48 million sweaters, 17 million pairs of men's trousers, and four
million T-shirts being impounded in ports around Europe.

Mandy will try to end the dispute by persuading the Chinese to add this year's
goods to next year's quotas. Experts say the price of bras in Britain will
rocket from around £12 to £20. Stores like M&S want to get their hands on the
cheaper ones.

UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage stepped into the row by attacking Mediterranean
governments for demanding the quotas, warning: "It will mean much higher
prices."

Former EU commissioner Lord Patten said: "Unless the Chinese can sell us their
bras and knickers they won't be able to buy our planes."

nigel.nelson@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               32 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 4, 2005

EUROSCEPTICS ROOT FOR KEN; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 161 words


TORY leadership hopeful Ken Clarke might think that Europe is a non-issue for
the next 10 years. But not everyone else agrees.

The UK Independence Party is soon to launch a major campaign - backed by
national newspaper ads - to demand a referendum for the British people on the
European Constitution.

The campaign will be called Let The People Decide and will be supported by
millions of leaflets and posters across the country.

The Independence and Democracy group inthe European Parliament, which is behind
the campaign, promises "sympathetic" celebrities to lead the fight at the launch
in a week's time.

Meanwhile, Clarke can at least be cheered to learn that he has won the support
of Nigel Farage, the archEurosceptic leader of Ukip's MEPs in Brussels -
although it may not be quite the heartwarming endorsement he would like.

"I hope the Tories do choose Clarke, " says Farage, "so I can watch them condemn
themselves to oblivion."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               33 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 4, 2005

MANDY ACCUSED OVER 'BRA WARS' STAND-OFF FIASCO; CHINA ROW LEAVES 75M GARMENTS
TRAPPED

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 439 words


MORE than 75million garments from China are still stuck in warehouses this
weekend after Peter Mandelson failed to resolve the "bra wars" fiasco.

Critics blamed the EU Trade Commissioner as talks to end the EU's textiles
stand-off with China collapsed without agreement on Friday, and accused him of
being "unelected, unaccountable and unapologetic".

Shops are unable to get their hands on millions of pullovers, trousers, knickers
and bras made in China that have been blocked from entering Europe after quotas
for Chinese imports were exceeded earlier this year.

Lord Patten, the former EU Commissioner, called the stand-off "absolutely
barking mad".

He told Radio 4's Today programme: "If another country is more competitive than
we are it is unfair to our retailers and consumers to block its products.

"Unless the Chinese can sell us their shirts and bras and knickers, they won't
be able to buy our aeroplanes."

He said the ban penalises countries that have been efficient producers "in order
to defend lowpaid jobs in industries which aren't competitive.

And that is absolutely barking mad".

Shadow Trade and Industry Secretary David Willetts said: "It is extraordinary
that one man can stand between Europe's citizens and 75million items of clothing
that are now piled up in warehouses. Nobody should have this power to stand in
the way of free trade.

"Peter Mandelson has done deals to protect uncompetitive producers instead of
opening our borders to help European consumers to buy cheaper clothing."

The failure to reach a deal highlighted divisions between protectionists
including Italy, France, Spain and Portugal, and global traders like Britain and
Germany who want consumers to be able to buy cheap clothes.

Nigel Farage MEP, leader of UKIP in the European Parliament, said: "We should
not have one individual speaking on behalf of 25 different countries' trade
policy.

What he does affects millions of people.

"He's not elected by anyone. He's not accountable to anyone and he is
unapologetic. He has damaged British business interests and that has a knock-on
effect for every consumer who will face higher prices or shortages.

"One trade policy cannot suit all these different countries, particularly
Britain, the fourth biggest economy in the world, which does more business
outside the EU than within.

"This episode will have made British business even more sceptical about whether
Britain should be part of an EU customs union."

Talks continue informally this weekend and resume tomorrow when Mr Mandelson
arrives in Beijing for the EU-China summit there.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               34 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 3, 2005

NEW BRITS TO SWEAR THEY LOVE EUROPE

BYLINE: David Wooding

LENGTH: 300 words


EU oath is a 'bid to oust the Queen'

IMMIGRANTS moving to Britain could be forced to swear an oath of allegiance - to
the EU.

A top Eurocrat wants them to pledge support for the "values and traditions" of
Brussels.

Currently anyone taking UK citizenship has to swear an oath to the Queen.

But under the new plan, they would have to take a solemn vow to be faithful to
the EU and its Charter of Fundamental Rights.

Europe's justice commissioner Franco Frattini, whose idea it is, claims it will
help immigrants integrate.

But furious British MEPs warned that it was a sneaky bid to oust the Queen as
head of state. Mr Frattini claims he is winning support for an EU-wide "oath of
faithfulness" for all settlers.

His plan slipped out as he unveiled EU standards for handling illegal immigrants
and failed asylum seekers.

The move is part of a masterplan to build up a single European identity with a
shared flag, matching passports and a single currency.

The commissioner said: "Personally I am in favour of exploring the possibility
of having every immigrant to somehow declare that they will respect national
law, EU law and the Charter of Fundamental Rights."

Mr Frattini said they should even pledge allegiance to the EU's Charter of
Fundamental Rights - part of the EU Constitution ditched by French and Dutch
voters.

But last night the idea was dismissed as a "sick joke" and "loony" by MEPs.

Timothy Kirkhope, Tory leader in the European parliament, said: "I am amazed.

"It worryingly shows the views of people who should know better."

Mike Nattrass, of the UK Independence Party, said: "An allegiance to something
with no single culture, no agreed history, no common language and packed with
fraud and corruption? The EU must be joking."


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               35 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 02, 2005, Friday

OUTSIDE SUPPORT

BYLINE: by Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 028

LENGTH: 114 words

The endorsements for Ken Clarke's Tory leadership bid keep rolling in, but
there's just one problem: few of his supporters have the interests of the
Conservative Party at heart.

Last week I reported that Lord Kinnock was backing the former chancellor and
sometime tobacco salesman on the grounds that he would split the Tories and keep
Labour in power for another generation.

His latest backer, I learn, is the UK Independence Party, which hopes to steal
the votes of europhobic Tories under a Clarke leadership.

"With Kenneth Clarke as their leader, the people of the UK will finally
understand where the Tories stand on crucial European issues," says UKIP MEP
Nigel Farage.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               36 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 2, 2005, Friday

PANDORA

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 809 words


UKIP declares for 'principled' Ken in Tory leadership race

The backbiting against Ken Clarke started yesterday - 24 hours after he'd
declared in the Tory leadership race " with sources close to David Cameron
putting it about that he's 'too old' for the top job.

Aside from his official opponents, Clarke, right, will now to keep a beady eye
on his supporters. For his campaign bandwagon has just gained an unwanted
passenger.

The UK Independence Party, which for years has sternly criticised Clarke's
pro-European views, is about to declare its formal supports for his Tory
leadership bid.

Their move follows Clarke's recent declarationthat he's changed his mind about
the euro, and may lead to UKIP's many noisy supporters infiltrating Clarke's
coming campaign events.

'Ken Clarke is a man of great principle and experience, and has support from a
very broad range of voters,' says the UKIP MEP Nigel Farage. 'He says he's the
best man for the job and we at UKIP agree wholeheartedly.

'It is thrilling that Mr Clarke has changed his mind on the single currency.
During the campaign, he will undoubtedly want to share his thoughts with the
electorate on other issues on which he has had a rethink. I will expect his
telephone call for advice.'

Quite how such support will go down in the Conservative Party wasn't clear last
night: at the time of going to print, the Clarke camp wouldn't be drawn on
whether they'd accept UKIP's shilling.

Kelly and Sol's latest return match

Sol Campbell's love affair with the frizzy interior designer Kelly Hoppen has
been through more ups and downs than your average FA Cup tie.

In the past year, the couple, left, have split up, been reconciled, and split up
again, affording the Arsenal defender Campbell time for dalliances with both
Martina Hingis and the singer Dido.

Now they've got it back 'on' with a vengeance, though, and will face the cameras
together on Wednesday at the launch of a book called Everything I know About Men
I Learnt From My Dog.

Campbell, 30, and Hoppen, 45, are listed as an 'item' on the author Clare
Staples' guest list for the bash.

'Clare's a former model, and knows Kelly well,' says an organiser. 'If she and
Sol are on the list together, you can presume they're coming as a couple.'

Incidentally, Staples' self-help book shows women how to keep their boyfriends
in check 'using similar techniques to dog trainers'.

Pandora says: Good luck, Sol!

A special Brand of runner

Earlier this year, Jo Brand made a plucky bid to complete the London Marathon,
entering the big race before being forced to pull out (on doctor's orders)
shortly before D-day.

A lesser woman might have hung up her running shoes. But Brand, right, wasn't so
easily defeated, and will this Sunday be competing in the Hydro Active Women's
Challenge, a gruelling race around Hyde Park.

'She's doing the run for the Alzheimer's Society, and has been training, but not
for the full 26 miles,' reports Brand's agent. 'It is, after all, holiday season
and a time for sitting around and not doing very much.'

In fact, the race is 5km long " but from such acorns do mighty oaks creep
skywards.

The parent pot

Following my revelation yesterday, the actor Samuel West has explained why " at
the grand old age of 39 " he still requires financial handouts from his parents,
Timothy West and Prunella Scales.

'You don't go into theatre for the money,' he says. 'And as artistic director of
a regional theatre, your salary goes down a lot. Dad certainly used to help me
out, though it's cheaper to live in Sheffield [where he's now based] than it was
in London.'

By way of a money-making scheme, West Jnr " speaking at the launch of the
Gramophone Awards " is now writing a play about the World Snooker Championship,
which is held at his current work place, the Crucible Theatre.

'We'll need to make sure that actors can play snooker before we hire them,' he
notes, sagely.

Sir Alan 'ads' to his repertoire

Sir Alan Sugar's role in the recent Premium Bonds advert was unkindly labelled
the most ludicrous acting debut in TV history.

It could soon lose its crown, though, becausee the cockney entrepreneur has just
made a sequel advert for National Savings, this time endorsing its savings
scheme.

Yesterday " oh joy! " I got hold of a copy of the script. It opens on: 'Sir Alan
Sugar walking around a futuristic space. Science fantasy images are projected.'

'No one really knows what's gonna happen in the future,' he says. 'And I don't
like surprises. That's why I do like inflation-beating savings... They're tax
free, no risk. And I believe in 'em.'

And does Sir Alan believe in 'em enough to dig into his own pocket? 'Yes, but we
can't say how much he's spent due to customer confidentiality,' insists a
spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               37 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 2, 2005, Friday

Brussels wants immigrants to swear allegiance to EU

BYLINE: Anthony Browne Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 1027 words


Immigrants to Britain will have to swear an oath of allegiance to EU laws and
the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, rather than the Queen, under a
proposal announced by Brussels.

The European Commission also announced measures to counter illegal immigration
across Europe and others to promote integration of legal immigrants.

Franco Frattini, the European Commissioner for Justice and Security, proposed an
oath of faithfulness requiring all immigrants to the EU to swear allegiance to
the Union. He said: "One can get every immigrant to somehow declare they will
respect national law, EU law and the Charter of Fundamental Rights."

The charter is seen by its supporters as representing the basic values of the
EU.

It goes considerably further than the European Convention on Human Rights,
offering, for example, the right to parental leave if you adopt a child, the
right to continuous training, the right to social security benefits and the
right to strike. It has no legal force because it was part of the European
constitution, which was rejected by French and Dutch voters.

The Government recently started requiring immigrants to swear allegiance to the
Queen and British democracy. Signor Frattini proposed a charter to which 90 per
cent of France's immigrants sign up as a model for the rest of Europe.

"All those who enter Europe must respect European laws," he said. "We can insist
on respecting the basic values of Europe, and we can demand full respect for
existing laws."

The rise of Islamic terrorism and the growth of alienated ethnic communities has
persuaded many governments that more efforts must be made to promote integration
of immigrants, including loyalty oaths.

The oath of allegiance to the EU, which could be in addition to or in place of
the oath to the Queen, would be subject to negotiation, but the Government
cannot veto it because it gave up its national veto on EU immigration law last
year. Britain does have an opt-out, but it would have to reject the entire
package of immigration measures.

A government spokesman said: "Questions of citizenship should be organised by
member states nationally." An EU diplomat said of the proposal: "It's loony."

Timothy Kirkhope, the leader of the Conservatives in the European Parliament,
and a former immigration minister, said: "I am amazed. You can laugh, but it
worryingly shows the views of people who should know better. I swore an oath of
allegiance to the Queen. I am not going to take kindly to an Italian gentleman
telling me to swear allegiance to unelected people, or to swear allegiance to
something I don't agree with -a unified European state."

Mike Nattrass, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "An allegiance
to something with no single culture, no agreed history, no common language and
packed with fraud and corruption? The EU must be joking."

Brussels regards building up a sense of European identity, including such
measures as harmonising passports and funding pan-European political parties, as
one of its most important tasks.

The European Commission has been greatly expanding its powers over immigration
and asylum policy since the surrender of national vetoes last year. The latest
package is aimed at increasing the rate of deportation of illegal immigrants,
while promoting their rights.

Last year 650,000 illegal immigrants were ordered to leave the EU, but only
212,000 did so. According to EU figures, Britain told 70,000 to leave, but only
18,000 went.

The proposal of "common standards on return" for illegal immigrants could hamper
attempts by the Government to curb illegal immigration. It would ban governments
from detaining people for more than six months before deportation.

In Britain, there are 195 people who have been in immigration detention centres
for more than six months because of the lengthy appeals process. Under the
commission's proposals, the Government would have to release them.

The European Commission said its proposals would not affect Britain's attempts
to deport so-called preachers of hate. The Home Office said it would examine
them to assess any possible impact.

Signor Frattini did not object to Britain agreeing deals with countries such as
Jordan and Algeria to promise not to torture people returned, but he said that
it would be better to have such agreements at an EU level.

The Commission also proposed that illegal immigrants deported from one country
would be automatically barred from entering any other in the Union. At present
some immigrants deported from one country can simply take up residence in a
neighbouring state.

Brussels has proposed a European return fund to promote voluntary repatriation.
It is also set to pilot three "regional protection programmes" for illegal
immigrants in Ukraine, Tanzania and the Horn of Africa.

EU constitution, page 42

TAKING THE OATH

Extracts from the European Charter of Fundamental Rights

* Everyone has the right to respect for his or her mental integrity

* No one shall be required to perform compulsory labour

* Reproductive cloning of human beings is prohibited

* Everyone has the right of access to data which has been collected concerning
him or her, and the right to have it rectified

* Political parties at the European Union level contribute to expressing the
political will of the citizens of the Union

* Everyone has the right to continuing training. Everyone has the right to
engage in work

* Any discrimination on any grounds such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social
origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other
opinion ... shall be prohibited

* Workers and trade unions have the right to take collective action to defend
their interests, including strike action * Every worker has the right to working
conditions that respect his or her health, safety and dignity * Everyone
residing and moving legally within the European Union is entitled to social
security benefits * Every child shall have the right to a regular personal
relationship and direct contact with both his or her parents


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               38 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 01, 2005, Thursday

A leadership bid that is dividing the Tories

SECTION: Features; Letters to the Editor Pg. 029

LENGTH: 81 words

SIR - So it's official - Ken Clarke is standing for the Tory leadership.

Most of the Conservative activists I know simply will not work for a Clarke-led
party. They will defect to Ukip. Or they will work for a non-party, anti-EU
organisation, like the Democracy Movement. Or they will sit on their hands.

Neil Kinnock is right. A Clarke leadership would split the party from top to
bottom, leaving it unelectable for a generation.

Roger Helmer MEP (Con)

Lutterworth, Leics

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               39 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 1, 2005

Ukip outspent Labour at EU election

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 358 words


The United Kingdom Independence party's success at the last European
parliamentary elections was achieved by outspending

every other party except the Tories, according to a report released yesterday by
the independent Electoral Commission.

Ukip, which won 12 seats - the same number as the Liberal

Democrats - took over 16% of the poll and spent more than £2.3m on the campaign.

Its success briefly revived the political career of the former

television talk show host Robert Kilroy-Silk, who quit the party soon after.

Only the Tories, who spent £3.1m and lost eight seats, committed more cash.

Ukip outspent Labour by more than £600,000 and paid out double the £1.1m spent
by the Liberal Democrats.

Nearly all of the money came from a Harrogate company, Highstone Group, run by
the Eurosceptic Paul Sykes, who donated almost £900,000 to pay for billboard
advertising, and opinion polls. Other businessmen lent the party cash to fight
the campaign.

The report reveals that Ukip, which stood on a platform of

withdrawal from the European Union, had a different strategy to the other
parties, which spent most of their cash on unsolicited mail to the electorate.

Ukip devoted 67% of its budget to national and regional advertising to push its
case. The other main parties spent 10-18% on advertising.

The Ukip ploy seems to have worked in that Labour and the Tories saw their share
of votes and seats fall, while the Liberal Democrats, who achieved a small rise
in support, were overtaken by Ukip.

Ukip also spent more on market research and canvassing than any other parties -
suggesting it was able to target more effectively the voters it wanted to
attract.

The report reveals that, in contrast to general election experience, the major
parties did not seek to fully exploit their campaign allowances to to fight the
European election.

Each major party was allowed to spend up to £3.375m on the campaign but all fell
substantially short of that figure.

Labour, although trying to wrest seats from the Tories, devoted only 50% of the
cash it could have spent on appealing for votes.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               40 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 1, 2005

News roundup: Politics Ukip spent £2.3m in EU election

BYLINE: David Hencke

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 167 words


The United Kingdom Independence party's success at the last European
parliamentary elections was achieved by outspending every other party except the
Tories, according to a report released yesterday by the independent Electoral
Commission.

Ukip, which won 12 seats - the same number as the Liberal Democrats - took over
16% of the poll and spent more than £2.3m on the campaign.

Its success briefly revived the political career of the former television talk
show host Robert Kilroy-Silk, who quit the party soon afterwards.

Only the Tories, who spent £3.1m and lost eight seats, committed more cash. Ukip
outspent Labour by more than £600,000 and paid out double the £1.1m spent by the
Liberal Democrats.

Nearly all of the money came from a Harrogate company, Highstone Group, run by
the Eurosceptic Paul Sykes.

The report reveals that Ukip spent 67% of its budget on targeted advertising
while the other parties, concentrated on unsolicited mail-outs to the
electorate.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               41 of 41 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 1, 2005, Thursday

At last -Tories' chance to unite over EU

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 30

LENGTH: 530 words


EUROPE should be largely irrelevant in the Conservative leadership election. The
party should be able to end a decade and a half of bitter divisions and
vote-losing strife. But "should" is not the same as "will".

Events have given the Tories a rare opportunity to unite on Europe, so removing
a major obstacle to the party's electoral recovery. The proposed constitution is
dead, and there is no question of Britain entering the euro for at least ten
years.

This is a recognition of the blindingly obvious, as Kenneth Clarke put it
yesterday, rather than a recantation or U-turn. It creates scope for common
ground on a policy of making the existing European Union work satisfactorily
-by, for instance, pushing economic reform -rather than forever getting into
confrontations about Britain's relations with the EU.

Such a compromise depends on Tory MPs and activists behaving with a spirit of
give and take, and a willingness not to condemn everything with an EU label out
of hand.

There is, however, no sign yet of Mr Clarke's conciliatory tone being matched by
the hardline Eurosceptics. Only last weekend Daniel Hannan, a high-profile Tory
MEP, was raising the possibility of British withdrawal from the EU. A good many
local Tories, and some MPs, agree, or at least favour steps in that direction.
But the UK Independence Party option would guarantee further splits and
electoral defeats.

So, while Europe should not be a factor in Mr Clarke's candidacy, it probably
will be for a sizeable minority of hardline Eurosceptics among MPs and in the
country.

It is them, not Mr Clarke, who are now the threat to Tory unity.

The real question about Mr Clarke's candidacy is not his pro-European views nor
his age, but something more intangible. Does he really understand why the Tories
have lost three general elections in a row? Does he have the freshness and
intellectual vitality to create a post-Blair agenda, just as new Labour set out
a post-Blair, although not anti-Blair, approach a decade ago?

Four years ago Mr Clarke was still in an "I-used-to-be-Chancellor /
nothing-newunder-the-sun" mood. It is no longer good enough to look back at
options examined and rejected 15 years ago. We have been promised a series of
speeches from Mr Clarke over the next few weeks.

His biggest asset is that he is a proven fighter and is well known. He is one of
the few opposition politicians not cowed by Gordon Brown, the other main one
being Vince Cable, of the Liberal Democrats. Mr Clarke could offer Mr Brown a
robust challenge in an election campaign, and appear a credible Prime Minister.

Mr Clarke also has an appeal to Lib Dem supporters, and, potentially, to Lib Dem
MPs in the event of a hung Parliament. The unspoken question for the
Conservatives is whether they can win on their own, or whether they will return
to office only in alliance with the Lib Dems.

For all the enthusiasm of his supporters, Mr Clarke is still the outsider in the
race. He has as much to prove as any of the other candidates. But at least his
formal entry into the race offers the Tories a real choice of leaders. There can
be no excuses this time.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
