
                               1 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 30, 2005

Anti-EU peer given Brussels grant

BYLINE: David Hencke and Rob Evans

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 462 words


An arch Eurosceptic peer who believes that European Union subsidies are a "vast
swindle" is financing replanting on his huge Scottish estate with grants from
Brussels.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the independent Conservative peer who was expelled from
the Tories by Michael Howard for backing the rival United Kingdom Independence
Party, has tabled bills in the House of Lords demanding Britain's im mediate
withdrawal from the European Union.

He is also co-founder of the Global Britain thinktank which agitates against an
"increasingly anachronistic" EU.

Last weekend he wrote in a pamphlet published by the independent thinktank
Civitas that the EU was a "corrupt octopus" and was a success "only for those
who make money out of it".

The 63-year-old peer called the EU system of grants and subsidies to farmers a
"whole vast swindle" and said Britons were forced to pay "higher taxes" . . .
"to keep EU farmers in the style to which they have become accustomed".

He added that the United Kingdom gives the EU some £11bn a year: "Of this, they
have been good enough to send back to us an average of some £7bn, always for
projects which are designed to enhance their wretched image (including the
Common Agricultural Policy)".

One of the projects now being funded with EU money is Sword Loch 3, a 300-acre
forest on Lord Pearson's estate in Perthshire. According to the Forestry
Commission, the official body responsible for protecting Britain's trees, this
is one of a number of grants that it has given to Lord Pearson.

The latest £95,000 grant will be used to replant an old Caledonian pine forest,
an ancient Scottish species which has been threatened with extinction.

"Half the money will come from the European Union," said a Forestry Commission
spokesman.

Asked if Lord Pearson would know if it came from the EU, the spokesman said: "He
would have applied to the Forestry Commission and might not be aware of it.
However our literature does make it clear that part of the money for grants does
come from the European Union".

Lord Pearson did not comment when contacted by the Guardian. Details of the
grant were released under the Freedom of Information Act.

For some years, Lord Pearson has claimed that the BBC is institutionally biased
in favour of the European Union, a point he sought to prove by publishing a
report analysing the amount of time given to pro- and anti-EU speakers.

Lord Pearson loyally stood by his old Eton schoolfriend, Jonathan Aitken, after
the former Tory minister perjured himself in his libel action over his links
with the Saudis.

The peer is chairman of an insurance company and a supporter of the pro-hunting
Countryside Alliance, serving as chairman of its deerstalking committee.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 30, 2005, Monday

PANDORA: BATTLE IS REJOINED AS HITCHENS CHALLENGES GALLOWAY TO DEBATE

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 804 words


After the fireworks on Capitol Hill, get ready for round two in the high-octane
dispute between the greatest controversialists of recent times, George Galloway,
right, and Christopher Hitchens.

Earlier this month, Hitchens, left, met the Respect MP before the world's media
in Washington. 'You are a drink-soaked former Trotskyist popinjay,' claimed
Galloway. 'Your hands are shaking. You badly need another drink.'

Hitchens returned fire in these pages. 'He's a working-class-wideboy-
and-proud-of-it, too used to the expenses account, the cars and the hotels,' he
wrote. 'A very cheap character and a short-arse ... puffed up like a turkey.'

Now battle is being re-joined, on two new fronts. First Galloway will review
Hitchens' latest book for a Sunday newspaper; then Hitch wants to take his
opponent on in a public debate.

Speaking at a talk organised by Atlantic Books, Hitchens said he's 'delighted'
that Galloway will review his book for The Observer.

'I'd rather that he tested himself against me personally, though,' he said.
'Labour Friends of Iraq have asked us to do a debate. I've accepted, but they've
not heard from George. He can nominate a time, place and motion " I'd just love
to take the discussion further.'

'Gorgeous' George won't yet commit to that. As to his book review, he tells me:
'It will be fair, because I think Christopher Hitchens writes like an angel. But
he sups with the Devil " and drinks with him, too.'

Christening goes ahead after Goldie jumps ship

Thanks to Goldie Hawn, it wasn't all plain sailing at the 'christening' of the
Sea Princess cruise liner in Southampton last week.

Organisers of the event laid-on a private jet to enable the Hollywood beauty "
who is in the UK plugging her autobiography " to fly down from London for the
day.

Sadly, having visited a book store in Southampton (where she signed several
copies), Hawn, left, announced that she was unwell, and refused to set foot on
board the ship.

'Needless to say, most of the guests were disappointed, and the ship's owners
were apoplectic,' says one guest. 'They'd hired a private jet especially for her
to attend, and are entitled to ask for their money back.'

Says a spokesman for Princess Cruises: 'It is true that we had a cancellation
from Goldie Hawn, but that wasn't too much of a dampener.

'We did have other celebrities, including Joanna Lumley, who christened the
boat.'

Rooney's hidden talent

In a bold attempt to bring culture to the masses, Coca-Cola has persuaded a
collection of modern-day luminaries to bring their artistic talents to bear on
the design of soft-drink bottles.

Various fashionistas " including Manolo Blahnik, Gharani Strok and Damon Dash "
have sketched an elaborate design for their own, limited-edition Coke bottles.
But Pandora's eye has been caught by the work of one (hitherto unknown)
aesthete: Wayne Rooney.

His design is pictured right. 'You're right to say Wayne is a surprise entry on
our list of designers, but we think he's got real talent,' say Coke.

'Not only has he done this footballing sketch, but a while back he took an
amazing picture of his pet dog, for a project organised by Canon.'

The picture, by the way, is titled: 'what brings me happiness'.

Rolf snubs fans

I do hope that Rolf Harris's emergence as our latest 'national treasure' hasn't
caused him to forget his roots. For the bearded scribbler has delivered an
eyebrow-raising snub to ABC, the national broadcaster of his Australian
homeland.

Last week, when it was announced that Harris is to paint an official portrait of
the Queen, staff at ABC's London bureau were instructed to secure a brief
interview with the great man. Sadly, their efforts came to naught.

'All we wanted was a five-minute interview, but he wouldn't play ball,' I'm
told. 'His agent said it was out of the question, and that all we could have was
a pre-prepared statement. It's a shame, Rolf's still very big in Australia and
we think his fans deserve better.'

Bird's-eye view of by-election

Say what you like about the UK Independence Party, they certainly add a touch of
colour to the political landscape.

Tomorrow, their candidate Malcolm Hurst launches his campaign for the South
Staffordshire by-election. And how! For he intends to spend the day flying
journalists over the constituency in his own Messerschmitt 206.

Quite what this tells us about UKIP " except that they seem curiously fascinated
by Nazi memorabilia " isn't immediately clear. But a party spokesman explains
all.

'Malcolm opposes plans for an international airport in South Staffs, which would
destroy the surrounding green belt land,' I'm told. 'He wants the media to be
able to appreciate the beauty of the surrounding area from a unique vantage
point.'

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               3 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 30, 2005, Monday

Reforms may now be on the agenda, Straw says

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 426 words


Jack Straw called last night for a "period of reflection" before Britain decided
on its reaction to the French "no" vote but added that the referendum result
would prompt debate about the fundamentals of the European Union.

The Foreign Secretary said that the Government would wait at least until after
the European Council met in Luxembourg on June 16 to decide whether there was
any point in having a referendum in Britain.

Although Mr Straw said that he was "personally sad" about the French public's
rejection of the treaty, he suggested that the broader repercussions could be
positive. "Yes the vote was about the constitutional treaty, but it also has
implications much wider than that about the future direction of Europe," Mr
Straw said. "About what kind of social, political, and economic reforms Europe
needs to make if it is to respond to the challenges which we are already facing
from the rest of the world -how can we, right across the Continent not just in
one country, like we have been able to achieve, provide economic prosperity.

"It is also about the really important question about what the balance is
between decisions which should properly be made by member-states and those which
should be made by the European Union as a whole."

Mr Straw said that Britain intended to play a big part in this debate, which was
so fundamental that it needed much time and reflection. There was no need to
come to "instantaneous and unnecessary judgments tonight," he said.

Some in France had attacked the treaty as being too "Anglo-Saxon", but Mr Straw
said it simply reflected "a very tough negotiating position by the United
Kingdom".

Liam Fox, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, said that the Government should
immediately declare the treaty dead or call a referendum to allow Britain to
make its views known. "Our Government must tell us that they are going to hold a
referendum to have the British people's voice heard or that they are not going
to ratify and that it is dead," Dr Fox said. "It is as simple a choice as that."

The Britain in Europe said that there were many domestic factors in the French
decision and expressed hope that something of the constitution could be
salvaged.

The British No campaign said: "We are very pleased with the result, but we've
got to make sure that bits of the constitution are not brought in by the back
door."

Nigel Farage, a UK Independence Party MEP, said the result showed that "the
people do not like the direction that their political class are taking them in".


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 30, 2005, Monday

Winners celebrate with words of admiration for the bizarre English

BYLINE: Adam Sage in Paris

SECTION: Overseas news; 9

LENGTH: 982 words


The party started half an hour before the polling stations closed last night as
French voters' main Eurosceptic party celebrated an historic victory.

To the sound of pop music and wildly cheering supporters Philippe de Villiers,
head of the Movement for France, made a triumphant entrance to the nightclub
hired for the occasion as exit polls put the "no" camp ahead in the referendum
on the constitution.

Party members, long consigned to the margins of French politics shouted: "On a
gagne!" (We have won). M de Villiers beamed from ear to ear. Standing just
outside the scrum of television cameras around the party leader was Emmanuel
Lardeux, head of the party's Paris section. "This is a very important moment for
us, an historic moment. If the exit polls are right," he said.

"Now we are counting a lot on the Dutch and the English to say 'no' as well."

M de Villiers often cites "the English" as an example. "They are a little
bizarre, but they have not abandoned the idea of being a powerful nation on
their own and they have shown that it is possible to prosper outside the Euro."

As the applause for the party leader grew louder the nightclub hi-fi boomed out
the latest French hit single Et c'est parti pour le show (And we're off for the
show) and supporters climbed up on the stage to begin dancing.

M Lardeux said that the victory had been carefully planned and prepared. "We
began campaigning very early on and we were in harmony with the concerns of the
French people who feel that they are being dispossessed of their sovereignty.

"It was very difficult for the 'yes' camp because all they could do was come up
with the same arguments they had used for the Maastricht referendum in 1992. But
we were able to point out what has happened since. The record with Maastricht is
bad and the French people know it.

"I think the 'yes' camp underestimated the concerns of the French people and
underestimated their opponents as well. We knew the constitution much better
than they did."

A group of students, all members of the Movement for France party, hugged each
other in delight. Edouard Vieilfault, 25, said: "All the 'yes' camp could come
up with were vague arguments that the constitution would bring us peace and
prosperity. But we are all in favour of peace and prosperity and we were able to
quote from the constitution to show why we opposed it. Our arguments were based
on the text not on pious hopes."

As he was talking one of his friends came up and said in English
"anti-establishment" -a sentiment that summed up much of the feeling in France
last night.

Derek Clark, a UK Independence Party MEP, was with the French Eurosceptics last
night, with glass of champagne in his hand and a smile on his face. "I'm here to
celebrate this 'no' vote. I couldn't have missed this. It shows that the common
people of Europe do not want the constitution. It is only the corrupt
politicians."

Many voters shared this sentiment. Anne Dalskey, 63, an office worker, was among
those who said "no". "I'm doing it for the young so that they will have a better
Europe to live in," she said. "Look at all the problems there are now. It's got
to change."

After a campaign that had seen the media and the mainstream political parties
back the constitution, many voters rebelled and said "no". Mme Dalskey said that
the establishment campaign in favour of the constitution had merely served to
reinforce her determination to reject the treaty.

"They asked our opinion and then they told us how we should vote. I don't like
that at all. And then they tell us that if we vote 'no', we'll have another
referendum in six months' time. It's as though we would have to go on voting
until we say 'yes'. But all these politicians lie to us all the time. They
promise things that never arrive."

Pierre Castagnou, a Parisian district Mayor, wore a Paris 2012 Olympic badge and
a tie with teddy bears on it. A socialist, he had also voted "no".

"The important thing is that French citizens everywhere have really taken an
interest in this campaign," he said. "The debate has been very intense."

At the headquarters of the Socialist party the expressions were anguished and
downcast after the news from the exit polls.

'THE DECISION CREATES A DIFFICULT CONTEXT'

The following is the text of President Chirac's TV address:

"France has democratically expressed itself. You have rejected the European
constitution by a majority. It is your sovereign decision and I take note of it.

Nevertheless, our ambitions and interests are profoundly linked to Europe.
France, a founder member of the Union, remains, naturally, within the Union.

"I want to tell you and our European partners and all the peoples of Europe that
France will continue to occupy its full place, whilst respecting its
undertakings.

I will ensure that.

"The process of ratification is in progress across all the countries of the
Union.

Nine countries have already chosen the 'yes'. Our other partners will, in turn,
make their choice.

"Between now and then, the European Union will continue to function on the basis
of the current treaties. We have important rendezvous ahead of us. On June 16,
the European Council will meet in Brussels. There, I will defend the positions
of our country, while taking account of the message of French men and women.

"But let's not be mistaken. The decision of France inevitably creates a
difficult context for the defence of our interests in Europe.

"We must respond to this by uniting around one requirement -national interest.

"Dear compatriots, during this debate you have also expressed your worries and
your hopes. I intend to respond to that by giving a new and strong impetus to
the action of the Government.

"In the coming days, I will announce my decisions on the Government and its
priorities."


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 28, 2005

Comment & Letters: Scaremongering and delusions: The battle for Europe Who will
benefit if France or the Netherlands votes to reject the constitutional treaty?
: John Palmer Rejection of the treaty would backfire on those who want a more
democratic, social Europe

BYLINE: John Palmer

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1045 words


A dangerous delusion has influential sections of the left in its grip as France
and the Netherlands prepare to vote in referendums on the proposed
constitutional treaty. The delusion is that by rejecting the treaty, the left
will be in a stronger position to negotiate a more democratic, more "social",
even a more genuinely integrationist treaty in the future. According to this
argument, rejection, particularly by France, will somehow persuade the great
majority of the other 24 EU member state governments to drop all the objections
they had to strengthening further its democratic and social provisions when the
treaty was agreed only 12 months ago.

The reality is very different. Rejection of the treaty - including its
provisions to extend democracy and social rights - will only strengthen the
determination of the majority of centre-right and conservative EU governments to
weaken its democratic and social content further in any new negotiation. There
is absolutely no sign of a radical shift to the left in the political balance of
forces in Europe at present (to judge by events in Germany, rather to the
contrary). A renegotiated treaty in these circumstances risks a retreat from
existing commitments to a judicable charter of fundamental rights, to an
extension of the law-making powers of the elected European parliament and to the
provisions balancing competitiveness with social cohesion and environmental
sustainability.

Throwing the treaty out will set back - not advance - the cause of a democratic
"social" Europe. True, a defeat for the treaty in France and the Netherlands
will - first and foremost - be a contemptuous vote of protest against the Chirac
presidency in France and the centre-right coalition in The Hague. But rejection
will also be seen as a reflection of the strength of nationalist and chauvinist
currents in public opinion, most obviously expressing themselves in bitter
opposition to Turkey's EU membership and to any further enlargement of the
union. It is difficult to see how anyone who has visited the Netherlands or
France during this campaign can draw any other conclusion. These have been the
dominating issues in the campaign - inspired and led by rightwing populists (and
their far-right supporters) in both countries.

This should hardly surprise us. The history of the so-called "European debate"
in more traditionally Eurosceptic countries such as Britain and Denmark reveals
much the same pattern. The overwhelming beneficiary of the ceaseless anti-EU
campaigns supported by sections of the left in Britain has been the kind of
thoroughly bigoted right we see in the swelling ranks of Ukip, the BNP and the
Tory party itself. The left has emerged from 30 years of episodic anti-European
crusades not stronger but much, much weaker.

The story is even more the case in Denmark. Some people have been surprised that
in the current referendum campaigns, the Danish yes side has emerged so
strongly. The most recent polls give it record leads over the traditionally
popular no campaigners. One important reason has been the switch from no to yes
by an important section of the Danish left - primarily in the Socialist People's
party. They have been shocked by the way that previous anti-European campaigns
encouraged the growth not of progressive politics but of the far right -
primarily the anti-immigrant Danish People's party. The great majority of the
Danish left see approval of this treaty not as an end in itself but as a step in
the direction of a more social, more environmental, more democratic - as well as
more united - Europe.

In France dissident members of the Socialist party, as well as the Communist
party and various Trotskyist groups, believe that by blocking the treaty they
are dealing a death blow to a European Union dominated by "eco nomic
neoliberalism". In fact the opposite is the truth. If the constitutional treaty
is killed, all the free-market provisions that the no side objects to will still
be in force. This is because they are part and parcel of all the other EU
treaties that will remain in force. What the new treaty does - for the first
time in clear terms - is to balance the imperatives of economic growth and
competitiveness with a commitment to a wide range of human rights and social
values and standards, and to greater powers for the elected European parliament.
This opens the way to the emergence of a democratic European polity where voters
will be able to choose between rival European party programmes and candidates
for election as president of the commission. Indeed, it is precisely these
developments that most enrage Tory Eurosceptics. At least they have the facts on
their side.

Perhaps the biggest self-delusion of the anti-treaty left is that it can ignore
the link between hostility to the EU and hostility to immigrants and to the
further enlargement of the European Union. These links are at the heart of the
no campaign in the Netherlands. In the resulting political confusion it has
become remarkably easy for campaigners to make up the evidence as they go along.
In the Netherlands we are told that the treaty would threaten Dutch liberal and
secular traditions. In Poland the main complaint is exactly the opposite: the
treaty will force secular standards on a Catholic society. Both cannot be true.
Both are in fact rubbish. But voices trying to inject some reasoned evidence in
the debate are easily drowned out.

It may be that the French and the Dutch will put paid to the treaty. The
European Union will not disintegrate as a result: the process of integration and
interdependence has gone too far for that. But rejection may condemn the EU to
years of drift and stagnation. It will blight the opportunities for the union to
build its own distinctive economic and social system and will strengthen the
hand of those who want to foist the "Anglo-American" economic model on Europe.
It will also obstruct the urgent task of creating a genuinely common European
foreign, security and defence policy. No wonder the neocons in Washington gloat
as they prepare to celebrate.

John Palmer is political director of the European Policy Centre; from 1975 to
1997 he was the Guardian's European editor

palmerjohn@arcadis.be


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 27, 2005, Friday

Tories under fire as Helmer hits out

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 027

LENGTH: 195 words

Conservative MEP Roger Helmer was suspended from the party whip on Wednesday
after a row provoked by his signing of a UKIP-sponsored motion about the conduct
of European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso.

And now, I learn, Helmer has added fuel to the fire with a damning article about
the Tory election campaign.

Writing in the latest edition of the European Journal, he accuses the party of
being "in danger of losing sight of Conservative principles".

"We seemed to be weak and indecisive," is his verdict on the party's position on
ID cards.  Helmer goes on to describe the policy of unconditional continued
membership of the EU as "unsustainable" and "a two-headed monster", and instead,
calls for a policy of "renegotiate or quit".

Furthermore, Helmer attacks Michael Howard's "ill-judged dismissal of Howard
Flight", the MP sacked for his comments about tax cuts.

"We were reluctant to admit the obvious truth... that as opportunity offered we
should deliver further tax cuts.

"All he [Flight] did was to state the obvious at a private meeting," concludes
Helmer.

Internal squabbling is clearly on the agenda on both sides of the Channel.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 26, 2005, Thursday

Euro Tories suspend MEP in row over EU president

BYLINE: By David Rennie

SECTION: News; International Pg. 012

LENGTH: 359 words

A CONSERVATIVE MEP had his party membership suspended yesterday by the head of
the British Tory delegation in the European Parliament after an angry debate
about excessive European Union secrecy.

Four other British Conservatives were threatened with expulsion from the
European People's Party, the parliament's majority centre-Right faction, by the
EPP's German leader, Hans-Gert Poettering.

The suspension left Roger Helmer, the Conservative MEP for the East Midlands, in
a legal and political no-man's land.

Mr Helmer's punishment threatens to shatter the fragile consensus that has
allowed British Tories to sit in the 286-strong bloc, despite its strongly
pro-European leanings.

The suspension was triggered after Mr Helmer publicly accused the Tory leader in
the European Parliament, Timothy Kirkhope, of "inappropriately" demanding he
remove his name from a motion of censure against the European Commission.

Mr Helmer accused Mr Poettering of being behind that "pressure", telling the EPP
leader he had "brought shame on this House".

Moments later the German MEP abruptly told parliament that Mr Helmer was no
longer a member of his grouping, a declaration that followed no known
parliamentary rule.

Within hours Mr Helmer was stripped of his British Tory whip - a move that angry
colleagues said was designed to save Mr Poettering's face.

The row was expected to extend to Westminster last night, where MPs pledged to
raise Mr Helmer's suspension with the backbench 1922 Committee.

The extraordinary scenes began when the president of the European Commission,
Jose Manuel Barroso, presented himself in the European Parliament chamber in
Brussels to answer a formal "motion of censure" tabled by the UK Independence
Party leader, Nigel Farage.

The motion was tabled and signed by 77 MEPs from across the political spectrum
after Mr Barroso refused to answer a parliamentary question about a holiday
taken aboard the yacht of a Greek billionaire, Spiros Latsis, citing his right
to privacy.

Five of the MEPs who signed were British Conservatives: Mr Helmer, Daniel
Hannan, Chris Heaton-Harris, David Sumberg and Martin Callanan.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               8 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 26, 2005

G2: The Guardian ruined my political career! If only Esther Rantzen came good,
it might have been so different

BYLINE: Stanley Johnson

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 696 words


I owe a special debt to the Guardian. During the recent general election, when I
was the Conservative candidate for Teignbridge, my campaign team was taking a
well-earned break in the Ship Inn, Cockwood, on the Exe Estuary, when my mobile
telephone rang.

"This is Simon Goodley of the Guardian Diary," a voice said.

I wasn't sure I had heard it correctly. "Do you mean the Manchester Guardian?"

A pause. "We haven't been called the Manchester Guardian for years."

"You were last time I read the paper, back in the 60s."

The Guardian Diarist very quickly levelled the score by pointing out that a
couple of typos in my campaign literature had recently come to his attention.
"You've left out the D in Teignbridge."

I decided that this was a telephone call whose intimate details others did not
need to hear, so I went outside where the sun shone and the wildfowl pottered
about on the mudflats. You wouldn't have thought that there was an election on.

"Are you sure there is a D in Teignbridge?" I parried. "This is pretty rich
coming from the Grauniad!"

Goodley had kept his best shot till last. "You also say that the Conservatives
believe in 'more talk and less action' ".

Now I'm not trying to argue that my failure to win back Teignbridge for the
Conservatives was entirely due to the unhelpful column which the Guardian ran
the next day. I suspect other factors played a part. For example, in my Channel
4 News election blog, which appeared daily during the campaign, I stated that,
if I was asked on the doorstep what I would do if I was elected, I would reply,
"Not too much, I hope." MPs should resist the temptation to reach for the
statute book at the slightest opportunity. They should pass fewer laws, while
repealing many existing ones, particularly some of the insaner regulations
dealing with health and safety.

A week before the election, however, my Liberal Democrat opponent took out
full-page advertisements in the local press in which he not so subtly distorted
my meaning. "Tory candidate says he won't do much if elected," ran the headline.

The safest thing, of course, would have been to say "blog off" to Channel 4
News' kind invitation right from the start, rather than hand free penalty kicks
to the other side. But, on balance, I'm glad I agreed.

The damage from the "not too much" episode was probably not fatal, whereas a
strong Ukip intervention and a low Labour turnout probably was. I received
21,583 votes, but the other fellow did better. That's democracy.

And being a blogger was good fun. I learned how to send photos with my copy,
including a rather fetching snapshot of Esther Rantzen, who arrived in Newton
Abbot one day on ChildLine business.

After two bottles of Montepulciano d'Abruzzo, I thought I had persuaded her to
support my campaign. Eventually she wrote a message for me on a paper napkin. "I
am a floating voter and I have not yet decided which way to vote, but I always
enjoy Stanley's company."

Well, we've all passed a lot of water under the bridge since May 5. The
Conservatives are yet again in the throes of a leadership contest, one which is
of more than academic interest. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, has set
out his stall, and I must say that I find his vision of a low-tax,
legislation-lite future with a strong emphasis on civil liberties attractive.
The fact that he has had his nose broken a couple of times also appeals to me.
As Kipling might have put it, a man who can break his nose when others are all
about him are picking theirs could go far.

I would like to end this first column on a lighter note. The other day, as we
were driving down Parkway in the direction of Camden Town, my wife, Jenny, said:
"I think we should split up."

I knew it had been a been a bad day (our 12-year-old Jack Russell terrier had
gone awol), but I didn't know it had been that bad. I carefully put the car into
neutral at the traffic lights. There was an ominous silence.

"Yes, I definitely think we should split up," Jenny continued. "Why don't you go
to the print shop to get a 'missing dog' poster made, while I go to Marks and
Spencer?" Phew!


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 26, 2005, Thursday

BARROSO SURVIVES CONFIDENCE DEBATE OVER FREE HOLIDAY WITH GREEK TYCOON

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 527 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Jose Manuel Barroso denies that a holiday on board a friend's yacht created a
conflict of interest YVES LOGGHE/AP


Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, has survived an
embarrassing no-confidence motion in the European Parliament as a row over his
free holiday with a Greek shipping tycoon provoked deep ructions among
Conservatives MEPs.

The vast majority of MEPs rallied behind Mr Barroso, who came under fire just
four days before France votes on a crucial referendum on the European
constitution.

However, the debate provoked a bitter row within the European conservative group
which opposed the no-confidence motion. Its leader, Hans Gert Pottering, said
that one British Tory MEP, Roger Helmer, had 'excluded himself' from membership
of the group by accusing its leadership of twisting the arms of Mr Barroso's
critics.

Last night Mr Helmer's Conservative whip was suspended, and the threat of
expulsion hangs over four other British Conservatives who defied their party
line and signed the no-confidence motion tabled by the UK Independence Party
MEP, Nigel Farage.

Despite his political escape, the debate symbolised the shaky start made by Mr
Barroso since he took over as European Commission president after losing a power
struggle with MEPs in October last year.

Asked to account for his holiday aboard Spiros Latsis's 51ft yacht last August,
Mr Barroso described the motion as 'unfair, unjustified, illegitimate and
absurd'. He added: 'We never dealt with any commercial subjects at all. There
was no link between the cruise and my work.'

He went on the cruise shortly before a Latsis company received European
Commission approval for state aid worth EUR10m (£6.8m). However, the cruise was
also before Mr Barroso took up his post and the state aid decision was taken by
the previous European Commission.

'As to the Commission's decision to authorise state aid in Greece, it was taken
by the previous Commission at a time when I had no responsibility,' Mr Barroso
said.

All the parliament's big groups rallied round the Commission president, partly
because the motion was seen as an attempt by British Eurosceptics to embarrass
Mr Barroso on the eve of the French referendum. If a vote is called, Mr Barroso
is certain to win.

Meanwhile, Mr Pottering reacted furiously to claims by Mr Helmer that MEPs were
threatened in an effort to force them to withdraw backing for the motion. 'By
his behaviour he has excluded himself from our group,' said Mr Pottering, who is
also threatening to expel four other Tories who backed the no-confidence motion:
Chris Heaton-Harris, Daniel Hannan, David Sumberg and Martin Callanan.

Though the factual case against Mr Barroso appeared to be weak, his reaction has
raised a series of questions and may have strengthened the case for a new
committee to oversee issues such as conflict of interest.

Initially, the Commission president refused to answer a parliamentary question
on his holiday arrangements from Mr Farage but he later confirmed a German
newspaper story about the holiday.

Peter Mandelson, the European trade commissioner, had also refused to answer a
similar question about a trip, though details of a Caribbean holiday over the
new year later emerged.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              10 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 26, 2005

EU CHIEF QUIZZED

LENGTH: 97 words


EU chief Jose Manuel Barroso was forced to appear before MEPs yesterday in a
bust-up over sleaze allegations.

Mr Barroso had refused to discuss his free holiday with a Greek tycoon -weeks
before a firm linked to the millionaire landed an EU contract.

UKIP's Nigel Farage told the European Commission president: "You have to be seen
to be above suspicion."

He also challenged Mr Barroso on why he had resigned his EU maritime brief if
the relationship was above board.

Five Tory MEPs could get the boot from the EU's Conservative grouping for
backing UKIP.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              11 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 26, 2005

EU CHIEF IN SLEAZE RUMPUS

BYLINE: Michael Lea, European Correspondent

LENGTH: 184 words


EU chief Jose Manuel Barroso was forced to appear before MEPs yesterday in a
bust-up over sleaze allegations.

Mr Barroso was summoned to the European Parliament after refusing to answer
questions about a free holiday worth £13,000 aboard a Greek tycoon's yacht.

Weeks later a firm linked to the tycoon's empire landed a Pounds 7million EU
contract.

UKIP's Nigel Farage, who wants MEPS to back a censure motion against Mr Barroso,
told him: "You are here for one very simple reason.

"I asked what free holidays, what hospitality, you had received -and answer came
there none."

Boot

Mr Barroso insisted the contract was approved by his predecessor.

He said the holiday was a private affair and business was not discussed.

If MEPS back the motion in a Strasbourg vote next month all 25 EU commissioners
will be forced to resign.

Mr Farage also wants a register of gifts and freebies for EC bureaucrats.

Five Tory MEPs could get the boot from the EU's Conservative grouping after
defying whips to back UKIP.

They were told they faced "very serious consequences".


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              12 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 26, 2005, Thursday

Tory suspended for lining up with UKIP over sleaze

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Overseas news; 42

LENGTH: 531 words


THE Conservative Party suspended an MEP yesterday after he supported the UK
Independence Party in a censure motion against Jose Manuel Barroso, the
President of the European Commission.

The UKIP had succeeded in overcoming overwhelming opposition from the Brussels
political establishment to make Senhor Barroso defend himself against sleaze
allegations days before European referendums in France and the Netherlands.

In an extraordinary piece of political drama, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader in
the European Parliament, faced booing in the chamber and was denounced as a
demagogue and accused of trying to undermine the Commission's reputation before
the referendums.

Roger Helmer, a Conservative Eurosceptic, came to his aid and denounced
political leaders, including those of the European Conservative group, for
strongarming MEPs into withdrawing their names from the UKIP motion.

Mr Helmer was one of five Conservatives who signed the motion but the only one
to support it in the chamber.

Hans-Gert Pottering, leader of the European People's Party, to which the
Conservatives are allied, said that he would expel Mr Helmer from the group,
declaring: "No one, but no one, must be allowed to shake our resolve as we
continue to build European integration."

Phillip Bradbourn, the Tory chief whip, sent Mr Helmer a letter stating: "In
consequence of your action today, including the deliberate attack on the leader
of our delegation and the Conservative Party...I have no alternative but to
suspend the Conservative whip from you forthwith pending further
investigations."

Mr Helmer rejected the accusation that he attacked the party.

The Parliament summoned Senhor Barroso to explain a free holiday that he had on
the luxury yacht of Spiros Latsis, the Greek shipping multibillionaire, after Mr
Farage collected the 75 signatures necessary to table a motion of censure.

Senhor Barroso has personal responsibility for EU competition policy in
shipping, and Mr Latsis' companies have other links with the Commission.

Senhor Barroso failed to disclose the free holiday, reportedly worth Euro 20,000
(£13,700), saying that he did not consider it a conflict of interest. He took it
before assuming the presidency but after his appointment.

Mr Farage told the Parliament: "What we are asking for is disclosure. It can and
should be done. By insisting these free holidays maintain no conflict of
interest, you put yourself in a difficult position. When you are in a hole, Mr
Barroso, stop digging."

Senhor Barroso said: "This motion is unfair, unjustified, illegitimate and
absurd.

This has gone across the border from democracy to demagoguery, and that is not
something we can accept."

The summons was an embarrassment for Senhor Barroso, but political leaders
queued up to denounce Mr Farage. Herr Pottering said: "This motion is humanly
indecent because it is against the building of our continent. It is an attack on
the European institutions and the credibility of the Commission."

Graham Watson, leader of the Liberal group, told the motion's signatories: "You
are ridiculous. It is just a ploy to discredit the Commission."


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 25, 2005, Wednesday

LETTER: EUROPHILES NEED TO START THE FIGHT NOW

BYLINE: RICHARD DENTON-WHITE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 142 words


Sir: It's screamingly obvious why the 'Yes' campaign in Britain is lagging ('The
Battle For Europe', 23 May 2005). The singular failure of both the New Labour
and the Liberal Democrat leaderships to take the fight to the Europhobic right
beggars belief.

The result is a sublime public ignorance of the benefits of the European Union,
clearly illustrated at a recent general election parliamentary candidates'
debate in Salisbury where only five out of an audience of 200 had actually
perused the proposed constitution, let alone read it cover to cover!

Your editorial is right. It's time for the 'Yes' campaign to have the courage to
take the gloves off and expose the lies and European mythology of UKIP and the
Tory dinosaurs. The 'Yes' campaign needs to develop some attitude, and quickly.

RICHARD DENTON-WHITE

PORTLAND, DORSET

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              14 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 24, 2005

G2: PC exists to balance out the bigots

BYLINE: MarcusBrigstocke

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 611 words


Britain is obsessed with political correctness. Now, before you nod
enthusiastically in agreement and start dusting off the hilarious rubber
gollywog hidden away in your loft, I'm not referring to the necessary and useful
corrections to prejudice that have been made in the name of PC over the years.
What I mean is: Britain is obsessed with the idea that PC is a conspiracy, a
hurricane of embittered, lefty oppression determined to strip us all of the
right to speak as we find. It has resulted in a terrible, cultural black hole in
which only Marks Thomas and Steele are funny, goes the argument, and to make up
for decades of imperialism, all white Britons should leap over the cliffsof
Dover in a futile but poignant lemming-style suicide/apology.

And yet, not everything that happens to us that we don't like is because
political correctness has gone mad. Some of it is because things need changing.
Brace yourself - but some of the old ideas that we call "traditions" are
rubbish. The clearer, better, computer- generated BBC weather reports are not a
PC trick. Neither is the fact that both Julian Clary and Graham Norton are on
BBC1 on the same night (it's a mistake, but PC it ain't). Some gays and Asians
and Muslims and disabled people pay the licence fee too, so would the straight,
white, able-bodied, Christian, PC-phobic majority just shut up for a bit? (Don't
worry, another ethnically cleansed Only Fools and Horses or EastEnders will be
along in moment or two.)

Accusations of politically correct thought control have become a pathetic and
transparent excuse for lazy racists, sexists and Islamophobes the land over.
Challenging PC has become a game of chicken for bigots - daring each other to
run out into the busy PC motorway and say something stupid before dashing back
for cover. Who will dare to go the furthest without actually invading Poland?
The Tories? Ukip? The Daily Mail? An excellent comic by the name of Chris
Addison has said, "You can tell people who read the Daily Mail because they
follow every stupid thing they say with the phrase '. . . but I suppose that's
not politically correct', and think that makes it OK to say whatever they want."

Thus the Mail's coverage yesterday of the war crimes trial of the British army
Colonel Jorge Mendonca suggested that he has been "dragged into a politically
correct witchhunt". Tssk. Typical of the PC brigade - one Iraqi man gets beaten
to death and they are down on you like a ton of righteous liberal bricks! The
chap wasn't even English! (I should point out that Mendonca was allegedly only
in charge of a group of British soldiers who beat a civilian to death, he didn't
actually beat a civilian to death himself.)

The magazine the Week has a column called PC Watch, which this week bemoans the
fact that the National Trust has stopped allowing children to collect eggs and
feed goats at Wimpole Hall in Cambridgeshire, in case they pick up germs. That's
not PC, that's parasitic "no win, no fee" litigation companies continuing to put
a price on every stubbed toe, achy neck or wet fart they can get their hands on.
It's greedy insurance companies hiking the premiums every time the lawyers get a
win and a fee.

Political correctness is as exploitable as any other progressive ideal, but its
aim is to stifle the incessant noise of those who flap their careless lips
without a thought about those they might offend and why that might be important.
PC exists to balance out the loudest voices, who assume that the things they are
used to are somehow sacred or (God forbid) "traditional", just because no one's
had the sense or the balls to change them.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 149 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 24, 2005, Tuesday

SHELLY VISION: DRUMMING DOWN AT BBC

BYLINE: JIM SHELLEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 656 words


ON Saturday, the BBC treated us to a procession of infectious pop songs and
slick dance routines performed with style and panache.

Yes, the immaculate Soul Deep - The Story of Black Popular Music continued on
BBC2.

Meanwhile, in the Ukraine, the people liberated by the Orange Revolution were
paying a harsh price for democracy as the annual horror fest that is Eurovision
permeated BBC1 like a bad smell - a broken bottle of Peter Andre's fragrance,
Insania, perhaps.

Being neither gay, 12 years old or terminally depressed, I don't usually watch
Eurovision. It's not just rubbish, it's meant to be rubbish - which is not an
idea I warm to.

This year, as if to accentuate the awfulness, the stage was designed by someone
who obviously thought the set of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire wasn't garish
enough. As usual, the presenters were two weirdos speaking semi-intelligible
Euro-speak in a phoney American accent.

"Wad a fan-tuh-steek surng-er from the weener of Eurovision Song Contest 2004,"
Pavlo Shylko purred as if he had learnt English from studying 1970s porn films.

Terry Wogan branded them "Ant & Shriek" but Maria Efrosinina didn't so much
shriek as bellow in a way that suggested she had no understanding of what a
microphone was for.

As for the actual contest, Terry Wogan described it as the inevitable
"cornucopia" consisting of "the banal, the bizarre and the downright barking" -
which made it sound almost promising.

This optimism lasted about 25 seconds into the first performance by a group of
Hungarian river-dancing mime artists fronted by a sultry-looking siren with one
trouser leg missing.

Their song's chorus consisted of "na-nana-na-nas" sparking a trend followed by
Cyprus ("lee-lie-lah/lee-lie-laa"), Macedonia ("la-la-lay-la") and many others
singing, for no obvious reason, about fire.

"Are you finding it difficult to tell one song from another this year?" Wogan
mused.

As for the performers, there was so much back-combed hair, gravy-coloured
cleavage and so many Cirque du Soleil rejects banging wacky percussion
instruments, I started getting flashbacks to lager ads from the 1980s. As the
Norwegian glam rock band vied with the Bosnia Herzegovina Abba tribute band and
the Estonian rapper, you couldn't help thinking that if UKIP had used Eurovision
as their party political broadcast, they might have been elected.

It was hard to choose the worst but this is the real point of Eurovision. I
obediently downloaded my scorecard from the BBC website and texted my vote.

The obvious choice was a Moldovan version of Chumbawamba whose song was
(honestly) called Grandmama Beats the Drum or Grandmama Beats the Drummer.

"God knows what the semi-final was like if this got through," Wogan tutted, not
unreasonably.

Then there was some hunk in leather trousers from Sweden singing a sub-Grease
song called Las Vegas.

"I got a room here at the Mandalay Bay/I take a shower then I'm on my way". What
this had to do with Sweden was anyone's guess.

In the end my vote went to an alarming boyband from Serbia, marching round the
stage to rousing chants of "Oinka" (at least I think that's what they were
saying).

"I will take you to my stone house and beat you to within an inch of your life,"
translated Wogan and it was hard to tell if he was joking.

"Yes, it's endless, isn't it?" Wogan chuckled as we approached what felt like
the 147th song. Pointless would be a better word - unless you use it to guage
how unpopular the British are.

Unlike Croatia and Serbia, Norway and Denmark, Belarus and Russia etc - who all
gave each other full marks - the UK has no friends at all.

The winner was Greece with a song that went "You're my lover undercover/You're
the most impressive I've discovered". It was a good song, to be fair - a good
song by Shakira.

I felt sorry for Javine - too British, too black and too talented to stand a
chance.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              16 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 23, 2005

G2: Albion Ltd: A Norfolk shop selling second world war-era clothes is all the
rage, Enid Blyton names are back in favour, and this summer millions of people
who would never have dreamed of holidaying in Britain a decade ago will head for
England's newly fashionable seaside. Whatever happened to the great English
inferiority complex? Andy Beckett investigates

BYLINE: Andy Beckett

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2941 words


In 1992 Will Brown and Marie Willey left London to start a shop in Norwich. He
was a fashion designer, she was a fashion stylist, but both of them were perhaps
a bit too thoughtful and droll for their jobs. They wanted to try something
different. As well as clothes they shared two other less predictable interests.
They loved the nostalgic atmosphere of the Norfolk seaside - they spent their
holidays in a caravan at Cromer - and the evocative but often forgotten English
domestic design of the 30s and 40s.

Brown and Willey called their new Norwich shop Old Town and filled it with
enamel bread bins, plain metal kettles straight out of George Orwell, heavy old
whisks and rolling pins, and old-fashioned balls of coarse brown string. And
then they waited for customers. Old Town was on one of Norwich's most
attractively ancient streets; the shop was featured very favourably in the
Sunday Telegraph. But the public reaction was not what they expected. "We used
to have faces looking in the window," says Willey. "People would point at the
balls of string. Then they would say, 'What's that about?'" Sometimes, she
remembers, the eyes of these onlookers would fill with what could have been
tears of laughter. She pauses. "Or perhaps it was just the cold wind."

Thirteen years later, the shop in Norwich is long gone. Yet Brown and Willey are
still selling the same version of Englishness, and with rather more success. Old
Town is now a clothes business. It offers "spartan and institutional" garments
designed by Brown - baggy high-waisted trousers, buttoned-up boxy jackets, a bit
like better-cut uniforms or civilian dress from the second world war - through a
website and a shop in the north Norfolk market town of Holt. The clothes come in
muted ration-book colours but with modern credit-boom prices: the trousers cost
up to £145. Visiting the shop, for the great majority of Old Town's customers,
requires a long twisting country journey by car or train and taxi. But people
come: "They're media, they're architects, they're designers," says Willey. "They
like the details on the clothes." And nowadays no one laughs at Old Town's shop
windows, with their woodwork painted a challenging shade of battleship grey. In
fact, quite the contrary. "It's amazing the number of people who ring up and
say, 'We've just driven past your shop. What's the paint number?'"

Since the early 90s, the appetite for English things has changed. This change is
visible in mail-order catalogues and lifestyle magazines, in house prices in
certain places, in where people go for holidays or the weekend; in trends in
interior decoration and gardening, and children's names, in fashionable foods
and periods for furniture, in new sorts of shopping markets and new shops such
as Old Town and Labour And Wait ("traditional products for the home") in east
London. Consumer trends are slippery to define or explain but some of the
symptoms of people buying into Englishness, consciously or otherwise, have
become hard to miss: the feverish popularity of beach huts, and of knobbly local
potatoes at farmers' markets, the rebranding of fish and chips and sausages and
mash as restaurant dishes, the transformation of peeling old resorts such as
Whitstable and Hastings into locations for second homes and fashion shoots, even
the status of the name Jack, with its bracing whiff of Enid Blyton and the
Secret Seven, as the favourite for baby boys in England and Wales for the past
10 years running.

This being England and not France, how and why all these small patriotic shifts
in public taste have simultaneously occurred has not been much analysed. Yet
together they may mark the beginning of the end for an English inferiority
complex that has lasted for at least half a century.

The idea that England was a slightly dour, inadequate place when it came to
things such as food and visual pleasure and the outdoors became commonplace,
particularly among the expanding middle class, in the years immediately before
and after the second world war. The writer Gerald Durrell vividly captured this
dissatisfaction in the opening to his bestselling 1956 memoir about moving to
Corfu, My Family and Other Animals: "July had been blown out like a candle by a
biting wind . . . Along the Bournemouth sea front, the beach huts turned blank
wooden faces towards a greeny-grey, frothchained sea . . . At length, (my eldest
brother) decided to attack Mother . . . 'Why do we stand this bloody climate?'
he asked suddenly."

Between the 50s and the 70s, the introduction of mass air travel, rising
working-class affluence, lengthening paid holidays and Elizabeth David's
seductive books about Mediterranean cooking, all helped to make escaping
Englishness arguably the country's favourite leisure occupation. "No other
European country," says the writer and broadcaster and observer of England
Jonathan Meades, looked abroad with such intense longing: "The French travelled
within France, the Spanish travelled within Spain, the Germans went to their
Baltic resorts. It was only the English who wanted to get out of England."

Mandy Coakley was one of them. She was a fashion stylist who had grown up in the
home counties. "I hitchhiked to India at 17. I lived near Kathmandu for three
and a half years. I travelled a lot as a stylist. All through my 20s, I had this
romantic notion that I would have a beach house somewhere. I never thought for
one minute that it was going to be in cold miserable England, but somewhere
really tropical, in the West Indies somewhere."

In the meantime, however, her work occasionally sent her to less
sensuous-sounding places. "I went down to Camber Sands (in Sussex) and Dungeness
(in Kent) a couple of times." It was the 80s, and the English seaside had been
emptying and quietening for decades, "Tourism was not recognised as a
traditional industry like coalmining," says Peter Hampson, director of the
British Resorts Association, "and struggling resorts did not receive central
government support like the inner cities. They did not get money for
regeneration." The result was a coastal England that became a familiar symbol of
national decline during the 80s and early 90s: boarded-up buildings, dirty sand
and shingle, residents and tourists who always looked defeated to visiting
journalists.

Yet this decay had an unexpected consequence. "I noticed," says Hampson, "that
in some of these places it was only when the tourists stopped coming that they
became interesting places for other people to visit." Coakley found she loved
"the light and the space" of Camber Sands, but also the fact that "it was very
raw". Behind the sand dunes were potholed tracks and oily stains and houses
barely better than shacks. It was the sort of ugly-beautiful setting that
stylists and artists and other restless people are always looking for. Just
along the coast, on the Dungeness peninsula, where the sand turned to grey
pebbles and the sea wind was even sharper, the film director Derek Jarman bought
a shack and began a stony, angular garden.

But Dungeness and Camber Sands, being little more than hamlets, offered limited
opportunities for tastemakers and bohemians to come and settle. It was at
Whitstable, a depressed oyster fishing town to the north, that the new
Englishness would be most thoroughly developed.

Even now, after years of featuring in magazines, Whitstable can be a bit of an
acquired taste. It faces northwest across the Thames estuary, and there is
seaweed in the grey-brown waves. The wind bites, even in late spring, and the
beach is split by a large concrete jetty used by Brett Asphalt Limited. In the
80s, the town was considerably bleaker. John Butterworth, a painter who has
lived in Whitstable since 1993 and started visiting it the decade before,
remembers closed-down shops and silence and a sense that time had stopped
somewhere in the 50s. But Whitstable was cheap, and close to the art schools in
Canterbury and south London. During the 80s, artists began moving to Whitstable
in numbers. They held exhibitions in the empty shops. Soon other, more
commercially-minded people began to notice the town's potential. London antique
and vintage clothes dealers were drawn by Whitstable's junkshop ambience and
pretty wood and brick buildings. A local businessman called Barry Green
converted one of them into a very good restaurant, the Royal Native Oyster
Stores, offering local fish and seafood and ever-shifting views of the sea and
sky. In 1993, food writers from national newspapers began visiting. They found
the town in general to their liking.

Quite quickly, over the next year or two, the trend for coastal, vaguely
nostalgic Englishness began to crystallise. In 1994 Coakley bought a battered
wood and glass beach house in Camber Sands. Other stylists began hiring it for
photoshoots. In 1995 Jarman's book about his garden in Dungeness was published
posthumously (he had died the year before). It was a striking and unexpected
success. Shingle and stringy seaside plants began appearing in suburban gardens.
In newspapers, the first enthusiastic articles for years began appearing about
beach huts.

The mid-90s was a good time to start a fashion for Englishness. "Interest in the
local goes in waves," says Peter York, the longstanding watcher of English
cultural and social shifts. "But it is related to prosperity. You need a period
of middle-class affluence." In the mid-90s, the long economic boom of John
Major's final years and the Blair era was underway: middle-class Londoners in
particular, only an hour or two from places like Whitstable, had spare money
once more.

Just as importantly, in the cities, confidence in some aspects of English
culture was already reviving. Rave culture and Britpop, the regeneration of
museums and urban centres, the arrival of new restaurants serving
self-consciously English food - the first of them, St John, opened in 1994 - had
all begun to erode the notion that anything English was automatically
embarrassing. At the same time, the sheer availability of foreign pleasures -
EasyJet began flying abroad from British airports in 1996 - was creating the
conditions, given the English aptitude for class distinction and oneupmanship,
for a counter-reaction. "The English middle class discovered abroad and then the
English proletariat discovered abroad," says Meades, "so the English middle
class had to have something else."

The sort of Englishness they chose fitted in with the orthodoxies of the modern
lifestyle press about the desirability of vintage things, and of simplicity and
the authentic. It owed something to the long-established "tasteful" English
seaside of isolated smart resorts such as Southwold in Suffolk; and to the
realisation that, with blue skies abroad easily arranged, other weathers had a
renewed appeal: "When it's cold and miserable in Camber," says Coakley, "that
becomes quite romantic and moody. You have hot chocolate by the fire."

But most interestingly the new Englishness involved an idealised view of the
past. In part, this was simple generational nostalgia: "When I see my kids
running up into the sand dunes, and picking up bits of wood and building a fire,
that is how I had it when I was a child," says Coakley. Yet the new Englishness
also looked back to something more historically specific - and possibly
problematic.

In the south London suburb of East Dulwich, in a street round the corner from
where Enid Blyton was born, there is a new sweet shop specialising in
old-fashioned confectionery called Hope and Greenwood. Like a dozen other
new-looking shops in the surrounding streets, it is painted in ice-cream colours
that suggest the England of the 40s and 50s remembered in the cheeriest possible
terms. But Hope and Greenwood are the most thorough local purveyors of English
products and nostalgia. Inside the shop, ancient crooners and swing orchestras
murmur out of the in-store speakers. "Three pounds and two pence, please sir,"
says the shop's co-owner Kitty Hope to a customer. "Miss Hope", as she prefers
to be called, is wearing pearls, a pink cardigan and a yellow striped apron. "We
call our customers sir and madam," she says after taking the money. "Even the
children."

Hope used to work for a gift company in Hemel Hempstead where "all our products
came out of China". Now, she says, "We're as true Brit as we can be." She and
her co-owner Mark Greenwood (ex-antique dealer, equally theatrical air,
moustache like Lord Kitchener) sell, among other things, ration books for
children, setting out how many sweets from the shop they are allowed to buy.

Hope and Greenwood are aware that using such mid-20th century English imagery
has implications. They recently held back plans to decorate their shop with 1953
coronation bunting and a 50s washing line ("for Mothers' Day") because they were
worried about causing offence. But in the end they decided that mid-20th century
England was worth celebrating - in fact preferable in some ways to the present.
"There is a gentility about the 50s that we have lost," Hope says. Although
neither she nor Greenwood are quite old enough to remember it.

Yet the past always means different things to different people. Since 1997,
Geoff Rayner, who is a little older and tweedier, has run the Target Gallery in
central London, selling English furniture and domestic design from the years
around the 1951 Festival of Britain. The jet-age curves and metal finishes of
his chairs and coffee tables are a world away from the cosy seaside
traditionalism of much of the new Englishness. And so is how Rayner talks about
the 40s and 50s: "The 40s are our revolution. The second world war actually
created a whole new world." But the market for English modernist furniture is
widening just like the market for traditional English sweets. "There are people,
in their 20s and upwards, who are really interested in the romantic notion of
the Festival of Britain. They see it as really the starting point of
contemporary design." In the gallery, as we talk, a man of about 30 with a
baseball cap and a bag from a computer shop sizes up a stainless-steel teapot.

How deep and wide the desire for English things will go can be questioned, of
course. "It seems so fashionable to be British now," says Fergus Henderson, the
chef and founder of St John. "But you're slightly theming your own culture.
There's been Britpop and Britart. I hope there's not going to be Britcook.
Nothing kills something like naming it."

And so far the new Englishness (to give it that name again) is a mostly southern
English phenomenon. At Old Town in Norfolk they pay close attention to where
their customers come from. A lot are from London; very few come from above "a
line from Chester to the Humber", says Willey. "And there's not a sausage from
the northeast, where I'm from. It's all sportswear or labels (there). They've
got such a good sense of their identity they don't need ours."

But England is a centralised country where the subcultures of the capital and
the southeast, contrived or not, have a habit of spreading. And, in an era of
increasingly questioned plane journeys and food miles, it can be argued that
wanting local things and local holidays is as much common sense as it is
middle-class posing. Already there is a new shop in the village of Corbridge in
Northumberland, austerely named RE, that sells old-fashioned English stuff -
"'Rusted' metal seafood sign £19", reads one entry in its catalogue - in the
same carefully-styled way as Old Town. Meanwhile, Whitstable has become as well
known for its property scramble and weekend crowds as for its blustery charm.
This popularity is having an effect on the artists who moved to the town in the
80s and 90s."I can't bear Whitstable at the weekends," says Butterworth.
"Traffic all day and people with ice creams. I go somewhere else." Some artists
he knows are moving to Herne Bay, the next town along the coast, which is
cheaper and less fashionable.

One thing that may limit the longevity of the trend for Englishness is the
supply of attractively neglected resorts and marketable historical references.
England is a small place with a much-excavated past. Pebbly beaches and enamel
kitchenware may quickly become cliches, as Cotswold cottages and Laura Ashley
curtains did during the 80s - the last time the middle class had money and fell
in love with traditional Englishness.

And in the meantime, the modern, globalised world is always working to dissolve
such categories. The current taste for English things, it is hard not to notice,
has happened at the same time as the rise of Euroscepticism, and the emergence
to national prominence of UKIP and the BNP. The new sellers of Englishness seem
to be a gentler kind of nationalist - "we went to Portugal and Will's
Englishness came through with terrifying force," says Willey. "He couldn't get a
proper cup of tea" - but they do sometimes seem to be fighting the same sort of
rearguard action.

In East Dulwich, after visiting Hope and Greenwood, I went to a new local fish
and chip restaurant for lunch. There were wooden benches to sit on and slim
well-dressed diners and people eagerly eating their chips with wine and salad.
It felt like an optimistic marketing man's vision of the future of English food
come perfectly to fruition. When I paid, I asked the man at the till how the
restaurant was doing. "We're doing so well we've opened one in Clapham," he
said. But then he cheerily continued: "It's an Australian idea. There's a lot of
these restaurants in Sydney."


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 23, 2005

STICK VIN IN DIESEL

LENGTH: 89 words


THE EU will today approve a £104million handout - to turn unwanted plonk into
fuel and anti-freeze.

Failing producers in France and Spain will be bailed out by Brussels after a
slump in sales.

The windfall comes on top of £231million already set aside to help drain
Europe's wine lake.

Plonk will be turned to ethanol, which makes anti-freeze and cleaning fluids.

UK Independence Party MEP Tom Wise stormed: "This flies in the face of
commercial reality."

An EU spokesman called it "crisis distillation".


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              18 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 22, 2005, Sunday

Inside the EU's travelling circus

BYLINE: Nicola Smith

SECTION: Features; News Review 3

LENGTH: 1422 words


Nicola Smith reveals how MEPs squander £120m a year flitting between Brussels
and Strasbourg The mayor of Strasbourg, Fabienne Keller, stood at the back of a
massive festival marquee to toast the hundreds of MEPs and bureaucrats crowded
before her. "Long live the European parliament!" she cried.

It costs European taxpayers an estimated £120m a year to maintain the amenities
in Keller's city, one of the European parliament's three official sites.

Hotels and restaurants rake in millions more from the monthly "travelling
circus" that brings MEPs and their staff up from Brussels.

So once a year the city lays on a party to celebrate the start of the asparagus
season -the delicacy is grown locally -and to say thank you. This was it: with
music from an oompah band, waiters to serve up a one-ton asparagus mountain and
the best pinot blanc and bordeaux wines.

Jean-Marie Le Pen, the French far-right MEP, was the first to entertain the
crowd with his disco jives on the dance floor. UK Independence party members
Mike Nattrass and Tom Wise, having sampled the wine, soon joined in the singing
and demonstrated impressive air guitar techniques to the dancing Eurocrats. They
supposedly came to Europe promising to clean up the institution and fight
against the gravy train. But to me it looked as if they were enjoying it.

This kind of thing goes on all the time when the European parliament comes to
Strasbourg. The city provides ample opportunity for staid Brussels bureaucrats
to let their hair down every month.

After a long day in the debating chamber MEPs can look forward to a glass or two
of cremant at one of the parliament's many receptions. They can then enjoy the
culinary Alsatian delights of pig's head, sauerkraut and local Gewurztraminer
wine in the pleasant ambience of the city's finest restaurants.

Local nightspots take on a Club Med atmosphere as MEPs and officials revel to
Euro-pop until the small hours. Bar Seven -named after the seven deadly sins is
one popular choice; another is Les Aviateurs, well known for MEPs dancing on the
bar. One MEP even played to the crowd once with an impromptu striptease, recalls
Jessie Roos, the bar owner: "Thankfully he stopped when he got to his trousers."

Observers find it hard to forget the woman MEP who plunged an assistant's face
into her ample cleavage; or the sight of Elmar Brok, chairman of the
parliamentary foreign affairs committee, and Jean-Luc Dehaene, co-author of the
constitution, dancing round chanting "'ere we go".

I first arrived in Brussels in 1999 to work as an assistant to Roy Perry, a
Conservative MEP. After the elections that year I did the same job for Chris
Heaton-Harris, another Conservative MEP.

I had studied French and German at university and I was interested in
international politics. I have always been sceptical about transparency in the
European institutions, but I have become more sceptical since I have been here.

Heaton-Harris was on the budgetary control committee, looking into things like
fraud, and he was also interested in parliamentary reform. That's how I came to
see how much needs to improve.

If there is one thing that exemplifies the inefficiency in the European
institutions it is the requirement that 732 MEPs and 2,000 staff -not forgetting
embassy staff, journalists and lobbyists -leave Brussels each month to hold
sessions for four days in Strasbourg, 220 miles away: 16% of the parliament's
annual budget could be saved if parliament was in just one location, according
to a report recently circulated internally.

I am stunned by the outrageous expense of working time and public money that all
this involves -the chief benefit being to massage France's ego.

It also boosts French pride to have the parliament located, if only for a few
days each month, on French soil. The glass-and-steel parliament building in
Strasbourg, opened with much pomp in 1999, is a symbol of French national pride.

The French also profited from the building work -because a French company owned
the land.

France may well be on the verge of rejecting the new European constitution but
when it comes to giving up their share of European Union spoils, the French will
not budge.

The constitution was supposed to tidy up inefficiencies in the European
institutions. But it was drawn up by a former president of France, so perhaps it
is not surprising that it says nothing about abandoning Strasbourg.

The legal obligation for 12 Strasbourg sittings a year was permanently sealed in
a protocol of the 1997 Amsterdam treaty. Unbelievably, no precise calculation
has ever been made about the cost to taxpayers. An internal report revealed
recently that the bill for maintaining Luxembourg, home of the parliament's
administration, and Strasbourg, is £139m a year.

According to Heaton-Harris the Strasbourg commute accounts for £120m of that.
"The scandalous waste of taxpayers' money cannot go on," he said. "It's totally
unnecessary."

There are few direct flights to Strasbourg, despite a French government subsidy
of £13.8m to airlines. Many flights that do come in and out of the regional
airport are operated by -quelle surprise -Air France. Thus MEPs must expect to
pay between £400 (economy) and £700 (business class) for a round trip from
London.

Struan Stevenson, a Scottish MEP, faces a 12-hour trip, door to door, from his
home in Ayrshire to the office. Paulo Casaca, a Portuguese MEP who ends his
journey in a motorised dinghy, said a return to Strasbourg cost about Pounds
1,400 -£275 more than to Brussels.

For staff the only suitable train from Brussels takes five hours, leaving the
Belgian capital at 7am. I know from personal experience that the trip seems to
last for ever, not least because there are frequent strikes by French railway
staff. If you are lucky you check into your hotel at lunchtime and start work at
2pm.

As for work, well, you can't get half as much done as you might want to do. Each
month, fleets of lorries ferry 3,700 trunks of office documents between the two
cities. If you forget to pack something on Friday afternoon you won't have
access to it for another week.

All told, 13,209 working days were wasted last year as civil servants and
interpreters commuted between Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. On top of
that staff claim expenses of £1,733,449 for travel and £4,885,052 for
accommodation and subsistence.

Evidence shows that EU officials are becoming increasingly fed up with the
awkward arrangements: 70% of those who responded to an internal poll conducted
in February wanted to scrap the Strasbourg journey and keep all business in
Brussels.

Frustrated with the parliament's image as a European laughing stock, 130 MEPs
have banded together to form the Campaign for Parliament Reform, their prime
target being the abolition of the Strasbourg seat.

"It's unworkable, it's costly and we can't function the way we want. In the eyes
of the public we lose our legitimacy," said Kathalijne Buitenweg, a Dutch Green
MEP and one of the group's founders.

Understandably, the economic benefits and prestige of hosting the parliament
makes the Strasbourg authorities defensive. And France constantly tightens its
grip, openly offering sweeteners to MEPs. Staff enjoy free public transport in
Strasbourg and the authorities lay on taxis and buses to take the MEPs 136 miles
to Frankfurt-Hahn airport, where flight connections are better.

High-ranking MEPs are regularly invited to lavish breakfasts, lunches and
receptions by the city mayor and all 732 members are sent a small birthday gift
each year.

In a coup for the French authorities the parliament agreed to buy part of the
building in November 2003 for £307,966,885. That makes it more difficult for the
parliament to abandon the city, but determined MEPs have mooted several
alternative uses for the building. Some suggest a conference centre. Others
would like to establish a European Institute of Technology modelled on the
equivalent in Massachusetts.

However, abandoning Strasbourg would require the unanimous agreement of all 25
EU countries and the French would never agree to it. "So MEPs are doomed to make
a monthly homage to French pride with no sign of it ever ending," said Chris
Davies, a Liberal Democrat MEP. "Tony Blair should be facing down Jacques Chirac
and insisting on giving up Strasbourg. The opportunity was there when ministers
debated the constitutional treaty -but they flunked it."


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 22, 2005

EU POLL IN BALANCE; BLAIR SWEATS ON RESULT OF FRENCH DECISION

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 569 words


TONY BLAIR'S plans for a referendum on the European constitution have been left
hanging as he awaits the result of next Sunday's French poll British ministers
fear a No vote could plunge the treaty into chaos.

The Government will publish a new Bill on the European Union constitution
referendum on Tuesday, ahead of the French vote which pollsters say is running
neck and neck.

Commons leader Geoff Hoon hinted last week the Bill would contain a definite
date for the referendum but, last night, Downing Street sources insisted the
Prime Minister was keeping his options open until next year.

The Government has been accused of confusion over the referendum issue after
apparently conflicting statements from ministers last week.

New Europe Minister Douglas Alexander suggested a referendum would be held
regardless of what happens elsewhere but Foreign Secretary Jack Straw signalled
the UK would not hold a poll if the treaty was rejected by France or other
countries.

A senior Downing Street source said: "We don't have a date yet for the British
referendum. There has been some confusion but the single consistent line has
been that we will have a referendum on the constitution if there is still a
treaty in existence."

The treaty replaces existing agreements and provides a working mechanism for an
EU expanded to 25 countries, including the agreement to scrap the national veto
across a range of key policy areas but it must be ratified by all 25 nation
state members of the EU before it can become law.

Although recent French polls have given the No campaign a narrow victory next
week, most analysts say the vote is too close to call and many predict a last
minute swing to the other side, giving a small but politically decisive Yes
vote.

If the French vote No, this could be swiftly followed the following Wednesday by
a No vote from the Dutch and both Luxembourg and Denmark have pledged to go
ahead with their referendums whatever the outcome in France.

Even if the French deliver a No vote, a narrow victory would be short-lived with
President Jacques Chirac expected to bide his time and call another referendum
next year after other countries have given the new treaty the thumbs up .

Eurosceptic UKIP MP Nigel Farage said: "The decision about whether Britain has a
referendum next year won't be left up to Tony Blair.

"Even if the French vote no, that doesn't mean the treaty will fall. Twenty out
of 25 of the EU commissioners have already said that they will go ahead and
implement the constitution with or without ratification by member states."

The French government's battle to win over the French to the treaty has done
little to help Mr Blair's cause with British voters after French ministers
repeatedly claimed that the new constitution was against British interests.

Despite our Government's claims that the constitution is a "triumph for
Britain", the French government's campaign website calls the treaty:

"The crowning of what one could call the French vision for Europe, against the
AngloSaxon vision".

French Justice Minister Dominique Perben described it as the "Europe a la
Francaise we have awaited for so long", adding: "It is a Europe written in
French."

A recent poll for the British No Campaign found a majority of Britons, 54 per
cent, were opposed to the new constitution, while just 30 per cent were in
favour.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              20 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 22, 2005

BLAIR IS IN SWEAT OVER BIG EU VOTE

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 329 words


TONY BLAIR'S plans for a referendum on the European constitution have been left
hanging as he awaits next Sunday's French poll British ministers fear a No vote
could plunge the treaty into chaos.

The Government will publish a new Bill on the European Union constitution
referendum on Tuesday, ahead of the French vote, which, pollsters say, is
running neck and neck.

Commons leader Geoff Hoon hinted last week the Bill would contain a definite
date for the referendum but, last night, Downing Street sources insisted the
Prime Minister was keeping his options open until next year.

The treaty replaces existing agreements and provides a working mechanism for an
EU expanded to 25 countries, including the agreement to scrap the national veto
across a range of key policy areas.

If the French vote No, this could be swiftly followed by a No vote from the
Dutch and both Luxembourg and Denmark have pledged to go ahead with their
referendums.

Even if the French deliver a No vote, a narrow victory would be short-lived with
President Jacques Chirac expected to bide his time and call anothe referendum
next year after other countries have given the new treaty the thumbs up .

Eurosceptic UKIP MP Nigel Farage said: "The decision about whether Britain has a
referendum next year won't be left up to Tony Blair.

"Even if the French vote no, that doesn't mean the treaty will fall.

Twenty out of 25 of the EU commissioners have already said they will go ahead
and implement the constitution with or without ratification by member states."

Despite our Government's claims that the constitution is a "triumph for
Britain", the French Government's campaign website calls the treaty: "The
crowning of what one could call the French vision for Europe, against the
Anglo-Saxon vision".

A recent poll for the British No Campaign found a majority of Britons, 54 per
cent, were opposed to the new constitution, while just 30 per cent were in
favour.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              21 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 22, 2005, Sunday

Who do the Tories think they are?

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 106 words

One of your correspondents seems to imply that the United Kingdom Independence
Party should not oppose Conservative candidates at elections (Letters, May 8).
Ukip believes the UK should withdraw from the EU. The Conservatives have
repeatedly ruled that out. Perhaps your correspondent can explain why Ukip
should stand aside to offer an easier ride to a rival party whose policy on
Britain's EU membership is totally different from its own?

Who does he think those like me who favour withdrawal should vote for? Until the
Tories grasp this issue, support for Ukip will continue to grow.

Wayne Andrews

Etchingham, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              22 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 21, 2005, Saturday

Seduced by PR? Think about just one little word and one little fact

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 1306 words


No phrase tossed lightly into conversation is more likely to send our friends
rushing for the doors than "proportional representation". The very words chill
the blood. But (though much of the "injustice" of the 2005 general election
result arises not from the voting system but from a defective constituency map)
we are now, it seems, due a short season of renewed debate about PR.

Eyes glaze over. Evangelists for PR would say, with some justice, that "Boring!"
is the cowardly resort of people who know they've lost the argument. My
fellow-apologists for first past the post fall back on grumbling that though the
theoretical case for PR may be seductive, its practical drawbacks are daunting.

They mutter about the complication; about that odious phenomenon, the "party
list"; and about the horrors of coalitions. With less than missionary zeal they
claim for the status quo a "rough-and-ready" justice. But it is seldom long
before they make an admission: they would not (they say) claim the status quo is
completely fair.

This is no way to argue. The PR brigade are owed a better response than "boring"
or "complicated". We who reject reform owe ourselves as well as our adversaries
sharper arguments than a mumbled "let well enough alone". I agree with Peter
Riddell (in Thursday's Times) that a fresh look at the status quo is needed. I
have taken it. And I still support the status quo: more energetically than ever.

First past the post is better than the least bad of an array of flawed
proposals.

It is the most perfect means available of translating the opinions of many into
decision by the few. First past the post is profoundly fair. Not only is it fair
practically, approximately or by comparison with the alternatives: it is
theoretically fair.

To understand why, consider one pregnant little word and one pregnant little
fact.

The pregnant little word is "decision", a word I used when describing the
translation of the opinions of the many into "decision" by the few.

The pregnant little fact is something you may not know because they've gone
rather quiet about it: the Liberal Democrat Party's opposition to the idea of
directly elected mayors. As this country's longest-standing and most
indefatigable proponents of PR, many Liberal Democrats were (and for all I know
still are) unhappy that citizens should directly choose the leaders of their
cities.

And their objections are logical: logical, that is, for believers in
proportional representation. You cannot elect a mayor by PR. You can elect an
assembly by PR, afterwards asking that assembly to elect a mayor itself, by -you
guessed first past the post. (The "alternative vote" system in which voters
order their preferences, which is not PR, produces horrors of its own.) But
though the assembly has been constructed in segments proportionate to the
electorate's votes, a mayor is not constructed in segments. He or she cannot be
a cake with a slice of Liberal Democrat plus slices of Labour, Conservative,
UKIP and BNP.

So even an indirectly elected mayor (which I understand is the Lib Dem
preference) offends against the principle of proportionality unless he is a
puppet, stripped of serious power.

A mayor must be elected by simple majority or alternative vote. It follows that
the preferences of those many electors who voted for someone else have been
wholly discarded and without effect. This is precisely the objection which
supporters of PR raise against the election, first past the post, of an MP.

You can understand, then, the Lib Dems' discomfort about directly elected
mayors.

They are being logically honest. Were they to extend that honesty further they
would object (maybe they do) to the direct election of American (or French)
presidents. But perhaps only the most ruthlessly honest proponent of PR would
take the logic where it must point, and admit that the real problem for
proportional representation is with the very concept of leadership. A leader is
intrinsically single. A "proportionate" election result is intrinsically plural.
To the extent, therefore, that the choice of leader matters, those who wanted
somebody else have been disenfranchised.

At some point between the casting of a citizen's vote in the polling booth and
the emergence on to the podium of a leader -local or national -everybody who did
not choose that leader must (under any system of voting) be disappointed. The
dispute between PR and the status quo is really only a dispute about when the
voter is to be disappointed: at the election count at constituency level, or at
the point when the elected assembly chooses its leader.

To thinking supporters of electoral reform an answer to this is available. They
can admit that leadership cannot be constructed proportionately and argue that
it follows that too much individual leadership undermines true democracy. They
can conclude that it is not leaders but assemblies -things which can be
constructed by PR -that should lead. It would follow that assemblies' collective
powers should be increased, and "leaders" be subordinated to assemblies.

However, there is a fundamental difficulty with leadership-by-assembly, and this
brings us to that pregnant little word "decision". Like a "leader", a decision
is rarely susceptible to being constructed out of segments.

Most (not all) decisions are binary -yes or no; do or don't -and cannot
proportionately reflect the conflicting preferences of those who make them.

Landmark decisions are typically of this nature. Making war; introducing ID
cards; privatising or nationalising; creating a national health service; taming
trade unions; opening (or closing) nuclear power stations; imposing a congestion
charge; abolishing slavery...are boxes we either tick or cross. To do either is
immediately to "disenfranchise" every elector who wanted otherwise. After June
5, 1975, 29 million referendum votes against joining the Common Market were (in
the language of electoral reformers) "ignored" because there were 40 million in
favour.

Some decisions can proportionately reflect the preferences of those who take
them.

A bag of pick 'n' mix sweets, the composition of a committee, a list of
beneficiaries for lottery largesse...such choices, which typically have
multiples for answers, can be 37 per cent Labour, 33 per cent Tory etc. But key
government decisions are not usually of this kind.

To form a legislature by PR but then require (as reality does) that it take
important decisions by majority is a fraud on the voters, who see their
representatives returned to the legislature in parties whose strength fairly
reflects voter-support -but must then see them pushed aside wherever they are
not part of a majority in a Commons division. Minority groupings soon find,
however, that though their opinion cannot be reflected in an affirmative
decision, they can combine with other minorities to block decision. Thus arises
an impetus to inaction -which is not, in fact, what any voter "chose". The
electorate has been defrauded by PR.

Compromise is a good and necessary part of political decision-making, but there
is no danger that democrats will overlook the attractions of compromise, for all
parties want to keep support. The greater danger is that we devise a system that
reassures voters that they are being "proportionately" represented, but creates
assemblies which are hard to lead in any determinate direction.

Leadership and direction often involve overruling minority objections.That a
"fair" decision can usually "take account" of those who wanted a different
decision or a different leader, is a modern heresy. Pandering to it, as the
advocates of electoral reform do, promulgates a comfortable, lazy untruth. Hard
political choice is not about "and": it is about "but".


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 20, 2005, Friday

Brown sails on to the rocks

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 029

LENGTH: 227 words

In the run-up to the election, Spy occasionally teased Gordon Brown about his
reluctance to visit military installations, despite presiding over cuts to the
defence budget.

Now I am presented with too tempting a gaffe to ignore.

"On Tuesday night, at the CBI's annual dinner, at which he was the guest of
honour, Brown told a mildly amusing joke to an audience of 1,200 about how taxes
went up to pay for the threat of war in 1905," I'm told. "However, twice he
referred to the Navy's procurement of 'Dreadnought submarines'. Only as most
people know, the Dreadnought was actually a battleship."

News that will interest connoisseurs of that increasingly rare beast, a Tory row
about Europe. Earlier this week, five Conservative MEPs were threatened with
losing the party whip by their group leader, Timothy Kirkhope.

Their offence? Signing a UKIP-sponsored motion demanding that European
Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso explain his acceptance of hospitality
from shipping billionaire Spiros Latsis last year.

"They were told to withdraw their names or face 'very serious consequences'," I
hear. "But Michael Howard was none too pleased when he heard about the threats
and has told Kirkhope to drop it."

A Tory spokesman says: "Michael has indeed just had one of his regular meetings
with Timothy: it was both constructive and amicable."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              24 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 20, 2005

Home brew

LENGTH: 1005 words



HIGHLIGHT: On the last leg of his cross-country road trip, Gwyn Topham heads
down into the vineyards of Kent. And he finds happiness in an unexpected place -
a glass of English wine.


Kent may be no California, and the M25 is certainly no Route 101. Yet for anyone
who enjoyed the hit film Sideways, ending a road trip down here has a certain
appeal. While you won't find expanses of vineyards rolling into the horizon, you
can still do a wine tour in miniature. And the grape, aficionados will be
pleased to hear, is pinot noir.

Coming round the M25 from the west, the traffic starts to mellow past Redhill
and more bucolic scenes border the carriageways. Not far from the A21 turnoff is
a message constructed on the hillside: not so much the traditional English chalk
carving as the kind of sign that used to adorn Tito's Yugoslavia, giant letters
urging drivers to vote UKIP. Perhaps they have more reason than many to be wary
of Europeans: this is the road to Hastings, after all. Someone, though, has
artfully moved the P and doctored the I to read PUKE.

Down narrowing roads, I reach the small town of Tenterden (my friend Andy baled
out as we hit the M25, lured back by London). Here, a small revolution has
occurred. English wine is - to a small but unprecedented degree - making its
mark.

Chapel Down, whose production facility, small vineyards and spanking new visitor
centre are located here, accounts for about half of the one million bottles of
English wine created each year. The few tentative fields of vines out the back
don't look overly impressive, especially this early in the year. But their
output - which also uses grapes sourced from other local suppliers - has
demonstrated its quality. Last year their 1999 Pinot Noir Special Reserve
sparkling wine was awarded a gold medal at the international wine challenge,
ahead of many actual Champagnes.

Kent shares the same chalky soil as the Champagne region of France, and a
microclimate that makes it the warmest area of the UK. According to Caroline
Stockley of Chapel Down, you need 100 days of sunshine to ripen grapes properly.
So they must be one of the few people pleased about climate change?

Caroline frowns at this. "We don't want to pin our future to something so dark
and nasty as global warming," she says. Success is down to graft, TLC, science
and special attention to the grapes, she says; but a hot summer certainly helps.

Wine tours are usually only set up for groups, so book ahead. Anyone can come in
for the tasting, though. It's an activity my erstwhile passenger would have
relished, but I'm forced to taste alone - and, as the driver, spit rather than
swallow. From white through ros. to sparkling, it's all impressive: there is
nothing here to reinforce lingering scepticism about English wine.

"It's fantastic when we get French tourists," says Caroline. "Often they don't
want to say that it's good because of national pride, but you can see it in
their eyes." Quite a few drop by, intrigued and curious but, she says, not quite
prepared to like it as much as they do.

Sideways dictates that we finish with the pinot noir. Such reds are supposed to
be stinky, she says, like rotting flesh or old vegetables. It sounds a funny way
to spend £12.99, but we swish it around. "Leathery, raspberryish, cherry on the
palate - more Burgundy than Californian," concludes Caroline, and I'm not
arguing.

They have recently planted chardonnay vines here, still clad in protective
plastic, and hope for their first fruits this autumn, although it will be at
least two more years before the grapes are good enough for wine. For marketing
purposes, they want more popular grape varieties on the bottle labels: previous
vintages had such unwieldy German names that they disguised them behind an
unrelated English one, much in the manner of our royal family. Now, though, that
pseudonym, Curious Grape, is to be replaced on labels by Chapel Down and the
variety in question.

Other vineyards can be visited nearby at Biddenden, which I try to locate but
somehow miss and end up back in Tenterden. At least motoring in circles is more
of a pleasure in deepest Kent: brown signs tell me that I am driving on part of
the High Weald road tour, which meanders down country lanes and through such
picturesque villages as lovely, hilltop Goudhurst.

I reach Tunbridge Wells, home of the legendary disgusted writers of letters to
newspapers, and soon feel my own hackles rising as I try to find a spot in the
Hotel du Vin's small car park, clogged with expensive, oversized vehicles that
hint at braying idiots inside. A road trip shouldn't end with parking issues.
Luckily the very reassuring, engaging and not at all braying staff say I can
just double park and they will move it, which counts for a world of fluffy
pillows and flatscreen TVs in hotel terms right now (though they do these too).

Tunbridge Wells's tourist history dates from the early 17th century, as a spa
resort that drew the rich and aristocratic. The listed building that has been
the Hotel du Vin since 1997 previously numbered several royal visitors. Now it's
somewhat more accessible; the chain is a Guardian Unlimited readers' favourite,
voted best hotel for the last two years. And they do stock Chapel Down's wines.

So, with a glass of something appropriate from their bistro menu, I toast absent
friends and sign off. It's been a glimpse of an England whose landscapes,
accents and outlooks change substantially in a car journey. Five nights from
Blackpool to Tunbridge Wells isn't an itinerary I'd recommend for the weary;
drivers might want to make any or all of the stops last longer. These English
destinations go in and out of fashion - but right now the opportunities for
great food, drink and relaxation seem to match the timeless scenery en route.

Election 2005: Conservative hold with almost 50% of the vote

Road trip total miles: 764 (Tunbridge Wells via Tenterden); 807 (home to London)

Way to go

Gwyn Topham stayed at the Hotel du Vin in Tunbridge Wells. Car provided by
National Car Rental

Many vineyards are opening their doors and holding a number of special events
for visitors during English Wine Week, from Saturday May 28.

More information and ideas at visitengland.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              25 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 19, 2005, Thursday

A CAMPAIGN WITH A WINNING MESSAGE " AND A COMPLETE LACK OF SELF- CONFIDENCE

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1146 words


The Eurosceptics in Britain are buoyant. Every possible scenario appears to work
in their favour. If the French vote against the European constitution in the
referendum at the end of the month, the project is almost certainly doomed. If
there is a 'Yes' vote in France, there will be a referendum in Britain " in
which case, the Eurosceptics enjoy the prospect of a double whammy. They defeat
the constitution and humiliate Tony Blair.

Not surprisingly, some of those in Britain who oppose the constitution launched
the 'No' campaign yesterday even before the French had declared. In reality, it
was a relaunch of a relaunch, but in the anti-European British media such
trivialities are swept to one side. The event was treated as a significant
development.

Not so long ago, the No campaign was known as Vote 2004 as it campaigned for a
referendum on the European constitution. The same organisation became Vote No "
The Campaign Against the European Constitution. Now, with trumpets blaring
again, it is known as No " The Campaign Against The European Constitution.

But they make an odd sound. On the website of the No campaign are photos of
attractive young men and women, while the names of Labour MPs, trade unionists
and senior Green Party members are highlighted. It is like reading the brochure
for a progressives' paradise. There is not a Tory or a UKIP member in sight.
This is clever, but misleading, and a sign of the hidden tensions in the No
campaign.

If there is a referendum, of course the Conservatives will play a big part. A
lot of them feel passionately about the issue and are not going to book a
holiday during a campaign. What the Conservatives will be saying, though, is far
from clear. There are at least three positions advocated within its senior
ranks.

Michael Howard has argued that Britain should stay in the EU but renegotiate all
the existing treaties. I am told the civil servants who were assigned the task
of preparing policy papers in the event of a Conservative government had
particular problems with this brief. The policy fell apart as they sought to
draft a credible paper. No other EU country supported sweeping renegotiations,
and it was not entirely clear what Mr Howard would be negotiating for.

Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor until the election, has spoken more
precisely of Britain being on the outer circle of the EU, presumably perched
precariously with some of the smaller countries. If Britain had a more powerful
pro-European media, such a vision would be dismissed as a terrible national
humiliation. More immediately, it is not clear how such an objective would be
realised " staying in the EU, but not quite in it.

There is a more coherent policy being argued within the Conservatives. Its main
advocate is the senior MP Bill Cash. He wants Britain to withdraw from the EU
and acquire an associate membership in which it functions in the single market
without any of the responsibilities and benefits of full membership.

Mr Cash is obsessed by Europe. He speaks and thinks of little else. This means
that he is not taken as seriously as he should be. Mrs Thatcher might have
carried the Maastricht Treaty in her handbag. Mr Cash can probably recite the
European constitution by heart. He offers a genuine alternative, but one that
polls suggest is unpopular. Most voters do not want to pull out of the EU. Then
there is the UKIP position " close to that of Mr Cash " of pulling out
altogether, but with no euphemisms about 'associate membership'.

Right-wingers oppose the treaty partly because they fear the social model
advanced in France and Germany. Some left-wingers are against the treaty on the
basis that it is an obstacle to social policies implemented in France and
Germany.

In the meantime, there are unanswered questions. Will the leading Conservatives
who oppose the treaty but favour staying in the EU share platforms with UKIP and
others opposed to continuing membership? Will the Tories explain more
realistically how they propose to remain in the EU while opposing all that is
happening within it?

The soaring self-confidence of those who oppose the European constitution is
wildly at odds with the incoherence of their message. The No campaign should be
in turmoil, but it is gatherings of pro-Europeans that tend to have a funereal
air. I have attended conferences where participants have almost apologised for
existing before modestly putting the case for the EU (the pro-Europeans are so
bloody polite and decent, which is why the BBC is much more frightened of the
Eurosceptics). It is in such a bleak context that there is probably a part of
Tony Blair that hopes for a 'no' vote in France at the end of the month.

But I doubt if it is a big part of Mr Blair. A negative outcome in France will
mean an almighty crisis in the European Union when Britain assumes the
presidency for the second half of the year. Mr Blair would have to take the lead
in putting the pieces back together again. As he attempted to do so, the future
of Europe would once more become a raging debate in Britain. It would be more
straightforward to have the focus of a referendum.

In theory, this should be the time for pro-Europeans to win such a referendum in
Britain. The enlargement of the European Union changes the dynamics in Britain's
favour. Indeed, most of the arguments applied against Europe refer to the
Maastricht Treaty that John Major signed in 1991, rather than the revised
constitution, a treaty of less significance. The Maastricht Treaty marked the
high point of Franco-German co-operation and their joint vision of a more deeply
integrated Europe. During the Commons' debates on Maastricht, Tory MPs stated
passionately: 'We do not want more integration. Our priority is enlargement.'

Now they have got what they wanted, they explode with more rage. Enlargement
makes deeper integration much less likely. It challenges the old dominance of
France and Germany. At such a moment, it would be perverse for Britain to turn
away or celebrate the near collapse of the European Union.

Senior government insiders tell me that, in spite of recent polls, they expect
France to vote 'yes'. Even if Holland votes 'no' " which they also expect " they
will proceed with the referendum in Britain. No one in the British government
knows for sure what would happen in the event of a 'no' in France. Mr Blair is
planning a national 'yes' campaign that includes pro-European Tories. In Downing
Street, they discussed the option of making it a campaign of 'progressives',
seeking to unite the majority of voters that supported Labour or the Liberal
Democrats. They have opted instead for a bigger tent.

At the moment, it is a tent crammed with advocates of a winningly coherent
message and a complete lack of self-confidence.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              26 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 17, 2005

TEXT MANIACS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LW; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 603 words


im terminaly ill but becoz my condition isnt visible on the outside sum1 called
me a dole scroungin slag! nice guy huh? t 2 SHANE NOT ALL UNEMPLOYD FOLK R LAZY.
GIVE UR HEAD A SHAKE N TRY BRINGIN UP A FAMILY ON 75 QUID A WK. COOPERMAN ive a
nephew of 19 who lies in bed all day and wont work so what entitles him to money
from government? The system in this country stinks they pay him to get p*ssed
every weekend! babs y do chav mums wiv der chav kidz in der chav buggies hog da
pavement? Me n me bull terrier hav rite ov way surely. joan £1 million to be
spent on Bourgass's appeal should be given to Stephen Oake's family.

Let Bourgass rot in prison. Mark, Hull Well done labour. If 48hour ruling comes
in i will lose my house. Ta. Mal typical of this once great nation allowing
europe to dictate laws to us! No point moaning if you voted tory, labour or lib
dem! Ukip was a ticket out of europe that the electorate squandered! subster To
Julie frm Sheffield, agree wi u, & this mafia govnmnt wil now ensure they stay
in. After al 58,000 more ppl in ENGLAND voted Tory than Labr. MARTIN, W. YORKS.

to Julie Sheffield: At least we Labour voters have got jobs. If yr Tories ad got
in we wud av bin back 2 4mill outa work! Bryan Fwood red rascals mum bin 2
bolton recently? Itz like beruit wivout da sunshine. Wotz r council tax being
spent on ?

jenny shimizu? i dnt get it. aparently she has babes (gay or str8) fallin at er
feet! so y rebecca loos? i cud undastand the goddess angelina jolie coz id go
leza 4 her. gin Dj Chris Evans is the last person GAZZA needs at the moment,
he'd be better off with Mz Piper. Football is only a game Paul get over it move
on 4 the sake of those who admired your talents. ANDY, PEM N.WALES MALCOLM
GLAZER DESERVES A CHANCE. PUT IT THIS WAY THINGS CAN ONLY GET BETTER.

GORDO WARD Man Utd fans stop whining. You really think the most commercial club
in the world gives a toss what you think? Elegance To chink, how can u comment
on an important issue like football when yam a baggies fan? crump norton Just
coz i'm blonde dont mean i'm dumb and cheap! Oh, and i invented the offside
rule! Use yr brain cell guys + get wise. Lady J So al hoody wearers r criminals?
I wrk in security bt wear hoodies on days off ! PHAT I've never been in trouble
in my life and I cant wear a hoody but Muslims can walk about with just two
slits showing and thats alright. NEIL AGREE THOSE KFC ADS R THE WORST ON TV! BOB
Get ken & blanche off corro they shud b on the antiques roadshow as items!
MORLEY, PENRITH To spike harry harper in casualty was manimal. Great prog.

WARRIOR yeah spike i remember auto man and maninal. great progs.

better than todays rubbish. bring back crystal maze. richard o brian was god.
kip in rotherham Ive been saying to ma mates for ages about sport billy but they
thought i was mad, i remember automan as well. Cheers spike!

STEVIE FAE AIRDRIE does any1 remember the series with patrick mower in the
seventies doing me ed in help. mark brunt, bham any1 else turn off capital radio
when that richard bacon with the annoyin dull voice comes on? staffy Steve
brookstein is sex on legs love the new album! Gismo Anyone know what the mint
version of tootie frooties were called? anyone out there who says they were
pacers is wrong. Gav the sweep sick of girls wanting me coz i got a few quid,
any genuine ladies looking 4 a gl mid 30s guy? paddy can any1 tell me y bald men
bother wearing wigs? hairy mary Text DSTAR followed by a space, then your name
and comment, and send to 61616.

Texts cost 25p plus your normal mobile operator cost.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              27 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 16, 2005, Monday

Classroom voters back the Lib Dems

BYLINE: By Amy Iggulden

SECTION: News Pg. 004

LENGTH: 288 words

THE Liberal Democrats will enjoy a rare national election triumph today when
they are declared the clear winners in a poll of schoolchildren.

More than 40 per cent of the 500,000 primary and secondary pupils who took part
in the "mock election" flocked to the party's yellow banner, leaving the
Conservatives in second place with almost 24 per cent of the vote and consigning
Labour to a dismal third, with 17 per cent.

The Green Party, which won by a substantial majority in 2001, limped in behind
Labour with 13 per cent, followed by a smattering of support for Ukip, the
Scottish National Party, the Scottish Socialist Party, Respect, the Monster
Raving Loonies, Plaid Cymru and the Democratic Unionists.

Chris Rennard, the chief executive of the Liberal Democrats, said: "This result
is very encouraging and suggests that young people may be particularly angry
about Labour's introduction of tuition and top-up fees.  "The record number of
participants also shows that clearly young people feel very strongly about
issues like Iraq, crime, education, and the environment."

Turnout among the 2,000 schools that registered to take part hit 100 per cent in
some places, helped by lively campaigns that could contain interesting
suggestions for the party professionals.

Hustings at the Minster CEP School in Minster-in-Thanet, Kent, included a dance
routine by each set of party hopefuls, endorsements from children's television
characters, such as SpongeBob SquarePants and the usual rousing speeches.

Paula Clifford-Cox, a teacher who organised the elections, which were
co-ordinated by the Hansard Society charity, said: "The campaigning really took
off. We had 31 people volunteering to become party leaders."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              28 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

ROCK & POP: THE RETURN OF THE KARAOKE BROTHERS

BYLINE: SIMON PRICE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 928 words


Oasis

Astoria

LONDON

The Go! Team

Academy 2

BIRMINGHAM

'What have you been doing since last time?' the professional gobshite asks,
rhetorically. 'Listening to a load of shite?' Actually no, we've been having a
blast, but thanks all the same.

It's always gratifying when your enemies conform to cliche, and remind you why
they are your enemies. In a recent NME, Liam Gallagher spat his simian dislike
of bands who wear eyeliner (Kaiser Chiefs, for example), and bands who make
'weird, quirky' music (Scissor Sisters, for example). All the things I love, in
other words.

The first half of Liam's gripe, of course, betrays the same homophobia I
witnessed at the Q Awards a few years ago, heckling Robbie as a 'poof' and Kylie
as a 'lesbian'. Par for the course.

The second half, though, is exactly why Oasis have been a decade-long force for
conservatism in British music, a musical equivalent of UKIP (but immeasurably
more successful), enforcing the tyranny of the dull.

And they're back, to rub our faces in it once more. In a low-key comeback show
at the Astoria, they showcase six tasters from their new album Don't Believe the
Truth, dotted among a set containing four crowd pleasers from their debut
Definitely Maybe, four more from its much-loved successor (What's The Story)
Morning Glory?, a couple from their reasonably well- received 2002 effort
Heathen Chemistry, one B-side ('Headshrinker'), one cover version (The Who's 'My
Generation', which Noel famously used for auditioning prospective bassists), and
" wisely " nothing whatsoever from either half of their breathtakingly abysmal
millennium-straddling diptych of Be Here Now and Standing on the Shoulder of
Giants.

Have they changed? Have they hell. Oasis find themselves in a peculiar position
in 2005: that of a living retro act. It's easy, of course, to bundle the
Gallaghers up with old copies of Loaded and burn the whole lot on a cultural
pyre, but there was actually something refreshingly liberating, at the time,
about the lad movement: aspiring to living like high rollers, shagging beauties,
wearing nice shirts, drinking quality booze. But did we have to be listening to
this bovine slop while we were doing it? If anything, the Gallaghers are more
bovine than ever. Liam has apparently forgotten how to get dressed, slouching
onstage in a pale grey hoody, mirror shades, repulsive heel-less trainers, and
three- quarter length shorts which make his waddle seem bandier than ever. He
looks like he's nipped out for a pint of milk, not led Britain's biggest rock
band into their comeback gig.

He still sings in that grating, syllable-stretching whine " one might call it
Irritable Vowel Syndrome " and his big bro still plays like he's in a pub covers
band. There was always a heavy karaoke element to Oasis: all that was ever
missing from the chorus of 'Rock'N'Roll Star' was the word 'Matthew'. And it's
painfully audible tonight. On 'Bring it on Down' it's the Sex Pistols, on new
song 'Meaning of Soul' " House of Love (Creation labelmates of bassist Andy Bell
from his days in Ride), on 'Fags and Booze' it's Bolan ('Get It On'), on
'Headshrinker' it's Bolan again ('Laser Love'), and new single 'Lyla!', which is
almost as good as Craig McLachlan and Check 1-2-3's 'Mona'. (Almost.) I already
knew to expect this. But I'd been hoping that the skin-tingling thrill of being
in the presence of world-changing (OK, let's be realistic: Britain-changing)
icons might transcend such negatives. In fact, give or take one gale force
wind-tunnel singalong ('Morning Glory'), and one genuinely uplifting classic,
'Live Forever' (the other Oasis song I'll stand by, 'Supersonic', goes
unplayed), the atmosphere is dismal, only serving to highlight the weakness of
most of the material. Naked, monobrowed emperors. 'This is rock'n'roll,' they
chant. If it is, they can keep it.

This summer, the Met Office cautiously predict, may be the hottest since records
began. What will you be listening to? For me, the soundtrack will be a tune that
came out in the cold, blustery autumn of last year, but has only just entered my
world: 'Ladyflash' by London-to-Brighton collective The Go! Team.

Anyone who loved 'Nothing Can Stop Us' by Saint Etienne, anyone who loved 'Since
I Left You' by The Avalanches, anyone who had a heart, should find something to
love in The Go! Team. With their unlikely collision of upbeat lo-fi indie and
happy-go-lucky hip-hop (you can add early Beck, late Cornershop and Junior
Senior to the comparison list), The Go! Team are arguably the most modern band
in Britain right now. A feelgood mash-up of Northern Soul basslines, rap
interludes, samples of Dexys-ish horns, girly choruses and school orchestra
instruments (kiddies' recorders and harmonicas), this is just the happiest music
imaginable.

In the flesh, you're looking at four scruffy white boys and one super- cute
black girl, and frontwoman Ninja effortlessly cajoles the ladies to go 'yeah
yeah', and the fellas to go (somewhat less coolly) 'aroof! aroof!'. On record,
the album, Thunder, Lightning, Strike is a classic in waiting (even the titles
are cool: 'Panther Dash', 'Bottle Rocket', 'Friendship Update'). If nothing
else, you need 'Ladyflash' in your life this summer. Just don't blame me when
the earworm refrain 'we came here to rock the microphone' drives you crazy till
the clocks go back.

s.price@independent.co.uk

Oasis: Usher Hall, Edinburgh (0131 228 1155), tonight; Clapham Grand, London
SW11 (0870 154 40 40), 22 May; tour continues

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              29 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 15, 2005

Comment: Our last chance to make Europe work: For the first time, Britain can
lead the way to a truly united Continent

BYLINE: Denis MacShane

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1157 words


THE NEXT 18 months will see the destiny of Europe settled for a generation or
more. The preferred British establishment politics of 'see no Europe, speak no
Europe, hear no Europe' are now over. On 29 May, the French will vote in the
most important referendum for Britain in half a century.

No one can say with certainty how France will vote. French anti-Europeans claim
the new treaty is a made-in-Britain Anglo-Saxon plot to impose a vicious form of
uncaring American-type capitalism on the happy, contented French people. The
pontificators in France, who see the hand of perfidious Albion in the new
constitutional treaty, could swap their perches with their opposite numbers on
the Mail , Sun and Express , who tell us every day that Europe is a French-led
conspiracy to take over Britain.

It is this sea of ignorance, to quote Matthew Arnold, that is the most
terrifying aspect of our discussion on Europe. Many express the banal view that
Europe should simply be a free- trade area when the very birth of Europe was
profoundly political, a response to the Second World War and the wars that
preceded it. The Europe I knew as a student at Oxford nearly four decades ago
was one divided by communism, with three Mediterranean countries gripped by
fascist regimes and a thousand and one petty immigration and customs jobsworths
making movement of people, goods and ideas around Europe a pain, not a pleasure.

The transformation of Europe in my adult lifetime has been breathtaking. Never
in history have so many Europeans moved from poverty to comfort, from
dictatorship to freedom, from nation-uber-alles to a modest sharing of
sovereignty without losing the core essence of the nation, its identity and
sense of belonging.

It was Churchill, not Jean Monnet, who electrified the world in 1946 with his
language about a 'United States of Europe', picking up the phrase first used by
Victor Hugo a century before. But his vision and that of the cautious, careful
planners of the first sharing of sovereignty ran into the barriers in 1950 of
tired ministers who thought sharing sovereignty was a good thing for the
continentals, but Britain's future was radiant and assured under Labour rule.

Sadly, it was the Conservatives who were the European party between 1945 and
1990. Labour affected a patriotic British disdain for Europe: remember those
speeches by Peter Shore, Michael Foot, Barbara Castle and their little helpers
and researchers who kept Labour out of power for decades? Only in middle age did
they come round to understanding that anti-Europeanism gets cheers and headlines
from the Rothermere and Murdoch press but is not supported by the voters at the
ballot box.

THE TRANSFORMATION of the Conservatives into an anti-EU party is a reversion to
a traditional Toryism of support for the Corn Laws, for imperial preference, and
splendid isolationism. This contempt for the foreign seems ineradicably part of
today's Tory DNA. All of the potential successors to Michael Howard, whether the
veteran right winger, David Davies, or one of the old Etonian Notting Hill
political playboys, are hardline anti-Europeans. They have barrowloads of money
on offer from tax exiles who dislike the minimum notion of social and fiscal
responsibility inherent in EU philosophy.

In contrast, the pro-European cause struggles to make its case. In the late
1980s, Margaret Thatcher spent £25 million on a pro-European government
information campaign. In my last year as Europe Minister, the budget for
explaining Europe to the British people was slashed to £200,000 and offers from
the European Commission to distribute purely factual information were spurned.

There are many in all parties who, like John Major, just wish Europe would go
away. The drift to Majorism on Europe can be seen even in the Labour party as
some MPs who were elected on a clear manifesto commitment to support the new EU
constitutional treaty are busy linking up with the Labour-hating classes to
campaign against the new treaty.

If the French vote yes on 29 May, there will have to be a definite settling of
accounts on Europe to drain, or at least reduce to sump levels, the anti-EU
poison in British politics. The campaign will have to be cool, calm and full of
a passionate rationalism to take on the isolationist arguments of those hostile
to Europe. It should not make excuses about the failings of Brussels or the kind
of collective stupidity we saw in the European parliament last week, when MEPs
voted to undermine the most successful job-creating economy Europe has seen in
two decades.

The treaty will have to be explained for what it is. It is not a constitution
and it has been a major error to call it that. It is a treaty under
international law which strengthens the role of national government, national
parliaments and makes clear who does what in Europe. It even reduces the size of
the Commission, a rare achievement in the world of international bureaucracy.

No new treaty simply means a reversion to the existing treaties of Maastricht,
Nice, Amsterdam, Rome etc, which anti-Europeans such as John Redwood repeatedly
assert mean the end of parliamentary democracy in Britain. So a 'no' to this
treaty does not shut up the argument. It will simply encourage the
anti-Europeans to go further down the Ukip road in supporting the complete
disaggregation of Europe.

Might the French solve the problem by voting 'non' in two weeks' time? C'est
possible . If so, the treaty is dead and there will be no referendum in Britain.
But in the event of a French 'non', there will be an even greater responsibility
falling on Britain's shoulders. Tony Blair is the only European leader with a
clear majority, a successful economy and a coherent government team and
programme. Britain assumes the presidency of the EU in July. A wounded, defeated
France and a Germany looking nervously at the election prospects of the
SPD-Green government, and both racked by mass unemployment, low growth and
political loss of confidence, will be in no position to lead Europe.

ONLY BRITAIN can heal the wounds of a Europe that will have seen five years'
work voted down the drain. For the first time since 1950, the responsibility
will fall on Britain to find the vision, words and provide the leadership to
shape Europe's destiny. And it is a destiny that must match Europe's ambitions
with those of the United States and the rising economic and political powers in
Asia.

The defensive language of red lines and vetoes will be redundant. There is an
alternative: for Britain to become surly, dog in the manger and unwilling to
engage with confidence and flair in seizing the reins of European history and
making our common continent a better, happier place to live in.

Never have European politics been so important for our nation.

Denis MacShane is Labour MP for Rotherham and was Europe Minister 2002-2005.


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

Labour stuck with the old map - can the new Tories move in?

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Features; News Review 8

LENGTH: 1025 words


Firmly back in the party heartlands

The Blair project has not taken Labour's appeal beyond the traditional areas,
writes David Smith

Imagine, for a second, that the new Labour project had never happened. Rewind 13
years. Neil Kinnock, rather than stepping down immediately after the party's
narrow 1992 election defeat decides to stay on.

He is the political beneficiary of the Tories' economic woes in the run-up to
the 1997 election; the humiliating "Black Wednesday" collapse of sterling's
membership of the exchange-rate mechanism of the European Monetary System, the
tax hikes that John Major said would never happen and, of course, deep Tory
divisions over Europe. He, rather than Tony Blair, still plugging away at
Michael Howard as shadow home secretary, leads Labour back into government after
18 years in the wilderness.

How, a few years on, would you have expected Britain to be voting? Labour, one
would be fairly sure, would have huge leads over the Tories in its heartlands of
Scotland, Wales, the northeast, the northwest and Yorkshire. The two main
parties would be pretty close in the Midlands and London.

But Labour would be well behind in the southeast, the southwest and East Anglia,
areas represented on the political map by a swathe of blue. Party loyalties
established for decades under "old" Labour would have continued.

Look a little closer at how Britain voted 10 days ago and that, pretty much, is
how things turned out in the 2005 general election. Looking at where Labour got
its support, it is indeed almost as though Blair and the new Labour project
never happened.

"I've never been entirely convinced by the idea of new Labour as a political
earthquake," said Professor David Sanders, of Essex University, one of the
authors of the forthcoming British Election Study. "What was different in 1997
and 2001 was the destination of the middle-class vote."

A comparison of Blair's performance on May 5 and Kinnock's in the April 1992
defeat is instructive. Blair, with just over 9.5m votes, got 2m fewer than
Kinnock's 11.6m, admittedly in a higher turnout election (78% versus 61% this
time). Labour's 1992 share of the vote was just over 35%, excluding Northern
Ireland, compared with just over 36% this time.

Damningly, Blair did worse in the southeast (with just 24% of the vote) than
Kinnock, who secured 27% of the southeast vote. Blair in 2005 and Kinnock in
1992 got similar vote shares in London (39% versus 37%) and East Anglia (30%
versus 28%). Blair did somewhat better than Kinnock in the southwest, although
Labour remains the third party, and in the east Midlands and West Midlands
-where Margaret Thatcher had successfully brought skilled manual workers into
the Tory fold.

Blair retained small leads in both regions. Kinnock failed to overhaul the
Tories in either region, which was why he remained a political bridesmaid.

If regional voting patterns have not changed that much, it is also the case that
party support remains firmly class-based. Although the lines between white
collar and manual workers are much more blurred than in the past with the rise
of the service-sector economy, YouGov's campaign polling pointed to a consistent
Tory lead among so-called ABC1s but a big Labour lead among C2DEs.

Mori's analysis breaks this down further. It suggests the Tories had a 37%-28%
election-day lead among ABs, professionals and managers, and a 36%-32% lead
among C1s, traditionally lower-grade white- collar workers. So much for Blair's
takeover of the middle-classes.

Blair's continued success, compared with his predecessors, has been maintaining
a significant lead (40% to 33%) among skilled manual workers, the C2s. These
were traditional Labour supporters under, say, Harold Wilson but left the party
in 1979. Labour's lead remains massive, 48% to 25%, in the DE social groups; the
unskilled and the unemployed.

If Labour's vote has come almost full circle, and surprisingly Blair did better
on May 5 than his left-wing predecessor in heartland areas such as the northeast
and Scotland, a more detailed reading of the election results also underlines
the mountain the Tories still have to climb.

The last three elections have seen the Tories with lower vote shares than in any
previous elections, won or lost, since 1945. The party's Great Britain vote
share of just over 33% achieved this time was 10 points lower and 5.3m votes
fewer (8.8m against 14.1m) than John Major received in 1992.

The Tories need comfortably more than 40% to form a government. They achieved
that this time in the southeast (45%) and East Anglia (43%) but nowhere else.
Even in the southwest, the Tories only managed 39%.

Major in 1992 got 45% of the vote in the West Midlands and 47% in the east
Midlands. Howard in 2005 was exactly 10 percentage points down on these levels,
at 35% and 37% respectively. Unless the Tories can win in the Midlands, they are
doomed.

The party can comfort itself with the view that the UK Independence party may
have prevented it from winning between 20 and 25 seats -in many marginal seats a
straight switch of the UKIP vote would have produced a Tory victory. UKIP
disputes this, saying its support comes from all parties.

Worryingly for the Tories the party did poorly among young women. Mori's
analysis suggests that Labour had a 43% to 22% lead among women aged 18-24, 44%
to 20% against those aged 25-34 and 40% to 27% in the 35-54 age group. The gaps
were smaller among men but this voting pattern reinforces the impression that
the Tories are predominantly a male party appealing to older voters Was there a
glimmer of hope for the Tories on polling day? Professor Colin Rallings of the
Elections Centre at Plymouth University, points out that in May 5's forgotten
elections, for English county councils, the Tories gained 150 seats and Labour
lost a similar number.

The Tories are now comfortably the largest party at local level, with nearly
8,200 councillors compared with 6,500 for Labour and 4,700 for the Liberal
Democrats.

Converting that to national support, however, is easier said than done.


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Post Election battleground

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

Tories are the party of the working class The Right's future strength lies with
the non-voters, says John O'Sullivan

BYLINE: By JOHN O'SULLIVAN

SECTION: Features; Comment; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 1155 words

Those who have followed the Conservative Party's progressive descent into
neurosis since the defenestration of Margaret Thatcher had cause, in the
election, to hope that the patient might be staging a recovery. The party ran a
focused, professional campaign on its (admittedly few) strong issues; it
maintained a self-disciplined unity, and though it lost, its condition
stabilised at one-third of the popular vote in a three-and-a-half party system.
In other words, rumours of the Conservative party's strange death had been
greatly exaggerated.

Unfortunately, Michael Howard's decision to resign, honourable though it was,
may abort this recovery. An outbreak of Conservative philosophising in the media
looks to be an early symptom of vicious party infighting. A long battle to
install a new leadership system, and subsequently a new leader, might make this
condition chronic.

Two remedies seem obvious. First, elect the new leader quickly, even if it means
reforming the method of election afterwards. Second, examine the general
election voting results - which should have a moderately soothing effect:
Labour's 66-vote majority is the product of a pronounced anti-Tory bias in the
voting system. That bias will, at the very least, be reduced next time.

The Conservatives won more votes in England than any other party and their
recovery was more pronounced in London than anywhere else - exactly the kind of
urban constituency where they had been declared deceased. The Lib Dems are just
past the mid-point of their transition to a Left-wing party. Increasingly, they
threaten Labour more than the Tories since their natural constituency - the
"progressive" middle-class - overlaps heavily with Labour's.

The most interesting electoral statistics, however, concern the two sets of
"missing" voters. The first set is those voters who abandoned the major parties.
About 3 per cent of 2001 Labour supporters went somewhere other than the Tories
and the Lib Dems this time. Eleven per cent of all those who voted did so for
the so-called "other" parties. And we know that some of these "missing" votes
cost the Tories a significant number of seats. In 27 constituencies the Labour
or Lib Dem majority was lower than the vote achieved by Ukip and/or Veritas (the
BNP is not included in this calculation). Had the Tories made Europe a more
salient election issue (or an election issue at all), they would probably have
won most of those seats. Yet these numbers are dwarfed by the second set of
missing voters - those who no longer vote at all: 1997 saw the lowest election
turnout since 1935 at less than 72 per cent, but both 2001 and 2005 were down by
11-12 per cent on that.

Both sets of missing voters undercut the argument advanced in this newspaper
last week by Francis Maude and Stephen Dorrell that the Lib Dems are replacing
the Tories as the main threat to Labour. No one should underestimate the Lib
Dems, but voters who switch between the major parties are vastly outnumbered by
those who vote either for minor parties or not at all. The increase in the Lib
Dem vote between 1997 and 2005, for instance, is about one-sixth of the decline
in the Labour total over the same period. It is also just about equal to the
total Ukip vote this year. It is worrying that one of the authors who failed to
grasp this point has just been appointed chairman of the Conservative Party.

More important, however, millions of voters are now in play and two political
trends suggest that many of them will move Rightwards. Throughout the West, but
especially in the English-speaking world, parties are changing their class
composition. Working and lower-middle-class voters are moving Rightwards, middle
and upper-class voters, Leftwards. George W Bush won the votes of West Virginia
miners in the last two elections; in Australia, John Howard was cheered by
loggers: both lost votes among their own progressive middle class. Most
"missing" votes in Britain belong to the working and lower-middles who have left
Labour and are repelled by the Lib Dems but have not been given good reasons to
vote Tory.

Fortunately for the Conservatives, the issues likely to dominate politics in the
next few years will push these voters in their direction. Tony Blair seems to
realise this better than moderate Tories, hence his post-election promise to do
more about immigration and asylum. But neither he nor Gordon Brown can prevent
such issues as the European referendum, spending, taxation and public service
reform from helping their opponents. Labour's strategy of financing public
service reform with stealth taxes is played out. All these issues - especially
the looming threat of higher taxation - will divide Labour, undercut the Lib
Dems, and play into Tory arguments. What the Conservative Party needs now is
more intellectual courage, less introspection and a leader who reflects these
priorities.

The so-called modernisers, who hark back to the Tory "wet" tradition of
spasmodic intervention rather than forward to any coherent vision, are
preoccupied with changing the party's cultural image. But such images, once
rooted in the electorate's mind, are deeply resistant to manipulation. They
change gradually in response to events in the real world, such as the sale of
council houses or "Black Wednesday". To be sure, a leader whose style does not
grate on the nerves of voters can help change things; otherwise the best course
that a party in opposition can follow is to say and do sensible things on a
regular basis. That means the Tories must rediscover the concept of "ideological
investment". Because they failed to invest in developing and selling policies
over the last eight years, such ideas as educational vouchers struck many voters
as unfamiliar and risky. The case for innovation on major policies needs to be
made patiently over years.

It also requires working closely with outside groups. Because of the decline of
institutions that once buttressed their values - the Church of England, for
instance - the Tories need to bring friendly pressure groups into their policy
discussions. They were greatly helped in the election by the Countryside
Alliance, but they also need to engage with less sympathetic allies. Keith
Joseph did it in the 1970s by wooing the Child Poverty Action Group, whose
members probably never voted Tory. In doing so, he both won respect and injected
Tory ideas into the public debate.

In short, the patient should get out more, meet new people, take up new hobbies,
and overcome his feelings of inadequacy by the only known method - doing
something useful for others. Constantly asking the voters: "Does my bum look big
in this?" will simply invite derision.

John O'Sullivan was a special adviser to Margaret Thatcher when she was prime
minister. He is now editor at large of the National Review in America. A version
of this article first appeared in the Financial Times.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              32 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

It is not Ukip that should worry Tories

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 63 words

I am surprised at the blame heaped on the UK Independence Party for the Tories'
failure in the general election (Letters, May 8). Rather than looking at Ukip,
should not the Tories be more concerned by the vast majority of other voters who
did not vote Tory and be concerned that of those that did vote Tory many did so
as a protest against Tony Blair?

Mark Bill

Liverpool

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              33 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

It is not Ukip that should worry Tories

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 52 words

One of your correspondents argues that if Ukip votes in the general election
had, instead, been added to those of the Tories, then the latter could have won
a further 22 seats. True, but if Conservative votes had been added to those of
Ukip, then Ukip would have won 219 seats.

John Harvey

Rodmell, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              34 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

NOTHING TO DECLARE Barroso faces questioning by parliament

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: News; Notebook; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 619 words

Considering the excitement in the German, Spanish and Italian press last week
over a drama that was set in train by a British Euro-MP, it seems strange that
it has almost been ignored here. The story centred on the holiday that Jose
Manuel Barroso, the President of the European Commission, spent last August on a
yacht owned by Spiro Latsis, the Greek billionaire (on another of whose yachts
Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall have been enjoying their honeymoon).

In February Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party members in the
European Parliament, wrote to Mr Barroso asking whether he had enjoyed any
hospitality which might give rise to a conflict of interest. Mr Barroso declined
to reply. But when a German newspaper, Die Welt, unearthed the story of his
holiday, he explained that Mr Latsis was an old friend of 30 years' standing,
while the Commission's chief spokesman said that Mr Latsis's empire had not
"benefited from EU funding" and had "no business ties with the EU".

But the EU's ramifications are so extensive that, regardless of funding, it is
hard for a European business to have no dealings of any kind with it. There was
no reason why Mr Barroso should have known about it, but at the time of his
holiday the Commission had for months been discussing an application for
permission under "state aid rules" for the Greek government to pay euros10.3
million to the Lamda Shipyard, which refits expensive yachts. The yard is 75 per
cent owned by Lamda Developments, in which the Latsis family has a 65 per cent
interest.

In September, the subsidy was approved by Mario Monti, who was competition
commissioner under Mr Barroso's predecessor, Romano Prodi. It was this decision,
apparently qualifying the Commission's claim that there had been no connection
between the EU and any Latsis companies, which persuaded Mr Farage to put down a
motion of censure, calling on Mr Barroso to appear before the Parliament to
clear up the affair.

Pressure not to sign Mr Farage's motion was brought on MEPs by several of the
larger groups in the Parliament, including the European People's Party, to which
Britain's Conservative Euro-MPs are affiliated. An angry Hans-Gerd Pottering,
the EPP's leader, pledged that no member of his group would sign the motion. But
when the deadline came on Tuesday, the motion had more than enough support to
guarantee a debate on May 25. Five of the signatories were EPP Tories. When the
motion was given to the Parliament's secretary-general, ensuring a debate just
four days before the French referendum on the EU constitution, he acknowledged
that this would not be helpful to the cause. Pressure is now being applied by
all the main group leaders to get Euro-MPs to withdraw their names.

No one has alleged any impropriety over the Greek government's shipyard grant.
The fire is directed at Mr Barroso (whose name in Portuguese means "muddy") for
being insufficiently frank in his dealings with the Parliament. But the
determination of the five Tories - Roger Helmer, Christopher Heaton-Harris,
Martin Callanan, David Sumburg and Daniel Hannan - to stick to their guns has
embarrassed Timothy Kirkhope, their party leader in Brussels, and again
highlights the absurdity of the link between the Tories and the fanatically
integrationst EPP.

This row is also potentially embarrassing to the new shadow cabinet in London,
which - after last week's "putsch" by the Europhiles, including the new Party
chairman, Francis Maude - has let it be known that MPs must talk about "Europe"
as little as possible. Yet another flurry of publicity over the Barroso affair,
with Tories playing an important part, will not be regarded as "helpful".

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              35 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 14, 2005, Saturday

Who will be the Tories' dragon slayer? It's no longer enough to be Left or
Right, wet or dry, localist or centralist, even nice or nasty, you have to be a
Notting Hill Tory or a council estate lad Alice Thomson on the state of the
party

BYLINE: By ALICE THOMSON

SECTION: News Pg. 004

LENGTH: 1610 words

THE Tory Party will never win until the dragons return, said Lady Thatcher at a
private lunch last week. "That's what we're really good at, slaying dragons."
She believes that the dragons will be back soon. Inflation is going up, growth
is going down. "We need to be ready with a really good dragon slayer," she told
friends.  "Wanted: One dragon slayer," says Lord Bell, the Tory peer who helped
the party to win back power in 1979. "But who can wield the sword?" David Davis,
who trained for the territorial SAS, David Cameron, a fearless horse rider, or
St George, the new shadow chancellor?

The Tories returned to Westminster this week elated rather than enervated.
Michael Howard's resignation was a shock, even his wife, Sandra, had tried to
convince him to stay on. On Monday night his aides had met to beg him to
reconsider. "We tried tears and tantrums, we told him he was being too selfish
and too selfless," says one. But the Tory leader was determined to go.

So now the race is on to see who can become the next leader and what ideas they
will promote. It's no longer enough to be Left or Right, wet or dry, a mod or a
rocker, authoritarian or libertarian, localist or centralist, even nice or
nasty, you have to be a Notting Hill Tory or a council estate lad.

By Tuesday Liam Fox and Mr Davis were setting out their stall, both talking
about freedom, low tax and less government. Mr Davis wrote a piece for the
Telegraph's comment pages. Dr Fox gave a speech at the think tank Politeia. One
hundred people crammed into the tiny offices on Charing Cross Road to hear him
promise he would: "Kill the intruder state dragon." But everyone was beginning
to assume that Mr Davis would be abseiling into the leadership by the autumn
party conference.

The reshuffle startled everyone. Suddenly there were a dozen potential
candidates. When Mr Howard suggested that he would stay on until Christmas, the
race became a marathon. The Notting Hill Tories met at the Italian restaurant
Zucca to discuss where the Conservative Party should go next. By Wednesday the
think tanks had reconvened, the new MPs were being given their induction
courses. "The old boys would say, 'Here are the loos, and by the way what are
your views on education vouchers?'," says one new MP.

By the time that Mr Howard addressed the party on Thursday evening, Tory MPs
were in a buoyant mood. "It took Dracula to raise us from the coffin," says one
old timer. Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader of the Lords, was optimistic. "When
Michael said he was going, the peers thought, 'Oh no, here we go again, more
navel scratching'. But the reshuffle worked, he's staying on longer and suddenly
it all looks rather rosy."

Lord Strathclyde addressed the new boys and girls. "The blue coats are on the
move, they've swelled the ranks with 50 new soldiers," he says. "The red coats
are still mourning those they lost."

Francis Maude, the new party chairman, sums it up, "We are no longer waiting for
Labour to screw up, they've done that. We are now in the nice position where our
future is up to us, we just have to work out the right message and choose the
right man."

So where should the Tory party go next? And can it find a magic formula for
slaying dragons? Lynton Crosby, the election strategist, has given it two pieces
of advice before he returns to Australia. First he warned the pommies not to go
soft, saying that they should have returned to immigration in the last week. He
also told them that they would have to roll up their corduroys and work those
seats.

Lord Saatchi, the former Tory party chairman, offers an alternative recipe.
"First we need to work out what we stand for, what we want, and what we need to
do," he says. "The Tory leadership is just a distraction."

Mr Howard has promised to name and shame any Tory MPs who become embroiled in
plotting. He has already pointed the finger at John Bercow and Ian Taylor. But
sometimes the MPs cannot help themselves. "David Davis is a nightmare to work
for, he spends most of his time concentrating on politics with a small "p", he
never reads any of his briefs, we call him Matinee Idle, not idol, " says one
MP. "He was the one who forced Michael Howard out," says a shadow cabinet
minister. "His sidekicks were mounting a leadership challenge while we were
still fighting the election."

Nick Herbert, the new MP for Arundel and South Downs, disagrees. "He's a very
loyal friend." Another supporter points out: "He always comes out best in the
focus groups. He is fearless."

In the 21st century, dragon slayers need to do more than just wield a sword.
They must look presentable, have the right credentials and preferably have
married a damsel. "Liam Fox isn't married, that's a problem," says one
backbencher. Some of the older MPs are critical of 33-year-old George Osborne's
elevation to shadow chancellor. "He's all wallpaper," says one backbencher of
the heir to the Osborne and Little furnishing company. "There's nothing behind
the paste."

In the Lords, where his father-in-law, Lord Howell, sits, they like the easy
going Mr Osborne. But Lord Deedes is also worried. "Premature elevation is jolly
dangerous," he says.

Paul Goodman, the MP for Wycombe, who shares an office with Mr Osborne, says
that most MPs will wait to see how the shadow cabinet performs before making up
their minds. "It reminds me of that scene in You Only Live Twice when Blofeld
tests James Bond by making him navigate the Garden of Death," he says. "The
potential candidates have all got to go through our garden of death."

Mr Goodman is worried that the potential leaders are too obsessed by freedom.
"They can't stop talking about it, but it's a booby trap, most of my
constituents don't want more freedom, they want more security."

David Willetts, the egghead of the party, is less interested in the leader than
in the debate. "We've become intellectually very lazy. We can't just become
neo-liberal, small statists," says the champion of single mothers. "We need to
build strong communities."

Compassionate Conservatism, a concept embraced by Iain Duncan Smith, is making a
comeback. Tim Yeo, who has left the shadow cabinet, says: "We need to move on to
issues such as childcare and climate change. Choice and competition is not
enough to woo mums."

Boris Johnson is the most intuitive Tory. "We want to be the party of
aspiration, achievement, energy, enterprise and hope, not fear," he says.

The new boys and girls are treading carefully. Justine Greening, the new MP for
Putney, is the first to set out her stall, calling Margaret Thatcher "retro
cool". Others have decided to write a pamphlet, offering a way forward that is
more inclusive. "We should be tough on taxes not travellers," says one. "We want
to be popular not populist."

Ed Vaizey, the new MP for Wantage, believes that charm is the best weapon.
"We've got the basics right: low taxes, less interference. We just have to be a
bit nicer." James Bethell, who fought the Labour seat of Tooting, says: "I was
amazed at how many doctors, teachers and nurses wanted to talk to us, only the
bus drivers heckled us. We're half way there."

The Notting Hill Tories, who first met at the end of the Thatcher era when they
worked in Conservative Central Office, are tougher.

Cameron and Osborne are aspirational but they are also pragmatic. "People want
to be inspired but they also want us to 'fess up' when we haven't got the
answers," says Cameron, the new shadow education minister.

Their plan is to work hard until the autumn and then decide who should run for
the leadership. One of the group says: "What we are looking for is a clever,
charismatic leader who can broker a deal with all parts of the party."

But Nicholas Boles, who just missed winning Hove and is the director of the
think tank Policy Exchange, says the party should celebrate being inclusive
enough to admit those from Eton.  "We need to be classless, informal, and
meritocratic," he says. "That doesn't mean we can't have public school MPs, but
we shouldn't be the party that aspires to a house in the country and shooting."
He thinks the Tories shouldn't go around scaring voters with tales of dragons.
"The world is not a scary, hostile place. We want people to feel good about
voting for us. It's not about policy, image or leader at this stage, it's about
fundamentals, showing people we want to help them get on with their lives."

The MEPs want their say too. "Europe was a dirty word during this campaign,"
says one. "No one mentioned it but we would have won 27 more seats if it hadn't
been for UKIP and Veritas."

The donors will have some say in the future direction of the party. Jonathan
Marland, the treasurer, says: "They've got the discipline and focus now. So they
mustn't lose it."

And what of the members being told to go back to their jam-making? "Glad to get
rid of the responsibility," says one local chairman. Another says: "I don't
trust the MPs to find the right man, they'll just vote in another caretaker so
they still have a shot at it themselves in the future."

Only Norman Tebbit is still gloomy. "We look like Marks & Spencers, having lost
touch with our old customer base without finding a new one," he says.

At the moment the Tories appear to have too many disparate ideas and too many
potential leaders. But Ann Widdecombe insists this is not a problem. "We don't
want one narrow vision, Margaret Thatcher's cabinets thrived on different
views," she says. "We keep looking for the Holy Grail but we are missing the
point. We had become a timid, miserable, scratching little set but now we are
starting to look big and confident again."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              36 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 14, 2005, Saturday

mummy diaries

BYLINE: By Rachel Johnson

SECTION: Weekend Pg. 002

LENGTH: 612 words

'How's your father?" "Ha ha," I answer. "He's fine, thanks. Took it on the
chin." Then I give a short, but pithy speech about how well my father, the
former prospective Conservative candidate for Teignbridge, had performed in a
constituency held by the Lib-Dems in the yellow stronghold of the South-West . .
. in an election where the overall swing was to the Lib-Dems . . . with tactical
voting benefiting the Lib-Dems . . . and where there was also a strong UKIP
showing stealing Tory votes.

I conclude by saying it was a perfect storm of an election for any Tory in that
seat, even one as brave and funny and impressive as my father, because all the
climactic conditions conspired to shipwreck his chances of victory. "But it's
still very sad," I agree.

Nine days on, of course, the pain has somewhat abated. But seeing a parent lose
so publicly a fight his family, friends, and the 21,593 who voted for him wanted
him to win was, to be honest, a bit agonising. I reckon election night was just
as hard for us as it was for him.

Four of his children were counting agents. The count started at 10pm and
finished at 2.50am. Initially, we looked on in bewilderment, clutching our
little pads, while the tellers unfolded, sorted, unfolded and sorted, with only
Thermoses of coffee and pride in their own speed and efficiency to keep them
going.  (While we are at it, two suggestions. First, why not have different
boxes for council and general elections, so the tellers don't have to separate
buff and white papers for the first hour? Second, why not forbid voters from
folding their ballot papers into secretive little squares? Then we would all be
in bed by midnight . . . or have I missed the point?)

Then, as the tellers counted their sorted piles into wads and put elastic bands
around the wads, and stacked the wads into the wooden trays with the candidates'
names on, our bewilderment turned to dismay.

As the wads of the Lib-Dem candidate gobbled up the tray, my brothers and sister
and I looked at each other. It was over. What was so difficult about it was, of
course, the realisation that democracy has an inexorable force of its own,
stronger even than the willpower and confidence of one's own father.

A short while later, the point of no return was reached and all the votes,
including what my sister, Julia, kept referring to as the "coastal votes", had
been counted and placed in the named trays. The hush of an imminent result
descended. The tellers' fingers were finally at rest and the television crews
poised.

For once in this general election campaign, my father was nowhere to be seen.
"Where is he?" we asked each other, thinking that he had done a Captain Oates.
"He's fine," said my stepmother, Jenny, who remained cool and staunch
throughout. "He's probably just giving an interview while the returning officer
gets his ducks in a row."

She was right. He was soon back, with a lip-glossed female reporter trailing in
his wake.

When the returning officer read out his tally, we gave a huge, ragged cheer. It
was 3.08am. My father gave a grin and a shrug, and I could see him planning his
next joke, and I knew he would be all right. He gave his speech, congratulated
the other candidates, made a remark that made his children wince and everything
was back to normal again. Phew.

I can't speak for the others, but the experience made me doubt for the first
time President Clinton's hokey assertion that being a parent is the toughest job
in the world, "tougher even than being president".

Huh, Mr President. When your father is standing for public office, being a
grown-up child is even tougher, dude.  www.mummydiaries.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              37 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 14, 2005, Saturday

Country diary

BYLINE: BY Robin Page

SECTION: Weekend Pg. 016

LENGTH: 668 words

It is strange how things suddenly creep up unannounced on people leading busy
lives. There I was, struggling under a pile of farming red tape known as the
Single Farm Payment; starting a new book, Hunter Gatherer - and the Great
Betrayal of the British Countryside; and working with the Countryside
Restoration Trust's new part-time director, Simon Saggars, to keep the CRT going
forward, when somebody said: "Robin, there's an election coming up. Will you
stand for UKIP?"

Oh dear. Good cause, important issues, no time, no organisation, no money. So I
naturally said: "Yes."

The strategy was simple: knock on every door in South Cambridgeshire and, with a
team of helpers, deliver as many leaflets as possible, in addition to the
leaflet delivered to each household by the Royal Mail. The reality was simple,
too. I knocked on no doors, I delivered no leaflets, I thought UKIP's national
leaflet was verging on the pathetic, and, as the chairman of the CRT, I
discovered that, yes, I would be fighting the Green Party as well, in the guise
of Simon Saggars. So, the anti-big party vote would be cut nicely down the
middle and we could both lose our deposits.

Instead of canvassing, I duly spent the whole campaign looking up the delivery
system of lambing ewes, checking my calving cows, avoiding eye contact with the
menacing Single Farm Payment forms and keeping the mud puddle in the farmyard
wet so the swallows had plenty of building material. In addition, for two days a
week, I managed to keep Simon off the campaign trail by tying him to his desk
and, with friends, I did manage to erect one or two fine UKIP posters. One huge
effort erected in a prime site alongside the M11 was then stolen in its
entirety, leaving not a trace.

The big parties were busy, of course. Incredibly, Tory posters appeared in farm
fields along virtually every stretch of road. Clearly members of the
prairie-farming fraternity have very short memories, as it was the Tories who
started agriculture's rot, which the Labour Party then finished.

It was the Tories who masterminded the collapse of cereal prices, the closure of
slaughterhouses and the break-up of the Milk Marketing Board, under orders from
Brussels. So for a farmer to erect a Tory poster is rather like the victim of
muggers banging his head against a brick wall, for a little bit more suffering.

The main Lib-Dem policy seemed to be the erection of small posters, while their
candidate appeared to be virtually the same colour as Robert Kilroy-Silk. In
keeping with the party that seems to be in favour of GM crops, the Labour
candidate was almost a clone of Mrs Beckett - very frightening.

Fortunately, Simon and I were not interrupted for interviews on too many
occasions because the media policy at local level is the same as at national
level - ignore the Greens and UKIP and hope they go away.

We were invited to a couple of church-organised "political forums" and at one, I
heard the most amazing statement, from Andrew Lansley, the Tory. In answer to a
question on energy and global warming, he informed the meeting that he
considered the country's long-term energy needs should be based on "coal". Yes,
coal - from the party that closed the mines. Clearly, with thinking like this,
dear Andrew is destined to be a future leader of the Conservative Party.

Election day dawned and the votes were cast. Would I win, would I beat Simon,
would I save my deposit? One of my greatest political achievements to date was
to narrowly beat Screaming Lord Sutch of the Monster Raving Loony Party at a
by-election in Winchester a few years ago. The count was even closer this time;
it was tense.

Then the returning officer announced the result. I had polled 1,556 votes; Simon
had polled 1,552. Yes, I had beaten him by four. What joy. But we had managed to
split the anti-big party vote right down the middle and had both lost our
deposits. Needless to say, the winning party was the party supported by farmers
with medium-term memory loss.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              38 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 14, 2005, Saturday

FOOTBALL: THE STATISTICS: CHELSEA'S CASE FOR DEFENCE

BYLINE: BRIAN SEARS

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 197 words


Proof that good teams are founded on defence comes with close examination of the
goals for and against columns. If the Premiership was decided on striking
potency, Arsenal would have won the title by a street, Southampton would be
sitting comfortably in mid-table but Blackburn and Birmingham would be facing
relegation. Everton, meanwhile, would have as much interest in Europe as UKIP.

Ranking the teams by defensive security produces a closer approximation to the
real table. Chelsea are easy winners, Palace, West Brom, Southampton and Norwich
are all in the mire " as would be Fulham.

Surprisingly, Everton are underperforming in this table as well. Somehow,
despite conceding as many goals as Blackburn (14th in the Premiership) and
scoring as many as Portsmouth (16th) they will finish fourth. In fact the number
of 1-0 wins they have enjoyed (nine) has maximised the return David Moyes' side
has enjoyed from the goals they have scored.

On defending ability that Champions' League qualifying position, remarkably
given Kevin Keegan was manager to March, would be Manchester City's.

One team are a picture of consistency: Liverpool, fifth in all tables.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              39 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 13, 2005

PERVERSE TACTICS FROM UKIP

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 318 words


THE UK Independence Party covered itself in infamy eight days ago. I warned and
warned that not a single Ukip candidate would win a seat, and 90 per cent would
lose their deposits. And so it was.

But if a reasonable figure of 1,000 votes cast for Ukip included 800 that
otherwise would go to the Tory challenger, Ukip could help Blair and Brussels
enormously. And they did with a will and a smug grin.

Twenty-three young Conservative candidates, the vast bulk of them fiercely
patriotic and Brusselssceptic, failed by a whisker to overturn the Labour/Lib
Dem seat holder, thanks to the thick-as-a-plank Ukip fools. If they had won,
Blair's majority would not be a viable 67 but a hopeless 21. He would be gone my
Midsummer Day. And it was NOT coincidental.

Take Eastleigh, Hampshire. Lib Dem seat made vacant by retirement of outgoing
MP. Lib Dem candidate Chris Huhne, former MEP and utter fanatic for Brussels.
Challenger Conor Burns, Conservative, robustly euro-sceptic. Huhne won by just
568 votes.

But Christopher Murphy, Ukip, took 1,669 votes, guaranteeing the victory of the
euro fanatic.

An unlucky chance?

Far from it. Ukip candidates concentrated on Tories with a chance of overturning
the Labour or Lib Dem challenger, because they were directed to these targets by
their HQ.

That's Ukip, I'm afraid.

Retarded of brain, traitorous of outcome.

ONE of the nicest people in Christendom has to be Betsy Duncan Smith. The idea
that she would fiddle her expenses and effectively steal money from Tory party
donors is perfectly preposterous.

But two years ago two people working at Headshed accused her of exactly that.

A rigorous enquiry established it was utter rubbish.

Eight days ago, her accusers stood in the election. Both lost. They may now
return to that oblivion for which nature so superbly equipped them.

I think it is called poetic justice.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              40 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 13, 2005, Friday

BRITISH MEP CENSURES BARROSO

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 46 words


STRASBOURG Nigel Farage, an MEP and founder member of UKIP, has filed a motion
of censure in the European Parliament to force the dismissal of the European
Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, over a holiday Mr Barroso had on the
yacht of a billionaire friend.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              41 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 12, 2005, Thursday

Wanted: leader - age immaterial, GSOH

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 023

LENGTH: 97 words

SIR - The Conservatives must face the issue of our membership of the EU. It is
nonsense to talk about repatriating powers that have been delegated to the EU,
because the EU does not work like that. The only way to repatriate democratic
power is to leave the EU.

I realise that many Conservatives do not share this view, but a decision has to
be made one way or the other. This election, UKIP probably cost the
Conservatives 27 seats. In the next, it might be more than 50. Party strategy
should set the choice of a leader, not the other way round.

Kenneth Hynes

London N7

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              42 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 12, 2005, Thursday

CAMPAIGN FOR DEMOCRACY: THE ELECTORAL ALTERNATIVES

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words


SINGLE TRANSFERABLE

VOTE

n HOW DOES IT WORK?

Large constituencies return three, four or more members. Voters list candidates
in order of preference. When first preferences are counted the least popular are
discarded and their second preferences redistributed. The process is repeated
until the required number of candidates are elected.

n WHO USES IT?

The Irish Republic and Northern Ireland Assembly elections use STV systems.

n PLUSES AND MINUSES?

The STV system maintains a link between elected politicians and the community
that elected them. However, because constituencies are large, that relationship
is diluted. There are also concerns that the system can favour 'second choice'
candidates.

n BETTER THAN FIRST-PAST-THE POST?

More proportional than first-past-the-post. Gives voters more control over
candidates, specifically allowing voters to choose between candidates from the
same parties. Ensures votes are not wasted. Also helps minor parties.

n HOW WOULD IT HAVE AFFECTED THE ELECTION RESULT?

Could have increased the anti-Blair vote by giving voters a choice between
Labour candidates with differing political views. Would have increased the Lib
Dem and the Green vote because second preferences tend to favour smaller
parties.

ADDITIONAL MEMBER

SYSTEM

n HOW DOES IT WORK?

Voters have two votes, one for a constituency member and a second for a party
list "top-up". Each constituency elects a first-past-the-post parliamentary
member. Second votes determine the share of "top-up" seats allocated to each
party. Top-up seats are filled from central party lists.

n WHO USES IT?

Used for Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly.

n PLUSES AND MINUSES?

Keeps the strong link between some elected representatives and their communities
and allows the final strength of the parties more closely to follow the
proportion of votes cast. However, it lets losing candidates in through the
'back door' on 'closed' party lists.

n BETTER THAN FIRST-PAST-THE POST?

Better, but not perfect. Electing representatives from closed party lists gives
a lot of power to party leaders. How much the result reflects the votes cast
depends on the split between constituency and 'top-up' seats.

n HOW WOULD IT HAVE AFFECTED THE ELECTION RESULT?

Hard to say, but the result would have much more closely followed the national
share. Greens and UKIP would probably gain one or two seats, while Lib Dems
would have done much better. Some defeated ministers would still be in
Parliament in 'top-up' seats.

ALTERNATIVE VOTE

n HOW DOES IT WORK?

Similar to STV, but only one candidate is elected per constituency. Candidates
need more than half the votes to win. Voters put candidates in order of
preference. If no one gets more than half, the votes of the lowest-scoring
candidates are redistributed until one gains a majority.

n WHO USES IT?

Used to elect members of

Australia's law-making House of Representatives.

n PLUSES AND MINUSES?

Maintains the link between voters and their representatives. However, the system
is not proportional in that the results are not guaranteed to reflect the
national pattern of voting and could even produce greater distortion than
first-past-the-post.

n BETTER THAN FIRST-PAST-THE POST?

Slightly better, because it gives voters a bit more power by ensuring that they
can still have some voice even though their first-choice candidate might be
unlikely to win. But does not help candidates for smaller parties.

n HOW WOULD IT HAVE AFFECTED THE ELECTION RESULT?

The system probably would have still resulted in a Labour majority. Because
constituencies would still elect just a single member, small parties would
continue to be frozen out.

ALTERNATIVE VOTE PLUS

n HOW DOES IT WORK?

A complex hybrid system drawn up by Lord Jenkins' commission on electoral
reform. Constituents would vote for representatives on the alternative vote
system. Voters would also choose a candidate or a party from an 'open' county
list to choose 'top up' candidates based on the share of the vote.

n WHO USES IT?

No one. The system was drawn up for Westminster parliamentary elections.

n PLUSES AND MINUSES?

Maintains a link between representatives and local voters, while giving greater
powers to voters as in the alternative vote system. It also allows a greater
reflection of the national share of the vote, but would allow governments to
form with a minority of the vote.

n BETTER THAN FIRST-PAST-THE POST?

It is more proportional and gives voters greater control over constituency
representatives. It also avoids the problems of handing parties power over who
gets elected from 'closed' party lists.

n HOW WOULD IT HAVE AFFECTED THE ELECTION RESULT?

Likely to have resulted in a Labour majority, albeit a small one.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              43 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 12, 2005, Thursday

LETTER: PR HORSE-TRADING THWARTS VOTERS' WILL

BYLINE: JULIET SAMUEL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 257 words


Sir: Your front page article promoting proportional representation (10 May)
fails to acknowledge its failings. PR leads to an even greater distortion of the
electorate's will than the current system.

Under PR, it is nearly unheard of for any party to win an absolute majority. In
order to get any legislation through, parties have to make deals with one
another. This either involves scrapping important reforms or amending them out
of recognition: for instance, the Liberal Democrats might support ID cards in
return for abolishing tuition fees.

This takes the real decision-making even farther from the electorate, since
important concessions are made by unelected political advisers, until finally a
bill's spine is removed and it is deemed harmless enough to go through.
Manifesto promises become a joke, because they will have to go through weeks of
horse-trading before ever passing into law. Smaller parties such as the Liberal
Democrats gain disproportionate power, since they can make a pact to vote for
whichever party gives them the most concessions. This would also happen on a
lesser scale with the Green Party, UKIP and, more ominously, the BNP.

In addition, PR breaks the strong constituency-MP link. Voters elect MPs from
lists drawn up by blank-faced party bureaucrats, making it impossible to hold
individual MPs to account: Blaenau Gwent could never have punished Labour in
favour of Peter Law under PR. This makes the government as a whole less
accountable.

JULIET SAMUEL

FARLEY HILL, BERKSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              44 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 12, 2005, Thursday

LETTER: PR HORSE-TRADING THWARTS VOTERS' WILL

BYLINE: FRANK MCFALL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 198 words


Sir: If we were to have proportional representation, then the make up of the
government would more accurately represent the number of votes cast.

However, it would not just bring the present parties into power. We would need
to be ready for a big change in the process of forming a government. At present,
politicians come together to form parties which are in effect coalitions put
together before the election because they know it is the only way to get into
power.

With PR, coalitions would be put together after elections. The present major
parties may well split up and a potential coalition may involve left-wing Labour
with Lib Dems and Greens. However, it may just as well be right-wing
Conservatives with UKIP and BNP. Smaller parties would spring up and may be
needed to form a government. They may be fair and reasonable or bigoted and
extreme: a 'Capital Punishment' party must be a possibility.

At least at present we vote for a party which has a manifesto that will be
implemented if it reaches government. With PR we would have to wait until after
a coalition was formed before we knew what the policies would be.

FRANK MCFALL

SURBITON, SURREY

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              45 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 12, 2005, Thursday

LETTER: INVISIBLE UKIP

BYLINE: HEDLEY LESTER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 96 words


Sir: In another splendid example of subliminal media block against the
Eurosceptic parties, your front page ideogram (10 May) showing the numbers of
party representatives that would have been proportionally elected, fails to
distinguish the fourth largest political party in the kingdom. Whilst you
rightly highlight that the Green Party would have gained seven seats, you have
failed to distinguish from the grey 'others' the much larger representation of
at least 16 seats that would have been gained by the UK Independence Party.

HEDLEY LESTER

HAVANT, HAMPSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              46 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 12, 2005

EU CHIEF IN SLEAZE AXE FEAR

LENGTH: 84 words


EU chief Jose Manuel Barroso faces the sack over his links to a billionaire
shipping tycoon.

Mr Barroso will be quizzed about a junket on Greek magnate Spiro Latsis's luxury
yacht.

He denies a conflict of interest but weeks after the jaunt, a firm linked to Mr
Latsis won a £7million grant.

Now MEPs, led by UKIP's Nigel Farage, want a censure motion over the sleaze
claim.

A POLL shows 60 per cent of Dutch are against the EU constitution ahead of
Holland's referendum on June 1.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              47 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 12, 2005

WHY I DIDN'T BACK MCCARTNEY SISTERS

BYLINE: Kim Kelly

LENGTH: 406 words


Sinn Fein MEP blames 'political games'

SINN Fein MEP Mary Lou McDonald yesterday defended her failure to back EU cash
help for the McCartney sisters - saying "political games" were being played.

Ms McDonald and party colleague Bairbre de Brun both abstained in the vote which
was supported by a whopping 555-4.

Wording The Dublin MEP objected to the resolution wording which had called on
those with information about the murder of Robert McCartney to deal exclusively
with the PSNI.

And she insisted that those responsible for the phrasing KNEW it would be a
problem for Sinn Fein members - as the issue of policing in the North remained
contentious.

She said: "We don't want the very legitimate concerns that people have about
policing to act as a bar to anybody coming forward.

"Those who drafted the resolution chose to focus exclusively on one channel and
in doing so knew they were creating difficulties for us."

She said the motion was deliberately politically skewed and Sinn Fein could not
go along with it.

Father-of-two Robert's sisters and partner Bridgeen Hagans have tirelessly
campaigned for justice.

They appealed to the European Parliament to give them funding for a civil action
against the suspected killers.

The relatives believe he was murdered by IRA members outside a Belfast pub on
January 30.

MEPs have agreed to provide funding for court action if police efforts fail to
bring those responsible to justice.

Ms McDonald said the McCartney sisters' work was a "just campaign" and must be
supported by Republicans. She said it was regrettable that she had been forced
to abstain in the historic vote.

"The resolution was couched in specific political terms," she added.

"The people who drafted it knew what they were doing.

"The core of this has got to be a successful criminal prosecution of the people
who murdered Robert McCartney.

"That is the first option of the family, and it's our first option and the
option of anyone with a shred of decency."

Gains

Ms McDonald said there was a danger of people making political gains from the
McCartney sisters' campaign.

She said these people were doing a great disservice to the family and to
politics.

The four MEPs who voted against the resolution included two Eastern European
communists.

Apart from the two Sinn Finn members, other MEPs who abstained included the UK
Independence Party.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              48 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 12, 2005, Thursday

Effect of the UKIP's intervention on election results

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 105 words


From Mrs Julia Williamson

Sir, To carry Mr Gregory's argument to its logical conclusion, if the
Conservative Party had not contested the general election, the UKIP could now be
Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition and Britain would be well on its way to leaving
the corrupt, undemocratic EU and becoming an independent sovereign nation once
more, with its own laws, its own justice system, its own border controls and its
own food production.

I trust that Michael Howard will apologise.

Yours faithfully, JULIA WILLIAMSON, 52 Yealm Road, Newton Ferrers, Plymouth PL8
1BQ.

juliaswilliamson@aol.com

May 10.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 11, 2005

Tory abstinence

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 144 words


HARDLY a day goes by without some failed Tory politician or media commentator
talking of the Conservatives having to 'reach out beyond their core vote'. What
rubbish.

They haven't even got their core vote any more - which is why they've lost three
elections on the trot. The 'core vote' of genuine Conservatives went to the
Referendum Party, then to UKIP or Veritas or (the majority) to that largest
party of all - 'abstainers' - and they still haven't come back.

Digging in the dustbin for Liberal Democrat policies, trying to attract those
who aren't Conservatives at all is a recipe for disaster.

All the party needs is to go back to the principles that produced 18 years of
successful government - cut the parasite state, lower taxes, bring back freedom,
enterprise, the family and democratic nationhood.

RODNEY ATKINSON, Gateshead.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 11, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Slap down the left and peg the big tent securely: It's glib
to assume two-thirds of the country is now solid social democrat

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1179 words


Here are sobering thoughts from an afternoon in Enfield Southgate, lost domain
of Stephen Twigg. A focus group in a front room was under scrutiny by Opinion
Leader Research. These were Tony Blair's big tent voters, all Tories until 1997
when the genius of the Blair/Brown project brought them into Labour's fold. They
have stuck with Labour ever since, and they voted Labour again last week too.
But only just.

Now Labour is perched on a ledge hanging over an electoral precipice - its fate
rests on the votes of people such as these. Labour would be blown away on a
swing of just 2.5%, the loss of 33 seats, and there are now 44 critical
supermarginals with wafer-thin Labour majorities. Add to that another alarming
fact: the Tories would have won 27 more seats but for Ukip and Veritas. (For
example, Labour's Battersea majority was 163 while Ukip took 333 votes.) For
Gordon Brown to win next time, he will need to walk a tightrope more wobbly than
at any of the last three elections. Rocking it is not a brilliant idea.

Listening to these Enfield big tent people was a salutary reminder of the wide
spectrum of voters Labour still needs to keep happy. Though they were glad
Labour won - "devastated if I'd woken up to Howard" - they were glad too that
Labour's majority was cut: "not a dictatorship now". They were angry about Iraq,
emphatic about no more wars and a return to domestic matters. They saw some
improvement in public services but not nearly enough: this third term was
Labour's last-chance saloon to show real improvements. (Since they don't believe
"statistics", they will be hard to convince.) They wanted the usual free lunch -
better services, but no more tax. How did they square that? With the usual
let-outs: savings in benefit fraud, bureaucracy and immigration.

Gordon Brown and his stable economy were praised, but they worried that it
wouldn't last: many on a tight budget with London mortgages lived in fear of an
interest-rate rise. What of Tony Blair? His strength was that he was not Howard
the horrible - but otherwise they heaped abuse on Blair for untrustworthiness.
So how soon should he go? Curiously, despite this unanimous opprobrium, they all
strongly thought an early departure - let alone a coup - would be deeply
electorally improper: "What did we have an election for?" Most thought that he
should stay for 18 months to two years. But he was finished all the same. All
they wanted from him now was a smooth transition, working closely with Gordon
Brown until a decent handover day.

What might risk them switching back to Conservative? Economic downturn might,
they said; more wars; council tax uprating or failing public services. Close
behind these came a warning that they would desert Labour if party friction
broke out: they wanted no rows between No 10 and No 11, but an amicable
succession. Here is a stern reprimand to Labour: mishandle any of these and risk
losing these ex-Tory voters.

It is a warning to the party to get a grip fast and slap down the wild left,
furious Blair-haters and the angry disappointed - or risk retribution. Those
many, myself included, who think that Blair must go "sooner rather than later"
never meant a botched insurrection in the autumn. What matters most is that
Blair and Brown behave as well as they did in the election: no more hunkering
down in their bunkers. It is unclear - it depends who you talk to - whether that
is already happening. But if Blair thinks that he can rule alone, his final days
will end badly. (Adonis is no monster, a passionate promoter of childcare and
nurseries, but appointing him was an in-your-face gesture.) The Enfield group
wanted Blair to give a clear timetable to Brown to end speculation: uncertainty
and strife would not be forgiven.

Can it be done? The feudal power of prime ministerial patronage, the staff on
each side of the No 10/No 11 divide and the pressure of press stories, whether
maliciously briefed or plain invented, will strive to drive the old wedge
between them. It will take greater self control than either man has usually
displayed to resist the forces of schism. But only if the two hold together will
the party knuckle under obediently.

What the Enfield voters remind us is that Labour is still a big tent - and
electorally it cannot now afford to shrink a centimetre. The trick is how to get
back voters lost this time without losing these ones. I know I wrote it myself
late on election night - but it is too glib to simply assume that two- thirds of
the country are now solid social democrats, divided between Labour and Lib Dem.
Even if it were so, accessing that natural majority depends on winning the fight
for proportional representation - a battle only just begun as many MPs settle
back on to the green benches and talk sanctimoniously of the need for electoral
"stability". (Yes, even with just 36% of a dangerously alienated low turnout.)

But even with PR, the sums are not that simple. Pollsters reckon that a third of
Lib Dem voters would defect back to the Tories once they no longer had to vote
tactically to keep Labour out. Paddy Ashdown used to whisper that his party had
no idea what might hit them if they ever did get PR, when protest voters return
to their natural homes anywhere from Ukip to Green. The Lib Dems now have to
decide if they want to win back lost Tory seats and move rightwards, or if their
destiny is left of Labour. Their real dilemma remains as ever: who are they and
what are they for? The Real Alternative to what? When PR arrives, in coalition
with whom? If it's to be Lib-Lab, that will drive off a covey of their regular
protest voters.

The reminder from the Enfield group is that existing Labour voters cannot be
taken for granted either. Under any electoral system, Labour needs to hold tight
to those who might turn Tory. Some went Tory this time, though these were mainly
anti-immigration votes in seats where race was wickedly stirred. The Tories paid
dearly for those votes, losing many more voters shunning a party that looked not
only nasty but also desperate. But can Labour hold on to these voters next time,
if faced with a new Tory party fit to vote for?

However, focus groups only tell you so much. The Tory mistake was to listen to
focus groups and put in handwritten posters exactly what they said. That is
never enough - politics is also about leading. There was a vagueness and
uncertainty about this Enfield group, as if they were waiting for something.
They were not selfish or grasping, and were thinking hard about the whole
country. They praised tax credits and they expressed concern about poverty and
opportunity as an urgent need for the best education for all. These were hearts
and minds open to new possibilities, cautiously willing to be inspired. There is
plenty of opportunity here for Gordon Brown - who is profoundly trusted - to
bring them on a new journey they may not yet imagine. But wherever he leads, he
will need to make sure Blair's big tent people still follow.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 11, 2005, Wednesday

KENNEDY CALLS ON BLAIR TO 'PICK UP THE PHONE' FOR TALKS ON FAIRER VOTING SYSTEM

BYLINE: BY MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1501 words


Charles Kennedy has called for an immediate start to talks on reforming the
voting system after politicians from all parties demanded action to end the
iniquity of first past the post elections.

As senior figures within the Labour party stepped up pressure for reform, the
Liberal Democrat leader urged Tony Blair to 'pick up the phone'.

'The door is open as far as we are concerned on voting reform,' said Mr
Kennedy's spokesman. 'The Prime Minister could pick up the phone tomorrow if he
wishes. Clearly we would be interested in creating a fair voting system.'

Yesterday a demonstration outside Downing Street " where protesters wore gags as
a symbol of their feelings " kicked off a wave of protest about the 'unfairness'
of the system. They included John Hemming the new Liberal Democrat MP for
Birmingham Yardley, who wrote to Tony Blair accusing him of governing 'without a
democratic mandate'.

Today, Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs will meet in Parliament with leading
voting reformers, including the musician Billy Bragg, to plan a campaign to put
fair votes at the top of the political agenda.

Robin Cook, the former foreign secretary, weighed into the debate and said:
'Nothing that has happened in this election has changed my view that we should
have an electoral system that produces a House of Commons that reflects the way
that people vote.'

Lord Oakeshott, the Liberal Democrat peer who is a committee member of the
pressure group Make Votes Count, said the election result was 'a disgrace to
democracy' and the most unrepresentative poll in political history. An analysis
of the figures showed that, between them, the Liberal Democrats and small
parties got a third of the votes in Britain but only a tiny proportion of seats.

'The strains on the first-past-the-post system are getting too much. Labour got
130 more seats than their votes entitled them to. The Liberal and other parties
received half as many seats as they should have got,' Lord Oakeshott said. 'One
and a half million votes were cast for parties who didn't win a seat, including
the Greens and UKIP.'

Senior Labour MPs called on Mr Blair to consider reforming the voting system to
build a 'progressive consensus' of left-of-centre politicians that could keep
the Tories out of power.

They want to see a revival of the kind of talks held between Tony Blair and
Paddy Ashdown about proportional representation before and after the 1997
election. They were abandoned after opposition from the trades unions and senior
Labour figures including John Prescott who warned it would inevitably lead to a
coalition with the Liberal Democrats.

John Denham, the former Home Office minister who is now chairman of the Home
Affairs Select Committee, said the time had come to consider creating a
proportional voting system that would foster co-operation between the
left-of-centre political parties.

He predicted support from the political grassroots and voters for reform.

'It is right that people look at the election and see how to change the voting
system,' he said. 'The real question is going to be whether the broadly
progressive political parties see it in the interest of progressive politics to
work together. There is potential for a long-term progressive settlement in this
country. At least 60 per cent of the electorate are broadly voting for
progressive parties already, such as Labour, the Liberal Democrats and the
Greens. My own guess is this is not the sort of thing that comes from the top of
government but a lower level.'

The Labour Campaign for Electoral Reform yesterday wrote to dozens of MPs they
say support voting reform, calling for mobilisation on the issue.

The Department of Constitutional Affairs is carrying out a review of the impact
of proportional voting systems used in recent Scottish, Welsh and European
Parliamentary elections.

The review, a response to a Labour manifesto commitment, is expected to report
this year. But senior Labour figures have made clear that the analysis, is a
'low level' project carried out by civil servants.

'The credibility of our democracy is now in question'

Billy Bragg, pop singer and political campaigner

The problem we face is that a great number of the electorate feel that when they
express their view, it makes little difference and they wonder whether it is
worthwhile voting. Proportional representation would allow for a more mature
politics. My personal preference would be to maintain first-past-the-post for
the Commons and introduce a reformed House of Lords which would reflect the
proportions of the Commons vote. I don't subscribe to the view that PR will give
the BNP a way to further their aims " I think the only way they get votes now is
as a protest.

Sir Bernard Crick, professor of politics

The system is so arbitrary now that it should be reformed. By throwing existing
seats together into bundles " multi-member constituencies " and then introducing
the single transferable vote, you might get one MP from each party, or two
Labour and one Conservative, proportionate to the votes in that area. Local
parties could still choose candidates and local issues would still be
represented in Parliament. It could save wasted votes and would increase popular
interest in voting. I doubt there will be change until we have a hung
Parliament, however. The difficulty is in getting turkeys to vote for Christmas.

John Denham, Labour chairman of the Home Affairs Select Committee

I have been a long-term supporter of PR. It is right that people now look at the
election and see how to change the voting system. The real question is whether
the broadly progressive parties see it in the interest of progressive politics
to work together. There is potential for a long- term progressive settlement. At
least 60 per cent of the electorate are broadly voting for progressive parties
already, such as Labour, the Liberal Democrats and the Greens. My guess is that
this is not the sort of thing that comes from the top of government but at a
lower level.

George Galloway, Respect MP for Bethnal Green

This election has underlined the iniquity of the British parliamentary election
system as few before have. The first-past-the-post system means that a vote for
the Liberal Democrats, for example, is worth only a fraction of a vote for
either of the other two mainstream parties.

The devaluation of the popular democratic will is even worse for newer and
smaller parties. The main parties are increasingly managed so that swaths of
opinion are not represented through them. Then commentators are surprised that
there is a disengagement with mainstream politics.

Lord McNally, Liberal Democrat leader in Lords

The credibility of our democracy is now in question because the combination of
low turnout and the distortion of the system produces such an absurd result. We
have for years been very happy to accept that the British system didn't produce
an absolutely accurate snapshot of the electorate, but that it pretty well got
it right. But the system is now producing a kind of malign spiral of lack of
involvement and distorted result. What kind of a mandate does a government have
if it is elected with only one fifth of the vote?

Mo Mowlam, Labour former Cabinet minister

'The one thing clear from the election is that our first-past-the-post system is
producing unfair results that do not reflect the will of the people. The ratio
of the number of seats for every one per cent of the votes cast of 10.1 for
Labour, 6.1 for the Conservatives and 2.8 for the Liberal Democrats is
disgraceful " but short of a hung Parliament, where the junior party is the
Liberal Democrats, we have very little chance of seeing the present system
changed.'

Lord Campbell-Savours, Labour peer

'There is a need for greater fairness in the system. I support a supplementary
vote system where second preferences are taken into account. It would mean that
every candidate in Britain would have been elected with over 50 per cent of the
vote. That would give more legitimacy. It would not be proportional. It is
moving towards a proportional representation but by no means secures that. I'm
opposed to proportional representation, on the basis of the work I did that
showed it was inconceivable that it would result in anything other than a hung
Parliament.'

Keith Taylor, the principal speaker of the Green Party

We have a Parliament which is clearly failing to represent the diversity of the
electorate. Many people care enough to vote Green or for other smaller parties
yet their voices are unheard. No wonder people feel disenchanted with the
political system when it fails to deliver what they want, from inaction on Iraq
and climate change to increasing our capita by the sell- off of public services.
The majority are fed up with the business-as-usual politics at Westminster. In
1997 Tony Blair promised to have a referendum on PR and it's well overdue.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              52 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 10, 2005, Tuesday

Something wrong with the electoral system

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 019

LENGTH: 56 words

SIR - In 17 seats the Labour majority over the Conservatives was less than the
UKIP vote, and in a further 11 seats was little more. In 10 seats the Lib Dem
majority over the Conservatives was less than the UKIP vote. Conservatives can
never regain power until they regain the votes lost to UKIP.

Michael Canton

Petherton, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              53 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 10, 2005, Tuesday

ELECTION AFTERMATH: ANTI-EU VOTE 'COST TORIES 27 SEATS'

BYLINE: BY NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 192 words


The Tories could have been deprived of 27 seats at the election by the hardline
anti-European Union parties, a right-wing think-tank has warned.

The United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) took 622,000 votes, and Robert
Kilroy-Silk's Veritas party picked up 41,000. Although neither came near winning
a seat, the Eurosceptic Bruges Group said their support could have prevented the
Tories from gaining 18 Labour-held seats and cutting Tony Blair's majority to a
precarious 30.

They include Crawley which Labour held with a majority of 37 " UKIP won 935
votes. Labour held on by 97 votes in Harlow " and UKIP and Veritas had 1,922
between them. Nigel Farage, one of UKIP's best-known Euro-MPs, got 2,079 votes
in Thanet South; Labour beat off a Tory challenge by 664. UKIP and Veritas votes
could also have stopped the Tories from winning a further nine seats held by the
Liberal Democrats, the group's analysis shows.

The Bruges Group, whose chairman is Lady Thatcher, said: 'The Conservatives
cannot afford to ignore either Europe or UKIP at the next election if they are
to stand a chance of winning and forming a government.'

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              54 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 10, 2005, Tuesday

ID at polling stations, UKIP effect and Blunkett's return

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 56 words


From Mrs Gay Morton

Sir, In view of the Prime Minister's penchant for recalling disgraced ministers
to office, can we expect him to arrange the return to post of Greg Dyke and
Andrew Gilligan?

Yours faithfully, GAY H. MORTON, Avalon, Pleck Lane, Higher Ansty, Dorchester,
Dorset DT2 7PT.

gay.morton@onetel.net

May 7.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 10, 2005, Tuesday

Ignoring EU lost us seats, say sceptics

BYLINE: Philip Webster and David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 27

LENGTH: 189 words


CONSERVATIVE Eurosceptics attacked their party's campaign strategy yesterday and
claimed that its failure to put Europe at the centre had cost them seats and
handed Labour its comfortable majority.

An ICM poll for the European Foundation, released to The Times yesterday, found
that 54 per cent of those questioned felt that Britain's relationship with
Europe and the proposed new constitution should have been a central issue and 42
per cent that it should not have been. Significantly, 56 per cent of younger
voters those aged 18 to 24 -felt that it should have been a central issue.

At the same time the Bruges Group think-tank claimed that the Europe issue
deprived the Tories of 27 seats. It published figures claiming that the combined
votes of the UK Independence Party and Veritas could have affected the outcome
in those seats. An example was Battersea, which Labour held with a majority of
only 163. In the same seat the UKIP picked up 333 votes.

William Cash, MP for Stone and a leading Eurosceptic, said that the
Conservatives had made a big mistake in not making Europe a key issue in the
campaign.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 10, 2005, Tuesday

The Conservative class of 2005

SECTION: Home news; 26

LENGTH: 643 words


1. Charles Walker (Broxbourne) - Born 1967, company director and Wandsworth
councillor

2. Graham Stuart (Beverley & Holderness) - Born 1962, publisher, Thatcherite,
Euro-sceptic

3. Ben Wallace (Lancaster & Wyre) - Born 1970, former adviser to the Countryside
Alliance

4. Jeremy Hunt (Surrey South West) - Born 1966, made a fortune publishing
student guides

5. Brooks Newmark (Braintree, Clydesdale & Tweedale) - Born 1958,
multimillionaire banker, Eurosceptic

6. Peter Bone (Wellingborough) - Born 1952, director of a travel company.
Eurosceptic

7. Stewart Jackson (Peterborough) - Born 1965, right-wing banker

8. Greg Hands (Hammersmith & Fulham) - Born 1965, City trader

9. Philip Hollobone (Kettering) - Born 1964, banker, Eurosceptic

10. Mike Penning (Hemel Hempstead) - Born 1957, Eurosceptic

11. David Burrowes (Enfield Southgate) - Born 1969, former solicitor

12. Rob Wilson (Reading East) - Former adviser to David Davis

13. Andrew Pelling (Croydon Central) - Active in the London Assembly

14. Sir Malcolm Rifkind (Kensington & Chelsea) - Born 1946, former Foreign
Secretary

15. David Gaulke (Hertfordshire South) - Born 1971, City lawyer

16. Tobias Ellwood (Bournemouth East) - Business consultant, Eurosceptic

17. Maria Miller (Basingstoke) - Born 1964, Eurosceptic

18. Shailesh Vara (Cambridgeshire) - Solicitor and Tory vice-chairman

19. David Evennett (Bexleyheath & Crayford) - Born 1949. Ex-MP, Eurosceptic

20. Douglas Carswell (Harwich) - Born 1971, Eurosceptic

21. Nick Hurd (Ruislip Northwood) - Banker, Eurosceptic

22. Anne Milton (Guildford) - A nurse and local councillor

23. Michael Howard

24. Mark Lancaster (Milton Keynes North East) - Born 1970, ex-Army Eurosceptic

25. Daniel Kawczynski (Shrewsbury & Atcham) - Born 1972, company director

26. Jeremy Wright (Rugby & Kenilworth) - Barrister, Eurosceptic, pro-US

27. Mark Harper (Forest of Dean) - Born 1970, Eurosceptic

28. Nadine Dorries (Bedfordshire Mid) - Ex-nurse and BUPA director

29. Stephen Crabb (Preseli Pembrokeshire) - Born 1973, business consultant

30. Lee Scott (Ilford North) - Charity fundraiser

31. Anne Main (St Albans) - Born 1928, former teacher

32. Philip Davies (Shipley)- Ex-Asda manager, Eurosceptic

33. Grant Shapps (Welwyn Hatfield)- Hardline Eurosceptic

34. Theresa Villiers (Chipping Barnet) - Born 1968, barrister, MEP

35. Brian Binley (Northampton South) - Company director, Eurosceptic

36. James Duddridge (Rochford & Southend East) Former banker, Eurosceptic

37. Adam Afriyie (Windsor) - Tories' first Afro-Caribbean MP

38. Justine Greening (Putney) - Born 1969, Eurosceptic

39. Ed Vaizey (Wantage) - Michael Howard's speech-writer

40. Stephen Hammond (Wimbledon) - Businessman and financier

41. Richard Benyon (Newbury) - Farmer who served in the Army

42. John Penrose (Weston-super-Mare) - Publisher, strongly Eurosceptic

43. Robert Goodwill (Scarborough & Whitby West) - Born 1956, farmer, Eurosceptic

44. James Brokenshire (Hornchurch) - Born 1968, Europe moderate

45. Nick Herbert (Arundel & South Downs) - Gay, Eurosceptic

46. Michael Gove (Surrey Heath) - Born 1967, Times journalist

47. Philip Dunne (Ludlow) - Founder of Ottakars Books

48. Greg Clark (Tunbridge Wells) - Born 1967, Tory policy director

49. Christopher Fraser (Norfolk South West) - Ex-MP lost his seat in 2001

50. David Jones (Clwyd West) - Solicitor, Eurosceptic

51. Adam Holloway (Gravesham) - Born 1966, former Grenadier Guards Officer and
ITN reporter

52. David Davies (Monmouth) - Welsh Assembly member

53. Geoffrey Cox (Devon West & Torridge) - Barrister, Eurosceptic.

54. Mark Pritchard (The Wrekin) - Owns marketing company

* Absent: David Mundell (Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweedale)


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2005, Friday

CORRECTION: John Penrose, the new Conservative MP for Weston-Super-Mare, is 40,
not 50 (Election 2005: The Verdict, May 7) while Anne Main, the new MP for St
Albans, was born in 1957, not 1928 (Conservative class of 2005, May 10). UKIP
won 1,278 votes in Corby, a 2.6 per cent share, and not as reported (May 7). The
revised guide to how Britain has voted since the war and regional analysis of
the 2005 election can be found at www.timesonline.co.uk/ election2005.

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 9, 2005

BLUNKETT: WE COULD FORCE YOU TO SAVE FOR PENSIONS

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words


HARD-WORKING Britons could be forced to save more for their retirement, the new
Work and Pensions Secretary David Blunkett signalled yesterday.

He said no option was "off limits" in the search for a solution to the savings
crisis.

His blunt assessment followed an election campaign in which Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown sought to play down the prospect of a new pensions "tax".

The Brown camp suggested that even if workers were compelled to contribute to
second pensions, that would not take effect until after the next election.

Mr Blair made it clear he did not favour compulsion but ministers stressed that
was just his "personal" view. As Mr Blair's influence wanes, towards his own
retirement, the decision will be in the hands of Chancellor Brown and others.

However, Mr Blair did stun onlookers at an election news conference by twice
refusing to rule out means-testing the basic State pension - forcing Labour
officials into a panicked denial. Mr Blunkett was brought back into the Cabinet
on Friday, fewer than five months after quitting as Home Secretary in the row
over a fasttracked visa for his married former lover's nanny.

A final report on pensions, from former CBI chief Adair Turner, is due in the
autumn. Labour was accused throughout the election campaign of using it as an
excuse to duck hard questions about the potential impact on people's pockets.

Compulsory saving for private pensions, higher spending on pensions by the State
and raising the retirement age to 70 have been floated as potential solutions.

Mr Blunkett made clear yesterday that he had not written off any options - and
even suggested that foreign workers could be part of the answer.

Asked if compulsion was still an option, he told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost: "I
made it clear when I talked to the Prime Minister on Friday that there are no
off-limits here.

"We have to be able to address quickly and decisively where we are going. I want
to build a consensus, so I want, with Adair Turner, to be able to reach out to
the other major political parties because we need a lasting solution for decades
ahead, not a quick fix." The interim Turner report last year showed that 12.1
million people aged 25 or over were failing to save enough for a comfortable
retirement.

Mr Blunkett said that 50 years ago, people generally lived 10 years after
retirement - which happened, on average, at 67. Now people live 20 years longer
and the average retirement age is below 65. The number of workers sustaining
pensioners is also falling "dramatically", said Mr Blunkett.

He said there were other ways "we can support ourselves". He said: "You can
bring people in through legal migration for a period of time to fill particular
vacancies and to help fund the services of the future including those in
retirement." During the election, fears were highlighted that Adrian Turner's
final review could herald big tax rises - an issue that Labour wanted to keep
the lid on. A report on the NHS after the 2001 General Election led to a 10 per
cent rise in National Insurance.

Compulsory saving for a second pension could mean a £1,500-a-year outlay for
someone earning £25,000.

Our General Election results coverage failed to list votes for UK Independence
Party candidate John Croft in Rochford and Southend East. He finished fourth,
with 1,913 votes - a 4.8 per cent rise on the previous election, forcing the
Green Party into fifth place. Conservative James Duddridge held the seat with 45
per cent of the vote.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              58 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 9, 2005

After the election: Labour holds seat by 97

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 114 words


Labour held onto the key Tory target seat of Harlow when the result was finally
declared on Saturday after four recounts. Bill Rammell scraped home by 97 votes.
Labour's overall majority is 67, but is likely to be reduced to 66 when polling
takes place in Staffordshire South, a contest posponed af ter the death of the
LibDem candidate.

Harlow result

Labour hold

Bill Rammell (Labour) 16,453 (41.41%)

Robert Halfon (Con) 16,356 (41.16%)

Lorna Spenceley (Lib Dem) 5,002 (12.59%)

John Felgate (UKIP) 981 (2.47%)

Anthony Bennett (Veritas) 941 (2.37%)

Labour majority 97 (0.24%)

6.39% swing Lab to C/Electorate 63,500/ Turnout 39,733 (62.57%, +2.76%)


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 9, 2005

A worm's eye view

LENGTH: 778 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hostility to outsiders has a biological explanation, says Andrew
Brown


The so-called "axis of Ukip" is one of the more curious things to have emerged
from the election campaign. This is not - yet - a political party, but the name
given by online civic campaigners Tom Steinberg and Chris Lightfoot to the
faultline now dominating British politics. It does not correspond to any of the
formal divisions of the parties - except, as you might guess, that Ukip lies at
one end of it. The other end is largely untenanted, except by Guardian readers,
who are quite widely distributed among the conventional parties.

What distinguished the Ukip position is not just hostility to Europe, but to
criminals and asylum seekers as well. To some, these two positions do not seem
to be logically connected, but in British politics they have grown together. The
axis shows that the same people who fear for their country's independence tend
also to worry that criminals are not locked up often enough or for long enough
and that it is too easy to sneak into the country.

This apparently illogical conjunction does, however, make sense from the point
of view of game theory and of modern biology. The problem of altruism or
cooperation has exercised mathematically minded biologists since the 1960s. How
can cooperative behaviour, and genuinely altruistic emotions, even real love,
arise in a Darwinian world? It is no answer to claim that they don't, or that
unselfishness is an illusion. Even animals incapable of what we would recognise
as love will sacrifice themselves.

One answer is genetic . It makes perfect sense to us that a mother should
sacrifice herself for her children, since they are so closely related. She may
die, but her genes live on. But the more interesting answers arise from
self-sacrifice among animals or organisms that need not be related. Here, it
turns out that cooperation does arise among things which are part of some larger
whole - if that whole competes with other, larger wholes and if most of its
parts benefit from success.

The classic example is visible all around us. Every living thing that is large
enough for us to see must be made of many cells, and these cells all grow, and
sometimes die, in ways that are controlled by the good of the animal or plant
they are a part of. They are all descended from competing single cells which
somehow learned to give up their individuality and become receptive to signals
from other parts of the organism telling them to stop dividing, or even to die.

This mechanism is absolutely fundamental to our health. All kinds of creatures
have developed astonishingly sophisticated immune systems which enable their
bodies to distinguish between foreign and friendly cells and treat them
accordingly. When they break down, we have cancers.

The analogy with politics isn't exact, but it is closer than we would like to
think. The central problem in both cases is one of trust. Cooperation can only
function to the benefit of all parties involved if there is no cheating. What
the axis of Ukip measures is a level of distrust of outsiders. Neither criminals
nor foreigners can be trusted to understand or to obey the rules that we live
by. They must therefore be punished, kept under control, or excluded.

This isn't a psychological problem which would go away if we were nicer. It is
one built into the nature of cooperation, and of community. Whenever a communal
resource can be exploited by those who have no stake in its preservation, it
will be. The reason these feelings are so inflamed in Britain today is that we
have so little confidence in our own community and in the ways in which we can
recognise Englishness.

But the problem is visible all over Europe. The day after the elections, I flew
to Stockholm for the weekend. I lived here as a child nearly forty years ago,
and the place is unrecognisably cosmopolitan today. The stuffiness, the
strangeness, and even the self-absorption, have all diminished. The old tyranny
of teetotallers has been broken up by the EU, with the result that drinking
habits are much closer to England's now.

This is not a measure of increasing civilisation. Only last week a man was
kicked to death in the city centre at three in the morning by two men who
objected when he complained that they were relieving themselves in a shop
doorway.

Traditionally, Swedes have been relatively liberal when it comes to the
sentencing of criminals. Drunks, on the other hand, are viewed with increasing
hostility. The main Swedish temperance organisation is reporting a surge in
membership this year.

* Andrew Brown maintains a weblog, the Helmintholog. Thanks to those readers who
pointed out last week that Alfred Duggan never lived at Blenheim - Andrew
comments here

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              60 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                  May 8, 2005

BRUSSELS 'ORIGINATES 80% OF NEW LAWS PASSED IN EUROPE'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 509 words


Brussels legislation accounts for 80% of all new laws passed by national
governments in Europe, German researchers said this weekend.

A report by the German CSU opposition party found that of 23,167 laws and
regulations passed by the Bundestag during the period between 1998 and 2004,
roughly 19,000, or just over 82%, originate from the European Union (EU).

The news will reignite the debate in the UK about the European constitution
after the appointment on Friday of Douglas Alexander as Europe minister and
renewed efforts by President Jacques Chirac to clinch a yes vote in the
referendum in France on 29 May.

It also comes as research suggests that the combined votes for the United
Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) and Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas party may
have cost the Conservatives up to 25 seats in the general election.

Richard North, a European political analyst, said that had all UKIP and Veritas
voters switched to the Tories, Labour would have lost 16 seats and the Liberal
Democrats 9.

North said: "Had UKIP and Veritas not intervened, or had the Tories managed the
threat, the political environment would have been transformed.

"For a start, the Liberal Democrats would not have been crowing, with their
gains cut from 16 to 7, and Labour would be thinking very hard of how it was
going to survive, with Blair in the departure lounge. This seems to be the
penalty the Tories are paying for neglecting the EU issue."

UKIP claims, however, that many of their voters would have voted for Labour or
abstained had they not stood.

An analysis of a recent Foreign Office parliamentary answer reveals that only
since 1997, the EU has passed 4,806 more regulations, directives and decisions
than have been repealed or naturally lapsed. More regulation was passed every
single year than was repealed or lapsed.

In 2003, the most recent year for which there is information, 1,557 were
enacted, against 629 that were repealed or lapsed, making a net increase of 928.
The net increase was 715 in 1997, 397 in 1998, 339 in 1999, 423 in 2000, 1,211
in 2001, and 793 in 2002.

This refutes a recent document from pro-EU lobby group Britain in Europe, which
claimed that "the idea that the European Union is constantly generating
ever-increasing levels of regulation is a myth".

"Over the last decade more European Union regulation has been repealed than put
on the statute book," it said.

However, the Foreign Office written answer says that "the figures for
legislation repealed or expired are only available for the years 1997 to 2003" -
so it is not clear what the source for the "decade" claim can be.

n First quarter gross domestic product (GDP) figures from leading euro zone
economies for the first quarter of 2005 will see stronger growth.

But economists believe that the rebound will not last, and point to a global
soft patch during the second quarter. Germany is expected to grow by 0.5%,
France by 0.6%, Italy by 0.2% and the euro zone as a whole by 0.4%.

Core Values, page 14


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2005 Sunday Business Group

                              61 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 8, 2005

Election 2005: Europe: Eurosceptics aim to embarrass Blair: Back on the beat:
MPs believe No vote on EU constitution would be a 'poke in the eye'

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Political Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words


LABOUR eurosceptics will urge voters to give Tony Blair a 'poke in the eye' over
the European Union constitution as the battle lines are drawn for the
forthcoming referendum.

The 'no' campaign hopes to harness the mood of protest revealed during the
general election campaign to turn the ballot, expected next year, into an
effective referendum on his personal popularity.

Labour MPs are also pushing for party funding for their own 'no' grouping,
arguing that while the government may be signed up to the constitution the wider
grassroots movement is divided on the issue and party funds should not be spent
solely on the 'yes' campaign.

During the election campaign itself, Labour MPs on both sides of the European
debate agreed a truce to concentrate on getting back to Westminster - although
several anti-constitution MPs quietly pledged in their election leaflets to
campaign for a 'no'. This weekend, however, the gloves are coming off.

Ian Davidson, leader of the embryonic Labour 'no' grouping, called for the vote
to be held as soon as possible and warned that protest voting during the general
election showed how hard it would be to win. 'A lot of this is going to be tied
round about the question of Blair's future: a lot of people would recognise that
this is an opportunity to poke Blair in the eye,' he told The Observer .

'Even though we are not quite ready to have a referendum on day two after the
election, the general principle of having one sooner rather than later is one I
believe in. If it's good enough for France to have a referendum now why can't
we?'

He said the group would 'much rather be leading the government position than
opposing it' and was ready to have constructive discussions, but stressed there
would be no holding back over the campaign.

Davidson also called for a referendum within the party to determine how Labour's
own internal funds should be distributed in the campaign.

'Clearly it's going to be unreasonable that the Labour Party puts its whole
money behind the "yes" side,' he said. 'The way in which you determine
proportion is by having some kind of internal referendum.'

Polling carried out by the left-wing Campaign for a Social Europe shows the
crucial group of 'swing voters' on the constitution - those who say they could
be persuaded either way - is dominated by Labour voters, suggesting they will be
more receptive to a campaign fronted by senior Labour figures and trade
unionists than by the Tories.

Kate Hoey, the Vauxhall MP and leading opponent of the constitution, said it
would be 'decided by Labour supporters' and that some would be likely to see it
as a free hit: 'A lot of people will see this as an opportunity, having voted
Labour in this election perhaps reluctantly.

'I can't see a scenario where within a year the PM can turn around what I think
is a latent anti-constitution feeling among most people, particularly strong
among Labour voters.'

One senior party figure admitted the referendum now looked increasingly
difficult to win, with polls suggesting a hardening of views against Europe and
the general election results suggesting a willingness to take a free hit against
an incumbent government.

However Lucy Powell of Britain in Europe, the pro-European pressure group, said
it would 'expect and anticipate some strong government signals' early in the new
parliament to galvanise pro-constitution feeling.

Both sides are waiting for the results of the French referendum at the end of
May, followed by the Dutch vote at the beginning of June: if either country
votes 'no', the constitution may be sent back to the drawing board anyway. If,
however, polls predicting a narrow French 'yes' are correct then a referendum is
likely to be held either next autumn, or possibly in early summer.

The next crucial stage is likely to be June, just before Britain takes over the
rotating presidency of the EU - a key time for both sides to put their cause.

The Labour 'no' grouping is expected to make common cause with Liberal
Democrats, Greens and trade unionists opposed to the constitution - although it
is not prepared to work with groups such as Ukip or Veritas.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 8, 2005

Review: CRITICS: RADIO: Cosying up with Jim gets my vote

BYLINE: Sue Arnold

SECTION: Observer Review Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 669 words


Election Night R4 Don Carlos R3 Stone Baby R3 Tears for cheers: the story of a
child soldier World Service

ONE GOOD REASON for listening to the election on radio rather than watching it
on television is that you are spared all those tiring and totally confusing
computer graphics. Give me the cosy atmosphere of Radio 4's Election Night ,
part-siege, part-campfire, with chief scout Jim Naughtie supervising the ginger
beer rations, chief guide Carolyn Quinn handing round burnt sausages on toasting
forks, and all the visitors enthusiastically joining in the sing-song.

This is the sort of multi-tasking exercise Naughtie excels in and relishes. He
can simultaneously read urgent dispatches from outlying border posts about the
positions of UKIP and BNP rebels, check the identity of new arrivals through the
tent flaps, listen to Baroness Jay slagging off everyone who has voted Tory for
'not very attractive reasons' and say, 'Sorry, I'm going to have to interrupt
you because the declaration from Sunderland West is just coming through.'

I was listening in bed and kept dozing off but it didn't matter. Whenever I woke
there was a familiar Radio 4 voice: Fi Glover, Eddie Mair, Jenni Murray keeping
me up to date with events. Jenni, predictably, was hosting a special
election-night women's forum in Manchester. Which of the party manifestos, she
wondered, had been most sympathetic to women? None of them, they said furiously.
Why did politicians automatically assume that childcare was all that women were
interested in? They wanted to know about world issues, international poverty,
the impact of debt, pensions. For a moment I thought I'd overslept and was
listening to Woman's Hour

There were two extraordinarily good plays on Radio 3: a tragedy by Friedrich
Schiller dealing with the political intrigues of Philip II of Spain's court, Don
Carlos ; the other, equally tragic, about contemporary issues, obesity,
dysfunctional families, bullying.

Maybe it was the way we learnt history at school, but for me Philip II has never
been more than a minor character in the far richer dramas of Bloody Mary and the
Virgin Queen. I knew he was wily, and greedy - a man who wants two English
Queens in his marriage bed has to be greedy - but I had no idea he was such a
tyrant. Having failed to persuade Elizabeth Tudor to marry him, he married
Elizabeth Valois, daughter of the French king, having forgotten that she'd been
intended for his son, Carlos. It's a bit like Hamlet except that it's the
stepmother not the stepfather that proves worrisome to young Carlos. He's still
madly in love with her. Add to this domestic upheaval the complexities of the
war of Spanish succession and the terror of the Spanish Inquisition and you have
a plot worthy of three Hollywood blockbusters. Modern religious fanaticism pales
besides 16th-century Spain's crusade of heretics. Philip, splendidly played by
Derek Jacobi, is terrifying until the grand inquisitor arrives. Menace explicit
and suggested was the key to the whole play - I never thought Gregorian chant
and church bells could be used to such sinister effect.

And then, just as I thought it was safe to come out of the cloister, I heard
Sean Buckley's Stone Baby , which left me numb and helpless about the mindless
cruelty of children towards weaklings. Xavier, bullied at school because he's
overweight and dysfunctional, imagines he is pregnant and takes comfort from the
thought of his baby. It is the juxtaposition of brutality and sensitivity, abuse
and love, that made it such a powerful piece.

Truth is stranger than fiction. Kassim Ouma, subject of Tears for Cheers: The
Story of a Child Soldier , was so traumatised as a child that he cannot talk
about it - at six he was kidnapped by the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda. The
upside of his 12 years as a boy soldier is that it gave him the determination
and stamina to survive in the world of boxing and eventually become world
champion. A truly inspiring programme.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 8, 2005

Election 2005: HOW WAS IT FOR YOU?

SECTION: Observer Special Supplement, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 561 words


WILL SELF novelist

'The moment at which the extent of Tony Blair's loss of power became significant
was on the platform at Sedgefield. You could see power draining away from him
like blood from a stuck pig.'

BILLY BRAGG musician and organiser of www.votedorset.net

'I didn't do very well as a psephologist. I thought Oliver Letwin would lose in
Dorset West and that Jim Knight would struggle in Dorset South. Jim did very
well, faced with that nasty Tory who exploited the family of asylum seekers with
the doctored photo. It was well worth staying up to to see the look on his
face.'

DR SIMON PARKER

Lecturer in politics,

University of York

I was up 4 stephen twigg

Sent: 02:46:01

06-05-2005

ANDREW NEIL publisher and broadcaster, on the ITN boat at 1am

'If the Labour majority falls below 60, it will be a victory for Labour, but not
for Blair. He won't be around in 18 months because his power base is being
eroded; it's the Blairite MPs losing their seats.'

CAMILA BATMANGHELIDJH Director and founder of the charity Kids Company

'The result is brilliant for vulnerable children if Labour's actions match their
aspirations.'

KWASI KWARTENG Tory candidate in Brent East, who came third with 10.3 per cent
of the vote

Tight squeeze on a tough night, but we are still standing.

Sent: 03:07:22

06-05-2005

MICHAEL MANSFIELD QC

'If embroiling the nation in a bloody and expensive war, combined with
deceptions about its need - let alone its legality - leaves half the electorate
at home, one has to ask whether our system of democracy truly values the
individual vote. Until every voter feels their vote matters, there will be
little or no change in the political complexion of the UK.'

JASPER FFORDE novelist

'Tony is clearly suffering from "leader fatigue" - both on his behalf, and ours.
Had Gordy taken over a year ago the whole process would have been less of a
drama and the majority might have held. Mikey would be thrown out of his local
amateur dramatics society over his lamentable performance. Tony was on his back
foot which he hates - he speaks best from his heart, and he does have one - as
does Chas, who is probably staggered providence dropped everything in his lap
and he could run a campaign without having to fib - it's just a shame no one
seems to think he can run a country. How did I vote? The one I disliked least.
It was the best I could do.'

PATRICK MOORE astronomer

'The Tories are low life for me. The one party standing up for Britain is Ukip,
and they didn't make any kind of a breakthrough. People vote like sheep.'

MARK POWER Lib Dem student activist

Great news in Hornsey and just heard we won cambs which is good for student vote
which has come out very well!

Sent: 03:09:10

06-05-2005

SUE TOWNSEND author

'The best moment on election night came when Reg Keys spoke so movingly about
his son, killed in Iraq. To see the rictus grins fade from the faces of "five
times a night" Tony and Cherie to be replaced by shame and fury, was worth
staying up for.'

LORD TEBBIT former Conservative MP and minister

'The Conservatives did about as well as I expected. The low point was Conor
Burns losing to Chris Huhne (Liberal Democrats) in Eastleigh. Had Ukip not
interfered, Eastleigh could have a Eurosceptic MP instead of a Euro-loon.'


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 8, 2005, Sunday

The winners and losers of the campaign

SECTION: Features; News; 13

LENGTH: 835 words


WINNERS

THE ELECTORATE

The parties ran one of the most uninspiring campaigns in living memory, but on
the big night the voters played a blinder. We got the mood of the country just
right: a good kicking for Blair without the shock of seeing Michael Howard
striding into Downing Street. As for the Liberal Democrats, the result could not
have been more apt: not quite success, not quite failure, but somewhere in
between.

SANDRA HOWARD

A reassuringly human presence at Michael Howard's side. She was glamorous, but
not too glamorous, and her natural down-to-earth style made a stark contrast to
the rather forced manner of Cherie Blair. The vandals who wrecked her humble
Fiat Panda at the beginning of the campaign could not have done a better job for
the Howard family image if they'd been sent by Lynton Crosby, the Tories'
adviser. If Michael insists on resigning, perhaps Sandra will agree to stay on
as leader's wife for a full term?

OLIVER LETWIN

The shadow chancellor once said it would be a miracle if the Tories won this
election. For much of the campaign it seemed even more of a miracle that Letwin
would cling on to his seat in Dorset West. His head was at the top of Charles
Kennedy's decapitation list. Letwin seemed nervous on the campaign trail but
saved the seat with a 2,461 majority.

GEORGE GALLOWAY

The new MP for Bethnal Green and Bow is the political equivalent of Millwall
football club (motto: Nobody likes us, we don't care). And if you found him
irritating before, now he's going to be insufferable. With the backing of 15,801
East End voters, he can no longer be dismissed as the member for Baghdad Central
and he's going to liven up prime minister's questions no end. Galloway will
provide the same embarrassing reminder of Iraq to Tony Blair that Margaret
Thatcher had from Tam Dalyell over the Belgrano.

NICK ROBINSON

His rival at the BBC, Andrew Marr, has always seemed part of the political class
but ITV's political editor has established himself as an independent spirit,
speaking on behalf of the voters. Early in the campaign he put Blair on the spot
at a press conference called to attack so-called £35 billion cuts planned by the
Tories.

BOB MARSHALL-ANDREWS

A Labour MP who likes to speak his mind, whatever happens to be in it at the
time, the barrister appeared on the BBC lamenting that he was about to lose his
seat.

Not long afterwards he was back to explain his narrow victory. One of the
highlights of election night.

LOSERS

STEPHEN TWIGG

He who lives by the marginal shall die by the marginal. Stephen Twigg's
unexpected defeat of Michael Portillo at Enfield Southgate was the most
memorable moment of election night 1997, but on Thursday the education minister
was forced to swallow a large spoonful of his own medicine. Portillo was stoic
in defeat, but not so Twiggy. His face was contorted with grief: he looked like
a small boy who'd had his football stolen. You would have needed a heart of
stone not to cry for the lad.

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

It didn't wash in Erewash. The charismatic MEP -ex-UKIP, ex-Labour, ex-chat show
host -claimed he would "change the face of politics" with his Veritas party and
stood in the Derbyshire constituency. Unfortunately for Kilroy, you need more
than 2,957 votes to give British politics a facelift. He blamed the electorate:
"We thought the British people wanted a change and some honesty in politics."
Perhaps another new party might do the trick?

BUZZ WORDS

This was supposed to be the election of dog whistles and decapitations. But the
whistle seemed to attract the wrong dogs and the executioner's axe turned out to
be blunt. The dog whistle was the idea of Lynton Crosby (not a Cheshire
constituency but the Tory election guru). His theory was that there are issues
that reach out to some voters but are ignored by others. But immigration thought
to have a particularly loud whistle -just made the dogs run away.

HUNTING

According to reports, hunt supporters were campaigning in force to remove
anti-hunt MPs. But the topic was hardly mentioned.

JOHN PRESCOTT

Perhaps not the beginning of the end for the deputy prime minister, but
certainly the end of the beginning. He seems to have spent the campaign stomping
around in a furious temper. He told a reporter in Wales, who had questioned him
about the situation in Blaenau Gwent, that he was an "amateur" and advised him
to "bugger off". Labour lost Blaenau Gwent, previously its safest seat in Wales.
Prescott then fought unsuccessfully to save parts of his ludicrously oversized
department in the cabinet reshuffle

BATTLE BUS

In the old days no self-respecting party leader was without a comfortably
upholstered battle bus, complete with light snacks, travelling reporters and a
lavatory. This time traditionalists such as Prescott and Charles Kennedy
trundled around by coach, but Tony Blair and Howard preferred to swoop on
unsuspecting constituencies by helicopter.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus: Election 2005

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 8, 2005, Sunday

Tories seek fresh hope all over again

BYLINE: David Cracknell and Richard Woods

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 2272 words


A Tory revival rests on who replaces Michael Howard. Will it be a hardliner or a
young Turk from the Notting Hill set? David Cracknell and Richard Woods report

Shortly after 12.30am on Thursday night, Tory party workers at their London HQ
gave a cheer. As they watched the election results on giant television screens,
they saw Justine Greening capture Putney, a seat Labour had previously held with
a majority of 2,771.

Greening, a finance manager, had snatched it away with a swing of 6.4% to the
Tories. Young, blonde and personable, she seemed to symbolise the hope of a Tory
renaissance.

A little more than half an hour later the party captured Enfield Southgate,
where Michael Portillo had been ousted in 1997. Fuelled by alcohol and crisps,
some young aides started prancing on the dance floor. Beer glasses went flying
and one young woman fell off a table into a flower arrangement.

Though victory was not in sight, at least a backlash was under way against Tony
Blair. In England, the Tories were heading towards polling nearly 60,000 more
votes overall than Labour, even though they would end up with far fewer seats in
parliament.

In Folkestone Michael Howard, the party leader, looked pleased as he attended
the count at 4.15am with Sandra, his wife.

"How's it going, Mr Howard?" called out a reporter.

"Very well," he replied. To many he was secure in his job, having hauled the
Conservatives back to mount a respectable challenge. But Howard already had made
up his mind to resign.

The decision was taken "some time ago", according to a friend. He had decided he
would stay only if the Tories won or there was a hung parliament and an imminent
rerun of the election. In the event,the Tories had gained 36 seats, lost three
and had nudged their share of the vote up from 31.7% to 33.2%. But it was still
their third successive defeat, and they had ended up with just 197 seats. The
party still had a mountain to climb.

Furthermore, as a senior figure close to Lynton Crosby, the Tory campaign chief,
admitted: "The trouble is we have found that, although people hate Blair, they
didn't warm to Michael."

When Howard announced later on Friday that he would be quitting to give his
successor time to create a winning machine for the next election, speculation
about the future leadership erupted within minutes. Was David Davis, the shadow
home secretary, the frontrunner? Might Sir Malcolm Rifkind, an old one- nation
Tory, be a contender? What about Liam Fox, the party co-chairman?

To complicate matters, it emerged that Howard aims to reform the leadership
election procedure before stepping down. This means he may well stay to the end
of the year, because the rule changes will first be debated by the National
Conservative Convention -a 1,000-strong body of election agents, local chairmen
and members of the party's executive board -and finalised at the party
conference in the autumn.

At present, under rules introduced by William Hague in 1999, all 300,000 members
of the party have a vote. As a result, Iain Duncan Smith became leader with
grassroots support but without the strength that mattered -at Westminster.
Howard wants to "bring the choice back within the parliamentary party", now
infused with 33 additional MPs.

This cannot be welcome to Davis, who would probably be the clear choice of the
grassroots but is not widely liked by fellow MPs or trusted in the Howard camp.

Though he is the bookies' favourite, he scored poorly among his parliamentary
colleagues when he stood for leader in 2001.

"David believes in climbing one mountain at a time," said a close friend. "He
also believes that he who wields the dagger, loses the crown."

He is known to be keeping a close eye on Fox, potentially his biggest rival.

Privately there is no love lost between the two men.

John Redwood, another rightwinger and the former Welsh secretary, refused to
rule himself in or out on Friday. But "the Vulcan" may be considered too extreme
by most of his colleagues.

Rifkind, who returns to the Commons in the safe seat of Kensington and Chelsea,
refused to be drawn on his intentions, merely saying it would be some months
before the race kicked off. An Edinburgh lawyer, he was one of the few
Conservatives to come out against the Iraq war. But to many he would be seen as
yet another caretaker leader rather than a trailblazer.

Some insiders hope Howard is playing a clever game to ensure that David Cameron,
the 38-year-old MP for Witney and Conservative party policy co-ordinator, is
lined up later this year as the "Blair of the Tory party".

He is one of the leaders of the so-called Notting Hill set, a close-knit group
of thirty-somethings intent on dragging the party into the 21st century.The
election result has strengthened their resolve.

Most share privileged backgrounds and the liberal attitudes prevalent in the
cafe society of London W11.

With Cameron at the heart of the group is George Osborne, the shadow chief
secretary. They are often compared to the young Blair and Gordon Brown.

Both were given high-profile media roles during the election while more senior
colleagues, including several shadow cabinet members, were relegated to
obscurity.

It has rankled: the Notting Hill set are not universally popular.

"Some of them are okay as individuals," said one MP. "But as a group they exude
the kind of smugness that has lost the Tory party so much support since the
1980s."

There are also social and ideological differences within the group itself. As
their influence has risen, so has their mutual suspicion.

Cameron has a classic Tory background: Eton, Oxford and special adviser at the
Treasury. His father-in-law is a landed baronet, Sir Reginald Sheffield. But he
has a genuine concern with issues of poverty. Many previously suspicious
observers warmed to the young MP as he talked movingly on BBC Question Time
about his oldest child, Ivan, who is severely disabled.

Osborne also has a patrician background. His father, Sir Peter, is a baronet.
His wife Frances is the daughter of Lord Howell, the former cabinet minister.

Politically harder-edged than Cameron, the Tatton MP is one of the few Tories
who is enthusiastic about President George W Bush and is intellectually
comfortable with neoconservatism.

Alongside this duo, and very much their equal, is Rachel Whetstone, Howard's
political secretary, who is described by one insider as "so dynamic she makes
Margaret Thatcher seem like Jade from Big Brother".

Another key member of the set is Ed Vaizey, who won Wantage. A former Howard
speechwriter, he is the son of a Labour economist turned peer. He was the best
man for Michael Gove, the talented new MP for ultra-safe Surrey Heath.

A former Times journalist, Gove is distinguished from the others by his modest
roots. The adopted son of a fishmonger from Aberdeen, he went to Oxford as an
outsider but captured many prizes, including presidency of the Oxford Union.
Such glittering success may be why Portillo identified Gove as a future Tory
leader.

The W11 group has a general desire to move away from the moral censoriousness of
Ann Widdecombe, the free-market zealotry of Howard Flight -the former MP sacked
before the election for stepping put of line over tax cuts -and the sheer
oddness of Redwood.

They want to move towards a party that, in the words of one member of the set,
"has the common touch, doesn't turn its values into dogma and defines itself by
what it's for rather than what it's against".

They argue that only if the party finds a leader able to broaden its appeal will
it break out of its traditional territory over the next few years and win the
support of the 40% or more of voters it needs to seize power.

THAT ambition is far from impossible. The Tories, despite their defeat, have a
firm base across southern England. Few splodges of red were visible as the south
went to the polls on Thursday morning. The fields were Tory blue, the market
towns tinged with Liberal Democrat yellow. Labour posters were as rare as hen's
teeth.

Under bright skies, rural England had gathered at Badminton, Gloucestershire,
for the first day of the annual horse trials. People had risen early and
travelled far to get there, but they had still found time to vote -and their
mood was clear. An old farmer sported a prominent badge that read: "Bollocks to
Blair".

"We got up at 7am and voting was the first thing we did," said a young builder
from Lincolnshire. "I'd like the Tories to win."

A local farmworker said he was backing the Conservatives "because of the hunting
business".

"The concern of rural people is that the present government doesn't give a damn
for the countryside," said another. "They hate us. Obviously there's hunting,
but there's also the economy, village shops, schools, transport."

"We don't all live in manor houses and have lots of land, you know. We live in
normal houses."

The strength of rural and semi-rural England made itself felt as the votes were
counted. From Land's End to the Wash, the rural south was predominantly blue or
yellow.

In the southwest, the Tories captured 38% of the vote; Labour managed only 22%.
In the southeast, the Tories stormed to 45%; Labour managed 24%. In the eastern
region, the Tories took 43%; Labour notched up 29%.

But capturing these areas is not enough. In Scotland, much of the north of
England and the great conurbations, Labour retain a commanding lead.
Demographics are partly the cause. Over decades, many potential Tory voters have
moved out to suburban or semi-rural areas, leaving the densely populated cities
to Labour.

Sunderland South is a safe Labour seat with just over 60,000 registered voters;
but the Tory seat of the Isle of Wight has nearly 110,000.

How can the Tories broaden their culture and policies to woo these areas? In the
debate about how to reform the party -and who should do it -there are two broad
alternatives, one based on Blair, the other on President Bush.

Blair shook up old Labour by ousting the extremist core and restructuring his
party's voting system. He stole the centre ground by dumping ideology and
promoting more pragmatic and inclusive policies.

Bush's Republicans took a different tack, moving voters to the right. The
formula: aggressive tax cuts combined with a powerful appeal to America's moral
majority.

While the Notting Hill set reflect the Blair strategy, Davis is probably in the
Bush school. He is a hardline Eurosceptic (he was once described as "Monsieur
Non" when he was minister for Europe) who believes in the death penalty in
certain circumstances and would be tough on immigration -all policies that
appeal to the party grassroots.

Also adding impetus to the revitalising of the party, however, are new MPs such
as Adam Afriyie, a millionaire black businessman who won Windsor. He is the
Tories' first Afro-Caribbean MP.

On Friday he said he hoped to "bring back a sense of pride in being British, in
controlling immigration, in making sure taxes are fairer and government waste
reduced".

Greening, the new MP for Putney, was also prepared to be bold, saying: "People
in this area have looked at the low taxes and good services run by their Tory
council of Wandsworth and have said, 'Why can't we have this at a national
level?'"

The rising number of younger MPs gives hope to the modernisers.

"The party will now have about two-thirds of MPs who did not serve under John
Major," said Archie Norman, the businessman who retired as an MP at the
election.

"The fact there are now more modernisers hopefully than traditionalists in the
forefront will help."

Plenty of problems remain for the Conservatives, even if they can choose between
a lurch to the right and an invasion of the centre. The question of how to deal
with the European Union, which is trying to agree a constitution, has never gone
away.

At the election the UK Independence party (UKIP), which advocates withdrawal
from the EU, was a nagging presence. By scooping up 2% or so of the votes in
some areas it prevented the Tories winning more seats. In Battersea, Labour
clung on by just 163 votes when UKIP took 333.

But if the French reject the constitution in their referendum later this month,
putting the whole process in jeopardy, they may draw the sting of the European
dilemma.

Then there is the question of tax and public spending. The Tories are split on
whether they need to return to the 1980s agenda of aggressive tax cuts.

While some say this is the only way to establish a clear policy difference from
Labour, others argue that the party must first re-establish its reputation for
economic competence, respect for the public services and leave thinking about
tax-cut promises for later.

That still leaves the Liberal Democrats to be tackled. Some of the biggest
swings from Labour benefited the Lib Dems, not the Tories, who failed to stem
the yellow tide in the West Country.

The danger is that the Lib Dems will continue to bleed support from the Tories.

Also, Labour voters who defected to the Lib Dems in protest against Blair will
return to the party under a Gordon Brown premiership.

So despite last week's upbeat reaction to giving Blair a bloody nose, insiders
recognise the Conservative party still has a long road to travel.

"We have got to have an immediate reality check," said one moderniser. "We can't
bask in any kind of glory. It may have felt like a victory when we were taking
seats like Newbury, but we are still flatlining."


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus: Election 2005

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 8, 2005, Sunday

Gordon can smile. Tony and the Tories are buried

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: Features; News; 21

LENGTH: 1389 words


In the small hours of Friday morning it was difficult to find a happy politician
in Britain. Tony Blair speaking at his count in Sedgefield had the look of a man
who had lost.

Michael Howard did a better job at smiling and claimed that the Conservatives
had made progress. In fact they had polled no better than in 2001 and had won
fewer seats than Labour did under Michael Foot in the massacre of 1983, a
reality Howard recognised by resigning within hours.

Charles Kennedy's Liberal Democrats increased their parliamentary representation
by about a fifth, but that is not enough to transform their position. Since
doubling their seats in 1997, progress has been slow.

The man with most to celebrate was Gordon Brown. Labour's majority over the
Conservatives remains huge, which makes it highly likely that it will win again
in 2009. That is an ideal scenario for the man who believes that he will move
into No10 during this parliament.

Brown is credited with having played a big role in securing Labour's historic
third election win in a row. In truth we shall never know whether seeing Blair
and Brown apparently joined at the hip during the campaign had any effect on its
outcome.

With his eager support for the prime minister (even on Iraq) the chancellor
looked loyal and magnanimous, a remarkable achievement for a sulky man who
before the campaign would not even pick up the telephone to his boss.

Blair was evidently shaken by the election result. He likes to be popular and
must be stung by the collapse in Labour's vote. Hence that lugubrious victor's
speech in Sedgefield.

His downbeat tone was a miscalculation because it suggested that Labour had done
worse than it had. Before the election some commentators had suggested that if
Blair won by 70 seats or more he would be safe from a challenge by Brown. As
luck would have it he fell just short. So Labour politicians began the battle of
spin at once and figures such as Lord Hattersley argued that the result was so
disappointing that Blair should quickly make way for Brown. Blair's own
demeanour suggested that Hattersley was right.

But given how much support Labour lost it was extraordinary that the Tories'
share of the poll hardly rose. Indeed, since at this election the United Kingdom
Independence party was less of a threat than in 1997 or 2001, the Conservatives
could be argued to have done even worse than last time.

When John Major was defeated eight years ago no Tory would have imagined that
two elections later the party would still not have clawed back even to 200 seats
or one third of the poll. The party's gains this time were mainly in southeast
England. The failure to make much progress elsewhere makes it particularly hard
to see how it could win in 2009.

In the game of reducing expectations, some Tories briefed ahead of the election
that 200 seats would be a good score. It was not achieved. Anyway the test that
mattered was whether the party would be in a position to win next time. By that
measure the result is a failure. That must have weighed with Howard.

The Conservatives should be grateful for small mercies. Had they not gained
seats (by a fluke of the electoral system) it would be more evident that in
percentage terms the Liberal Democrats had moved closer to their eventual aim of
overtaking the Tories. So there is more to Kennedy's claim to offer "the real
alternative" than his modest gain of parliamentary seats would suggest.

Those in the Labour party who are hostile to Blair claim that he has passed from
being an electoral asset to a liability. That is fatuous, given his
unprecedented success in winning elections for Labour.

In any case it misses the point. Blair, like Margaret Thatcher before him, wins
elections not because of his popularity but because he started by destroying the
opposition, leaving the electorate with no alternative. Both he and Thatcher
demolished the intellectual self-confidence of their opponents, leaving them
rudderless and squabbling among themselves about which way to go.

Blair was able to occupy the middle ground of politics and to appeal to the
middle classes in a way that Brown could not have. The Tories have been left
having to choose between mimicking Blair and opposing him from the right. No
wonder they are in disarray. Even Blair's war on Iraq, although it carried
political risks, had the effect of further marginalising the Conservatives
because they had nothing distinctive to say.

When divisions consumed the Labour party in the early 1980s it split in two.
Many MPs defected to the new alliance of Social Democrats and Liberals. The
disaster of the split coming on top of the catastrophe of Labour's general
election results produced the necessary sense of panic. Labour had to accept
huge policy changes.

It entered a pact with Blair, a man capable of leading them to victory.

The split in the Labour party was the catalyst for change. The tragedy of the
Tory party is that it will not split. The factions will lock horns and stay
together.

Spin doctors among the Tories will now compete to interpret last week's result.

The party will be nervous about electing Howard's successor. He was the first
leader for some years who was not a calamity in the job. As the party moves
towards that leadership election the different factions will tussle over
competing prescriptions for the future.

With the gain of 30 seats there is some ammunition for those who believe that
the party was on the right lines during this election with its populist appeals
to working-class voters and just has to give one more heave next time. But since
the party's vote haul is still flatlining from one election to the next, there
are good grounds for modernisers to argue that fighting on right-wing issues
such as immigration has been tried repeatedly and fails every time.

The numbers in those two groups are fairly evenly matched and it is unlikely
that the new intake to the Commons will alter the balance much. The most likely
thing is that the debate will remain unresolved all through the coming
parliament.

Once more, electoral disaster will not shock the party into change. Party
spokesmen's initial reactions to the Tories' third electoral humiliation were
highly complacent. The Tories, who used to be the natural party of government,
now sound upbeat about gaining 30 seats even though their progress is thanks to
fewer people voting Labour, not more backing the Conservatives.

It is doubtful whether any of the potential leaders could settle on a strategy
and impose it. The young contenders George Osborne and David Cameron have become
familiar figures during the campaign, but still nobody knows what they believe
in.

David Davis has the advantage over both men in that he does not look like a Tory
boy. He would have the backing of the party's right and he just might turn out
to be a Trojan horse for the reformers. The overt modernisers do not have an
obvious candidate. The most coherent advocate of change is Alan Duncan, but he
would struggle to attract enough support in the MPs' ballot.

On past form the party will eventually elect a rightwinger. He will flirt
briefly with moving the party to the centre before getting scared that he might
lose core voters and reverting to Daily Mail-style issues. If Blair holds a
referendum on the European constitution, Tory divisions on Europe will return to
the fore.

Conservative opposition to the constitution will win some supporters but it will
also remind voters that the Tories are unattractively fanatical on the issue.

Labour has reason to be disappointed by its miserable score in the popular vote
even though it will have no difficulty in governing. But from the Labour point
of view the Conservative result is ideal. Tories will bicker over diametrically
opposed analyses. For some time they will be absorbed with fighting each other
over the way forward, before again settling on a compromise between the
divergent views. It will necessarily be full of contradictions.

At the next election they will be pitched against a radical but coherent
programme for extending social justice put forward by Brown, the prime minister.
No wonder that on election night he looked so pleased.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 08, 2005, Sunday

Memos from the Demos

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 026

LENGTH: 44 words

I calculate that if the UK Independence Party votes were added to the
Conservative ones, the Tories would have won a further 22 seats in the election.
Perhaps the Ukip leaders might reflect on how their cause can be best served.

Peter Taylor

Sheerness, Kent

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              68 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 08, 2005, Sunday

LOSERS' LESSONS Ukip scuppered the Eurosceptics

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: News; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 219 words

The untold story of the election was the absurdly disproportionate impact of the
UK Independence Party. Although their vote may have looked derisory, in no fewer
than 26 seats where the Tories narrowly lost, including Harlow yesterday, the
Ukip vote was greater than the winner's majority. If most of those votes had
gone to the Tories (a fair assumption) they would thus have won 26 more seats,
Labour 17 fewer, the Lib Dems nine fewer. This would have wiped out most of the
Lib Dems' 11 net gains, giving them only two seats more than in 2001. Mr Blair's
majority would have been cut to a mere 32.

Ukip's net effect may thus have been not only to cost the Tories a swathe of
seats such as Battersea, Hove, Torbay and Westmoreland, but to deprive the
Commons of strongly Eurosceptic MPs, while assisting the return of Europhiles.
In Eastleigh, for instance, Ukip kept out the Eurosceptic Conor Burns, ensuring
that it was held for the Lib Dems by Chris Huhne, a rabidly Europhile former
Euro-MP.

An unresolved riddle of the 2005 election must therefore be what might have been
the result of Michael Howard taking a more robustly intelligent line on the
"European" issue, rather than stuffing it away out of sight. If the Tories hope
to win next time, this is one of the first lessons they must ponder.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              69 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 08, 2005, Sunday

ELECTION 2005 The return of the faithful The striking gains made by the
Conservatives on above average swings in London and the South-East was the best
news the party received on election night,writes JOHN CURTICE

BYLINE: By JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: News; International; Pg. 023

LENGTH: 1108 words

Thursday's election threw up the unexpected. The Liberal Democrats won seats
from Labour rather than the Conservatives. Labour's majority of 66 was
substantially less than the conventional uniform swing calculations suggested a
three-point national lead would bring. And Labour still managed to win despite
losing the constituency that had been symbolic of its 1997 landslide, Michael
Portillo's former Enfield Southgate seat.

These unexpected patterns have already helped generate some myths. One is that
Thursday's contests were more like 646 diverse local contests than a single
national one. In practice, the results varied little more from place to place at
this election than they did last time. By standard statistical measures the
variation in Conservative and Labour performance -- that is how much they were
up or down -- varied no more from constituency to constituency at this election
than at the last one. Only the Liberal Democrat performance varied a bit more,
but that is always inclined to be more variable.

What the variation in Liberal Democrat performance did throw up was a new
electoral map in which the party is now almost as effective a challenger to
Labour as it is to the Conservatives. The Liberal Democrats typically made
little or no advance where they were contesting a seat with the Conservatives.
They often made substantial progress where Labour were previously strong. As a
result, whereas before Thursday there were far more Conservative/Liberal
Democrat battles than Labour/Liberal Democrat ones, now the numbers are more
equal.

However, it would be a mistake to think that the Liberal Democrats have emerged
from this election as a more left-wing or Old Labour alternative to New Labour.
The kinds of constituency where the party made most progress were not the
traditional white working-class constituencies that are supposedly the
heartlands of Old Labour values. Rather, it was constituencies with high ethnic
minority and especially Muslim populations where the Liberal Democrats advanced
most, together with those seats with high proportions of "chattering class"
professionals and students, especially university towns. As a result, it is
Labour's vote that became more Old Labour on Thursday, not the Liberal
Democrats'.

Nor is it clear that the Liberal Democrats failed to make ground where they were
engaged in a battle with the Conservatives because their policies were too left
wing for the local electorate. What was striking in these seats was not a
particularly strong Conservative performance but rather a failure of the Labour
vote to fall as much as it did elsewhere. In part, this may have been because
the Labour vote had already been squeezed locally and so there were fewer Labour
voters left for the Liberal Democrats to capture. But perhaps it might also have
been the result of Labour's attempts to dissuade Labour voters from defecting to
the Liberal Democrats in order to ensure that Mr Howard did not enter 10 Downing
Street by the "back door". If so, then ironically that campaign may have
actually helped Mr Howard win some seats he might not otherwise have secured.
But it was not just the pattern of how the Liberal Democrat performance varied
that was striking. This is also true of the Conservatives. The party made some
striking gains on above average swings in London, including Putney and
Wimbledon, as well as Enfield Southgate.

Indeed, these gains were part of a more general pattern in which the commuter
heartlands of Outer London and its immediate periphery defected from Labour in
unusually high numbers, but then, in contrast to the rest of the country --
including more ethnically diverse inner London constituencies -- switched to the
Conservatives rather than the Liberal Democrats.

Here perhaps are signs of an electorate that was begun to be won back to the
Conservative cause by a combination of a loss of economic confidence -- house
prices have risen least here over the last four years -- and poor public
services, including public transport. Even so, these are no more than mildly
encouraging signs that the party might be able to profit in four years time if
such circumstances were to pertain more widely. The Conservative vote still only
rose by a couple of points in London commuterland and the party was still easily
outperformed locally by the Liberal Democrats.

However, thanks to the presence of a number of key marginals in this part of
Britain, the marginally better Conservative performance produced some important
dividends, including gains from the Liberal Democrats as well as Labour. This
was one of the reasons why Labour's majority was lower than much pre-election
commentary had assumed would occur if the party had a three point lead. Another
was the success of the Liberal Democrats in capturing a dozen Labour seats. But,
in addition, the pattern of Labour marginals was such that there were more seats
that the party would lose on swings just above the national figure of 3 per cent
than it would save on swings just below, a feature that meant that any random
variation around the national swing was bound to result in a lower majority than
the pre-election calculations had assumed.

Even so, the electoral system still remains biased in Labour's favour -- if the
Conservatives had been three points ahead nationally they would have won no more
than 250 seats and would still have been more than 50 behind Labour. Perhaps
another thing still biased towards Labour are the opinion polls. Although one of
the final polls, NOP's, was in line with the outcome, the remainder slightly
over-estimated Labour's lead. The pollsters may need to look again at their
methods while the Conservatives might perhaps begin to think about the merits of
electoral reform.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

Election facts

In England, the Conservatives polled 35.65 per cent of the vote (8,102,662),
Labour 35.40 per cent (8,044,695). Labour, however, won 93 more seats than the
Tories in England

UKIP lost pounds 225,000 when 450 of its candidates across the country failed to
secure enough votes to return their deposits

Sunderland South, the constituency which prides itself on its quick
declarations, beat its own record of 43 minutes. The result was announced 15
seconds quicker than in 2001

The highest turn-out was Hampshire East with 90.57 per cent, while the lowest
was Liverpool with 41.5 per cent

Catherine Taylor-Dawson, for the Vote for Yourself Rainbow Dream Ticket in
Cardiff North, was the lowest-polling candidate, with one vote

A record number of women - 125 - were elected

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              70 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 7, 2005

The only clear winners were the opinion polls

BYLINE: DAVID BUTLER

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 579 words


A WIN is a win. Whatever other conclusions we can draw from the voting patterns,
we must first acknowledge that for Labour to have come out top in three
elections in a row is without precedent for the party.

Tony Blair can feel good. But so, in a way, can the other parties. For each, the
outcome is perhaps best described as a 'disappointing success'.

In fact, the only clear winners were the opinion polls. Each of the six final
surveys by the major polling firms came comfortably within an acceptable margin
of error and each confirmed that there had been very little net movement of
voters' opinion during the campaign.

The Liberal Democrats had most to boast about. They achieved their best position
in seats since 1923 and their highest vote since they were re-founded in 1989.
They established bridgeheads in Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester and Leeds and
they elected new MPs in Scotland and Wales.

For the first time, their gains were in Labour instead of Conservative
territory. They pushed their candidates into second place in countless
constituencies.

Yet they will be disappointed to have won only 62 seats. Their claim to be the
'real alternative' can hardly be sustained when the Conservative have three
times as many seats.

For their part, the Conservatives could be pleased with their gains in Wales and
the South-East. They had escaped disaster. But their share of the total vote
remained obstinately at the same level 33 per cent as the previous election.

Apart from in London, they are still without representation in the major cities
and they ended 130 seats away from a clear majority.

For Labour, the battles are not over. The party's 60-seat lead will undoubtedly
demand new tactics from a leadership used to a 160-seat majority.

Furthermore, the Government's new mandate is based upon 36 per cent of the
national vote, the lowest figure ever for a single-party British government.

The turnout, too, left much to be desired. Despite the advent of widespread
postal voting, the total was 61 per cent two per cent up from the last
election's abysmal low, but still 10 per cent less than in any other election
from 1920 to 2000.

Some sections of the media characterised this vote as the most boring election
campaign ever. But having studied British elections for half a century, I can
think of previous contests which contained only a fraction of the cut and thrust
or interchange of argument that we have seen over the past month.

And above all, election night itself was of exceptional interest.

The triumph of the Independent candidate, Peter Law, in Blaenau Gwent saw
Labour's 19,000 majority demolished on the single issue of all-women shortlists.
This was followed by George Galloway's spectacular performance in Bethnal Green.

The collapse of UKIP and Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas were significant and so
too were the patchy advances of the British National Party.

BUT perhaps the most important trend was the way in which the uneven pattern of
Liberal Democrat and Conservative gains suggested a significant development in
national politics. Britain's simple two-party system has for a long time been
developing into a two and a half party system.

But today, different places offer different conflicts: Conservative/ Labour, or
Conservative/LibDem or, increasingly, LibDem/Labour.

If this trend continues at the next election, the results could be even more
unpredictable.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              71 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 07, 2005, Saturday

Election 2005

SECTION: News Pg. 002

LENGTH: 19035 words

1 Aberavon *Dr Hywel Francis (Lab)18,07760.05

Claire Waller (LD)4,14013.75

Philip Evans (PC)3,54511.78

Annunziata Rees-Mogg (C)3,06410.18

Walter Wright (Veritas)7682.55

Miranda La Vey (Green)5101.69

Maj. 13,93746.30

Lab hold.Swing 3.57 Lab to LD.

Electorate 51,080. Turnout 58.94%

June 2001: Francis Lab 19,063 (63.14%). Turnbull PC 2,955 (9.79%). Davies LD
2,933 (9.72%). Miraj C 2,296 (7.61%). Tutton RP 1,960 (6.49%). Beany Bean 727
(2.41%). Chapman Soc All 256 (0.85%). Turnout 60.79%.

Hywel Francis, 59. Scion of Welsh political establishment who opposed Iraq
invasion. MP since 2001.

2 Aberdeen North +Frank Doran (Lab)15,55742.47

Steve Delaney (LD)8,76223.92

Kevin Stewart (SNP)8,16822.30

David Anderson (C)3,4569.43

John Connon (SSP)6911.89

Maj. 6,79518.55

Lab hold. Electorate 65,714. Turnout 55.75%

June 2001: Lab 19,365 (49.29%). SNP 10,071 (25.63%). LD 4,806 (12.23%). C 4,111
(10.46%). SSP 935 (2.38%). Turnout 56.43%.

Frank Doran, 56. Former Left-winger who became loyal Blairite. MP 1987 to 1992,
and since 1997.

3 Aberdeen South +Anne Begg (Lab)15,27236.69

Vicki Harris (LD)13,92433.45

Stewart Whyte (C)7,13417.14

Maureen Watt (SNP)4,1209.90

Rhonda Reekie (Green)7681.85

Donald Munro (SSP)4030.97

Maj. 1,3483.24

Lab hold. Electorate 67,012. Turnout 62.11%

June 2001: Lab 15,753 (38.04%). LD 11,822 (28.55%). C 8,202 (19.81%). SNP 5,065
(12.23%). SSP 566 (1.37%). Turnout 59.72%.

Anne Begg, 54. Classic Blairite moderniser who is pro-EU, pro-devolution and
pro-PR. Confined to a wheelchair by brittle bone disease. MP since 1997.

4 Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine +Sir Robert Smith (LD)19,28546.30

Alex Johnstone (C)11,81428.37

James Barrowman (Lab)5,47013.13

Caroline Little (SNP)4,70011.29

Lorna Grant (SSP)3790.91

Maj. 7,47117.94

LD hold. Electorate 65,548. Turnout 63.54%

June 2001: LD 16,840 (43.97%). C 11,694 (30.53%). Lab 4,696 (12.26%). SNP 4,648
(12.14%). SSP 424 (1.11%). Turnout 61.56%.

Sir Robert Smith, 47. Baronet. Strong interest in rural affairs. MP since 1997.

5 Airdrie & Shotts +Dr John Reid (Lab)19,56859.01

Malcolm Balfour (SNP)5,48416.54

Helen Watt (LD)3,79211.44

Stuart Cottis (C)3,2719.86

Fraser Coats (SSP)7062.13

Joseph Rowan (Scot Ind)3371.02

Maj. 14,08442.48

Lab hold. Electorate 61,955. Turnout 53.52%

June 2001: Lab 20,125 (58.63%). SNP 6,580 (19.17%). LD 2,697 (7.86%). C 2,100
(6.12%). Others 1,548 (4.51%). SSP 1,278 (3.72%). Turnout 54.22%.

John Reid, 58. Plain-speaking Health Secretary and one of Tony Blair's most
trusted henchmen. Rowed over BBC "attack dog" label. MP since 1987.

6 Aldershot *Gerald Howarth (C)20,57242.73

Adrian Collett (LD)15,23831.65

Howard Linsley (Lab)9,89520.55

Derek Rumsey (UKIP)1,1822.46

Gary Cowd (Eng Dem)7011.46

Howling Lord Hope (Loony)5531.15

Maj. 5,33411.08

C hold.Swing 1.74 C to LD.

Electorate 78,553. Turnout 61.28%

June 2001: Howarth C 19,106 (42.19%). Collett LD 12,512 (27.63%). Akehurst Lab
11,394 (25.16%). Rumsey UKIP 797 (1.76%). Stacey Green 630 (1.39%). Pendragon
Ind 459 (1.01%). Hope Loony 390 (0.86%). Turnout 57.87%.

Gerald Howarth, 57. Continuing torch-bearer for Thatcherism. MP 1983 to 1992,
here since 1997.

7 Aldridge-Brownhills *Richard Shepherd (C)18,74447.39

Jon Phillips (Lab)13,23733.46

Roy Sheward (LD)4,86212.29

William Vaughan (BNP)1,6204.10

Graham Eardley (UKIP)1,0932.76

Maj. 5,50713.92

C hold.Swing 1.98 Lab to C.

Electorate 61,761. Turnout 64.05%

June 2001: Shepherd C 18,974 (50.18%). Geary Lab 15,206 (40.22%). Howes LD 3,251
(8.60%). Rothery Soc All 379 (1.00%). Turnout 60.60%.

Richard Shepherd, 62. Career backbencher and libertarian who takes pride in his
reputation as party maverick and "whipless wonder". MP since 1979.

8 Altrincham & Sale West *Graham Brady (C)20,56946.42

John Stockton (Lab)13,41030.26

Ian Chappell (LD)9,59521.65

Gary Peart (UKIP)7361.66

Maj. 7,15916.16

C hold.Swing 4.70 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,247. Turnout 65.89%

June 2001: Brady C 20,113 (46.16%). Baugh Lab 17,172 (39.41%). Gaskell LD 6,283
(14.42%). Turnout 60.66%.

Graham Brady, 37. Shadow minister for Europe. Tories' youngest MP in 1997.

9 Alyn & Deeside +Mark Tami (Lab)17,33148.83

Lynne Hale (C)8,95325.22

Paul Brighton (LD)6,17417.39

Richard Coombs (PC)1,3203.72

William Crawford (UKIP)9182.59

Klaus Armstrong-Braun (FWP)3781.06

Judith Kilshaw (Ind)2150.61

Glyn Davies (Comm Brit)2070.58

Maj. 8,37823.60

Lab hold.Swing 1.22 Lab to C.

Electorate 58,939. Turnout 60.22%

June 2001: Tami Lab 18,525 (52.30%). Isherwood C 9,303 (26.26%). Burnham LD
4,585 (12.94%). Coombs PC 1,182 (3.34%). Armstrong-Braun Green 881 (2.49%).
Crawford UKIP 481 (1.36%). Cooksey Ind 253 (0.71%). Davies Comm 211 (0.60%).
Turnout 58.57%.

Mark Tami, 42. Backbencher with conviction that compulsory voting is the answer.
MP since 2001.

10 Amber Valley *Judy Mallaber (Lab)21,59345.56

Gillian Shaw (C)16,31834.43

Kate Smith (LD)6,22513.14

Paul Snell (BNP)1,2432.62

Alexander Stevenson (Veritas)1,2242.58

Hugh Price (UKIP)7881.66

Maj. 5,27511.13

Lab hold.Swing 2.55 Lab to C.

Electorate 75,376. Turnout 62.87%

June 2001: Mallaber Lab 23,101 (51.90%). Shaw C 15,874 (35.66%). Smith LD 5,538
(12.44%). Turnout 60.32%.

Judy Mallaber, 53. Fast-talking former member of Communist Party who makes
enthusiastic speeches in praise of New Labour legislation. MP since 1997.

11 Angus *Mike Weir (SNP)12,84033.65

Sandy Bushby (C)11,25029.48

Doug Bradley (Lab)6,85017.95

Scott Rennie (LD)6,66017.45

Alan Manley (SSP)5561.46

Maj. 1,5904.17

SNP hold. Electorate 63,093. Turnout 60.48%

June 2001: SNP 11,595 (33.16%). C 11,063 (31.64%). Lab 6,386 (18.26%). LD 5,157
(14.75%). SSP 663 (1.90%). Others 102 (0.29%). Turnout 54.13%.

Michael Weir, 48. Environmentalist ex-solicitor whose zeal - he first stood in
1987 - was interrupted by a career as a solicitor. MP since 2001.

15 Argyll & Bute +Alan Reid (LD)15,78636.52

James McGrigor (C)10,15023.48

Carolyn Manson (Lab)9,69622.43

Isobel Strong (SNP)6,71615.54

Deirdre Henderson (SSP)8812.04

Maj. 5,63613.04

LD hold. Electorate 67,325. Turnout 64.21%

June 2001: LD 13,724 (32.82%). C 9,892 (23.66%). Lab 9,493 (22.70%). SNP 7,295
(17.45%). SSP 1,410 (3.37%). Turnout 60.10%. Alan Reid, 50. Pro-European who has
called for reform of the Common Agricultural Policy; also one of the best chess
players in the Commons. MP since 2001.

16 Arundel & South Downs

Nick Herbert (C)24,75249.81

Derek Deedman (LD)13,44327.05

Sharon Whitlam (Lab)8,48217.07

Andrew Moffat (UKIP)2,7005.43

Mark Stack (Protest)3130.63

Maj. 11,30922.76

C gain from Ind C.Swing 3.55 C to LD.

Electorate 72,535. Turnout 68.50%

June 2001: Flight C 23,969 (52.23%). Deedman LD 10,265 (22.37%). Taylor Lab
9,488 (20.68%). Perrin UKIP 2,167 (4.72%). Turnout 64.67%.

Nick Herbert, 42. Think-tank founder parachuted into seat formerly held by
Howard Flight, MP sacked for remarks about "secret" spending plans.

17 Ashfield *Geoff Hoon (Lab)20,43348.59

Giles Inglis-Jones (C)10,22024.30

Wendy Johnson (LD)5,82913.86

Roy Adkins (Ashfield)2,2925.45

Kathryn Allsop (Ind)1,9004.52

Sarah Hemstock (Veritas)1,1082.63

Eddie Grenfell (Ind Grenfell)2690.64

Maj. 10,21324.29

Lab hold.Swing 4.72 Lab to C.

Electorate 73,403. Turnout 57.29%

June 2001: Hoon Lab 22,875 (58.13%). Leigh C 9,607 (24.41%). Smith LD 4,428
(11.25%). Harby Ind 1,471 (3.74%). Watson Soc All 589 (1.50%). Howse Soc Lab 380
(0.97%). Turnout 53.59%.

Geoff Hoon, 51. Unflappable Defence Secretary who survived Hutton Inquiry and
"sexed up dossier" fiasco. MP since 1992.

18 Ashford *Damian Green (C)26,65151.56

Valerie Whitaker (Lab)13,35325.84

Chris Took (LD)8,30816.07

Richard Boden (Green)1,7533.39

Bernard Stroud (UKIP)1,6203.13

Maj. 13,29825.73

C hold.Swing 5.19 Lab to C.

Electorate 79,493. Turnout 65.02%

June 2001: Green C 22,739 (47.44%). Adams Lab 15,380 (32.08%). Fitchett LD 7,236
(15.09%). Boden Green 1,353 (2.82%). Waller UKIP 1,229 (2.56%). Turnout 62.50%.

Damian Green, 49. Quit front bench over John Redwood's political resurrection.
MP since 1997.

19 Ashton Under Lyne *David Heyes (Lab)21,21157.38

Graeme Brown (C)7,25919.64

Les Jones (LD)5,10813.82

Anthony Jones (BNP)2,0515.55

Dr John Whittaker (UKIP)7682.08

Jack Crossfield (Local)5701.54

Maj. 13,95237.74

Lab hold.Swing 2.82 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,000. Turnout 51.34%

June 2001: Heyes Lab 22,340 (62.47%). Charlesworth C 6,822 (19.08%). Fletcher LD
4,237 (11.85%). Woods BNP 1,617 (4.52%). Rolland Green 748 (2.09%). Turnout
49.11%.

David Heyes, 59. Backbencher whose rare controversies have included opposition
to Iraq war and foundation hospitals. MP since 2001.

20 Aylesbury *David Lidington (C)25,25349.07

Peter Jones (LD)14,18727.57

Mohammed Khaliel (Lab)9,54018.54

Christopher Adams (UKIP)2,4794.82

Maj. 11,06621.50

C hold.Swing 0.56 LD to C.

Electorate 82,428. Turnout 62.43%

June 2001: Lidington C 23,230 (47.32%). Jones LD 13,221 (26.93%). White Lab
11,388 (23.20%). Harper UKIP 1,248 (2.54%). Turnout 61.36%.

David Lidington, 48. Clever but low-profile politician whose first ambition was
to be a zoo-keeper, he became shadow Northern Ireland secretary. MP since 1992.

21 Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock +Sandra Osborne (Lab)20,43345.36

Mark Jones (C)10,43623.17

Colin Waugh (LD)6,34114.08

Charles Brodie (SNP)5,93213.17

Donald Sharp (SSCUP)5921.31

Murray Steele (SSP)5541.23

James McDaid (Soc Lab)3950.88

Bryan McCormack (UKIP)3650.81

Maj. 9,99722.19

Lab hold. Electorate 73,448. Turnout 61.33%

June 2001: Lab 23,941 (51.33%). C 11,554 (24.77%). SNP 6,385 (13.69%). LD 3,354
(7.19%). SSP 1,094 (2.35%). Others 315 (0.68%). Turnout 62.90%.

Sandra Osborne, 49. She resigned as PPS to Helen Liddell over the Iraq war, and
was a finalist for "Scottish Woman of the Year" in 1997, when she was first
elected.

22 Ayrshire Central +Brian Donohoe (Lab)19,90546.43

Garry Clark (C)9,48222.12

Iain Kennedy (LD)6,88116.05

Jahangir Hanif (SNP)4,96911.59

Denise Morton (SSP)8201.91

Robert Cochrane (Soc Lab)4681.09

Jim Groves (UKIP)3460.81

Maj. 10,42324.31

Lab hold. Electorate 68,643. Turnout 62.46%

June 2001: Lab 20,939 (49.20%). C 11,167 (26.24%). SNP 6,198 (14.56%). LD 2,706
(6.36%). SSP 1,225 (2.88%). Others 322 (0.76%). Turnout 61.53%.

Brian Donohoe, 56. Railways advocate who supports the renationalisation of
Railtrack; also known as a plain speaker. MP since 1992.

23 Ayrshire North & Arran

Katy Clark (Lab)19,41743.92

Stewart Connell (C)8,12118.37

Tony Gurney (SNP)7,93817.96

George White (LD)7,26416.43

Colin Turbett (SSP)7801.76

John Pursley (UKIP)3820.86

Louise McDaid (Soc Lab)3030.69

Maj. 11,29625.55

Lab hold. Electorate 72,986. Turnout 60.57%

June 2001: Lab 21,484 (48.37%). SNP 9,344 (21.04%). C 7,759 (17.47%). LD 3,898
(8.78%). SSP 1,408 (3.17%). Others 519 (1.17%). Turnout 60.69%.

Katy Clark, 37. A Unison official who stood unsuccessfully in 1992 replaces
Labour old-timer Brian Wilson in this new constituency.

24 Banbury *Tony Baldry (C)26,38246.94

Les Sibley (Lab)15,58527.73

Zoe Patrick (LD)10,07617.93

Alyson Duckmanton (Green)1,5802.81

Dianna Heimann (UKIP)1,2412.21

James Starkey (NF)9181.63

Christopher Rowe (YPB)4170.74

Maj. 10,79719.21

C hold.Swing 4.54 Lab to C.

Electorate 87,168. Turnout 64.47%

June 2001: Baldry C 23,271 (45.17%). Sibley Lab 18,052 (35.04%). Worgan LD 8,216
(15.95%). Cotton Green 1,281 (2.49%). Harris UKIP 695 (1.35%). Turnout 61.77%.

Tony Baldry, 54. Europhile and former frontbencher with extensive business
interests. MP since 1983.

25 Banff & Buchan *Alex Salmond (SNP)19,04451.17

Sandy Wallace (C)7,20719.37

Eleanor Anderson (LD)4,95213.31

Rami Okasha (Lab)4,47612.03

Victor Ross (OCV)6831.84

Kathleen Kemp (UKIP)4421.19

Steve Will (SSP)4121.11

Maj. 11,83731.81

SNP hold. Electorate 65,570. Turnout 56.76%

June 2001: SNP 17,408 (48.89%). C 7,664 (21.53%). LD 4,932 (13.85%). Lab 4,795
(13.47%). SSP 496 (1.39%). Others 310 (0.87%). Turnout 53.97%.

Alex Salmond, 50. Bright SNP schemer who describes himself as "single-minded".
Reversed decision to abandon Westminster at 2001 election. MP since 1987.

26 Barking *Margaret Hodge (Lab)13,82647.50

Keith Prince (C)4,94316.98

Richard Barnbrook (BNP)4,91616.89

Toby Wickenden (LD)3,41111.72

Terry Jones (UKIP)8032.76

Laurie Cleeland (Green)6182.12

Demetrious Panton (Ind)5301.82

Michael Saxby (WRP)590.20

Maj. 8,88330.52

Lab hold.Swing 3.71 Lab to C.

Electorate 57,658. Turnout 50.48%

June 2001: Hodge Lab 15,302 (60.90%). Weatherley C 5,768 (22.96%). Keppetipola
LD 2,450 (9.75%). Toleman BNP 1,606 (6.39%). Turnout 45.49%.

Margaret Hodge, 60. First-ever children's minister who kept her job after
falsely calling a sex abuse victim "seriously disturbed". MP since 1994.

27 Barnsley Central *Eric Illsley (Lab)17,47861.08

Miles Crompton (LD)4,74616.59

Peter Morel (C)3,81313.33

Geoff Broadley (BNP)1,4034.90

Donald Wood (Ind)1,1754.11

Maj. 12,73244.49

Lab hold.Swing 5.22 Lab to LD.

Electorate 60,592. Turnout 47.23%

June 2001: Illsley Lab 19,181 (69.64%). Hartley LD 4,051 (14.71%). McCord C
3,608 (13.10%). Rajch Soc All 703 (2.55%). Turnout 45.84%. Eric Illsley, 50.
Former mining union man who opposed the private financing of public services. MP
since 1987.

28 Barnsley East & Mexborough *Jeff Ennis (Lab)20,77962.92

Sharron Brook (LD)6,65420.15

Carolyn Abbott (C)4,85314.69

Terence Robinson (Soc Lab)7402.24

Maj. 14,12542.77

Lab hold.Swing 4.44 Lab to LD.

Electorate 66,941. Turnout 49.34%

June 2001: Ennis Lab 21,945 (67.50%). Brook LD 5,156 (15.86%). Offord C 4,024
(12.38%). Robinson Soc Lab 722 (2.22%). Savage UKIP 662 (2.04%). Turnout 49.51%.

Jeff Ennis, 52. Former schoolteacher who has helped rejuvenate his deprived
constituency but failed to find fame in Westminster. MP since 1996 by-election.

29 Barnsley West & Penistone *Michael Clapham (Lab)20,37255.28

Clive Watkinson (C)9,05824.58

Alison Brelsford (LD)7,42220.14

Maj. 11,31430.70

Lab hold.Swing 2.52 Lab to C.

Electorate 66,985. Turnout 55.02%

June 2001: Clapham Lab 20,244 (58.57%). Rowe C 7,892 (22.83%). Crompton LD 6,428
(18.60%). Turnout 52.94%.

Michael Clapham, 61. Former miner and a serial backbench rebel, he has voted
against the government in at least nine key polls. MP since 1992.

30 Barrow & Furness *John Hutton (Lab)17,36047.57

Bill Dorman (C)11,32331.03

Barry Rabone (LD)6,13016.80

Alan Beach (UKIP)7582.08

Timothy Bell (Bridges)4091.12

Brian Greaves (Veritas)3060.84

Helene Young (Ind)2070.57

Maj. 6,03716.54

Lab hold.Swing 4.40 Lab to C.

Electorate 61,883. Turnout 58.97%

June 2001: Hutton Lab 21,724 (55.67%). Airey C 11,835 (30.33%). Rabone LD 4,750
(12.17%). Smith UKIP 711 (1.82%). Turnout 60.27%.

John Hutton, 50. Health minister and party moderniser who once shared a flat
with Alan Milburn, Labour's election organiser. MP since 1992.

31 Basildon *Angela Smith (Lab Co-op)18,72043.39

Aaron Powell (C)15,57836.11

Martin Thompson (LD)4,47310.37

Emma Colgate (BNP)2,0554.76

Alix Blythe (UKIP)1,1432.65

Vikki Copping (Green)6621.53

Kim Gandy (Eng Dem)5101.18

Maj. 3,1427.28

Lab Co-op hold.Swing 5.82 Lab Co-op to C.

Electorate 73,912. Turnout 58.37%

June 2001: Smith Lab Co-op 21,551 (52.72%). Schofield C 13,813 (33.79%).
Smithard LD 3,691 (9.03%). Mallon UKIP 1,397 (3.42%). Duane Soc All 423 (1.03%).
Turnout 55.15%.

Angela Smith, 46. Dynamic centre-left activist and junior minister in the
Northern Ireland office; Coronation Street fan. MP since 1997.

32 Basingstoke

Maria Miller (C)19,95541.47

Paul Harvey (Lab)15,27531.74

Jen Smith (LD)9,95220.68

Peter Effer (UKIP)1,0442.17

Darren Shirley (Green)9281.93

Roger Robertson (BNP)8211.71

Roger Macnair (MC)1480.31

Maj. 4,6809.73

C gain from DUP.Swing 3.95 Lab to C.

Electorate 76,404. Turnout 62.98%

June 2001: Hunter C 20,490 (42.69%). Hartley Lab 19,610 (40.86%). Sollitt LD
6,693 (13.95%). Graham UKIP 1,202 (2.50%). Turnout 60.67%.

Maria Miller, 41. Former marketing consultant successfully defends a tiny Tory
majority, replacing Andrew Hunter, a Tory who joined the DUP.

33 Bassetlaw *John Mann (Lab)22,84756.63

Jonathan Sheppard (C)12,01029.77

David Dobbie (LD)5,48513.60

Maj. 10,83726.86

Lab hold.Swing 0.90 C to Lab.

Electorate 69,389. Turnout 58.14%

June 2001: Mann Lab 21,506 (55.29%). Holley C 11,758 (30.23%). Taylor LD 4,942
(12.71%). Meloy Soc Lab 689 (1.77%). Turnout 56.95%.

John Mann, 45. Right-leaning moderniser with a union past; he is a long-term
ally of fellow MP Phil Woolas. MP since 2001.

34 Bath *Don Foster (LD)20,10143.85

Sian Dawson (C)15,46333.74

Harriet Ajderian (Lab)6,77314.78

Eric Lucas (Green)2,4945.44

Richard Crowder (UKIP)7701.68

Patrick Cobbe (Ind)1770.39

Graham Walker (Ind W)580.13

Maj. 4,63810.12

LD hold.Swing 5.63 LD to C.

Electorate 66,824. Turnout 68.59%

June 2001: Foster LD 23,372 (50.48%). Fox C 13,478 (29.11%). Hawkings Lab 7,269
(15.70%). Boulton Green 1,469 (3.17%). Tettenborn UKIP 708 (1.53%). Turnout
64.87%.

Don Foster, 58. Affable reformer still best known for defeating Chris Patten, C,
in the 1992 election, MP since then.

35 Batley & Spen *Mike Wood (Lab)17,97445.84

Robert Light (C)12,18631.08

Neil Bentley (LD)5,73114.62

Colin Auty (BNP)2,6686.80

Clive Lord (Green)6491.66

Maj. 5,78814.76

Lab hold.Swing 0.81 C to Lab.

Electorate 62,948. Turnout 62.29%

June 2001: Wood Lab 19,224 (49.88%). Peacock C 14,160 (36.74%). Pinnock LD 3,989
(10.35%). Lord Green 595 (1.54%). Burton UKIP 574 (1.49%). Turnout 60.54%.

Mike Wood, 59. Quiet but persistent old Labour rebel and former probation
officer returns to the Commons. MP since 1997.

36 Battersea *Martin Linton (Lab)16,56940.36

Dominic Schofield (C)16,40639.97

Norsheen Bhatti (LD)6,00614.63

Hugo Charlton (Green)1,7354.23

Terence Jones (UKIP)3330.81

Maj. 1630.40

Lab hold.Swing 6.67 Lab to C.

Electorate 69,548. Turnout 59.02%

June 2001: Linton Lab 18,498 (50.26%). Shersby C 13,445 (36.53%). Vitelli LD
4,450 (12.09%). Barber Ind 411 (1.12%). Turnout 54.53%.

Martin Linton, 60. Former Guardian journalist who became PPS to Peter Hain as
Leader of the House; he survives in Tory target seat. MP since 1997.

37 Beaconsfield *Dominic Grieve (C)24,12655.43

Peter Chapman (LD)8,87320.39

Alex Sobel (Lab)8,42219.35

John Fagan (UKIP)2,1024.83

Maj. 15,25335.05

C hold.Swing 1.96 LD to C.

Electorate 68,083. Turnout 63.93%

June 2001: Grieve C 22,233 (52.75%). Lathrope Lab 9,168 (21.75%). Lloyd LD 9,117
(21.63%). Moffatt UKIP 1,626 (3.86%). Turnout 61.63%.

Dominic Grieve, 48. Shadow attorney general who impressed his party by holding
the Government to account on the recent, controversial terrorism bill. MP since
1997.

38 Beckenham *Jacqui Lait (C)22,18345.30

Liam Curran (Lab)13,78228.15

Jef Foulger (LD)10,86222.18

James Cartwright (UKIP)1,3012.66

Roderick Reed (Ind)8361.71

Maj. 8,40117.16

C hold.Swing 3.14 Lab to C.

Electorate 74,738. Turnout 65.51%

June 2001: Lait C 20,618 (45.25%). Watts Lab 15,659 (34.37%). Feakes LD 7,308
(16.04%). Moran Green 961 (2.11%). Pratt UKIP 782 (1.72%). Winfield Lib 234
(0.51%). Turnout 63.07%. Jacqui Lait, 57. Bubbly "school-marm" whose party
enthusiasm has been rewarded with the job of shadow home affairs minister. MP
here since 1997 by-election.

39 Bedford *Patrick Hall (Lab)17,55741.73

Richard Fuller (C)14,17433.69

Michael Headley (LD)9,06321.54

Peter Conquest (UKIP)9952.36

John McCready (Ind)2830.67

Maj. 3,3838.04

Lab hold.Swing 3.57 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,629. Turnout 59.57%

June 2001: Hall Lab 19,454 (47.94%). Attenborough C 13,297 (32.77%). Headley LD
6,425 (15.83%). Rawlins Ind 973 (2.40%). Lo Bianco UKIP 430 (1.06%). Turnout
59.88%.

Patrick Hall, 53. Half-Belgian and low-profile backbencher with an interest in
overcharging by banks. MP since 1997.

40 Bedfordshire Mid

Nadine Dorries (C)23,34546.30

Mark Chapman (LD)11,99023.78

Martin Lindsay (Lab)11,35122.51

Richard Joselyn (UKIP)1,3722.72

Ben Foley (Green)1,2922.56

Howard Martin (Veritas)7691.53

Saqhib Ali (Ind)3010.60

Maj. 11,35522.52

C gain from Ind C.Swing 5.51 C to LD.

Electorate 73,768. Turnout 68.35%

June 2001: Burt C 22,586 (49.92%). Ross Lab 14,009 (30.96%). Rogerson LD 7,409
(16.37%). Hill UKIP 1,242 (2.74%). Turnout 65.15%.

Nadine Dorries, 47. Glamorous businesswoman and former nurse steps into the
shoes of Jonathan Sayeed; she is also an adviser to shadow chancellor Oliver
Letwin.

41 Bedfordshire North East *Alistair Burt (C)24,72549.94

Keith White (Lab)12,47425.20

Stephen Rutherford (LD)10,32020.85

James May (UKIP)1,9864.01

Maj. 12,25124.75

C hold.Swing 3.73 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,757. Turnout 68.04%

June 2001: Sayeed C 22,109 (47.41%). Valentine Lab 14,043 (30.11%). Mabbutt LD
9,205 (19.74%). Laurence UKIP 1,281 (2.75%). Turnout 66.07%.

Alistair Burt, 49. God-fearing PPS to Michael Howard who has completed six
marathons - one wearing an elephant's head. MP 1983 to 1997, here since 2001.

42 Bedfordshire South West *Andrew Selous (C)22,11448.27

Joyce Still (Lab)13,83730.20

Andy Strange (LD)7,72316.86

Tom Wise (UKIP)1,9234.20

Kenson Gurney (Forum)2170.47

Maj. 8,27718.07

C hold.Swing 8.15 Lab to C.

Electorate 74,096. Turnout 61.83%

June 2001: Selous C 18,477 (42.13%). Date Lab 17,701 (40.36%). Pantling LD 6,473
(14.76%). Wise UKIP 1,203 (2.74%). Turnout 60.80%.

Andrew Selous, 43. Evangelical Christian and regular Commons questioner whose
activities have been rewarded with a job in the whips' office. MP since 2001.

47 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk +Michael Moore (LD)18,99341.85

John Lamont (C)13,09228.84

Sam Held (Lab)7,20615.88

Aileen Orr (SNP)3,8858.56

John Hein (Lib)9162.02

Graeme McIver (SSP)6951.53

Peter Neilson (UKIP)6011.32

Maj. 5,90113.00

LD hold. Electorate 71,702. Turnout 63.30%

June 2001: LD 20,317 (46.79%). C 9,547 (21.99%). Lab 7,348 (16.92%). SNP 4,942
(11.38%). SSP 654 (1.51%). Others 611 (1.41%). Turnout 59.95%.

Michael Moore, 39. Rising star in the Scottish Lib Dems who loves jazz but hates
hunting and handguns. MP since 1997.

48 Berwick-Upon-Tweed *Alan Beith (LD)19,05252.79

Mike Elliott (C)10,42028.87

Glen Reynolds (Lab)6,61818.34

Maj. 8,63223.92

LD hold.Swing 0.31 C to LD.

Electorate 56,944. Turnout 63.38%

June 2001: Beith LD 18,651 (51.37%). Sanderson C 10,193 (28.07%). Walker Lab
6,435 (17.72%). Pearson UKIP 1,029 (2.83%). Turnout 63.79%.

Alan Beith, 62. Worthy Methodist lay preacher who was a low-profile deputy
leader for ten years. MP since 1973 by-election.

49 Bethnal Green & Bow +George Galloway (Respect)15,80135.91 *Oona King
(Lab)14,97834.04

Shahagir Bakth Faruk (C)6,24414.19

Syed Nurul Islam Dulu (LD)4,92811.20

John Foster (Green)1,9504.43

Ejiro Etefia (AFC)680.15

Celia Pugh (ND)380.09

Maj. 8231.87

Respect gain from Lab.Swing to .

Electorate 85,950. Turnout 51.20%

June 2001: King Lab 19,380 (50.45%). Faruk C 9,323 (24.27%). Ludlow LD 5,946
(15.48%). Bragga Green 1,666 (4.34%). Davidson BNP 1,211 (3.15%). Delderfield
NBP 888 (2.31%). Turnout 48.51%.

George Galloway, 50. Left-wing backbencher who was expelled from the Labour
Party leaves his Scottish seat to unseat Oona King, L.

50 Beverley & Holderness

Graham Stuart (C)20,43440.70

George McManus (Lab)17,85435.56

Brian Willie (LD)9,57819.08

Oliver Marriott (UKIP)2,3364.65

Maj. 2,5805.14

C hold.Swing 1.73 Lab to C.

Electorate 77,460. Turnout 64.81%

June 2001: Cran C 19,168 (41.33%). Langford Lab 18,387 (39.65%). Willie LD 7,356
(15.86%). Wallis UKIP 1,464 (3.16%). Turnout 61.71%.

Graham Stuart, 43. Hardworking publisher who claims an interest in "punk rock"
music succeeds James Cran.

51 Bexhill & Battle *Greg Barker (C)24,62952.59

Mary Varrall (LD)11,18023.87

Michael Jones (Lab)8,45718.06

Anthony Smith (UKIP)2,5685.48

Maj. 13,44928.72

C hold.Swing 2.63 LD to C.

Electorate 69,676. Turnout 67.22%

June 2001: Barker C 21,555 (48.13%). Hardy LD 11,052 (24.68%). Moore-Williams
Lab 8,702 (19.43%). Farage UKIP 3,474 (7.76%). Turnout 64.89%.

Gregory Barker, 39. Well-heeled Porsche-driver and whip who spent two years
working for an oil company in Russia. MP since 2001.

52 Bexleyheath & Crayford

David Evennett (C)19,72246.32 *Nigel Beard (Lab)15,17135.63

David Raval (LD)5,14412.08

John Dunford (UKIP)1,3023.06

Jay Lee (BNP)1,2412.91

Maj. 4,55110.69

C gain from Lab.Swing 7.17 Lab to C.

Electorate 65,025. Turnout 65.48%

June 2001: Beard Lab 17,593 (43.57%). Evennett C 16,121 (39.93%). O'Hare LD
4,476 (11.09%). Smith BNP 1,408 (3.49%). Dunford UKIP 780 (1.93%). Turnout
63.51%.

David Evennett, 55. Tenacious retread who represented Erith and Crayford from
1983 to 1997 wins this seat back on his second attempt.

53 Billericay *John Baron (C)25,48752.17

Anneliese Dodds (Lab)14,28129.23

Mike Hibbs (LD)6,47113.24

Bryn Robinson (BNP)1,4352.94

Seantino Callaghan (UKIP)1,1842.42

Maj. 11,20622.94

C hold.Swing 5.97 Lab to C.

Electorate 79,537. Turnout 61.43%

June 2001: Baron C 21,608 (47.39%). Campbell Lab 16,595 (36.39%). Bellard LD
6,323 (13.87%). Yeomans UKIP 1,072 (2.35%). Turnout 58.07%. John Baron, 45. A
shrewd and forthright former Army officer who opposed the war against Iraq. MP
since 2001.

54 Birkenhead *Frank Field (Lab)18,05964.99

Stuart Kelly (LD)5,12518.44

Howard Morton (C)4,60216.56

Maj. 12,93446.55

Lab hold.Swing 5.54 Lab to LD.

Electorate 57,097. Turnout 48.66%

June 2001: Field Lab 20,418 (70.49%). Stewart C 4,827 (16.66%). Wood LD 3,722
(12.85%). Turnout 47.70%.

Frank Field, 62. Ascetic old boy and social policy expert sacked for thinking
the unthinkable, as he had been asked to do, at the DSS. MP since 1979.

55 Birmingham Edgbaston *Gisela Stuart (Lab)16,46543.75

Deirdre Alden (C)14,11637.51

Mike Dixon (LD)5,18513.78

Peter Beck (Green)1,1162.97

Stephen White (UKIP)7491.99

Maj. 2,3496.24

Lab hold.Swing 3.10 Lab to C.

Electorate 64,893. Turnout 57.99%

June 2001: Stuart Lab 18,517 (49.05%). Hastilow C 13,819 (36.61%). Davies LD
4,528 (12.00%). Gretton Pro Euro C 454 (1.20%). Brackenbury Soc Lab 431 (1.14%).
Turnout 56.00%.

Gisela Stuart, 49. German-born former health minister who was a casualty of the
2001 reshuffle; she once represented Britain at fencing. MP since 1997.

56 Birmingham Erdington *Sion Simon (Lab)16,81052.95

Victoria Elvidge (C)7,23522.79

Jerry Evans (LD)5,02715.84

Sharon Ebanks (BNP)1,5124.76

Rannal Hepburn (UKIP)7462.35

Terry Williams (NF)4161.31

Maj. 9,57530.16

Lab hold.Swing 1.20 Lab to C.

Electorate 64,951. Turnout 48.88%

June 2001: Simon Lab 17,375 (56.77%). Lodge C 7,413 (24.22%). Johnson LD 3,602
(11.77%). Shore NF 681 (2.23%). Goddard Soc All 669 (2.19%). Nattrass UKIP 521
(1.70%). Sambrook-Marshall Soc Lab 343 (1.12%). Turnout 46.60%.

Sion Simon, 36. Backbencher and journalist whose loyalist party star is on the
ascendent. MP since 2001.

57 Birmingham Hall Green *Stephen McCabe (Lab)16,30447.21

Eddie Hughes (C)10,59030.66

Roger Harmer (LD)6,68219.35

David Melhuish (UKIP)9602.78

Maj. 5,71416.55

Lab hold.Swing 1.77 Lab to C.

Electorate 57,222. Turnout 60.35%

June 2001: McCabe Lab 18,049 (54.56%). White C 11,401 (34.46%). Singh LD 2,926
(8.84%). Johnson UKIP 708 (2.14%). Turnout 57.47%.

Stephen McCabe, 49. Passionate advocate of Birmingham, former social worker and
PPS to Home Secretary Charles Clarke. MP since 1997.

58 Birmingham Hodge Hill *Liam Byrne (Lab)13,82248.64

Nicola Davies (LD)8,37329.46

Deborah Thomas (C)3,76813.26

Denis Adams (BNP)1,4455.08

Adrian Duffen (UKIP)6802.39

Azmat Begg (Progress)3291.16

Maj. 5,44919.18

Lab hold.Swing 18.29 Lab to LD.

Electorate 53,903. Turnout 52.72%

June 2001: Davis Lab 16,901 (63.86%). Lewis C 5,283 (19.96%). Dow LD 2,147
(8.11%). Windridge BNP 889 (3.36%). Hussain PJP 561 (2.12%). Cridge Soc Lab 284
(1.07%). Vivian UKIP 275 (1.04%). Khan Muslim 125 (0.47%). Turnout 47.90%. July
2004: Byrne Lab 7,451 (36.45%). Davies LD 6,991 (34.20%). Eyre C 3,543 (17.33%).
Rees Respect 1,282 (6.27%). Starkey NF 805 (3.94%). Wheatley Eng Dem 277
(1.36%). Hargreaves OCV 90 (0.44%). Turnout 37.89%.

Liam Byrne, 34. Straightforward computer company executive in favour of hunting
and identity cards. MP since July 2004 byelection.

59 Birmingham Ladywood *Clare Short (Lab)17,26251.92

Ayoub Khan (LD)10,46131.47

Philippa Stroud (C)3,51510.57

Lynette Nazemi-Afshar (UKIP)2,0086.04

Maj. 6,80120.46

Lab hold.Swing 20.11 Lab to LD.

Electorate 70,977. Turnout 46.84%

June 2001: Short Lab 21,694 (68.89%). Prentice C 3,551 (11.28%). Chaudhry LD
2,586 (8.21%). Ditta PJP 2,112 (6.71%). Virdee Soc Lab 443 (1.41%). Hussain
Muslim 432 (1.37%). Caffery ProLife 392 (1.24%). Nattrass UKIP 283 (0.90%).
Turnout 44.29%.

Clare Short, 59. Candid former international development secretary who resigned
her post over the Iraq war. MP since 1983.

60 Birmingham Northfield *Richard Burden (Lab)15,41949.65

Vicky Ford (C)8,96528.87

Trevor Sword (LD)4,17113.43

Mark Cattell (BNP)1,2784.12

Gillian Chant (UKIP)6412.06

Richard Rodgers (Good)4281.38

Louise Houldey (Soc Alt)1200.39

Francis Sweeney (WRP)340.11

Maj. 6,45420.78

Lab hold.Swing 2.81 Lab to C.

Electorate 54,868. Turnout 56.60%

June 2001: Burden Lab 16,528 (55.96%). Purser C 8,730 (29.56%). Sword LD 3,322
(11.25%). Rogers UKIP 550 (1.86%). Walder Soc All 193 (0.65%). Carpenter Soc Lab
151 (0.51%). Chaffer Comm 60 (0.20%). Turnout 52.81%.

Richard Burden, 50. Left-leaning party loyalist whose heroine is socialist
revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg. MP since 1992.

61 Birmingham Perry Barr *Khalid Mahmood (Lab)18,26946.95

Jon Hunt (LD)10,32126.52

Naweed Khan (C)6,51316.74

Dr Mohammad Naseem (Respect)2,1735.58

Rajinder Clair (Soc Lab)8902.29

Bimla Balu (UKIP)7451.91

Maj. 7,94820.43

Lab hold.Swing 1.61 Lab to LD.

Electorate 70,126. Turnout 55.49%

June 2001: Mahmood Lab 17,415 (46.54%). Binns C 8,662 (23.15%). Hunt LD 8,566
(22.89%). Singh Jouhl Soc Lab 1,544 (4.13%). Johnson Soc All 465 (1.24%).
Nattrass UKIP 352 (0.94%). Roche Marxist 221 (0.59%). Davidson Muslim 192
(0.51%). Turnout 52.61%.

Khalid Mahmood, 42. England's first Muslim MP who survives despite a last-minute
deselection battle, PPS to Tony McNulty as transport minister and MP since 2001.

62 Birmingham Selly Oak *Dr Lynne Jones (Lab)19,22646.06

Joe Tildesley (C)10,37524.86

Richard Brighton (LD)9,59122.98

Barney Smith (Green)1,5813.79

Ronan Burnett (UKIP)9672.32

Maj. 8,85121.21

Lab hold.Swing 2.29 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,162. Turnout 59.49%

June 2001: Jones Lab 21,015 (52.41%). Hardeman C 10,676 (26.62%). Osborne LD
6,532 (16.29%). Smith Green 1,309 (3.26%). Williams UKIP 568 (1.42%). Turnout
56.29%.

Lynne Jones, 54. Former academic and serial party dissident who claims to be
"cynical about the democratic process". MP since 1992.

63 Birmingham Sparkbrook & Small Heath *Roger Godsiff (Lab)13,78736.10

Salma Yaqoob (Respect)10,49827.49

Talib Hussain (LD)7,72720.23

Sameer Mirza (C)3,4809.11

Jennifer Brookes (UKIP)1,3423.51

Ian Jamieson (Green)8552.24

Abdul Chaudhary (Ind)5031.32

Maj. 3,2898.61

Lab hold.Swing to .

Electorate 73,721. Turnout 51.81%

June 2001: Godsiff Lab 21,087 (57.54%). Afzal LD 4,841 (13.21%). Hussain PJP
4,770 (13.02%). Hussain C 3,948 (10.77%). Mohammed Ind 662 (1.81%). Vincent UKIP
634 (1.73%). Aziz Muslim 401 (1.09%). Mirza Soc All 304 (0.83%). Turnout 49.28%.
Roger Godsiff, 58. Whistle-blower on postal vote fraud who survived a
last-minute deselection ballot. MP here since 1992.

64 Birmingham Yardley

John Hemming (LD)13,64846.37

Jayne Innes (Lab)10,97637.29

Paul Uppal (C)2,97010.09

Robert Purcell (BNP)1,5235.17

Mohammed Yaqub (UKIP)3141.07

Maj. 2,6729.08

LD gain from Lab.Swing 8.83 Lab to LD.

Electorate 50,975. Turnout 57.74%

June 2001: Morris Lab 14,083 (46.93%). Hemming LD 11,507 (38.34%). Roberts C
3,941 (13.13%). Ware UKIP 329 (1.10%). Wren Soc Lab 151 (0.50%). Turnout 57.22%.

John Hemming, 45. Fourth time lucky for this long-time Lib Dem councillor, who
takes the seat held by retiring former education secretary Estelle Morris.

65 Bishop Auckland

Helen Goodman (Lab)19,06550.00

Chris Foote-Wood (LD)9,01823.65

Richard Bell (C)8,73622.91

Margaret Hopson (UKIP)1,3093.43

Maj. 10,04726.35

Lab hold.Swing 8.36 Lab to LD.

Electorate 67,534. Turnout 56.46%

June 2001: Foster Lab 22,680 (58.82%). McNish C 8,754 (22.70%). Foote-Wood LD
6,073 (15.75%). Bennett Green 1,052 (2.73%). Turnout 57.23%. Helen Goodman, 47.
Chief executive of a national voluntary body succeeds Derek Foster, a former
party chief whip.

66 Blaby *Andrew Robathan (C)22,48745.53

David Morgan (Lab)14,61429.59

Jeff Stephenson (LD)9,38219.00

Michael Robinson (BNP)1,7043.45

Delroy Young (UKIP)1,2012.43

Maj. 7,87315.94

C hold.Swing 1.45 Lab to C.

Electorate 75,444. Turnout 65.46%

June 2001: Robathan C 22,104 (46.40%). Morgan Lab 15,895 (33.36%). Welsh LD
8,286 (17.39%). Scott BNP 1,357 (2.85%). Turnout 64.46%.

Andrew Robathan, 53. One of the party's most enthusiastic advocates and a keen
conservationist. MP since 1992.

67 Blackburn *Jack Straw (Lab)17,56242.01

Imtiaz Ameen (C)9,55322.85

Tony Melia (LD)8,60820.59

Nicholas Holt (BNP)2,2635.41

Craig Murray (Ind)2,0824.98

Dorothy Baxter (UKIP)9542.28

Graham Carter (Green)7831.87

Maj. 8,00919.16

Lab hold.Swing 1.90 Lab to C.

Electorate 73,494. Turnout 56.88%

June 2001: Straw Lab 21,808 (54.14%). Cotton C 12,559 (31.18%). Patel LD 3,264
(8.10%). Baxter UKIP 1,185 (2.94%). Cullen Soc Lab 559 (1.39%). Nichol Soc All
532 (1.32%). Morris Ind 377 (0.94%). Turnout 55.47%.

Jack Straw, 58. Exercise enthusiast and former student activist who served as
home secretary in the first Labour government, becoming Foreign Secretary in the
second. MP since 1979.

68 Blackpool North & Fleetwood *Joan Humble (Lab)20,62047.63

Gavin Williamson (C)15,55835.94

Steven Bate (LD)5,53312.78

Roy Hopwood (UKIP)1,5793.65

Maj. 5,06211.69

Lab hold.Swing 0.87 Lab to C.

Electorate 74,975. Turnout 57.74%

June 2001: Humble Lab 21,610 (50.75%). Vincent C 15,889 (37.31%). Bate LD 4,132
(9.70%). Porter UKIP 950 (2.23%). Turnout 57.19%.

Joan Humble, 54. Worthy backbencher with an interest in tourism and fishing, she
admits to being a technophobe. MP since 1997.

69 Blackpool South *Gordon Marsden (Lab)19,37550.53

Michael Winstanley (C)11,45329.87

Doreen Holt (LD)5,55214.48

Roy Goodwin (BNP)1,1132.90

John Porter (UKIP)8492.21

Maj. 7,92220.66

Lab hold.Swing 0.32 Lab to C.

Electorate 73,529. Turnout 52.15%

June 2001: Marsden Lab 21,060 (54.29%). Morris C 12,798 (32.99%). Holt LD 4,115
(10.61%). Cowell UKIP 819 (2.11%). Turnout 52.20%.

Gordon Marsden, 51. Sociable Blairite and former editor of History Today, he
became PPS to culture minister Tessa Jowell. MP since 1997.

70 Blaenau Gwent

Peter Law (Ind Law)20,50558.17

Maggie Jones (Lab)11,38432.29

Brian Thomas (LD)1,5114.29

John Price (PC)8432.39

Dr Phillip Lee (C)8162.31

Peter Osborne (UKIP)1920.54

Maj. 9,12125.87

Ind Law gain from Lab.Swing to .

Electorate 53,301. Turnout 66.14%

June 2001: Smith Lab 22,855 (72.04%). Rykala PC 3,542 (11.16%). Townsend LD
2,945 (9.28%). Williams C 2,383 (7.51%). Turnout 59.46%.

Peter Law, 56. Well-known Welsh Assembly member who stood against Labour's
Maggie Throup in protest at all-women shortlists, and was expelled from the
party for his stand. A dramatic win.

71 Blaydon

David Anderson (Lab)20,12051.52

Peter Maughan (LD)14,78537.86

Dorothy Luckhurst (C)3,1298.01

Norman Endacott (UKIP)1,0192.61

Maj. 5,33513.66

Lab hold.Swing 3.70 Lab to LD.

Electorate 62,413. Turnout 62.57%

June 2001: McWilliam Lab 20,340 (54.85%). Maughan LD 12,531 (33.79%). Watson C
4,215 (11.37%). Turnout 57.43%.

Dave Anderson, 51. Social worker who succeeds John McWilliam, who held the seat
for Labour since 1979.

72 Blyth Valley *Ronnie Campbell (Lab)19,65954.95

Jeffrey Reid (LD)11,13231.12

Michael Windridge (C)4,98213.93

Maj. 8,52723.84

Lab hold.Swing 5.72 Lab to LD.

Electorate 63,640. Turnout 56.21%

June 2001: Campbell Lab 20,627 (59.70%). Reid LD 8,439 (24.43%). Daley C 5,484
(15.87%). Turnout 54.60%.

Ronnie Campbell, 61. Vociferous backbencher who often incurs the Speaker's
wrath. MP since 1987.

73 Bognor Regis & Littlehampton *Nick Gibb (C)18,18344.62

George O'Neill (Lab)10,36125.43

Simon McDougall (LD)8,92721.91

Adrian Lithgow (UKIP)3,2768.04

Maj. 7,82219.20

C hold.Swing 2.36 Lab to C.

Electorate 65,591. Turnout 62.12%

June 2001: Gibb C 17,602 (45.17%). O'Neill Lab 11,959 (30.69%). Peskett LD 6,846
(17.57%). Stride UKIP 1,779 (4.57%). Haggard Cheyne Green 782 (2.01%). Turnout
58.25%.

Nick Gibb, 44. Assiduous tax accountant who has moved from the hard-Right and is
a self-described "fan of Israel". MP since 1997.

74 Bolsover *Dennis Skinner (Lab)25,21765.16

Denise Hawksworth (LD)6,78017.52

Hasan Imam (C)6,70217.32

Maj. 18,43747.64

Lab hold.Swing 4.53 Lab to LD.

Electorate 67,568. Turnout 57.27%

June 2001: Skinner Lab 26,249 (68.59%). Massey C 7,472 (19.52%). Bradley LD
4,550 (11.89%). Turnout 56.67%.

Dennis Skinner, 73. Unyielding rebel and last-known defender of Scargill whose
radical views are affectionately tolerated. MP since 1970.

75 Bolton North East *David Crausby (Lab)16,87445.72

Paul Brierley (C)12,77134.60

Adam Killeya (LD)6,04416.37

Kevin Epsom (UKIP)6401.73

Alan Ainscow (Veritas)3751.02

Lynne Lowe (Soc Lab)2070.56

Maj. 4,10311.12

Lab hold.Swing 5.25 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,394. Turnout 54.77%

June 2001: Crausby Lab 21,166 (54.34%). Winstanley C 12,744 (32.72%). Perkins LD
4,004 (10.28%). McIvor Green 629 (1.61%). Lowe Soc Lab 407 (1.04%). Turnout
56.03%.

David Crausby, 58. Earnest backbencher and Government loyalist whose strong
local roots helped him hang onto this seat, which he has held since 1997.

76 Bolton South East *Dr Brian Iddon (Lab)18,12956.92

Deborah Dunleavy (C)6,49120.38

Frank Harasiwka (LD)6,04718.99

Florence Bates (UKIP)8402.64

David Jones (Veritas)3431.08

Maj. 11,63836.54

Lab hold.Swing 0.57 Lab to C.

Electorate 63,697. Turnout 50.00%

June 2001: Iddon Lab 21,129 (61.86%). Rashid C 8,258 (24.18%). Harasiwka LD
3,941 (11.54%). Kelly Soc Lab 826 (2.42%). Turnout 50.12%.

Dr Brian Iddon, 64. Active backbencher and stamp collector who is in favour of
stem cell research and legalising cannabis. MP since 1997.

77 Bolton West *Ruth Kelly (Lab)17,23942.52

Philip Allott (C)15,17537.43

Tim Perkins (LD)7,24117.86

Marjorie Ford (UKIP)5241.29

Michael Ford (Veritas)2900.72

Kate Griggs (XPP)740.18

Maj. 2,0645.09

Lab hold.Swing 4.15 Lab to C.

Electorate 63,836. Turnout 63.51%

June 2001: Kelly Lab 19,381 (47.03%). Stevens C 13,863 (33.64%). Ronson LD 7,573
(18.37%). Toomer Soc All 397 (0.96%). Turnout 62.41%.

Ruth Kelly, 36. Gravel-voiced former journalist who was propelled into the
Cabinet after David Blunkett's departure, becoming Education Secretary. MP since
1997.

78 Bootle *Joe Benton (Lab)19,34575.50

Chris Newby (LD)2,98811.66

Wafik Moustafa (C)1,5806.17

Paul Nuttall (UKIP)1,0544.11

Peter Glover (Soc Alt)6552.56

Maj. 16,35763.84

Lab hold.Swing 2.59 Lab to LD.

Electorate 53,700. Turnout 47.71%

June 2001: Benton Lab 21,400 (77.55%). Murray LD 2,357 (8.54%). Symes C 2,194
(7.95%). Flynn Soc Lab 971 (3.52%). Glover Soc All 672 (2.44%). Turnout 49.00%.

Joe Benton, 71. Catholic pro-lifer who spent 20 years as a councillor and
opposed the Iraq war. MP since 1990 by-election.

79 Boston & Skegness *Mark Simmonds (C)19,32946.17

Paul Kenny (Lab)13,42232.06

Dr Richard Horsnell (UKIP)4,0249.61

Alan Riley (LD)3,6498.72

Wendy Russell (BNP)1,0252.45

Marcus Petz (Green)4201.00

Maj. 5,90714.11

C hold.Swing 6.42 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,212. Turnout 58.79%

June 2001: Simmonds C 17,298 (42.91%). Bird Lab 16,783 (41.63%). Moffatt LD
4,994 (12.39%). Wakefield UKIP 717 (1.78%). Harrison Green 521 (1.29%). Turnout
58.42%.

Mark Simmonds, 41. Former chartered surveyor who became Tory foreign affairs
spokesman, he hangs on to the seat he won in 2001.

80 Bosworth *David Tredinnick (C)20,21242.55

Rupert Herd (Lab)14,89331.35

James Moore (LD)10,52822.16

Denis Walker (UKIP)1,8663.93

Maj. 5,31911.20

C hold.Swing 3.07 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,596. Turnout 66.34%

June 2001: Tredinnick C 20,030 (44.41%). Furlong Lab 17,750 (39.35%). Ellis LD
7,326 (16.24%). Turnout 64.44%.

David Tredinnick, 55. Former PPS who had to resign after being involved in the
"cash for questions" scandal; also champions the benefits of homeopathy. MP
since 1987.

81 Bournemouth East

Tobias Ellwood (C)16,92545.01

Andrew Garratt (LD)11,68131.07

David Stokes (Lab)7,19119.13

Thomas Collier (UKIP)1,8024.79

Maj. 5,24413.95

C hold.Swing 2.18 LD to C.

Electorate 63,426. Turnout 59.28%

June 2001: Atkinson C 15,501 (43.30%). Garratt LD 12,067 (33.71%). Nicholson Lab
7,107 (19.85%). Chamberlaine UKIP 1,124 (3.14%). Turnout 59.22%.

Tobias Ellwood, 37. Ex-army Royal Green Jacket whose brother was killed in the
Bali bomb; he succeeds David Atkinson.

82 Bournemouth West *Sir John Butterfill (C)14,05741.44

Richard Renaut (LD)10,02629.55

Dafydd Williams (Lab)7,82423.06

Michael Maclaire-Hillier (UKIP)2,0175.95

Maj. 4,03111.88

C hold.Swing 2.90 C to LD.

Electorate 63,658. Turnout 53.29%

June 2001: Butterfill C 14,417 (42.85%). Stokes Lab 9,699 (28.82%). Hornby LD
8,468 (25.17%). Blake UKIP 1,064 (3.16%). Turnout 54.24%.

Sir John Butterfill, 64. A well-liked politician who opposes the breastfeeding
of babies in Commons committee rooms. MP since 1983.

83 Bracknell *Andrew Mackay (C)25,41249.69

Janet Keene (Lab)13,37626.16

Lee Glendon (LD)10,12819.80

Vincent Pearson (UKIP)1,8183.55

Dominica Roberts (Ind)4070.80

Maj. 12,03623.53

C hold.Swing 4.95 Lab to C.

Electorate 80,657. Turnout 63.41%

June 2001: Mackay C 22,962 (46.64%). Keene Lab 16,249 (33.01%). Earwicker LD
8,428 (17.12%). Boxall UKIP 1,266 (2.57%). Roberts ProLife 324 (0.66%). Turnout
60.69%.

Andrew Mackay, 55. The party's "dapper" deputy chairman and husband of MP Julie
Kirkbride. MP 1977 to 1979, then since 1983.

84 Bradford North *Terry Rooney (Lab)14,62242.51

David Ward (LD)11,11132.30

Teck Khong (C)5,56916.19

Lynda Cromie (BNP)2,0615.99

Steve Schofield (Green)5601.63

Umit Yildiz (Respect)4741.38

Maj. 3,51110.21

Lab hold.Swing 9.88 Lab to LD.

Electorate 64,515. Turnout 53.32%

June 2001: Rooney Lab 17,419 (49.74%). Iqbal C 8,450 (24.13%). Ward LD 6,924
(19.77%). Brayshaw BNP 1,613 (4.61%). Schofield Green 611 (1.74%). Turnout
52.69%.

Terry Rooney, 54. PPS to Keith Hill, as minister for housing, he was the only
Mormon in the last parliament. MP since 1990 by-election.

85 Bradford South *Gerry Sutcliffe (Lab)17,95449.05

Geraldine Carter (C)8,78724.00

Mike Doyle (LD)5,33414.57

Dr James Lewthwaite (BNP)2,8627.82

Derek Curtis (Green)6951.90

Jason Smith (UKIP)5521.51

Therese Muchewicz (Veritas)4211.15

Maj. 9,16725.04

Lab hold.Swing 1.23 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,576. Turnout 54.17%

June 2001: Sutcliffe Lab 19,603 (55.79%). Tennyson C 9,941 (28.29%).
Wilson-Fletcher LD 3,717 (10.58%). North UKIP 783 (2.23%). Kelly Soc Lab 571
(1.63%). Siddique Soc All 302 (0.86%). Riseborough Def Welfare 220 (0.63%).
Turnout 51.33%.

Gerry Sutcliffe, 51. A Blair enthusiast and sports fanatic who captains the
Commons football team. MP since 1994 by-election.

86 Bradford West *Marsha Singh (Lab)14,57040.06

Haroon Rashid (C)11,54431.74

Mukhtar Ali (LD)6,62018.20

Paul Cromie (BNP)2,5256.94

Parvez Darr (Green)1,1103.05

Maj. 3,0268.32

Lab hold.Swing 1.27 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,356. Turnout 54.00%

June 2001: Singh Lab 18,401 (47.96%). Riaz C 14,236 (37.10%). Robinson Green
2,672 (6.96%). Khan LD 2,437 (6.35%). Hussain UKIP 427 (1.11%). Khokhar AL 197
(0.51%). Turnout 53.57%.

Marsha Singh, 51. Occasional party rebel and secular Sikh, who represents a
large population of Pakistani muslims. MP since 1997.

87 Braintree

Brooks Newmark (C)23,59744.48 *Alan Hurst (Lab)19,70437.14

Peter Turner (LD)7,03713.26

James Abbott (Green)1,3082.47

Roger Lord (UKIP)1,1812.23

Buster Michael Nolan (Ind)2280.43

Maj. 3,8937.34

C gain from Lab.Swing 4.02 Lab to C.

Electorate 80,458. Turnout 65.94%

June 2001: Hurst Lab 21,123 (41.98%). Newmark C 20,765 (41.27%). Turner LD 5,664
(11.26%). Abbott Green 1,241 (2.47%). Nolan LCA 774 (1.54%). Cole UKIP 748
(1.49%). Turnout 63.56%.

Brooks Newmark, 46. Local campaigner who came within a whisker of winning this
seat in 2001; he was a university friend of William Hague.

88 Brecon & Radnorshire *Roger Williams (LD)17,18244.81

Andrew Davies (C)13,27734.63

Leighton Veale (Lab)5,75515.01

Mabon ap Gwynfor (PC)1,4043.66

Elizabeth Phillips (UKIP)7231.89

Maj. 3,90510.18

LD hold.Swing 4.09 C to LD.

Electorate 55,171. Turnout 69.49%

June 2001: Williams LD 13,824 (36.85%). Aubel C 13,073 (34.85%). Irranca-Davis
Lab 8,024 (21.39%). Parri PC 1,301 (3.47%). Mitchell Ind M 762 (2.03%). Phillips
UKIP 452 (1.20%). Nicholson Ind N 80 (0.21%). Turnout 71.81%.

Roger Williams, 57. Farmer and Lib Dem rural affairs spokesman who successfully
defended his 2001 majority of 751.

89 Brent East *Sarah Teather (LD)14,76447.52

Yasmin Qureshi (Lab)12,05238.79

Kwasi Kwarteng (C)3,19310.28

Shahrar Ali (Green)9052.91

Michelle Weininger (Ind)1150.37

Rainbow George Weiss (Vote Dream)390.13

Maj. 2,7128.73

LD hold.Swing 30.68 Lab to LD.

Electorate 56,227. Turnout 55.25%

June 2001: Daisley Lab 18,325 (63.21%). Gauke C 5,278 (18.21%). Bhatti LD 3,065
(10.57%). Aspis Green 1,361 (4.69%). Macken ProLife 392 (1.35%). Cremer Soc Lab
383 (1.32%). Tanna UKIP 188 (0.65%). Turnout 49.90%. September 2003: Teather LD
8,158 (39.12%). Evans Lab 7,040 (33.76%). Fernandes C 3,368 (16.15%). Lynch
Green 638 (3.06%). Butterworth Soc All 361 (1.73%). Ibrahim PSNW 219 (1.05%).
McKenzie Ind 197 (0.94%). McBride Ind McBride 189 (0.91%). Immanuel Ind Lab 188
(0.90%). Hall UKIP 140 (0.67%). Cremer Soc Lab 111 (0.53%). Walsh Ind Walsh 101
(0.48%). Hope Loony 59 (0.28%). Barschak ND 37 (0.18%). Bardwaj ND Bardwaj 35
(0.17%). Weiss WWW.XAT.ORG 11 (0.05%). Turnout 36.23%.

Sarah Teather, 30. Rising Lib Dem star who has defended the seat she won in an
astonishing byelection in 2003, in a formerly safe Labour area.

90 Brent North *Barry Gardiner (Lab)17,42048.82

Bob Blackman (C)11,77933.01

Havard Hughes (LD)5,67215.90

Babar Ahmad (Progress)6851.92

Rainbow George Weiss (Vote Dream)1260.35

Maj. 5,64115.81

Lab hold.Swing 7.13 Lab to C.

Electorate 60,148. Turnout 59.32%

June 2001: Gardiner Lab 20,149 (59.37%). Allott C 9,944 (29.30%). Lorber LD
3,846 (11.33%). Turnout 57.73%.

Barry Gardiner, 48. Concientious constituency MP who won largest pro-Labour
swing in 2001. Allergic to oysters. MP since 1997.

91 Brent South

Dawn Butler (Lab)17,50158.80

James Allie (LD)6,17520.75

Rishi Saha (C)4,48515.07

Rowan Langley (Green)9573.22

Shaun Wallace (Ind)2971.00

Rocky Fernandez (Ind RF)2880.97

Rainbow George Weiss (Vote Dream)610.20

Maj. 11,32638.05

Lab hold.Swing 12.20 Lab to LD.

Electorate 56,508. Turnout 52.67%

June 2001: Boateng Lab 20,984 (73.28%). Selvarajah C 3,604 (12.59%). Hughes LD
3,098 (10.82%). McDonnell Soc All 491 (1.71%). Mac Stiofain Res Motor 460
(1.61%). Turnout 51.24%.

Dawn Butler, 35. Black trade union official takes over from Paul Boateng, who
has been dispatched to South Africa as UK high commissioner after serving as
Treasury Secretary.

92 Brentford & Isleworth *Ann Keen (Lab)18,32939.83

Alexander Northcote (C)13,91830.25

Andrew Dakers (LD)10,47722.77

John Hunt (Green)1,6523.59

Phillip Andrews (Community)1,1182.43

Michael Stoneman (NF)5231.14

Maj. 4,4119.59

Lab hold.Swing 6.80 Lab to C.

Electorate 84,366. Turnout 54.54%

June 2001: Keen Lab 23,275 (52.29%). Mack C 12,957 (29.11%). Hartwell LD 5,994
(13.47%). Ferriday Green 1,324 (2.97%). Ingram UKIP 412 (0.93%). Faith Soc All
408 (0.92%). Khaira Ind 144 (0.32%). Turnout 52.96%.

Ann Keen, 56. PPS to Gordon Brown and campaigner for homosexual rights; she is
married to MP Alan Keen and her sister, Sylvia Heal, is also an MP. MP since
1997.

93 Brentwood & Ongar *Eric Pickles (C)23,60953.48

Gavin Stollar (LD)11,99727.18

John Adams (Lab)6,57914.90

Stuart Gulleford (UKIP)1,8054.09

Anthony Appleton (Ind)1550.35

Maj. 11,61226.30

C hold.Swing 1.91 LD to C.

Electorate 64,496. Turnout 68.45%

June 2001: Pickles C 16,558 (38.03%). Bell Ind Bell 13,737 (31.55%). Kendall LD
6,772 (15.55%). Johnson Lab 5,505 (12.64%). Gulleford UKIP 611 (1.40%). Pryke
Ind Pr 239 (0.55%). Bishop Elvis 68 (0.16%). Appleton Ind T 52 (0.12%). Turnout
67.30%.

Eric Pickles, 53. Yorkshireman and disciple of the Thatcher revolution who
became shadow secretary for local government. MP since 1992.

94 Bridgend

Madeleine Moon (Lab)16,41043.35

Helen Baker (C)9,88726.12

Paul Warren (LD)7,94921.00

Gareth Clubb (PC)2,5276.67

Jonathan Spink (Green)5951.57

Kunnathur Rajan (UKIP)4911.30

Maj. 6,52317.23

Lab hold.Swing 4.96 Lab to C.

Electorate 63,936. Turnout 59.21%

June 2001: Griffiths Lab 19,423 (52.49%). Brisby C 9,377 (25.34%). Barraclough
LD 5,330 (14.40%). Mahoney PC 2,653 (7.17%). Jeremy ProLife 223 (0.60%). Turnout
60.18%.

Madeleine Moon, 55. Social worker and former town mayor makes her Commons debut,
taking over from Win Griffiths.

95 Bridgwater *Ian Liddell-Grainger (C)21,24044.15

Matthew Burchell (Lab)12,77126.55

James Main (LD)10,94022.74

Ray Weinstein (UKIP)1,7673.67

Charlie Graham (Green)1,3912.89

Maj. 8,46917.60

C hold.Swing 1.96 Lab to C.

Electorate 75,790. Turnout 63.48%

June 2001: Liddell-Grainger C 19,354 (40.45%). Thorn LD 14,367 (30.03%).
Monteith Lab 12,803 (26.76%). Gardner UKIP 1,323 (2.77%). Turnout 64.59%.

Ian Liddell-Grainger, 46. Distant relative of Queen Victoria and popular party
backbencher who holds this seat. MP since 2001.

96 Brigg & Goole *Ian Cawsey (Lab)19,25745.23

Matthew Bean (C)16,36338.43

Gary Johnson (LD)5,69013.36

Stephen Martin (UKIP)1,2682.98

Maj. 2,8946.80

Lab hold.Swing 1.43 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,364. Turnout 63.21%

June 2001: Cawsey Lab 20,066 (48.88%). Stewart C 16,105 (39.23%). Nolan LD 3,796
(9.25%). Bloom UKIP 688 (1.68%). Kenny Soc Lab 399 (0.97%). Turnout 64.62%.

Ian Cawsey, 45. Jovial Commons figure and member of the rock group MP4; also PPS
to David Miliband, Cabinet office minister. MP since 1997.

97 Brighton Kemptown *Dr Desmond Turner (Lab)15,85839.93

Judith Symes (C)13,12133.03

Marina Pepper (LD)6,56016.52

Simon Williams (Green)2,8007.05

Dr James Chamberlain-Webber (UKIP)7581.91

Caroline O'Reilly (TPP)1720.43

John McLeod (Soc Lab)1630.41

Elaine Cook (Ind)1270.32

Phil Clarke (Soc Alt)1130.28

Gene Dobbs (Ind D)470.12

Maj. 2,7376.89

Lab hold.Swing 2.83 Lab to C.

Electorate 65,985. Turnout 60.19%

June 2001: Turner Lab 18,745 (47.82%). Theobald C 13,823 (35.26%). Marshall LD
4,064 (10.37%). Miller Green 1,290 (3.29%). Chamberlain-Webber UKIP 543 (1.39%).
McLeod Soc Lab 364 (0.93%). Dobbs Free 227 (0.58%). Cook ProLife 147 (0.37%).
Turnout 57.97%.

Desmond Turner, 65. A moderate rebel who is concerned about air traffic control
privatisation. MP since 1997.

98 Brighton Pavilion *David Lepper (Lab Co-op)15,42735.52

Mike Weatherley (C)10,39723.94

Keith Taylor (Green)9,53021.94

Hazel Thorpe (LD)7,17116.51

Kimberley Crisp-Comotto (UKIP)5081.17

Tony Greenstein (Green Soc)1880.43

Christopher Rooke (Ind)1220.28

Ian Fyvie (Soc Lab)520.12

Keith Jago (Ind KJ)420.10

Maj. 5,03011.58

Lab Co-op hold.Swing 6.05 Lab Co-op to C.

Electorate 68,087. Turnout 63.80%

June 2001: Lepper Lab Co-op 19,846 (48.73%). Gold C 10,203 (25.05%). Berry LD
5,348 (13.13%). Taylor Green 3,806 (9.35%). Fyvie Soc Lab 573 (1.41%). Dobbs
Free 409 (1.00%). Hutchin UKIP 361 (0.89%). Paragallo ProLife 177 (0.43%).
Turnout 58.85%.

David Lepper, 59. Backbencher of Huguenot origin who campaigns against poverty
and homelessness in Brighton. MP since 1997.

99 Bristol East

Kerry McCarthy (Lab)19,15245.91

Philip James (LD)10,53125.24

Julia Manning (C)8,78721.06

Arjuna Krishna-Das (Green)1,5863.80

Jean Smith (UKIP)1,1322.71

Paulette North (Respect)5321.28

Maj. 8,62120.66

Lab hold.Swing 8.59 Lab to LD.

Electorate 68,096. Turnout 61.27%

June 2001: Corston Lab 22,180 (54.99%). Lo-Presti C 8,788 (21.79%). Niblett LD
6,915 (17.14%). Collard Green 1,110 (2.75%). Marsh UKIP 572 (1.42%). Langley Soc
Lab 438 (1.09%). Pryor Soc All 331 (0.82%). Turnout 57.39%.

Kerry McCarthy, 40. Former finance lawyer and environmentalist, who also likes
Formula 1 motor-racing; she takes over from Jean Corston.

100 Bristol North West *Dr Doug Naysmith (Lab Co-op)22,19246.73

Alastair Watson (C)13,23027.86

Bob Hoyle (LD)9,54520.10

Christopher Lees (UKIP)1,1322.38

Michael Blundell (EDP)8281.74

Graeme Jones (Soc Alt)5651.19

Maj. 8,96218.87

Lab Co-op hold.Swing 2.28 Lab Co-op to C.

Electorate 77,703. Turnout 61.12%

June 2001: Naysmith Lab Co-op 24,236 (52.14%). Hansard C 13,349 (28.72%). Tyzack
LD 7,387 (15.89%). Carr UKIP 1,140 (2.45%). Horrigan Soc Lab 371 (0.80%).
Turnout 60.56%.

Doug Naysmith, 64. An unobtrusive backbencher who came to Westminster at the age
of 56. MP since 1997.

101 Bristol South *Dawn Primarolo (Lab)20,77849.09

Kay Barnard (LD)9,63622.77

Graham Hill (C)8,46620.00

Charlie Bolton (Green)2,1275.03

Mark Dent (UKIP)1,3213.12

Maj. 11,14226.32

Lab hold.Swing 7.86 Lab to LD.

Electorate 70,835. Turnout 59.76%

June 2001: Primarolo Lab 23,299 (56.87%). Eddy C 9,118 (22.26%). Main LD 6,078
(14.84%). Vowles Green 1,233 (3.01%). Drummond Soc All 496 (1.21%). Prasad UKIP
496 (1.21%). Shorter Soc Lab 250 (0.61%). Turnout 56.52%.

Dawn Primarolo, 51. The Paymaster General and "vivacious" party loyalist who
moved from the hard Left. MP since 1987.

102 Bristol West

Stephen Williams (LD)21,98738.31 *Valerie Davey (Lab)16,85929.37

David Martin (C)15,42926.88

Justin Quinnell (Green)2,1633.77

Simon Muir (UKIP)4390.76

Bernard Kennedy (Soc Lab)3290.57

Doug Reid (Baths)1900.33

Maj. 5,1288.93

LD gain from Lab.Swing 8.44 Lab to LD.

Electorate 81,382. Turnout 70.53%

June 2001: Davey Lab 20,505 (36.84%). Williams LD 16,079 (28.89%). Chesters C
16,040 (28.82%). Devaney Green 1,961 (3.52%). Kennedy Soc Lab 590 (1.06%). Muir
UKIP 490 (0.88%). Turnout 65.63%.

Stephen Williams, 38. Tax consultant with an interest in art manages to claim
the seat from Labour's unobtrusive defender, Valerie Davey.

103 Bromley & Chislehurst *Eric Forth (C)23,58351.12

Rachel Reeves (Lab)10,24122.20

Peter Brooks (LD)9,36820.30

David Hooper (UKIP)1,4753.20

Ann Garrett (Green)1,4703.19

Maj. 13,34228.92

C hold.Swing 4.01 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,173. Turnout 64.82%

June 2001: Forth C 21,412 (49.53%). Polydorou Lab 12,375 (28.63%). Payne LD
8,180 (18.92%). Bryant UKIP 1,264 (2.92%). Turnout 62.87%.

Eric Forth, 60. Eurosceptic leader of the "awkward squad" renowned for his
dandyish dress sense. MP since 1983.

104 Bromsgrove *Julie Kirkbride (C)24,38751.01

David Jones (Lab)14,30729.92

Sue Haswell (LD)7,19715.05

Paul Buckingham (UKIP)1,9194.01

Maj. 10,08021.08

C hold.Swing 1.63 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,762. Turnout 67.56%

June 2001: Kirkbride C 23,640 (51.75%). McDonald Lab 15,502 (33.93%). Rowley LD
5,430 (11.89%). Gregory UKIP 1,112 (2.43%). Turnout 67.07%.

Julie Kirkbride, 44. Photogenic former journalist whose constituency includes
part of the troubled Longbridge MG Rover plant. Married to Andrew MacKay. MP
since 1997.

105 Broxbourne

Charles Walker (C)21,87853.85

Jamie Bolden (Lab)10,36925.52

Andrew Porrer (LD)4,97312.24

Dr Andrew Emerson (BNP)1,9294.75

Martin Harvey (UKIP)1,4793.64

Maj. 11,50928.33

C hold.Swing 2.28 Lab to C.

Electorate 68,106. Turnout 59.65%

June 2001: Roe C 20,487 (54.13%). Prendergast Lab 11,494 (30.37%). Davies LD
4,158 (10.99%). Harvey UKIP 858 (2.27%). Cope BNP 848 (2.24%). Turnout 54.86%.

Charles Walker, 37. IT worker who graduated from the University of Oregon,
United States, takes the reigns from Dame Marion Roe.

106 Broxtowe *Dr Nick Palmer (Lab)20,45741.91

Bob Seely (C)18,16137.21

David Watts (LD)7,83716.06

Paul Anderson (Green)8961.84

Patricia Wolfe (UKIP)6951.42

Damian Hockney (Veritas)5901.21

Mark Gregory (Ind)1700.35

Maj. 2,2964.70

Lab hold.Swing 3.64 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,121. Turnout 68.62%

June 2001: Palmer Lab 23,836 (48.64%). Latham C 17,963 (36.66%). Watts LD 7,205
(14.70%). Turnout 66.51%.

Nick Palmer, 55. He is a member of the Cleft Palate Association, and the first
MP to overcome this disability; also PPS to the Defra ministers. MP since 1997.

107 Buckingham *John Bercow (C)27,74857.44

David Greene (Lab)9,61919.91

Luke Croydon (LD)9,50819.68

David Williams (UKIP)1,4322.96

Maj. 18,12937.53

C hold.Swing 4.05 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,265. Turnout 68.75%

June 2001: Bercow C 24,296 (53.67%). Seddon Lab 10,971 (24.23%). Wilson LD 9,037
(19.96%). Silcock UKIP 968 (2.14%). Turnout 69.36%.

John Bercow, 42. Moderniser who describes himself as a "social liberal"; highly
regarded debater and qualified tennis instructor. MP since 1997.

108 Burnley

Kitty Ussher (Lab)14,99938.48

Gordon Birtwistle (LD)9,22123.65

Harry Brooks (Burnley)5,78614.84

Yousuf Miah (C)4,20610.79

Len Starr (BNP)4,00310.27

Dr Jeff Slater (Ind)3921.01

Robert McDowell (UKIP)3760.96

Maj. 5,77814.82

Lab hold.Swing 9.15 Lab to LD.

Electorate 65,869. Turnout 59.18%

June 2001: Pike Lab 18,195 (49.33%). Frost C 7,697 (20.87%). Wright LD 5,975
(16.20%). Smith BNP 4,151 (11.25%). Buttrey UKIP 866 (2.35%). Turnout 55.55%.

Kitty Ussher, 34. Economist and former adviser to Patricia Hewitt inherits Peter
Pike's Labour seat; she is also a niece of ex-Tory MP Virginia Bottomley.

109 Burton *Janet Dean (Lab)19,70141.14

Adrian Pepper (C)18,28038.18

Sandra Johnson (LD)6,23613.02

Julie Russell (BNP)1,8403.84

Philip Lancaster (UKIP)9131.91

Brian Buxton (Veritas)9121.90

Maj. 1,4212.97

Lab hold.Swing 3.73 Lab to C.

Electorate 78,556. Turnout 60.95%

June 2001: Dean Lab 22,783 (49.04%). Punyer C 17,934 (38.60%). Fletcher LD 4,468
(9.62%). Crompton UKIP 984 (2.12%). Roberts ProLife 288 (0.62%). Turnout 61.78%.

Janet Dean, 56. Prescott-supporter and inconspicuous backbencher, she hangs on
to this seat despite the efforts of Tory challenger Adrian Pepper. MP since
1997.

110 Bury North *David Chaytor (Lab)19,13043.11

David Nuttall (C)16,20436.52

Wilf Davison (LD)6,51414.68

Stewart Clough (BNP)1,7904.03

Philip Silver (UKIP)4761.07

Ian Upton (Veritas)1530.34

Ryan O'Neill (Soc Lab)1070.24

Maj. 2,9266.59

Lab hold.Swing 4.00 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,268. Turnout 61.40%

June 2001: Chaytor Lab 22,945 (51.23%). Walsh C 16,413 (36.65%). Hackley LD
5,430 (12.12%). Turnout 62.99%.

David Chaytor, 55. Good Commons performer who rebels against the Government. MP
since 1997.

111 Bury South *Ivan Lewis (Lab)19,74150.42

Alex Williams (C)10,82927.66

Victor D'Albert (LD)6,96817.80

Jim Greenhalgh (UKIP)1,0592.70

Yvonne Hossack (Ind)5571.42

Maj. 8,91222.76

Lab hold.Swing 4.77 Lab to C.

Electorate 66,898. Turnout 58.53%

June 2001: Lewis Lab 23,406 (59.20%). Le Page C 10,634 (26.89%). Pickstone LD
5,499 (13.91%). Turnout 58.77%. Ivan Lewis, 38. Hard-working Jewish MP and
education minister whose grandfather fought Franco in the Spanish Civil War. MP
since 1997.

112 Bury St Edmunds *David Ruffley (C)24,33246.24

David Monaghan (Lab)14,40227.37

David Chappell (LD)10,42319.81

Dr John Howlett (UKIP)1,8593.53

Graham Manning (Green)1,6033.05

Maj. 9,93018.87

C hold.Swing 6.95 Lab to C.

Electorate 79,658. Turnout 66.06%

June 2001: Ruffley C 21,850 (43.48%). Ereira Lab 19,347 (38.50%). Williams LD
6,998 (13.92%). Howlett UKIP 831 (1.65%). Brundle Ind 651 (1.30%). Benwell Soc
Lab 580 (1.15%). Turnout 66.00%.

David Ruffley, 42. Lively party Whip and former special adviser to Ken Clarke,
as chancellor of the exchequer. MP since 1997.

113 Caernarfon *Hywel Williams (PC)12,74745.53

Martin Eaglestone (Lab)7,53826.92

Melfyn ab Owain (LD)3,50812.53

Guy Opperman (C)3,48312.44

Elwyn Williams (UKIP)7232.58

Maj. 5,20918.60

PC hold.Swing 3.26 Lab to PC.

Electorate 46,393. Turnout 60.35%

June 2001: Williams PC 12,894 (44.38%). Eaglestone Lab 9,383 (32.30%). Naish C
4,403 (15.16%). ab Owain LD 1,823 (6.27%). Lloyd UKIP 550 (1.89%). Turnout
61.35%.

Hywel Williams, 51. Expert in social policy and his party's health spokesman; he
is a firm Left-winger. MP since 2001.

114 Caerphilly *Wayne David (Lab)22,19056.57

Lindsay Whittle (PC)6,83117.41

Stephen Watson (C)5,71114.56

Ashgar Ali (LD)3,8619.84

Graeme Beard (FWP)6361.62

Maj. 15,35939.15

Lab hold.Swing 1.00 PC to Lab.

Electorate 66,939. Turnout 58.60%

June 2001: David Lab 22,597 (58.19%). Whittle PC 8,172 (21.04%). Simmonds C
4,415 (11.37%). Roffe LD 3,649 (9.40%). Turnout 57.45%.

Wayne David, 47. Mostachioed aide to the defence team who has never quite
recovered from losing a "safe" Labour seat in the 1999 Welsh Assembly elections.
MP since 2001.

115 Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross +John Thurso (LD)13,95750.45

Alan Jamieson (Lab)5,78920.93

Karen Shirron (SNP)3,68613.32

Angus Ross (C)2,83510.25

Gordon Campbell (Ind)8483.07

Luke Ivory (SSP)5481.98

Maj. 8,16829.53

LD hold. Electorate 46,837. Turnout 59.06%

June 2001: LD 10,981 (38.59%). Lab 6,903 (24.26%). SNP 5,778 (20.31%). C 3,832
(13.47%). SSP 615 (2.16%). Others 345 (1.21%). Turnout 61.15%.

John Thurso, 51. Landowner and Lord Lucan look-a-like who voted for his own
expulsion from the House of Lords. MP since 2001.

116 Calder Valley *Christine McCafferty (Lab)18,42638.57

Liz Truss (C)17,05935.71

Liz Ingleton (LD)9,02718.90

John Gregory (BNP)1,8873.95

Paul Palmer (Green)1,3712.87

Maj. 1,3672.86

Lab hold.Swing 1.83 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,325. Turnout 66.98%

June 2001: McCafferty Lab 20,244 (42.69%). Robson-Catling C 17,150 (36.16%).
Taylor LD 7,596 (16.02%). Hutton Green 1,034 (2.18%). Nunn UKIP 729 (1.54%).
Lockwood LCA 672 (1.42%). Turnout 62.98%.

Christine McCafferty, 59. Former social worker and feminist with an interest in
endangered bird life hangs on despite the efforts of Tory challenger Liz Truss.
MP since 1997.

117 Camberwell & Peckham *Harriet Harman (Lab)18,93365.31

Richard Porter (LD)5,45018.80

Jessica Lee (C)2,8419.80

Paul Ingram (Green)1,1724.04

Derek Penhallow (UKIP)3501.21

Margaret Sharkey (Soc Lab)1320.46

Sanjay Kulkarni (WRP)1130.39

Maj. 13,48346.51

Lab hold.Swing 4.88 Lab to LD.

Electorate 55,739. Turnout 52.01%

June 2001: Harman Lab 17,473 (69.60%). McCarthy LD 3,350 (13.34%). Morgan C
2,740 (10.91%). Poorun Green 805 (3.21%). Mulrenan Soc All 478 (1.90%). Adams
Soc Lab 188 (0.75%). Sweeney WRP 70 (0.28%). Turnout 46.75%.

Harriet Harman, 54. Tenacious Blair loyalist who was sent to the backbenches in
1998 and made a dramatic return as Solicitor General. MP since 1982.

118 Cambridge

David Howarth (LD)19,15243.93 *Anne Campbell (Lab)14,81333.98

Ian Lyon (C)7,19316.50

Martin Lucas-Smith (Green)1,2452.86

Helene Davies (UKIP)5961.37

Tom Woodcock (Respect)4771.09

Suzon Forscey-Moore (Ind FM)600.14

Graham Wilkinson (Ind)600.14

Maj. 4,3399.95

LD gain from Lab.Swing 14.99 Lab to LD.

Electorate 70,154. Turnout 62.14%

June 2001: Campbell Lab 19,316 (45.09%). Howarth LD 10,737 (25.07%). Stuart C
9,829 (22.95%). Lawrence Green 1,413 (3.30%). Senter Soc All 716 (1.67%). Baynes
UKIP 532 (1.24%). Underwood ProLife 232 (0.54%). Courtney WRP 61 (0.14%).
Turnout 60.62%. David Howarth, 46. Cambridge law and economics lecturer replaces
Labour's Anne Campbell after a fiercely-fought battle.

119 Cambridgeshire North East *Malcolm Moss (C)24,18147.53

Ffinlo Costain (Lab)15,28030.03

Alan Dean (LD)8,69317.09

Leonard Baynes (UKIP)2,7235.35

Maj. 8,90117.50

C hold.Swing 2.12 Lab to C.

Electorate 85,079. Turnout 59.80%

June 2001: Moss C 23,132 (48.14%). Owen Lab 16,759 (34.88%). Renaut LD 6,733
(14.01%). Stevens UKIP 1,189 (2.47%). Hoey ProLife 238 (0.50%). Turnout 60.15%.

Malcolm Moss, 62. Quiet but hardworking shadow spokesman on constitutional
affairs, who is still famous chiefly for defeating Clement Freud in 1987.

120 Cambridgeshire North West

Shailesh Vara (C)22,50445.84

Ayfer Orhan (Lab)12,67125.81

John Souter (LD)11,23222.88

Robert Brown (UKIP)2,6855.47

Maj. 9,83320.03

C hold.Swing 0.80 Lab to C.

Electorate 79,694. Turnout 61.60%

June 2001: Mawhinney C 21,895 (49.81%). Cox Lab 13,794 (31.38%). Taylor LD 6,957
(15.83%). Hudson UKIP 881 (2.00%). Hall Ind 429 (0.98%). Turnout 62.29%.

Shailesh Vara, 44. Ambitious newcomer and party vice-chairman takes over from
Sir Brian Mawhinney; tipped by Lord Alexander of Weedon as the first Asian PM.

121 Cambridgeshire South *Andrew Lansley (C)23,67644.97

Andrew Dickson (LD)15,67529.77

Sandra Wilson (Lab)10,18919.35

Robin Page (UKIP)1,5562.96

Simon Saggers (Green)1,5522.95

Maj. 8,00115.20

C hold.Swing 1.09 C to LD.

Electorate 77,022. Turnout 68.35%

June 2001: Lansley C 21,387 (44.24%). Taylor LD 12,984 (26.86%). Herbert Lab
11,737 (24.28%). Saggers Green 1,182 (2.45%). Davies UKIP 875 (1.81%). Klepacka
ProLife 176 (0.36%). Turnout 67.05%.

Andrew Lansley, 48. Active politician and shadow health secretary who is
regarded the "brain" behind John Major's 1992 election win. MP since 1997.

122 Cambridgeshire South East *James Paice (C)26,37447.05

Jonathan Chatfield (LD)17,75031.66

Fiona Ross (Lab)11,93621.29

Maj. 8,62415.38

C hold.Swing 0.97 C to LD.

Electorate 85,901. Turnout 65.26%

June 2001: Paice C 22,927 (44.19%). Brinton LD 13,937 (26.86%). Inchley Lab
13,714 (26.43%). Scarr UKIP 1,308 (2.52%). Turnout 63.54%.

James Paice, 56. A pro-European farmer and shadow secretary for agriculture and
fisheries whom colleagues regard as "sensible". MP since 1987.

123 Cannock Chase *Dr Tony Wright (Lab)22,13951.30

Ian Collard (C)12,91229.92

Jenny Pinkett (LD)5,93413.75

Roy Jenkins (UKIP)2,1705.03

Maj. 9,22721.38

Lab hold.Swing 2.34 Lab to C.

Electorate 75,194. Turnout 57.39%

June 2001: Wright Lab 23,049 (56.13%). Smithers C 12,345 (30.06%). Reynolds LD
5,670 (13.81%). Turnout 55.93%. Tony Wright, 50. Leading Labour moderniser and
keen tennis player; he has been passed over for office as an academic maverick.
MP since 1992.

124 Canterbury *Julian Brazier (C)21,11344.37

Alex Hilton (Lab)13,64228.67

Jenny Barnard-Langston (LD)10,05921.14

Geoff Meaden (Green)1,5213.20

John Moore (UKIP)9261.95

Rocky van de Benderskum (LCA)3260.69

Maj. 7,47115.70

C hold.Swing 5.56 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,046. Turnout 66.05%

June 2001: Brazier C 18,711 (41.46%). Thornberry Lab 16,642 (36.87%). Wales LD
8,056 (17.85%). Dawe Green 920 (2.04%). Moore UKIP 803 (1.78%). Turnout 60.86%.

Julian Brazier, 51. Honest and occasionally cranky defence specialist, who
speaks for the Tories on international affairs. MP since 1987.

125 Cardiff Central

Jenny Willott (LD)17,99149.79 *Jon Owen Jones (Lab Co-op)12,39834.31

Gotz Mohindra (C)3,3399.24

Richard Grigg (PC)1,2713.52

Raja Gul Raiz (Respect)3861.07

Frank Hughes (UKIP)3831.06

Anne Savoury (Ind)1680.46

Captain Beany (Bean)1590.44

Catherine Taylor-Dawson (Vote Dream)370.10

Maj. 5,59315.48

LD gain from Lab.Swing 8.69 Lab Co-op to LD.

Electorate 61,001. Turnout 59.23%

June 2001: Jones Lab Co-op 13,451 (38.61%). Willott LD 12,792 (36.71%). Walker C
5,537 (15.89%). Grigg PC 1,680 (4.82%). Bartley Green 661 (1.90%). Goss Soc All
283 (0.81%). Hughes UKIP 221 (0.63%). Jeremy ProLife 217 (0.62%). Turnout
58.28%.

Jenny Willott, 30. Charity worker and former researcher to Lembit Opik, she
finally takes this much-coveted seat for the Lib Dems.

126 Cardiff North *Julie Morgan (Lab)17,70739.04

Jonathan Morgan (C)16,56136.51

John Dixon (LD)8,48318.70

John Rowlands (PC)1,9364.27

Don Hulston (UKIP)5341.18

Alison Hobbs (FWP)1380.30

Catherine Taylor-Dawson (Vote Dream)10.00

Maj. 1,1462.53

Lab hold.Swing 5.87 Lab to C.

Electorate 64,341. Turnout 70.50%

June 2001: Morgan Lab 19,845 (45.90%). Watson C 13,680 (31.64%). Dixon LD 6,631
(15.34%). Jobbins PC 2,471 (5.71%). Hulston UKIP 613 (1.42%). Turnout 69.04%.

Julie Morgan, 60. A fervent campaigner for women's issues, she is married to
Rhodri, First Minister in Wales. MP since 1997.

127 Cardiff South & Penarth *Alun Michael (Lab Co-op)17,54447.40

Victoria Green (C)8,21022.18

Gavin Cox (LD)7,52920.34

Jason Toby (PC)2,0235.47

John Matthews (Green)7291.97

Jennifer Tuttle (UKIP)5221.41

Dave Bartlett (Soc Alt)2690.73

Andrew Taylor (Ind)1040.28

Catherine Taylor-Dawson (Vote Dream)790.21

Maj. 9,33425.22

Lab Co-op hold.Swing 4.57 Lab Co-op to C.

Electorate 65,710. Turnout 56.32%

June 2001: Michael Lab Co-op 20,094 (56.21%). Kelly Owen C 7,807 (21.84%).
Berman LD 4,572 (12.79%). Haines PC 1,983 (5.55%). Callan UKIP 501 (1.40%).
Bartlett Soc All 427 (1.19%). Savoury ProLife 367 (1.03%). Turnout 57.55%.

Alun Michael, 61. Highly-competent minister for rural affairs who enjoys
personal support from Tony Blair; formerly First Minister in Welsh Assembly. MP
since 1987.

128 Cardiff West *Kevin Brennan (Lab)15,72945.51

Simon Baker (C)7,56221.88

Alison Goldsworthy (LD)6,06017.53

Neil McEvoy (PC)4,31612.49

Joe Callan (UKIP)7272.10

Catherine Taylor-Dawson (Vote Dream)1670.48

Maj. 8,16723.63

Lab hold.Swing 4.79 Lab to C.

Electorate 59,847. Turnout 57.75%

June 2001: Brennan Lab 18,594 (54.56%). Davies C 7,273 (21.34%). Gasson LD 4,458
(13.08%). Bowen PC 3,296 (9.67%). Jenking UKIP 462 (1.36%). Turnout 58.41%.

Kevin Brennan, 45. Quick-witted aide to Alan Milburn who describes himself as a
"free-range rather than battery-farmed" politician. MP since 2001.

129 Carlisle *Eric Martlew (Lab)17,01948.08

Mike Mitchelson (C)11,32431.99

Steven Tweedie (LD)5,91616.71

Steven Cochrane (UKIP)7922.24

Lezley Gibson (LCA)3430.97

Maj. 5,69516.09

Lab hold.Swing 0.12 Lab to C.

Electorate 59,508. Turnout 59.48%

June 2001: Martlew Lab 17,856 (51.15%). Mitchelson C 12,154 (34.82%). Guest LD
4,076 (11.68%). Paisley LCA 554 (1.59%). Wilcox Soc All 269 (0.77%). Turnout
59.36%.

Eric Martlew, 56. Combative backbencher who has failed to find a government job,
probably through being "too old Labour". MP since 1987.

130 Carmarthen East & Dinefwr *Adam Price (PC)17,56145.86

Ross Hendry (Lab)10,84328.32

Suzy Davies (C)5,23513.67

Juliana Hughes (LD)3,7199.71

Mike Squires (UKIP)6611.73

Sid Whitworth (LCA)2720.71

Maj. 6,71817.54

PC hold.Swing 5.37 Lab to PC.

Electorate 53,484. Turnout 71.59%

June 2001: Price PC 16,130 (42.39%). Williams Lab 13,540 (35.58%). Thomas C
4,912 (12.91%). Evans LD 2,815 (7.40%). Squires UKIP 656 (1.72%). Turnout
70.42%.

Adam Price, 36. Rising Nationalist star who describes himself as "soft-Left"; he
has led the charge to try to impeach Tony Blair. MP since 2001.

131 Carmarthen West & Pembrokeshire South *Nick Ainger (Lab)13,95336.85

David Morris (C)12,04331.81

John Dixon (PC)5,58214.74

John Allen (LD)5,39914.26

Josie MacDonald (UKIP)5451.44

Alex Daszak (LCA)2370.63

Nick Turner (ND)1040.27

Maj. 1,9105.04

Lab hold.Swing 3.62 Lab to C.

Electorate 56,245. Turnout 67.32%

June 2001: Ainger Lab 15,349 (41.58%). Wilson C 10,811 (29.29%). Hughes
Griffiths PC 6,893 (18.67%). Jeremy LD 3,248 (8.80%). Phillips UKIP 537 (1.45%).
Turner Customer 78 (0.21%). Turnout 65.32%.

Nick Ainger, 55. Former docker and Government Whip who was a stalwart campaigner
against hunting. MP since 1992, here since 1997.

132 Carshalton & Wallington *Tom Brake (LD)17,35740.31

Ken Andrew (C)16,28937.83

Andrew Theobald (Lab)7,39617.18

Francis Day (UKIP)1,1112.58

Bob Steel (Green)9082.11

Maj. 1,0682.48

LD hold.Swing 4.36 LD to C.

Electorate 67,844. Turnout 63.47%

June 2001: Brake LD 18,289 (45.03%). Andrew C 13,742 (33.84%). Cooper Lab 7,466
(18.38%). Dixon Green 614 (1.51%). Haley UKIP 501 (1.23%). Turnout 60.31%.

Tom Brake, 43. Party spokesman on international development and whip who shares
a birthday with Tony Blair. MP since 1997.

133 Castle Point *Bob Spink (C)22,11848.29

Luke Akehurst (Lab)13,91730.39

James Sandbach (LD)4,71910.30

Neil Hamper (UKIP)3,4317.49

Irene Willis (Green)1,6173.53

Maj. 8,20117.91

C hold.Swing 7.71 Lab to C.

Electorate 69,480. Turnout 65.92%

June 2001: Spink C 17,738 (44.61%). Butler Lab 16,753 (42.13%). Boulton LD 3,116
(7.84%). Hurrell UKIP 1,273 (3.20%). Roberts Ind 663 (1.67%). Searle Truth 223
(0.56%). Turnout 58.39%.

Bob Spink, 56. Self-made millionaire and Right-winger who has been criticised
for campaigning against immigration. MP 1992 to 1997, again since 2001.

134 Ceredigion

Mark Williams (LD)13,13036.53 *Simon Thomas (PC)12,91135.92

John Harrison (C)4,45512.39

Alun Davies (Lab)4,33712.06

Dave Bradney (Green)8462.35

Iain Sheridan (Veritas)2680.75

Maj. 2190.61

LD gain from PC.Swing 6.00 PC to LD.

Electorate 53,493. Turnout 67.20%

June 2001: Thomas PC 13,241 (38.26%). Williams LD 9,297 (26.87%). Davies C 6,730
(19.45%). Grace Lab 5,338 (15.43%). Turnout 61.67%.

Mark Williams, 39. Deputy headteacher, who is still learning Welsh, unseats
Nationalist Simon Thomas.

135 Charnwood *Stephen Dorrell (C)23,57146.57

Richard Robinson (Lab)14,76229.16

Sue King (LD)9,05717.89

Andrew Holders (BNP)1,7373.43

Jamie Bye (UKIP)1,4892.94

Maj. 8,80917.40

C hold.Swing 0.68 Lab to C.

Electorate 76,274. Turnout 66.36%

June 2001: Dorrell C 23,283 (48.24%). Sheahan Lab 15,544 (32.21%). King LD 7,835
(16.23%). Bye UKIP 1,603 (3.32%). Turnout 64.49%.

Stephen Dorrell, 53. Ex-Cabinet minister who once considered a leadership bid
but has the last six years on the backbenches. MP since 1979, here since 1997.

136 Chatham & Aylesford *Jonathan Shaw (Lab)18,38743.70

Anne Jobson (C)16,05538.15

Debra Enever (LD)5,74413.65

Jeffrey King (UKIP)1,2262.91

Michael Russell (Eng Dem)6681.59

Maj. 2,3325.54

Lab hold.Swing 2.69 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,515. Turnout 59.68%

June 2001: Shaw Lab 19,180 (48.27%). Holden C 14,840 (37.35%). Lettington LD
4,705 (11.84%). Knopp UKIP 1,010 (2.54%). Turnout 56.96%.

Jonathan Shaw, 38. Backbencher and active Commons performer hangs on to this
formerly safe Tory seat. MP since 1997.

137 Cheadle *Patsy Calton (LD)23,18948.88

Stephen Day (C)19,16940.41

Martin Miller (Lab)4,1698.79

Vincent Cavanagh (UKIP)4891.03

Richard Chadfield (BNP)4210.89

Maj. 4,0208.47

LD hold.Swing 4.20 C to LD.

Electorate 68,123. Turnout 69.63%

June 2001: Calton LD 18,477 (42.37%). Day C 18,444 (42.30%). Dawber Lab 6,086
(13.96%). Cavanagh UKIP 599 (1.37%). Turnout 63.20%.

Patsy Calton, 56. Party health spokesman, who has run two marathons for breast
cancer charities, holds onto the seat she won in 2001.

138 Chelmsford West *Simon Burns (C)22,94644.95

Stephen Robinson (LD)13,32626.10

Russell Kennedy (Lab)13,23625.93

Kenneth Wedon (UKIP)1,5443.02

Maj. 9,62018.84

C hold.Swing 0.18 C to LD.

Electorate 82,489. Turnout 61.89%

June 2001: Burns C 20,446 (42.47%). Longden Lab 14,185 (29.46%). Robinson LD
11,197 (23.26%). Burgess Green 837 (1.74%). Wedon UKIP 785 (1.63%). Philbin LCA
693 (1.44%). Turnout 61.49%.

Simon Burns, 52. A loyal shadow health minister and former whip; known to be an
impressively fast swimmer. MP since 1987.

139 Cheltenham

Martin Horwood (LD)18,12241.54

Dr Vanessa Gearson (C)15,81936.26

Christopher Evans (Lab)4,98811.43

Dr Robert Hodges (Ind)2,6516.08

Keith Bessant (Green)9082.08

Niall Warry (UKIP)6081.39

Dancing Hanks (Loony)5251.20

Maj. 2,3035.28

LD hold.Swing 3.64 LD to C.

Electorate 71,541. Turnout 60.97%

June 2001: Jones LD 19,970 (47.74%). Garnham C 14,715 (35.17%). Erlam Lab 5,041
(12.05%). Bessant Green 735 (1.76%). Hanks Loony 513 (1.23%). Carver UKIP 482
(1.15%). Gates ProLife 272 (0.65%). Everest Ind 107 (0.26%). Turnout 61.92%.

Martin Horwood, 42. Former charity worker succeeds Nigel Jones, who survived the
notorious sword attack that killed a Lib Dem councillor.

140 Chesham & Amersham *Cheryl Gillan (C)25,61954.40

John Ford (LD)11,82125.10

Rupa Huq (Lab)6,61014.03

Nick Wilkins (Green)1,6563.52

David Samuel-Camps (UKIP)1,3912.95

Maj. 13,79829.30

C hold.Swing 1.53 LD to C.

Electorate 69,217. Turnout 68.04%

June 2001: Gillan C 22,867 (50.50%). Ford LD 10,985 (24.26%). Hulme Lab 8,497
(18.76%). Harvey UKIP 1,367 (3.02%). Wilkins Green 1,114 (2.46%). Duval ProLife
453 (1.00%). Turnout 64.67%.

Cheryl Gillan, 53. A generally sunny but occasionally petulant Tory home affairs
spokesman who once chased a bag-snatcher in her stockinged feet. MP since 1992.

141 Chester, City Of *Christine Russell (Lab)17,45838.88

Paul Offer (C)16,54336.84

Mia Jones (LD)9,81821.86

Allan Weddell (UKIP)7761.73

Ed Abrams (Eng Dem)3080.69

Maj. 9152.04

Lab hold.Swing 6.66 Lab to C.

Electorate 69,785. Turnout 64.34%

June 2001: Russell Lab 21,760 (48.49%). Jones C 14,866 (33.13%). Dawson LD 6,589
(14.68%). Weddell UKIP 899 (2.00%). Rogers Ind 763 (1.70%). Turnout 63.76%.

Christine Russell, 60. Loyal Blairite who keeps a low profile during Commons
debates. MP since 1997.

142 Chesterfield *Paul Holmes (LD)20,87547.31

Simon Rich (Lab)17,83040.41

Mark Kreling (C)3,6058.17

Christopher Brady (UKIP)9972.26

Ian Jerram (Eng Dem)8141.84

Maj. 3,0456.90

LD hold.Swing 0.54 Lab to LD.

Electorate 74,007. Turnout 59.62%

June 2001: Holmes LD 21,249 (47.81%). Race Lab 18,663 (42.00%). Hitchcock C
3,613 (8.13%). Robinson Soc All 437 (0.98%). Harrison Soc Lab 295 (0.66%).
Rawson Ind 184 (0.41%). Turnout 60.67%.

Paul Holmes, 48. Former head of a sixth form college hangs on to the once-safe
Labour seat that used to belong to Tony Benn. MP since 2001.

143 Chichester *Andrew Tyrie (C)25,30248.29

Alan Hilliar (LD)14,44227.56

Jonathan Austin (Lab)9,63218.38

Douglas Denny (UKIP)3,0255.77

Maj. 10,86020.72

C hold.Swing 1.09 C to LD.

Electorate 78,645. Turnout 66.63%

June 2001: Tyrie C 23,320 (47.03%). Ravenscroft LD 11,965 (24.13%). Barlow Lab
10,627 (21.43%). Denny UKIP 2,380 (4.80%). Graham Green 1,292 (2.61%). Turnout
63.81%.

Andrew Tyrie, 48. Intellectual former banker who is exercised by the "pig's ear"
of Labour's Lords reforms. MP since 1997.

144 Chingford & Woodford Green *Iain Duncan Smith (C)20,55553.19

Simon Wright (Lab)9,91425.65

John Beanse (LD)6,83217.68

Michael McGough (UKIP)1,0782.79

Barry White (Ind)2690.70

Maj. 10,64127.53

C hold.Swing 6.35 Lab to C.

Electorate 61,386. Turnout 62.96%

June 2001: Duncan Smith C 17,834 (48.22%). Webb Lab 12,347 (33.39%). Beanse LD
5,739 (15.52%). Griffin BNP 1,062 (2.87%). Turnout 58.47%.

Iain Duncan Smith, 51. Monotone backbencher and former Tory leader who was
elected on the support of less than one in three MPs. MP since 1992.

145 Chipping Barnet

Theresa Villiers (C)19,74446.59

Pauline Coakley-Webb (Lab)13,78432.52

Sean Hooker (LD)6,67115.74

Audrey Poppy (Green)1,1992.83

Victor Kaye (UKIP)9242.18

Rainbow George Weiss (Vote Dream)590.14

Maj. 5,96014.06

C hold.Swing 3.85 Lab to C.

Electorate 66,143. Turnout 64.07%

June 2001: Chapman C 19,702 (46.41%). Welfare Lab 17,001 (40.04%). Hooker LD
5,753 (13.55%). Turnout 60.46%.  Theresa Villiers, 36. Former barrister and law
le turer who was the Eurosceptic MEP for London. She replaces the genial Sir
Sydney Chapman.

146 Chorley *Lindsay Hoyle (Lab)25,13150.70

Simon Mallett (C)17,50635.32

Alexander Wilson-Fletcher (LD)6,93213.98

Maj. 7,62515.38

Lab hold.Swing 1.11 Lab to C.

Electorate 78,838. Turnout 62.87%

June 2001: Hoyle Lab 25,088 (52.32%). Booth C 16,644 (34.71%). Fenn LD 5,372
(11.20%). Frost UKIP 848 (1.77%). Turnout 62.25%.

Lindsay Hoyle, 47. Colourful and humorous MP who wanted Heathrow Airport to be
renamed in memory of Princess Diana; pro-Gibraltar campaigner. MP since 1997.

147 Christchurch *Christopher Chope (C)28,20854.70

Leslie Coman (LD)12,64924.53

Jim King (Lab)8,05115.61

David Hughes (UKIP)2,6575.15

Maj. 15,55930.17

C hold.Swing 1.42 LD to C.

Electorate 74,109. Turnout 69.58%

June 2001: Chope C 27,306 (55.09%). Webb LD 13,762 (27.76%). Begg Lab 7,506
(15.14%). Strange UKIP 993 (2.00%). Turnout 67.44%.

Christopher Chope, 57. Right-winger who is fond of rottweilers; chairman of
Thatcherite torch-bearer Conservative Way Forward. MP 1983 to 1992, here since
1997.

148 Cities Of London & Westminster *Mark Field (C)17,26047.30

Hywel Lloyd (Lab)9,16525.12

Marie-Louise Rossi (LD)7,30620.02

Tristan Smith (Green)1,5444.23

Colin Merton (UKIP)3991.09

Brian Haw (Ind)2980.82

Jill McLachlan (CPA)2460.67

David Harris (Veritas)2180.60

Cass Jean-Claude Cass-Horne (Ind CH)510.14

Maj. 8,09522.19

C hold.Swing 4.47 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,577. Turnout 50.27%

June 2001: Field C 15,737 (46.32%). Katz Lab 11,238 (33.08%). Horwood LD 5,218
(15.36%). Charlton Green 1,318 (3.88%). Merton UKIP 464 (1.37%). Turnout 47.23%.

Mark Field, 40. Modish shadow minister for London and former solicitor who who
cites an interest as "pop and rock music". MP since 2001.

149 Cleethorpes *Shona McIsaac (Lab)18,88943.33

Martin Vickers (C)16,24737.27

Geoff Lowis (LD)6,43714.77

Bill Hardie (UKIP)2,0164.63

Maj. 2,6426.06

Lab hold.Swing 3.59 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,746. Turnout 61.61%

June 2001: McIsaac Lab 21,032 (49.58%). Howd C 15,412 (36.33%). Smith LD 5,080
(11.98%). Hatton UKIP 894 (2.11%). Turnout 62.02%.

Shona McIsaac, 45. Former journalist who asks sycophantic questions in Commons;
PPS to home office minister Baroness Scotland. MP since 1997.

150 Clwyd South *Martyn Jones (Lab)14,80844.97

Tom Biggins (C)8,46025.69

Deric Burnham (LD)5,10515.50

Mark Strong (PC)3,1119.45

Alwyn Humphreys (FWP)8032.44

Nick Powell (UKIP)6441.96

Maj. 6,34819.28

Lab hold.Swing 3.64 Lab to C.

Electorate 52,353. Turnout 62.90%

June 2001: Jones Lab 17,217 (51.40%). Biggins C 8,319 (24.84%). Edwards PC 3,982
(11.89%). Griffiths LD 3,426 (10.23%). Theunissen UKIP 552 (1.65%). Turnout
62.40%.

Martyn Jones, 58. Bearded backbencher who claims to be the only MP to have seen
the salmonella organism under a microscope. MP since 1987.

151 Clwyd West

David Jones (C)12,90936.25 *Gareth Thomas (Lab)12,77635.87

Frank Taylor (LD)4,72313.26

Eilian Williams (PC)3,87410.88

Warwick Nicholson (UKIP)5121.44

Jimmy James (Ind)5071.42

Patrick Keenan (Soc Lab)3130.88

Maj. 1330.37

C gain from Lab.Swing 1.80 Lab to C.

Electorate 55,642. Turnout 64.01%

June 2001: Thomas Lab 13,426 (38.80%). James C 12,311 (35.58%). Williams PC
4,453 (12.87%). Feeley LD 3,934 (11.37%). Guest UKIP 476 (1.38%). Turnout
64.12%.

David Jones, 52. Former Welsh Assembly member and long-serving Tory activist, he
unseats Gareth Thomas, L.

152 Coatbridge, Chryston & Bellshill +Thomas Clarke (Lab)24,72564.48

Duncan Ross (SNP)5,20613.58

Rodney Ackland (LD)4,60512.01

Lindsay Paterson (C)2,7757.24

Joan Kinloch (SSP)1,0332.69

Maj. 19,51950.90

Lab hold. Electorate 67,385. Turnout 56.90%

June 2001: Lab 28,067 (69.31%). SNP 5,975 (14.75%). LD 2,257 (5.57%). SSP 2,083
(5.14%). C 2,019 (4.99%). Others 94 (0.23%). Turnout 59.86%.

Tom Clarke, 64. An affable former film minister who is still sensitive about
being dropped early in Blair's government. MP since 1982, here since 1997.

153 Colchester *Bob Russell (LD)21,14547.09

Kevin Bentley (C)14,86833.11

Laura Bruni (Lab)8,88619.79

Maj. 6,27713.98

LD hold.Swing 0.64 C to LD.

Electorate 79,010. Turnout 56.83%

June 2001: Russell LD 18,627 (42.59%). Bentley C 13,074 (29.89%). Fegan Lab
10,925 (24.98%). Lord UKIP 631 (1.44%). Overy-Owen Grey 479 (1.10%). Turnout
55.39%.

Bob Russell, 59. Joker and self-styled "voice of Colchester", he is a party whip
who wants darts to be made an Olympic sport. MP since 1997.

154 Colne Valley *Kali Mountford (Lab)17,53635.85

Maggie Throup (C)16,03532.78

Elisabeth Wilson (LD)11,82224.17

Barry Fowler (BNP)1,4302.92

Lesley Hedges (Green)1,2952.65

Helen Martinek (Veritas)5431.11

Ian Mumford (Loony)2590.53

Maj. 1,5013.07

Lab hold.Swing 3.40 Lab to C.

Electorate 74,121. Turnout 66.00%

June 2001: Mountford Lab 18,967 (40.37%). Davies C 14,328 (30.49%). Beever LD
11,694 (24.89%). Plunkett Green 1,081 (2.30%). Quarmby UKIP 917 (1.95%). Turnout
63.33%.

Kali Mountford, 51. Defender of women MPs against sexist comments, PPS to Des
Browne as immigration minister. MP since 1997.

155 Congleton *Ann Winterton (C)21,18945.39

Nicholas Milton (Lab)12,94327.73

Eleanor Key (LD)12,55026.88

Maj. 8,24617.66

C hold.Swing 0.92 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,770. Turnout 64.15%

June 2001: Winterton C 20,872 (46.30%). Flanagan Lab 13,738 (30.47%).
Lloyd-Griffiths LD 9,719 (21.56%). Young UKIP 754 (1.67%). Turnout 62.67%.

Ann Winterton, 64. Tough but dulcet-toned former Tory drugs spokesman who was
sacked from the shadow cabinet for telling a racist joke. MP since 1983.

156 Conwy *Betty Williams (Lab)12,47937.08

Guto Bebb (C)9,39827.92

Gareth Roberts (LD)6,72319.98

Paul Rowlinson (PC)3,73011.08

Jim Killock (Green)5121.52

David Lloyd Jones (Soc Lab)3240.96

Kenneth Khambatta (UKIP)2980.89

Tim Evans (LCA)1930.57

Maj. 3,0819.15

Lab hold.Swing 4.47 Lab to C.

Electorate 53,987. Turnout 62.34%

June 2001: Williams Lab 14,366 (41.80%). Logan C 8,147 (23.71%). Macdonald LD
5,800 (16.88%). Owen PC 5,665 (16.48%). Barham UKIP 388 (1.13%). Turnout 62.77%.

Betty Williams, 60. "Old Labour" backbencher and advocate of Welsh; she is one
of the few MPs happy to talk about "socialism". MP since 1997.

157 Copeland

Jamie Reed (Lab)17,03350.46

Chris Whiteside (C)10,71331.74

Frank Hollowell (LD)3,88011.49

Edward Caley-Knowles (UKIP)7352.18

Brian Earley (Ind)7342.17

Alan Mossop (Eng Dem)6621.96

Maj. 6,32018.72

Lab hold.Swing 2.22 C to Lab.

Electorate 54,206. Turnout 62.28%

June 2001: Cunningham Lab 17,991 (51.77%). Graham C 13,027 (37.49%). Gayler LD
3,732 (10.74%). Turnout 64.92%.

Jamie Reed, 32. Smiley newcomer who describes himself as a "media professional"
succeeds former agriculture minister Dr Jack Cunningham, L.

158 Corby *Phil Hope (Lab Co-op)20,91335.25

Andrew Griffith (C)19,39632.69

Ian Gillman (UKIP)12,07820.36

David Radcliffe (LD)6,18410.42

Steve Carey (Soc Lab)4990.84

John Morris (Ind)2570.43

Maj. 1,5172.56

Lab Co-op hold.Swing 4.76 Lab Co-op to C.

Electorate 73,000. Turnout 81.27%

June 2001: Hope Lab Co-op 23,283 (49.31%). Griffith C 17,583 (37.23%). Scudder
LD 4,751 (10.06%). Gillman UKIP 855 (1.81%). Dickson Soc Lab 750 (1.59%).
Turnout 65.31%.

Phil Hope, 51. A former tap dancer who has been PPS in the Office of the Deputy
Prime Minister, he fends off Tory challenger Andrew Griffith. MP since 1997.

159 Cornwall North

Dan Rogerson (LD)23,84242.59

Mark Formosa (C)20,76637.09

David Acton (Lab)6,63611.85

David Campbell-Bannerman (UKIP)3,0635.47

Dick Cole (Meb Ker)1,3512.41

Alan Eastwood (Veritas)3240.58

Maj. 3,0765.49

LD hold.Swing 6.36 LD to C.

Electorate 86,841. Turnout 64.46%

June 2001: Tyler LD 28,082 (52.02%). Weller C 18,250 (33.81%). Goodman Lab 5,257
(9.74%). Protz UKIP 2,394 (4.43%). Turnout 63.76%.

Dan Rogerson, 29. Newcomer finds his way into the Commons on his second attempt,
replacing the retired Paul Tyler, whose striped socks brought colour to the
Commons.

160 Cornwall South East *Colin Breed (LD)24,98646.74

Ashley Gray (C)18,47934.57

Colin Binley (Lab)6,06911.35

David Lucas (UKIP)2,6935.04

Graham Sandercock (Meb Ker)7691.44

Anne Assheton-Salton (Veritas)4590.86

Maj. 6,50712.17

LD hold.Swing 0.89 C to LD.

Electorate 80,704. Turnout 66.24%

June 2001: Breed LD 23,756 (45.90%). Gray C 18,381 (35.52%). Stevens Lab 6,429
(12.42%). Palmer UKIP 1,978 (3.82%). George Meb Ker 1,209 (2.34%). Turnout
65.44%.

Colin Breed, 58. Defence spokesman who holds conservative views on guns, hunting
and homosexuality. MP since 1997.

161 Cotswold *Geoffrey Clifton-Brown (C)23,32649.26

Philip Beckerlegge (LD)13,63828.80

Mark Dempsey (Lab)8,45717.86

Richard Buckley (UKIP)1,5383.25

James Derieg (Ind)3920.83

Maj. 9,68820.46

C hold.Swing 2.80 C to LD.

Electorate 71,039. Turnout 66.65%

June 2001: Clifton-Brown C 23,133 (50.31%). Lawrence LD 11,150 (24.25%). Wilkins
Lab 10,383 (22.58%). Stopps UKIP 1,315 (2.86%). Turnout 67.47%.

Geoffrey Clifton-Brown, 52. Wealthy farmer whose great-great-uncle was speaker
in the 1940s. MP since 1992, here since 1997.

162 Coventry North East *Bob Ainsworth (Lab)21,17856.94

Jaswant Singh Birdi (C)6,95618.70

Russell Field (LD)6,12316.46

Dave Nellist (Soc Alt)1,8745.04

Paul Sootheran (UKIP)1,0642.86

Maj. 14,22238.24

Lab hold.Swing 2.02 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,225. Turnout 52.97%

June 2001: Ainsworth Lab 22,739 (61.02%). Bell C 6,988 (18.75%). Sewards LD
4,163 (11.17%). Nellist Soc All 2,638 (7.08%). Sheppard BNP 737 (1.98%). Turnout
50.36%.

Bob Ainsworth, 52. Sometime sheet metal worker, now deputy chief whip, who is
still indignant about injustices to the underprivileged. MP since 1992.

163 Coventry North West *Geoffrey Robinson (Lab)20,94248.21

Brian Connell (C)11,62726.77

Iona Anderson (LD)7,93218.26

David Clarke (BNP)1,5563.58

Sandra List (UKIP)7661.76

Nicola Downes (Soc Alt)6151.42

Maj. 9,31521.44

Lab hold.Swing 2.06 Lab to C.

Electorate 73,180. Turnout 59.36%

June 2001: Robinson Lab 21,892 (51.45%). Fairburn C 11,018 (25.89%). Penlington
LD 5,832 (13.71%). Oddy Ind 3,159 (7.42%). Benson UKIP 650 (1.53%). Turnout
55.51%.

Geoffrey Robinson, 66. Millionaire who lost his boyish looks through good living
and his Ministerial career through a loan to Peter Mandelson. MP since 1976.

164 Coventry South *Jim Cunningham (Lab)18,64945.84

Heather Wheeler (C)12,39430.46

Vincent McKee (LD)7,22817.77

Rob Windsor (Soc Alt)1,0972.70

William Brown (UKIP)8292.04

Irene Rogers (Ind)3440.85

James Rooney (FF)1440.35

Maj. 6,25515.37

Lab hold.Swing 2.64 Lab to C.

Electorate 68,884. Turnout 59.06%

June 2001: Cunningham Lab 20,125 (50.19%). Wheeler C 11,846 (29.54%). McKee LD
5,672 (14.15%). Windsor Soc All 1,475 (3.68%). Rogers Ind 564 (1.41%). Logan Soc
Lab 414 (1.03%). Turnout 55.28%.

Jim Cunningham, 64. A dour former blue-collar worker and orthodox trade union
loyalist. MP since 1992.

165 Crawley *Laura Moffatt (Lab)16,41139.10

Henry Smith (C)16,37439.01

Rupert Sheard (LD)6,50315.49

Richard Trower (BNP)1,2773.04

Ronald Walters (UKIP)9352.23

Robin Burnham (Dem Soc All)2630.63

Arshad Khan (JP)2100.50

Maj. 370.09

Lab hold.Swing 8.52 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,911. Turnout 58.37%

June 2001: Moffatt Lab 19,488 (49.32%). Smith C 12,718 (32.18%). Seekings LD
5,009 (12.68%). Galloway UKIP 1,137 (2.88%). Staniford Loony 383 (0.97%). Khan
JP 271 (0.69%). Stewart Soc Lab 260 (0.66%). Hirsch Soc All 251 (0.64%). Turnout
55.17%.

Laura Moffat, 51. Combative Left-wing former nurse who became PPS to Lord
Falconer, as Lord Chancellor; she hangs on to this isolated Labour seat which
she won in 1997.

166 Crewe & Nantwich *Gwyneth Dunwoody (Lab)21,24048.84

Eveleigh Moore-Dutton (C)14,16232.57

Paul Roberts (LD)8,08318.59

Maj. 7,07816.28

Lab hold.Swing 3.78 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,472. Turnout 60.00%

June 2001: Dunwoody Lab 22,556 (54.29%). Potter C 12,650 (30.45%). Cannon LD
5,595 (13.47%). Croston UKIP 746 (1.80%). Turnout 60.18%.

Gwynneth Dunwoody, 73. Didactic performer who found the spotlight when a
rebellion forced the Government to reinstate her as chairman of the transport
committee. MP 1966 to 1970, again since 1974.

167 Crosby *Claire Curtis-Thomas (Lab)17,46348.25

Debi Jones (C)11,62332.11

Jim Murray (LD)6,29817.40

Dr John Whittaker (UKIP)4541.25

Geoffrey Bottoms (Comm Brit)1990.55

David Braid (Clause 28)1570.43

Maj. 5,84016.14

Lab hold.Swing 3.26 Lab to C.

Electorate 54,255. Turnout 66.71%

June 2001: Curtis-Thomas Lab 20,327 (55.14%). Collinson C 11,974 (32.48%). Drake
LD 4,084 (11.08%). Holt Soc Lab 481 (1.30%). Turnout 64.25%.

Claire Curtis-Thomas, 47. Quirky Welsh loyalist and engineer who describes
herself as "extremely rational and reasonable". MP since 1997.

168 Croydon Central

Andrew Pelling (C)19,97440.80 *Geraint Davies (Lab)19,89940.65

Jeremy Hargreaves (LD)6,38413.04

Ian Edwards (UKIP)1,0662.18

Bernice Golberg (Green)1,0362.12

Marianne Bowness (Veritas)3040.62

John Cartwright (Loony)1930.39

Janet Stears (Work)1010.21

Maj. 750.15

C gain from Lab.Swing 4.42 Lab to C.

Electorate 80,825. Turnout 60.57%

June 2001: Davies Lab 21,643 (47.19%). Congdon C 17,659 (38.51%). Booth LD 5,156
(11.24%). Feisenberger UKIP 545 (1.19%). Miller BNP 449 (0.98%). Cartwright
Loony 408 (0.89%). Turnout 59.12%.

Andrew Pelling, 45. London Assembly member who describes himself as a "real
person", rather than a politician; he takes this seat from Labour's Geraint
Davies.

169 Croydon North *Malcolm Wicks (Lab)23,55553.72

Tariq Ahmad (C)9,66722.05

Adrian Gee-Turner (LD)7,56017.24

Shasha Khan (Green)1,2482.85

Henry Pearce (UKIP)7701.76

Peter Gibson (Croydon)3940.90

Winston McKenzie (Veritas)3240.74

Farhan Rasheed (Ind)1970.45

Michelle Chambers (Work)1320.30

Maj. 13,88831.67

Lab hold.Swing 4.29 Lab to C.

Electorate 83,796. Turnout 52.33%

June 2001: Wicks Lab 26,610 (63.54%). Allison C 9,752 (23.28%). Lawman LD 4,375
(10.45%). Smith UKIP 606 (1.45%). Madgwick Soc All 539 (1.29%). Turnout 54.68%.

Malcolm Wicks, 57. One of the Commons' most intellectually able and warm-hearted
politicians who became a pensions minister. MP since 1992.

170 Croydon South *Richard Ottaway (C)25,32051.78

Paul Smith (Lab)11,79224.12

Sandra Lawman (LD)10,04920.55

James Feisenberger (UKIP)1,0542.16

Graham Dare (Veritas)4971.02

Mark Samuel (Work)1850.38

Maj. 13,52827.67

C hold.Swing 4.18 Lab to C.

Electorate 76,872. Turnout 63.61%

June 2001: Ottaway C 22,169 (49.20%). Ryan Lab 13,472 (29.90%). Gallop LD 8,226
(18.26%). Garner UKIP 998 (2.21%). Samuel Choice 195 (0.43%). Turnout 61.39%.

Richard Ottaway, 59. Kindly former Heseltine aide who supports the introduction
of licensed brothels. MP since 1992.

171 Cumbernauld, Kilsyth & Kirkintilloch East +Rosemary McKenna (Lab)20,25151.81

James Hepburn (SNP)8,68922.23

Hugh O'Donnell (LD)5,81714.88

James Boswell (C)2,7186.95

Willie O'Neill (SSP)1,1412.92

Patrick Elliott (OCV)4721.21

Maj. 11,56229.58

Lab hold. Electorate 64,748. Turnout 60.37%

June 2001: Lab 23,026 (57.79%). SNP 10,359 (26.00%). LD 2,430 (6.10%). C 2,017
(5.06%). SSP 1,775 (4.46%). Others 234 (0.59%). Turnout 58.76%.

Rosemary McKenna, 63. Respected Blairite moderniser who believes "true gender
equality will end the need for debate". MP since 1997.

172 Cynon Valley *Ann Clwyd (Lab)17,07464.07

Geraint Benney (PC)3,81514.32

Margaret Phelps (LD)2,99111.22

Antonia Dunn (C)2,0627.74

Susan Davies (UKIP)7052.65

Maj. 13,25949.76

Lab hold.Swing 0.77 PC to Lab.

Electorate 45,369. Turnout 58.73%

June 2001: Clwyd Lab 17,685 (65.60%). Cornelius PC 4,687 (17.39%). Parry LD
2,541 (9.43%). Waters C 2,045 (7.59%). Turnout 55.48%.

Ann Clwyd, 68. Labour rebel who made dramatic peace with Tony Blair through her
support for the Iraq war. MP since 1984 by-election.

173 Dagenham *Jonathan Cruddas (Lab)15,44650.08

Michael White (C)7,84125.42

James Kempton (LD)3,10610.07

Lawrence Rustem (BNP)2,8709.31

Gerard Batten (UKIP)1,5785.12

Maj. 7,60524.66

Lab hold.Swing 3.43 Lab to C.

Electorate 60,141. Turnout 51.28%

June 2001: Cruddas Lab 15,784 (57.23%). White C 7,091 (25.71%). Gee-Turner LD
2,820 (10.22%). Hill BNP 1,378 (5.00%). Hamilton Soc All 262 (0.95%). Siggins
Soc Lab 245 (0.89%). Turnout 46.48%.

Jon Cruddas, 43. Scholarly former Downing Street aide whose few Commons
interjections on economic strategy are authoritative. MP since 2001.

174 Darlington *Alan Milburn (Lab)20,64352.41

Anthony Frieze (C)10,23926.00

Robert Adamson (LD)7,26918.45

John Hoodless (UKIP)7301.85

Dai Davies (Veritas)5071.29

Maj. 10,40426.41

Lab hold.Swing 0.19 C to Lab.

Electorate 65,281. Turnout 60.34%

June 2001: Milburn Lab 22,479 (56.34%). Richmond C 12,095 (30.31%). Adamson LD
4,358 (10.92%). Docherty Soc All 469 (1.18%). Platt Ind 269 (0.67%). Rose Soc
Lab 229 (0.57%). Turnout 62.02%.

Alan Milburn, 47. Abrasive election co-ordinator who quit as health secretary to
spend more time with family, then returned to fray. MP since 1992.

175 Dartford *Dr Howard Stoate (Lab)19,90942.56

Gareth Johnson (C)19,20341.05

Peter Bucklitsch (LD)5,03610.77

Mark Croucher (UKIP)1,4073.01

Michael Tibby (NEP)1,2242.62

Maj. 7061.51

Lab hold.Swing 2.94 Lab to C.

Electorate 74,028. Turnout 63.19%

June 2001: Stoate Lab 21,466 (47.98%). Dunn C 18,160 (40.59%). Morgan LD 3,781
(8.45%). Croucher UKIP 989 (2.21%). Davenport FDP 344 (0.77%). Turnout 61.92%.

Dr Howard Stoate, 51. Loquacious GP and former medical journalist who was under
threat from Tory challenger. MP since 1997.

176 Daventry *Tim Boswell (C)31,20651.63

Andrew Hammond (Lab)16,52027.33

Hannah Saul (LD)9,96416.49

Barry Mahoney (UKIP)1,9273.19

Barrie Wilkins (Veritas)8221.36

Maj. 14,68624.30

C hold.Swing 3.64 Lab to C.

Electorate 88,758. Turnout 68.09%

June 2001: Boswell C 27,911 (49.24%). Quigley Lab 18,262 (32.22%). Calder LD
9,130 (16.11%). Baden UKIP 1,381 (2.44%). Turnout 65.50%.

177 Delyn *David Hanson (Lab)15,54045.70

John Bell (C)8,89626.16

Tudor Jones (LD)6,08917.91

Phil Thomas (PC)2,5247.42

May Crawford (UKIP)5331.57

Nigel Williams (Ind)4221.24

Maj. 6,64419.54

Lab hold.Swing 2.65 Lab to C.

Electorate 52,766. Turnout 64.44%

June 2001: Hanson Lab 17,825 (51.46%). Brierley C 9,220 (26.62%). Jones LD 5,329
(15.39%). Rowlinson PC 2,262 (6.53%). Turnout 63.28%.

178 Denton & Reddish

Andrew Gwynne (Lab)20,34057.39

Alex Story (C)6,84219.30

Allison Seabourne (LD)5,81416.40

John Edgar (BNP)1,3263.74

Gerald Price (UKIP)1,1203.16

Maj. 13,49838.08

Lab hold.Swing 3.77 Lab to C.

Electorate 68,267. Turnout 51.92%

June 2001: Bennett Lab 21,913 (65.23%). Newman C 6,583 (19.60%). Fletcher LD
4,152 (12.36%). Cadwallender UKIP 945 (2.81%). Turnout 48.52%.

179 Derby North *Bob Laxton (Lab)19,27243.98

Richard Aitken-Davies (C)15,51535.41

Jeremy Beckett (LD)7,20916.45

Martin Bardoe (Veritas)9582.19

Michelle Medgyesy (UKIP)8641.97

Maj. 3,7578.57

Lab hold.Swing 3.64 Lab to C.

Electorate 68,173. Turnout 64.27%

June 2001: Laxton Lab 22,415 (50.88%). Holden C 15,433 (35.03%). Charlesworth LD
6,206 (14.09%). Turnout 57.60%.

180 Derby South *Margaret Beckett (Lab)19,68345.38

Lucy Care (LD)14,02632.34

David Brackenbury (C)8,21118.93

David Black (UKIP)8451.95

Frank Leeming (Veritas)6081.40

Maj. 5,65713.04

Lab hold.Swing 12.05 Lab to LD.

Electorate 70,397. Turnout 61.61%

June 2001: Beckett Lab 24,310 (56.44%). Spencer C 10,455 (24.27%). Hanson LD
8,310 (19.29%). Turnout 55.68%.

Margaret Beckett, 62. Highly competent Environment Secretary whose fondness for
caravanning is famous. MP since 1974, here since 1983.

181 Derbyshire North East

Natascha Engel (Lab)21,41649.31

Dominic Johnson (C)11,35126.13

Tom Snowdon (LD)8,81220.29

Kenneth Perkins (UKIP)1,8554.27

Maj. 10,06523.17

Lab hold.Swing 2.96 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,981. Turnout 61.19%

June 2001: Barnes Lab 23,437 (55.64%). Hollingsworth C 11,179 (26.54%).
Higginbottom LD 7,508 (17.82%). Turnout 58.89%.

Natascha Engel, 38. German-born newcomer with TUC links succeeds Harry Barnes.

182 Derbyshire South *Mark Todd (Lab)24,82344.47

Simon Spencer (C)20,32836.42

Deborah Newton-Cook (LD)7,60013.62

David Joines (BNP)1,7973.22

Robert Spalton (Veritas)1,2722.28

Maj. 4,4958.05

Lab hold.Swing 3.53 Lab to C.

Electorate 85,049. Turnout 65.63%

June 2001: Todd Lab 26,338 (50.70%). Hakewill C 18,487 (35.59%). Eagling LD
5,233 (10.07%). Blunt UKIP 1,074 (2.07%). Liversuch Soc Lab 564 (1.09%). Taylor
Ind 249 (0.48%). Turnout 64.12%.

183 Derbyshire West *Patrick McLoughlin (C)24,37847.67

David Menon (Lab)13,62526.64

Ray Dring (LD)11,40822.31

Michael Cruddas (UKIP)1,3222.58

Nick Delves (Loony)4050.79

Martin Kyslun (Ind)50.01

Maj. 10,75321.03

C hold.Swing 3.23 Lab to C.

Electorate 73,865. Turnout 69.24%

June 2001: McLoughlin C 24,280 (47.99%). Clamp Lab 16,910 (33.43%). Beckett LD
7,922 (15.66%). Bavester UKIP 672 (1.33%). Delves Loony 472 (0.93%). Goodall Ind
333 (0.66%). Turnout 67.39%.

184 Devizes *Michael Ancram (C)27,25348.54

Fiona Hornby (LD)14,05925.04

Sharon Charity (Lab)12,51922.30

Alan Wood (UKIP)2,3154.12

Maj. 13,19423.50

C hold.Swing 0.84 C to LD.

Electorate 86,168. Turnout 65.16%

June 2001: Ancram C 25,159 (47.25%). Thorpe Lab 13,263 (24.91%). Frances LD
11,756 (22.08%). Wood UKIP 1,521 (2.86%). Kennedy Ind 1,078 (2.02%). Potter
Loony 472 (0.89%). Turnout 63.65%.

185 Devon East *Hugo Swire (C)23,07546.86

Tim Dumper (LD)15,13930.74

James Court (Lab)7,59815.43

Colin McNamee (UKIP)3,0356.16

Christopher Way (Ind Way)4000.81

Maj. 7,93616.11

C hold.Swing 0.51 C to LD.

Electorate 71,000. Turnout 69.36%

June 2001: Swire C 22,681 (47.41%). Dumper LD 14,486 (30.28%). Starr Lab 7,974
(16.67%). Wilson UKIP 2,696 (5.64%). Turnout 68.07%.

186 Devon North *Nick Harvey (LD)23,84045.91

Orlando Fraser (C)18,86836.33

Mark Cann (Lab)4,6568.97

John Browne (UKIP)2,7405.28

Richard Knight (Green)1,8263.52

Maj. 4,9729.57

LD hold.Swing 1.76 C to LD.

Electorate 76,203. Turnout 68.15%

June 2001: Harvey LD 21,784 (44.23%). Allen C 18,800 (38.17%). Gale Lab 4,995
(10.14%). Knapman UKIP 2,484 (5.04%). Bown Green 1,191 (2.42%). Turnout 68.31%.

Nick Harvey, 44. Skilful organiser and former health spokesman; one of the
party's few Eurosceptics. MP since 1992.

187 Devon South West *Gary Streeter (C)21,90644.81

Judy Evans (LD)11,76524.07

Christopher Mavin (Lab)11,54523.62

Hugh Williams (UKIP)3,6697.51

Maj. 10,14120.74

C hold.Swing 3.86 C to LD.

Electorate 71,307. Turnout 68.56%

June 2001: Streeter C 21,970 (46.84%). Mavin Lab 14,826 (31.61%). Hutty LD 8,616
(18.37%). Bullock UKIP 1,492 (3.18%). Turnout 66.13%.

Gary Streeter, 49. Evangelical Christian who supports the restoration of capital
punishment. MP since 1992.

188 Devon West & Torridge

Geoffrey Cox (C)25,01342.70

David Walter (LD)21,77737.17

Rebecca Richards (Lab)6,00110.24

Matthew Jackson (UKIP)3,7906.47

Peter Christie (Green)2,0033.42

Maj. 3,2365.52

C gain from LD.Swing 3.83 LD to C.

Electorate 83,489. Turnout 70.17%

June 2001: Burnett LD 23,474 (42.16%). Cox C 22,280 (40.01%). Brenton Lab 5,959
(10.70%). Edwards UKIP 2,674 (4.80%). Quinn Green 1,297 (2.33%). Turnout 70.51%.
Geoffrey Cox. A barrister who also trains youngsters in the art of public
speaking; he unseats the Lib Dem David Walter.

189 Dewsbury

Shahid Malik (Lab)15,80740.96

Sayeeda Warsi (C)11,19229.00

Kingsley Hill (LD)5,62414.57

David Exley (BNP)5,06613.13

Brenda Smithson (Green)5931.54

Alan Girvan (Ind)3130.81

Maj. 4,61511.96

Lab hold.Swing 4.18 Lab to C.

Electorate 62,243. Turnout 62.01%

June 2001: Taylor Lab 18,524 (50.54%). Cole C 11,075 (30.22%). Cuthbertson LD
4,382 (11.96%). Smith BNP 1,632 (4.45%). Smithson Green 560 (1.53%). Peace UKIP
478 (1.30%). Turnout 58.79%.

190 Don Valley *Caroline Flint (Lab)19,41852.67

Adam Duguid (C)10,82029.35

Stewart Arnold (LD)6,62617.97

Maj. 8,59823.32

Lab hold.Swing 1.33 Lab to C.

Electorate 66,993. Turnout 55.03%

June 2001: Flint Lab 20,009 (54.62%). Browne C 10,489 (28.63%). Smith LD 4,089
(11.16%). Wilde Ind 800 (2.18%). Cooper UKIP 777 (2.12%). Ball Soc Lab 466
(1.27%). Turnout 55.30%.

191 Doncaster Central *Rosie Winterton (Lab)17,61751.29

Patrick Wilson (LD)7,81522.75

Stefan Kerner (C)6,48918.89

John Wilkinson (BNP)1,2393.61

Alan Simmons (UKIP)1,1913.47

Maj. 9,80228.53

Lab hold.Swing 8.80 Lab to LD.

Electorate 65,731. Turnout 52.26%

June 2001: Winterton Lab 20,034 (59.09%). Meggitt C 8,035 (23.70%). Southcombe
LD 4,390 (12.95%). Gordon UKIP 926 (2.73%). Terry Soc All 517 (1.52%). Turnout
52.09%.

192 Doncaster North

Ed Miliband (Lab)17,53155.52

Martin Drake (C)4,87515.44

Doug Pickett (LD)3,80012.03

Martin Williams (CG)2,3657.49

Lee Hagan (BNP)1,5064.77

Robert Nixon (UKIP)9402.98

Michael Cassidy (Eng Dem)5611.78

Maj. 12,65640.08

Lab hold.Swing 4.17 Lab to C.

Electorate 61,741. Turnout 51.15%

June 2001: Hughes Lab 19,788 (63.09%). Kapoor C 4,601 (14.67%). Ross LD 3,323
(10.60%). Williams Ind 2,926 (9.33%). Wallis UKIP 725 (2.31%). Turnout 50.48%.

193 Dorset Mid & Poole North *Annette Brooke (LD)22,00048.72

Simon Hayes (C)16,51836.58

Philip Murray (Lab)5,22111.56

Avril King (UKIP)1,4203.14

Maj. 5,48212.14

LD hold.Swing 5.63 C to LD.

Electorate 65,924. Turnout 68.50%

June 2001: Brooke LD 18,358 (41.99%). Fraser C 17,974 (41.11%). Selby-Bennett
Lab 6,765 (15.47%). Mager UKIP 621 (1.42%). Turnout 65.57%.

194 Dorset North *Robert Walter (C)23,71444.90

Emily Gasson (LD)21,47040.65

John Yarwood (Lab)4,5968.70

Richard Frampton Hobbs (UKIP)1,9183.63

Ralph Arliss (Green)1,1172.11

Maj. 2,2444.25

C hold.Swing 1.85 C to LD.

Electorate 74,286. Turnout 71.10%

June 2001: Walter C 22,314 (46.66%). Gasson LD 18,517 (38.72%). Wareham Lab
5,334 (11.15%). Jenkins UKIP 1,019 (2.13%). Duthie Low Excise 391 (0.82%). Bone
Ind 246 (0.51%). Turnout 66.29%.

195 Dorset South *Jim Knight (Lab)20,23141.64

Ed Matts (C)18,41937.91

Graham Oakes (LD)7,64715.74

Hugh Chalker (UKIP)1,5713.23

Vic Hamilton (LCA)2820.58

Bernard Parkes (Respect)2190.45

Andrew Kirkwood (PRTYP)1070.22

Colin Bex (Wessex Reg)830.17

David Marchesi (Soc Lab)250.05

Maj. 1,8123.73

Lab hold.Swing 1.70 C to Lab.

Electorate 70,668. Turnout 68.75%

June 2001: Knight Lab 19,027 (41.96%). Bruce C 18,874 (41.62%). Canning LD 6,531
(14.40%). Moss UKIP 913 (2.01%). Turnout 65.50%.

196 Dorset West *Oliver Letwin (C)24,76346.53

Justine McGuinness (LD)22,30241.90

Dave Roberts (Lab)4,1247.75

Linda Guest (UKIP)1,0842.04

Susan Greene (Green)9521.79

Maj. 2,4614.62

C hold.Swing 0.89 LD to C.

Electorate 69,764. Turnout 76.29%

June 2001: Letwin C 22,126 (44.63%). Green LD 20,712 (41.78%). Hyde Lab 6,733
(13.58%). Turnout 66.97%.

197 Dover *Gwyn Prosser (Lab)21,68045.28

Paul Watkins (C)16,73934.96

Antony Hook (LD)7,60715.89

Mike Wiltshire (UKIP)1,2522.61

Vic Matcham (Ind)6061.27

Maj. 4,94110.32

Lab hold.Swing 0.62 Lab to C.

Electorate 70,884. Turnout 67.55%

June 2001: Prosser Lab 21,943 (48.81%). Watkins C 16,744 (37.24%). Hook LD 5,131
(11.41%). Speakman UKIP 1,142 (2.54%). Turnout 65.14%.

200 Dudley North

Ian Austin (Lab)18,30644.21

Ian Hillas (C)12,87431.09

Gerry Lewis (LD)4,25710.28

Simon Darby (BNP)4,0229.71

Malcolm Davis (UKIP)1,9494.71

Maj. 5,43213.12

Lab hold.Swing 2.26 Lab to C.

Electorate 68,766. Turnout 60.22%

June 2001: Cranston Lab 20,095 (52.11%). Griffiths C 13,295 (34.48%). Burt LD
3,352 (8.69%). Darby BNP 1,822 (4.72%). Turnout 55.92%.

201 Dudley South *Ian Pearson (Lab)17,80045.32

Marco Longhi (C)13,55634.51

Jonathan Bramall (LD)4,80812.24

John Salvage (BNP)1,8414.69

Andrew Benion (UKIP)1,2713.24

Maj. 4,24410.81

Lab hold.Swing 3.98 Lab to C.

Electorate 65,228. Turnout 60.21%

June 2001: Pearson Lab 18,109 (49.83%). Sugarman C 11,292 (31.07%). Burt LD
5,421 (14.92%). Westwood UKIP 859 (2.36%). Thompson Soc All 663 (1.82%). Turnout
55.42%.

202 Dulwich & West Norwood *Tessa Jowell (Lab)19,05945.39

Jonathan Mitchell (LD)10,25224.42

Kim Humphreys (C)9,20021.91

Jenny Jones (Green)2,7416.53

Ralph Atkinson (UKIP)2900.69

David Heather (Veritas)2410.57

Amanda Rose (Soc Lab)1490.35

Judy Weleminsky (Fit)570.14

Maj. 8,80720.97

Lab hold.Swing 9.37 Lab to LD.

Electorate 72,232. Turnout 58.13%

June 2001: Jowell Lab 20,999 (54.90%). Vineall C 8,689 (22.72%). Pidgeon LD
5,806 (15.18%). Jones Green 1,914 (5.00%). Kelly Soc All 839 (2.19%). Turnout
54.25%.

203 Dumfries & Galloway +Russell Brown (Lab)20,92441.12 +Peter Duncan
(C)18,00235.37

Douglas Henderson (SNP)6,18212.15

Keith Legg (LD)4,2598.37

John Schofield (Green)7451.46

John Dennis (SSP)4970.98

Mark Smith (OCV)2820.55

Maj. 2,9225.74

Lab hold. Electorate 74,273. Turnout 68.52%

June 2001: Lab 16,327 (32.36%). C 16,186 (32.08%). SNP 12,660 (25.09%). LD 4,465
(8.85%). SSP 819 (1.62%). Turnout 66.99%.

Key to the parties

C Conservative

Lab Labour

Lab Co-op Labour and Co-operative

LD Liberal Democrat

PC Plaid Cymru

SNP Scottish National Party

Green Green Party

UUP Ulster Unionist Party

DUP Democratic Unionist Party

SDLP Social Democratic and Labour Party

SF Sinn Fein

Alliance Alliance

WP Workers' Party

AFC Alliance for Change Green Soc Alliance for Green Socialism AP Alternative
Party Anti-Corrupt Anti-Corruption Forum AL Asian League BMG Blair Must Go Party
BNP British National Party BPP British Public Party Bridges Build Duddon and
Morecambe Bridges Burnley Burnley First Independent CRD Campaigning for Real
Democracy Sunrise Chairman of Sunrise Radio Ch D Christian Democrat CPA
Christian Peoples Alliance Elvis Church of the Militant Elvis Party CP
Civilisation Party Clause 28 Clause 28 Children's Protection Christian Democrats
Comm Communist Party Comm Brit Communist Party of Britain Community Community
CAP Community Action Party CG Community Group Country Countryside Party Croydon
Croydon Pensions Alliance DDTP Death Dungeons & Taxes Party Def Welfare Defend
The Welfare State Against Blairism Honesty Demanding Honesty in Politics and
Whitehall Dem Lab Democratic Labour Party Dem Soc All Democratic Socialist
Alliance - People Before Profit Customer Direct Customer Service Party EDP
English Democratic Party England English Democrats - Putting England First Eng
Dem English Democrats Party Eng Ind English Independence Party EEP English
Parliamentary Party Ext Club Extinction Club FDP Fancy Dress Party Fathers
Fathers-4-Justice Fit Fit Party For Integrity And Trust FWP Forward Wales Party
Free Free Party Free Scot Free Scotland Party FP Freedom Party GBB Get Britain
Back Party Green Green Grey Grey Party IP Imperial Party Ind Independent Ind J
Independent J Ind Vote Independent - Vote for Yourself Party Ind A Independent
Abraham Ind B Independent B Ind Barker Independent Barker Ind Batch Independent
Batchelor Ind Bell Independent Bell Ind Booth Independent Booth Ind Br
Independent Br Ind Braid Independent Braid Ind Bren Independent Brennan Ind Cam
Independent Cam Community Independent Community Candidate Empowering Change Ind
Green Independent Green Ind Haines Independent Haines Ind Hill Independent Hill
Ind Hinkles Independent Hinkles Ind Houston Independent Houston Ind Hunt
Independent Hunt Ind HJ Independent John Ind K Independent K Independent Keys
Ind Keys KHHC Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern Independent
Kl Ind Kl Ind Lab Independent Labour Ind M Independent M Ind Masters Independent
Masters Ind McBride Independent McBride Ind N Independent N Ind Nazir
Independent Nazir Ind P Independent P Ind Pev Independent Pev Ind Pr Independent
Pr Ind Prachar Independent Prachar Ind Pr Lab Independent Progressive Labour Ind
R Independent R Ind Sh Independent Sh Ind Sib Independent Sib Ind Stone
Independent Stone Ind T Independent T Ind UU Independent United Unionist Ind
West Independent W Ind Walsh Independent Walsh Ind Way Independent Way IWCA
Independent Working Class Association Ind X Independent X Iraq Iraq War, Not In
My Name IZB Islam Zinda Baad Platform IOW Isle of Wight Party Wrestling Jam
Wrestling Party JLDP John Lillburne Democratic Party JP Justice Party KHHC
Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern Left All Left Alliance LCA Legalise
Cannabis Alliance Lib Liberal LP Liberated Party Local Local Community Party Low
Excise Lower Excise Duty Party Marxist Marxist Party Power Max Power Party Meb
Ker Mebyon Kernow Loony Monster Raving Loony Party MNP Motorcycle News Party
Muslim Muslim Party NF National Front NBP New Britain Party NEP New England
Party Bean New Millennium Bean NACVP Newcastle Academy with Christian Values
Party ND No description ND Bardwaj No description Bardwaj NI Unionist Northern
Ireland Unionist Northern Northern Progress For You Forum Open-Forum OCV
Operation Christian Vote Pacifist Pacifist for Peace, Justice, Cooperation,
Environment PF Pathfinders PPN-V Peace Party, non-violence, justice, environment
Progress Peace and Progress Party Pensioner Pensioner Coalition PPS Pensioners
Party Scotland Choice People's Choice PJP People's Justice Party PRTYP
Personality And Rational Thinking? Yes! Party Paisley Pride in Paisley Party Pro
Euro C Pro Euro Conservative Party ProLife ProLife Alliance Prog Dem Progress
Democratic Party Members Decide Policy PDP Progressive Democratic Party PUP
Progressive Unionist Party Protest Protest Vote Party PSNW Public Services Not
War Publican Publican Party - Free to Smoke (Pubs) Qari Qari Dream Rainbow Dream
Ticket Party RP Rate Payer Reform Reform 2000 Ref UK Reform UK Masts Removal of
Tetra masts in Cornwall RA Residents Association Res Motor Residents and
Motorists of Great Britain Respect Respect the Unity Coalition R & R Loony Rock
& Roll Loony Party SOS SOS! Voters against Overdevelopment of Northampton SNH
Safeguard the National Health Service Baths Save the Bristol North Baths Party
Scot Ref Scottish Freedom Referendum Party Scot Ind Scottish Independence Party
Scot Senior Scottish Senior Citizens Party SSCUP Scottish Senior Citizens Unity
Party SSP Scottish Socialist Party Scot U Scottish Unionist Online Seeks A
Worldwide Online Participatory Directory Senior Senior Citizens Party Silent
Silent Majority Party Socialist Socialist Soc All Socialist Alliance Soc Alt
Socialist Alternative Party Soc EA Socialist Environmental Alliance Soc Lab
Socialist Labour Party Soc Socialist Party Soc Unity Socialist Unity Network St
Albans St Albans Party Stuck Stuckist Tatton Tatton Group Independent Common
Good The Common Good Good The Common Good MC The Millenium Council TPP The Peace
Party - non-violence, justice, environment Work The People's Choice Making
Politicians Work The RP The Resolutionist Party Speaker The Speaker TP Their
Party Third Third Way TEPK Tigers eye the party for kids Truth Truth Party UKC
UK Community Issues Party UK Independence Party UKIP UK Path UK Pathfinders UKPP
UK Pensioners Party UKU United Kingdom Unionist Unrep Unrepresented People's
Party Veritas Veritas Currency Virtue Currency Cognitive Appraisal Party Vote
Dream Vote for yourself rainbow dream ticket WWW.XAT.ORG WWW.XAT.ORG Wessex Reg
Wessex Regionalist WFLOEWomen for Life on Earth Women's Co Women's Coalition WRP
Workers' Revolutionary Party World Rev World Revolutionary Party XPP
Xtraordinary People Party YPB Your Party (Banbury) FF familiesfirst.uk.net
telepath telepathicpartnership.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              72 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 07, 2005, Saturday

Election 2005

SECTION: News Pg. 008

LENGTH: 2296 words

622 Wirral South *Ben Chapman (Lab)16,89242.54

Carl Cross (C)13,16833.17

Simon Holbrook (LD)8,56821.58

David Scott (UKIP)6161.55

Laurence Jones (Ind)4601.16

Maj. 3,7249.38

Lab hold.Swing 1.65 Lab to C.

Electorate 58,834. Turnout 67.48%

June 2001: Chapman Lab 18,890 (47.44%). Millard C 13,841 (34.76%). Gilchrist LD
7,087 (17.80%). Turnout 65.65%.

Ben Chapman, 64. PPS to Richard Caborn; he has an enthusiasm for commerce and
overseas trade. MP since a 1997 by-election.

623 Wirral West *Stephen Hesford (Lab)17,54342.55

Esther McVey (C)16,44639.89

Jeff Clarke (LD)6,65216.13

John Moore (UKIP)4291.04

Roger Taylor (AP)1630.40

Maj. 1,0972.66

Lab hold.Swing 3.65 Lab to C.

Electorate 61,050. Turnout 67.54%

June 2001: Hesford Lab 19,105 (47.20%). Lynch C 15,070 (37.23%). Holbrook LD
6,300 (15.57%). Turnout 64.97%.

Stephen Hesford, 48. Book-collecting, locally-focused MP who has interest in
environmental issues. MP since 1997.

624 Witney *David Cameron (C)26,57149.33

Liz Leffman (LD)12,41523.05

Tony Gray (Lab)11,84521.99

Richard Dossett-Davies (Green)1,6823.12

Paul Wesson (UKIP)1,3562.52

Maj. 14,15626.28

C hold.Swing 0.79 LD to C.

Electorate 78,053. Turnout 69.02%

June 2001: Cameron C 22,153 (45.02%). Bartlet Lab 14,180 (28.82%). Epps LD
10,000 (20.32%). Stevenson Green 1,100 (2.24%). Beadle Ind 1,003 (2.04%). Dukes
UKIP 767 (1.56%). Turnout 65.93%.

David Cameron, 38. Head of party policy who replaced Shaun Woodward, the former
Tory MP who defected to Labour; some say he is being groomed as a party leader.
MP since 2001.

625 Woking *Humfrey Malins (C)21,83847.43

Anne Lee (LD)15,22633.07

Ellie Blagbrough (Lab)7,50716.30

Matthew Davies (UKIP)1,3242.88

Michael Osman (UKC)1500.33

Maj. 6,61214.36

C hold.Swing 0.70 C to LD.

Electorate 72,676. Turnout 63.36%

June 2001: Malins C 19,747 (46.02%). Hilliar LD 12,988 (30.27%). Hussain Lab
8,714 (20.31%). Harvey UKIP 1,461 (3.40%). Turnout 60.30%.

Humfrey Malins, 59. Tory home affairs spokesman who founded the Immigration
Advisory Service and supports hanging. MP 1983 to 1992, here since 1997.

626 Wokingham *John Redwood (C)22,17448.13

Prue Bray (LD)14,93432.41

David Black (Lab)6,99115.17

Frank Carstairs (UKIP)9942.16

Top Cat Owen (Loony)5691.24

Richard Colborne (BNP)3760.82

Michael Hall (telepath)340.07

Maj. 7,24015.71

C hold.Swing 1.02 LD to C.

Electorate 68,614. Turnout 67.15%

June 2001: Redwood C 20,216 (46.10%). Longton LD 14,222 (32.43%). Syed Lab 7,633
(17.41%). Carstairs UKIP 897 (2.05%). Owen Loony 880 (2.01%). Turnout 64.08%.

John Redwood, 53. Ardent Eurosceptic whose varied political career, which
included running for leadership against John Major, was resurrected by Michael
Howard. MP since 1987.

627 Wolverhampton North East *Ken Purchase (Lab Co-op)17,94854.46

Alexandra Robson (C)9,79229.71

David Jack (LD)3,84511.67

Lydia Simpson (UKIP)1,3714.16

Maj. 8,15624.75

Lab Co-op hold.Swing 3.45 Lab Co-op to C.

Electorate 60,595. Turnout 54.39%

June 2001: Purchase Lab Co-op 18,984 (60.28%). Miller C 9,019 (28.64%). Bourne
LD 2,494 (7.92%). McCartney UKIP 997 (3.17%). Turnout 52.07%.

Ken Purchase, 66. Former toolmaker and ex-aide to Robin Cook; also a lover of
jazz music. MP since 1992.

628 Wolverhampton South East

Pat McFadden (Lab)16,79059.43

James Fairbairn (C)6,29522.28

David Murray (LD)3,68213.03

Kevin Simmons (UKIP)1,4845.25

Maj. 10,49537.15

Lab hold.Swing 4.26 Lab to C.

Electorate 54,047. Turnout 52.27%

June 2001: Turner Lab Co-op 18,409 (67.44%). Pepper C 5,945 (21.78%). Wild LD
2,389 (8.75%). Barry NF 554 (2.03%). Turnout 50.61%.

Pat McFadden, 40. Tony Blair's Scottish political secretary, who has also worked
in the offices of John Smith and Donald Dewar; he takes over from Dennis Turner.

629 Wolverhampton South West *Rob Marris (Lab)18,48944.36

Sandip Verma (C)15,61037.45

Colin Ross (LD)5,56813.36

Douglas Hope (UKIP)1,0292.47

Edward Mullins (BNP)9832.36

Maj. 2,8796.91

Lab hold.Swing 0.81 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,096. Turnout 62.12%

June 2001: Marris Lab 19,735 (48.26%). Chambers C 16,248 (39.73%). Dixon LD
3,425 (8.37%). Walker Green 805 (1.97%). Hope UKIP 684 (1.67%). Turnout 60.88%.

Rob Marris, 50. Committed trade unionist and environmentalist who worked as a
solicitor until his election in 2001.

630 Woodspring *Dr Liam Fox (C)21,58741.82

Mike Bell (LD)15,57130.17

Chanel Stevens (Lab)11,24921.79

Rebecca Lewis (Green)1,3092.54

Anthony Butcher (UKIP)1,2692.46

Michael Howson (BNP)6331.23

Maj. 6,01611.65

C hold.Swing 3.90 C to LD.

Electorate 71,662. Turnout 72.03%

June 2001: Fox C 21,297 (43.68%). Stevens Lab 12,499 (25.63%). Eldridge LD
11,816 (24.23%). Shopland Ind 1,412 (2.90%). Lawson Green 1,282 (2.63%). Crean
UKIP 452 (0.93%). Turnout 68.65%.

Dr Liam Fox, 43. Co-chairman of the Tory party who describes himself as a child
of Thatcherism; possible leadership contender. MP since 1992.

631 Worcester *Michael Foster (Lab)19,42141.87

Margaret Harper (C)16,27735.09

Mary Dhonau (LD)7,55716.29

Richard Chamings (UKIP)1,1132.40

Martin Roberts (BNP)9802.11

Chris Lennard (Green)9211.99

Prudence Dowson (Ind)1190.26

Maj. 3,1446.78

Lab hold.Swing 3.13 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,384. Turnout 64.09%

June 2001: Foster Lab 21,478 (48.58%). Adams C 15,712 (35.54%). Chandler LD
5,578 (12.62%). Chamings UKIP 1,442 (3.26%). Turnout 62.04%.

Michael Foster, 42. Former solicitor and Christian socialist who has proved a
loyal backbencher. MP since 1997.

632 Worcestershire Mid *Peter Luff (C)24,78351.50

Matt Gregson (Lab)11,45623.80

Margaret Rowley (LD)9,79620.35

Tony Eaves (UKIP)2,0924.35

Maj. 13,32727.69

C hold.Swing 2.01 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,546. Turnout 67.27%

June 2001: Luff C 22,937 (51.09%). Bannister Lab 12,310 (27.42%).
Woodthorpe-Browne LD 8,420 (18.75%). Eaves UKIP 1,230 (2.74%). Turnout 62.37%.

Peter Luff, 50. Tory whip who has campaigned against teenage magazines because
of their "sexual" content. First elected in 1992, here since 1997.

633 Worcestershire West *Sir Michael Spicer (C)20,95945.39

Tom Wells (LD)18,48440.03

Qamar Bhatti (Lab)4,94510.71

Caroline Bovey (UKIP)1,5903.44

Malcolm Victory (Green)1990.43

Maj. 2,4755.36

C hold.Swing 3.32 C to LD.

Electorate 66,999. Turnout 68.92%

June 2001: Spicer C 20,597 (45.97%). Hadley LD 15,223 (33.97%). Azmi Lab 6,275
(14.00%). Morris UKIP 1,574 (3.51%). Victory Green 1,138 (2.54%). Turnout
67.11%.

Sir Michael Spicer, 62. Fervently anti-European chairman of the 1922 committee,
he continues to hold this seat. MP since 1974

634 Workington *Tony Cunningham (Lab)19,55449.21

Judith Pattinson (C)12,65931.86

Kate Clarkson (LD)5,81514.63

Mark Richardson (UKIP)1,3283.34

John Peacock (LCA)3810.96

Maj. 6,89517.35

Lab hold.Swing 4.30 Lab to C.

Electorate 61,441. Turnout 64.68%

June 2001: Cunningham Lab 23,209 (55.49%). Stoddart C 12,359 (29.55%). Francis
LD 5,214 (12.47%). Peacock LCA 1,040 (2.49%). Turnout 63.40%.

Tony Cunningham, 52. Former mayor of Workington and aide to environment minister
Eliot Morley who opposes homosexual adoption. MP since 2001.

635 Worsley

Barbara Keeley (Lab)18,85951.04

Graham Evans (C)9,49125.69

Richard Clayton (LD)6,90218.68

Bernard Gill (UKIP)1,6944.59

Maj. 9,36825.36

Lab hold.Swing 3.99 Lab to C.

Electorate 69,534. Turnout 53.13%

June 2001: Lewis Lab 20,193 (57.10%). Ellwood C 8,406 (23.77%). Bleakley LD
6,188 (17.50%). Entwistle Soc Lab 576 (1.63%). Turnout 51.03%.

Barbara Keeley. Former IT industry worker and politics graduate replaces Terry
Lewis.

636 Worthing East & Shoreham *Tim Loughton (C)19,54843.89

Daniel Yates (Lab)11,36525.51

James Doyle (LD)10,84424.35

Richard Jelf (UKIP)2,1094.73

Chris Baldwin (LCA)6771.52

Maj. 8,18318.37

C hold.Swing 2.06 Lab to C.

Electorate 72,302. Turnout 61.61%

June 2001: Loughton C 18,608 (43.21%). Yates Lab 12,469 (28.95%). Elgood LD
9,876 (22.93%). McCulloch UKIP 1,195 (2.77%). Baldwin LCA 920 (2.14%). Turnout
59.91%.

Tim Loughton, 42. Shadow minister for children and vocal opponent of the single
currency. MP since 1997.

637 Worthing West *Peter Bottomley (C)21,38347.58

Claire Potter (LD)12,00426.71

Antony Bignell (Lab)8,63019.20

Timothy Cross (UKIP)2,3745.28

Chris Baldwin (LCA)5501.22

Maj. 9,37920.87

C hold.Swing 0.02 C to LD.

Electorate 71,780. Turnout 62.61%

June 2001: Bottomley C 20,508 (47.46%). Walsh LD 11,471 (26.55%). Butcher Lab
9,270 (21.45%). Cross UKIP 1,960 (4.54%). Turnout 59.67%.

Peter Bottomley, 60. Former Minister in the late 80s, he is married to Virginia
Bottomley, the Tory MP who retired this time. MP since 1975 byelection, here
since 1997.

638 Wrekin, The

Mark Pritchard (C)18,89941.95 *Peter Bradley (Lab)17,95739.86

Bill Tomlinson (LD)6,60814.67

Bruce Lawson (UKIP)1,5903.53

Maj. 9422.09

C gain from Lab.Swing 5.37 Lab to C.

Electorate 67,291. Turnout 66.95%

June 2001: Bradley Lab 19,532 (47.08%). Rees-Mogg C 15,945 (38.43%). Jenkins LD
4,738 (11.42%). Brookes UKIP 1,275 (3.07%). Turnout 63.02%.

Mark Pritchard. Newcomer who owns a marketing company; also a member of the
miniature Schnauzer club of Great Britain. He unseats Peter Bradley, L.

639 Wrexham *Ian Lucas (Lab)13,99346.05

Tom Rippeth (LD)7,17423.61

Dr Therese Coffey (C)6,07920.01

Sion Owen (PC)1,7445.74

John Walker (BNP)9193.02

Janet Williams (FWP)4761.57

Maj. 6,81922.44

Lab hold.Swing 6.72 Lab to LD.

Electorate 48,016. Turnout 63.28%

June 2001: Lucas Lab 15,934 (53.03%). Elphick C 6,746 (22.45%). Davies LD 5,153
(17.15%). Evans PC 1,783 (5.93%). Brookes UKIP 432 (1.44%). Turnout 59.54%.

Ian Lucas, 44. Knowledgable Commons performer and advocate of greater rights for
the disabled. MP since 2001.

640 Wycombe *Paul Goodman (C)20,33145.76

Julia Wassell (Lab)13,28029.89

James Oates (LD)8,78019.76

Robert Davis (UKIP)1,7353.91

David Fitton (Ind)3010.68

Maj. 7,05115.87

C hold.Swing 4.41 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,464. Turnout 62.17%

June 2001: Goodman C 19,064 (42.39%). Shafique Lab 15,896 (35.34%). Tomlin LD
7,658 (17.03%). Cooke UKIP 1,059 (2.35%). Laker Green 1,057 (2.35%). Fitton Ind
240 (0.53%). Turnout 60.25%.

Paul Goodman, 45. Party disabilities spokesman who spent two years as a
Benedictine novice monk; former comment editor on The Daily Telegraph and MP
since 2001.

641 Wyre Forest *Dr Richard Taylor (KHHC)18,73939.88

Mark Garnier (C)13,48928.71

Marc Bayliss (Lab)10,71622.81

Fran Oborski (Lib)2,6665.67

Rustie Lee (UKIP)1,0742.29

Burt Priest (Loony)3030.64

Maj. 5,25011.17

KHHC hold.Swing 13.92 KHHC to C.

Electorate 73,192. Turnout 64.20%

June 2001: Taylor KHHC 28,487 (58.06%). Lock Lab 10,857 (22.13%). Simpson C
9,350 (19.06%). Millington UKIP 368 (0.75%). Turnout 68.00%.

Richard Taylor, 70. Independent MP retains the seat he won in 2001 on the single
issue of saving the local hospital, where he worked for 20 years.

642 Wythenshawe & Sale East *Paul Goggins (Lab)18,87852.17

Jane Meehan (C)8,05122.25

Alison Firth (LD)7,76621.46

William Ford (UKIP)1,1203.10

Lynn Worthington (Soc Alt)3691.02

Maj. 10,82729.92

Lab hold.Swing 3.02 Lab to C.

Electorate 71,766. Turnout 50.42%

June 2001: Goggins Lab 21,032 (60.00%). Fildes C 8,424 (24.03%). Tucker LD 4,320
(12.32%). Crookes Green 869 (2.48%). Shaw Soc Lab 410 (1.17%). Turnout 48.60%.

Paul Goggins, 50. A poverty campaigner and junior minister in the Home Office;
his uncle gave his name to a character in children's TV show Postman Pat. MP
since 1997.

643 Yeovil *David Laws (LD)25,65851.41

Ian Jenkins (C)17,09634.25

Colin Rolfe (Lab)5,25610.53

Graham Livings (UKIP)1,9033.81

Maj. 8,56217.15

LD hold.Swing 4.50 C to LD.

Electorate 77,668. Turnout 64.26%

June 2001: Laws LD 21,266 (44.18%). Forgione C 17,338 (36.02%). Conway Lab 7,077
(14.70%). Boxall UKIP 1,131 (2.35%). Begg Green 786 (1.63%). Prior Lib 534
(1.11%). Turnout 63.35%.

David Laws, 39. Former managing director of Barclays Bank holds the seat, after
succeeding former party leader Paddy Ashdown in 2001.

644 Ynys Mon *Albert Owen (Lab)12,27834.62

Eurig Wyn (PC)11,03631.12

Peter Rogers (Ind)5,21614.71

James Roach (C)3,91511.04

Sarah Green (LD)2,4186.82

Elaine Gill (UKIP)3671.03

Tim Evans (LCA)2320.65

Maj. 1,2423.50

Lab hold.Swing 0.58 PC to Lab.

Electorate 52,512. Turnout 67.53%

June 2001: Owen Lab 11,906 (35.00%). Williams PC 11,106 (32.65%). Fox C 7,653
(22.50%). Bennett LD 2,772 (8.15%). Wykes UKIP 359 (1.06%). Donald Ind 222
(0.65%). Turnout 64.04%.

Albert Owen, 45. A dedicated environmental activist whose Welsh language skills
help him to retain the seat. MP since 2001.

645 York, City Of *Hugh Bayley (Lab)21,83646.86

Clive Booth (C)11,36424.39

Andrew Waller (LD)10,16621.82

Andy D'Agorne (Green)2,1134.53

Richard Jackson (UKIP)8321.79

Ken Curran (Ind)1210.26

Damien Fleck (DDTP)930.20

Andrew Hinkles (Ind Hinkles)720.15

Maj. 10,47222.47

Lab hold.Swing 3.12 Lab to C.

Electorate 75,555. Turnout 61.67%

June 2001: Bayley Lab 25,072 (52.26%). McIntyre C 11,293 (23.54%). Waller LD
8,519 (17.76%). Shaw Green 1,465 (3.05%). Ormston Soc All 674 (1.40%). Bate UKIP
576 (1.20%). Cambridge Loony 381 (0.79%). Turnout 59.65%.

Hugh Bayley, 53. Worthy if unexciting Left-winger and health economist, who went
to the same school as Clement Attlee. MP since 1992.

646 Yorkshire East *Greg Knight (C)21,21545.21

Emma Hoddinott (Lab)14,93231.82

Jim Wastling (LD)9,07519.34

Christopher Tresidder (UKIP)1,7033.63

Maj. 6,28313.39

C hold.Swing 1.29 Lab to C.

Electorate 76,648. Turnout 61.22%

June 2001: Knight C 19,861 (45.85%). Simpson-Laing Lab 15,179 (35.04%). Hardy LD
6,300 (14.54%). Pearson UKIP 1,661 (3.83%). Dessoy Ind 313 (0.72%). Turnout
59.87%.

Greg Knight, 56. Tory environment spokesman and the drummer in Commons rock
group MP4. MP since 1983, here since 2001.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              73 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 07, 2005, Saturday

Safe seat lost after row over women shortlists

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 002

LENGTH: 367 words

AN INDEPENDENT candidate demolished one of Labour's largest majorities yesterday
as voters rebelled against the party's all-women shortlist policy.

Peter Law won Blaenau Gwent in south Wales with a majority of 9,121. He replaces
Labour's Llew Smith, who is retiring and who had a 19,313 majority in 2001. The
seat has formerly been represented by Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot.

Mr Law was a long-standing member of the Labour Party until his recent
expulsion. Ministers dismissed the episode as a "family squabble". He represents
Blaenau Gwent in the Welsh Assembly.

His victory confirms that candidates can now win without the backing of an
official party machine.

After his victory, Mr Law said Labour had learnt what happened when it ignored
the people's wishes.

Labour used all-women shortlists to select candidates in around 30 seats in
England and Wales, but in Blaenau Gwent Mr Law and fellow party members
protested because they thought they had had an assurance that an all-women
shortlist would not be imposed there.

The rebels also pointed out that Labour did not use the system in seats
apparently "lined up" for male high-fliers such as Ed Balls, the Chancellor's
former chief economic adviser.

In Wyre Forest Dr Richard Taylor was re-elected as an independent with an 11 per
cent majority. He won the seat in 2001 after campaigning to protect
Kidderminster Hospital, but many observers doubted that he would be able to pull
off the same feat two years later.

Other independents fared less well. In Sedgefield Reg Keys, who was standing to
protest against the death of his son in the Iraq war, did relatively little to
damage Tony Blair's majority.

George Galloway won Bethnal Green and Bow from Labour, but otherwise his Respect
party made little headway.

Despite fielding 200 candidates, the Green Party failed to win any seats. But
its nationwide share of the vote rose to 1.08 per cent. The British National
Party did not win any of the 120 seats it fought.

Ukip's nationwide share of the vote went up marginally to 2.35 per cent, but it
fared much better than the rival Veritas party formed by Robert Kilroy-Silk, who
won only six per cent of the vote in Erewash.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              74 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 7, 2005

Election2005 results special (Continued from page 15)

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 4507 words


Torbay

LD hold

Adrian Sanders (LD) 19,317 (40.84%)

Marcus Wood (C) 17,288 (36.55%)

David Pedrick-Friend (Lab) 6,972 (14.74%)

Graham Booth (UKIP) 3,726 (7.88%)

LD Maj 2,029 (4.29%)

4.91% swing LD to C/Electorate 76,474/Turnout 47,303 (61.86%)

Torfaen

Lab hold

Paul Murphy (Lab) 20,472 (56.90%)

Nick Ramsay (C) 5,681 (15.79%)

Veronica Watkins (LD) 5,678 (15.78%)

Aneurin Preece (PC) 2,242 (6.23%)

David Rowlands (UKIP) 1,145 (3.18%)

Richard Turner-Thomas (Ind) 761 (2.12%)

Lab Maj 14,791 (41.11%)

2.54% swing Lab to C/Electorate 60,669/Turnout 35,979 (59.30%)

Totnes

C hold

Anthony Steen (C) 21,112 (41.74%)

Michael Treleaven (LD) 19,165 (37.89%)

Valerie Burns (Lab) 6,185 (12.23%)

Roger Knapman (UKIP) 3,914 (7.74%)

Michael Thompson (Ind) 199 (0.39%)

C Maj 1,947 (3.85%)

1.73% swing C to LD/Electorate 74,744/Turnout 50,575 (67.66%)

Tottenham

Lab hold

David Lammy (Lab) 18,343 (57.93%)

Wayne Hoban (LD) 5,309 (16.77%)

William MacDougall (C) 4,278 (13.51%)

Janet Alder (Respect) 2,014 (6.36%)

Pete McAskie (Green) 1,457 (4.60%)

Jaamit Durrani (Soc Lab) 263 (0.83%)

Lab Maj 13,034 (41.16%)

8.39% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 66,231/Turnout 31,664 (47.81%)

Truro & St Austell

LD hold

Matthew Taylor (LD) 24,089 (46.72%)

Fiona Kemp (C) 16,686 (32.36%)

Charlotte Mackenzie (Lab) 6,991 (13.56%)

David Noakes (UKIP) 2,736 (5.31%)

Conan Jenkin (Meb Ker) 1,062 (2.06%)

LD Maj 7,403 (14.36%)

0.84% swing LD to C/Electorate 80,256/Turnout 51,564 (64.25%)

Tunbridge Wells

C hold

Greg Clark (C) 21,083 (49.60%)

Laura Murphy (LD) 11,095 (26.10%)

Jacqui Jedrzejewski (Lab) 8,756 (20.60%)

Victor Webb (UKIP) 1,568 (3.69%)

C Maj 9,988 (23.50%)

0.35% swing C to LD/Electorate 64,630/Turnout 42,502 (65.76%)

Twickenham

LD hold

Vincent Cable (LD) 26,696 (51.65%)

Paul Maynard (C) 16,731 (32.37%)

Brian Whitington (Lab) 5,868 (11.35%)

Henry Gower (Green) 1,445 (2.80%)

Douglas Orchard (UKIP) 766 (1.48%)

Brian Gilbert (Ind) 117 (0.23%)

Rainbow George Weiss (Vote Dream) 64 (0.12%)

LD Maj 9,965 (19.28%)

1.98% swing C to LD/Electorate 72,015/Turnout 51,687 (71.77%)

Tyne Bridge

Lab hold

David Clelland (Lab) 16,151 (61.19%)

Chris Boyle (LD) 5,761 (21.83%)

Tom Fairhead (C) 2,962 (11.22%)

Kevin Scott (BNP) 1,072 (4.06%)

Jill Russell (Respect) 447 (1.69%)

Lab Maj 10,390 (39.37%)

9.38% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 53,565/Turnout 26,393 (49.27%)

Tynemouth

Lab hold

Alan Campbell (Lab) 20,143 (47.00%)

Michael McIntyre (C) 16,000 (37.33%)

Colin Finlay (LD) 6,716 (15.67%)

Lab Maj 4,143 (9.67%)

5.05% swing Lab to C/Electorate 64,023/Turnout 42,859 (66.94%)

Tyneside North

Lab hold

Stephen Byers (Lab) 22,882 (61.95%)

Duncan McLellan (C) 7,845 (21.24%)

Gillian Ferguson (LD) 6,212 (16.82%)

Lab Maj 15,037 (40.71%)

7.09% swing Lab to C/Electorate 64,634/Turnout 36,939 (57.15%)

Tyrone West

SF hold

Pat Doherty (SF) 16,910 (38.89%)

Kieran Deeny (Ind) 11,905 (27.38%)

Tom Buchanan (DUP) 7,742 (17.80%)

Eugene McMenamin (SDLP) 3,949 (9.08%)

Derek Hussey (UUP) 2,981 (6.85%)

SF Maj 5,005 (11.51%)

Electorate 60,286/Turnout 43,487 (72.13%)

Upminster

C hold

Angela Watkinson (C) 16,820 (48.50%)

Keith Darvill (Lab) 10,778 (31.08%)

Peter Truesdale (LD) 3,128 (9.02%)

Ronald Ower (RA) 1,455 (4.20%)

Chris Roberts (BNP) 1,174 (3.39%)

Alan Hindle (UKIP) 701 (2.02%)

Melanie Collins (Green) 543 (1.57%)

David Durant (Third) 78 (0.22%)

C Maj 6,042 (17.42%)

6.88% swing Lab to C/Electorate 55,075/Turnout 34,677 (62.96%)

Uxbridge

C hold

John Randall (C) 16,840 (48.98%)

Rod Marshall (Lab) 10,669 (31.03%)

Tariq Mahmood (LD) 4,544 (13.22%)

Cliff Le May (BNP) 763 (2.22%)

Stephen Young (Green) 725 (2.11%)

Robert Kerby (UKIP) 553 (1.61%)

Peter Shaw (NF) 284 (0.83%)

C Maj 6,171 (17.95%)

5.84% swing Lab to C/Electorate 57,878/Turnout 34,378 (59.40%)

Vale Of Clwyd

Lab hold

Chris Ruane (Lab) 14,875 (46.03%)

Felicity Elphick (C) 10,206 (31.58%)

Elizabeth Jewkes (LD) 3,820 (11.82%)

Mark Jones (PC) 2,309 (7.15%)

Mark Young (Ind) 442 (1.37%)

Edna Khambatta (UKIP) 375 (1.16%)

Jeff Ditchfield (LCA) 286 (0.89%)

Lab Maj 4,669 (14.45%)

1.68% swing Lab to C/Electorate 51,982/Turnout 32,313 (62.16%)

Vale Of Glamorgan

Lab hold

John Smith (Lab) 19,481 (41.17%)

Alun Cairns (C) 17,673 (37.34%)

Mark Hooper (LD) 6,140 (12.97%)

Barry Shaw (PC) 2,423 (5.12%)

Richard Suchorzewski (UKIP) 840 (1.77%)

Karl-James Langford (Lib) 605 (1.28%)

Paul Mules (Soc Lab) 162 (0.34%)

Lab Maj 1,808 (3.82%)

3.29% swing Lab to C/Electorate 68,657/Turnout 47,324 (68.93%)

Vale Of York

C hold

Anne McIntosh (C) 26,025 (51.66%)

David Scott (Lab) 12,313 (24.44%)

Jeremy Wilcox (LD) 12,040 (23.90%)

C Maj 13,712 (27.22%)

0.70% swing Lab to C/Electorate 76,000/Turnout 50,378 (66.29%)

Vauxhall

Lab hold

Kate Hoey (Lab) 19,744 (52.86%)

Charles Anglin (LD) 9,767 (26.15%)

Edward Heckels (C) 5,405 (14.47%)

Tim Summers (Green) 1,705 (4.56%)

Robert McWhirter (UKIP) 271 (0.73%)

Daniel Lambert (Socialist) 240 (0.64%)

Janus Polenceus (Eng Dem) 221 (0.59%)

Lab Maj 9,977 (26.71%)

6.14% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 79,637/Turnout 37,353 (46.90%)

Wakefield

Lab hold

Mary Creagh (Lab) 18,802 (43.34%)

Alec Shelbrooke (C) 13,648 (31.46%)

David Ridgway (LD) 7,063 (16.28%)

Grant Rowe (BNP) 1,328 (3.06%)

Derek Hardcastle (Green) 1,297 (2.99%)

John Upex (UKIP) 467 (1.08%)

Adrian McEnhill (Eng Dem) 356 (0.82%)

Mick Griffiths (Soc Alt) 319 (0.74%)

Linda Sheridan (Soc Lab) 101 (0.23%)

Lab Maj 5,154 (11.88%)

3.70% swing Lab to C/Electorate 73,118/Turnout 43,381 (59.33%)

Wallasey

Lab hold

Angela Eagle (Lab) 20,085 (54.77%)

Leah Fraser (C) 10,976 (29.93%)

Joanna Pemberton (LD) 4,770 (13.01%)

Philip Griffiths (UKIP) 840 (2.29%)

Lab Maj 9,109 (24.84%)

4.02% swing Lab to C/Electorate 63,764/Turnout 36,671 (57.51%)

Walsall North

Lab hold

David Winnick (Lab) 15,990 (47.83%)

Ian Lucas (C) 9,350 (27.97%)

Douglas Taylor (LD) 4,144 (12.40%)

William Locke (BNP) 1,992 (5.96%)

Anthony Lenton (UKIP) 1,182 (3.54%)

Peter Smith (Dem Lab) 770 (2.30%)

Lab Maj 6,640 (19.86%)

4.60% swing Lab to C/Electorate 63,268/Turnout 33,428 (52.84%)

Walsall South

Lab hold

Bruce George (Lab) 17,633 (49.93%)

Kabir Sabar (C) 9,687 (27.43%)

Mohamed Hanif Asmal (LD) 3,240 (9.17%)

Derek Bennett (UKIP) 1,833 (5.19%)

Kevin Smith (BNP) 1,776 (5.03%)

Nadia Fazal (Respect) 1,146 (3.25%)

Lab Maj 7,946 (22.50%)

2.98% swing Lab to C/Electorate 60,370/Turnout 35,315 (58.50%)

Walthamstow

Lab hold

Neil Gerrard (Lab) 17,323 (50.29%)

Farid Ahmed (LD) 9,330 (27.09%)

Jane Wright (C) 6,254 (18.16%)

Robert Brock (UKIP) 810 (2.35%)

Nancy Taaffe (Soc Alt) 727 (2.11%)

Lab Maj 7,993 (23.21%)

12.18% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 63,079/Turnout 34,444 (54.60%)

Wansbeck

Lab hold

Denis Murphy (Lab) 20,315 (55.19%)

Simon Reed (LD) 9,734 (26.44%)

Ginny Scrope (C) 5,515 (14.98%)

Nic Best (Green) 1,245 (3.38%)

Lab Maj 10,581 (28.75%)

3.13% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 63,096/Turnout 36,809 (58.34%)

Wansdyke

Lab hold

Dan Norris (Lab) 20,686 (40.61%)

Chris Watt (C) 18,847 (37.00%)

Gail Coleshill (LD) 10,050 (19.73%)

Peter Sandell (UKIP) 1,129 (2.22%)

Geoffrey Parkes (Ind) 221 (0.43%)

Lab Maj 1,839 (3.61%)

3.86% swing Lab to C/Electorate 70,359/Turnout 50,933 (72.39%)

Wantage

i C gain from LAB

Ed Vaizey (C) 22,354 (43.05%)

Andrew Crawford (LD) 14,337 (27.61%)

Mark McDonald (Lab) 12,464 (24.00%)

Adam Twine (Green) 1,332 (2.56%)

Nikolai Tolstoy-Miloslavsky (UKIP) 798 (1.54%)

Gerald Lambourne (Eng Dem) 646 (1.24%)

C Maj 8,017 (15.44%)

1.92% swing LD to C/Electorate 76,156/Turnout 51,931 (68.19%)

Warley

Lab hold

John Spellar (Lab) 17,462 (54.42%)

Karen Bissell (C) 7,315 (22.80%)

Tony Ferguson (LD) 4,277 (13.33%)

Simon Smith (BNP) 1,761 (5.49%)

Malcolm Connigale (Soc Lab) 637 (1.99%)

David Matthews (UKIP) 635 (1.98%)

Lab Maj 10,147 (31.62%)

3.05% swing Lab to C/Electorate 56,171/Turnout 32,087 (57.12%)

Warrington North

Lab hold

Helen Jones (Lab) 21,632 (53.52%)

Andrew Ferryman (C) 9,428 (23.33%)

Peter Walker (LD) 7,699 (19.05%)

John Kirkham (UKIP) 1,086 (2.69%)

Mike Hughes (CAP) 573 (1.42%)

Lab Maj 12,204 (30.19%)

4.38% swing Lab to C/Electorate 73,352/Turnout 40,418 (55.10%)

Warrington South

Lab hold

Helen Southworth (Lab) 18,972 (40.54%)

Fiona Bruce (C) 15,457 (33.03%)

Ian Marks (LD) 11,111 (23.74%)

Gerald Kelley (UKIP) 804 (1.72%)

Paul Kennedy (Ind) 453 (0.97%)

Lab Maj 3,515 (7.51%)

4.37% swing Lab to C/Electorate 75,724/Turnout 46,797 (61.80%)

Warwick & Leamington

Lab hold

James Plaskitt (Lab) 22,238 (40.59%)

Chris White (C) 21,972 (40.11%)

Linda Forbes (LD) 8,119 (14.82%)

Ian Davison (Green) 1,534 (2.80%)

Greville Warwick (UKIP) 921 (1.68%)

Lab Maj 266 (0.49%)

5.32% swing Lab to C/Electorate 81,205/Turnout 54,784 (67.46%)

Warwickshire North

Lab hold

Mike O'Brien (Lab) 22,561 (48.06%)

Ian Gibb (C) 15,008 (31.97%)

Jerry Roodhouse (LD) 6,212 (13.23%)

Michaela Mackenzie (BNP) 1,910 (4.07%)

Iain Campbell (UKIP) 1,248 (2.66%)

Lab Maj 7,553 (16.09%)

2.81% swing Lab to C/Electorate 75,435/Turnout 46,939 (62.22%)

Watford

Lab hold

Claire Ward (Lab) 16,575 (33.56%)

Sal Brinton (LD) 15,427 (31.23%)

Ali Miraj (C) 14,634 (29.63%)

Steve Rackett (Green) 1,466 (2.97%)

Kenneth Wight (UKIP) 1,292 (2.62%)

Lab Maj 1,148 (2.32%)

12.75% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 76,280/Turnout 49,394 (64.75%)

Waveney

Lab hold

Bob Blizzard (Lab) 22,505 (45.32%)

Peter Aldous (C) 16,590 (33.41%)

Nick Bromley (LD) 7,497 (15.10%)

Brian Aylett (UKIP) 1,861 (3.75%)

Graham Elliott (Green) 1,200 (2.42%)

Lab Maj 5,915 (11.91%)

3.11% swing Lab to C/Electorate 77,138/Turnout 49,653 (64.37%)

Wealden

C hold

Charles Hendry (C) 28,975 (52.06%)

Christopher Wigley (LD) 13,054 (23.46%)

Dudley Rose (Lab) 9,360 (16.82%)

Julian Salmon (Green) 2,150 (3.86%)

Keith Riddle (UKIP) 2,114 (3.80%)

C Maj 15,921 (28.61%)

1.25% swing LD to C/Electorate 82,261/Turnout 55,653 (67.65%)

Weaver Vale

Lab hold

Mike Hall (Lab) 18,759 (47.59%)

Jonathan Mackie (C) 11,904 (30.20%)

Trevor Griffiths (LD) 7,723 (19.59%)

Brenda Swinscoe (UKIP) 1,034 (2.62%)

Lab Maj 6,855 (17.39%)

3.58% swing Lab to C/Electorate 69,072/Turnout 39,420 (57.07%)

Wellingborough

i C gain from LAB

Peter Bone (C) 22,674 (42.78%)

Paul Stinchcombe (Lab) 21,987 (41.48%)

Richard Church (LD) 6,147 (11.60%)

James Wrench (UKIP) 1,214 (2.29%)

Nicholas Alex (Veritas) 749 (1.41%)

Andy Dickson (Soc Lab) 234 (0.44%)

C Maj 687 (1.30%)

2.96% swing Lab to C/Electorate 79,679/Turnout 53,005 (66.52%)

Wells

C hold

David Heathcoat-Amory (C) 23,071 (43.56%)

Tessa Munt (LD) 20,031 (37.82%)

Dan Whittle (Lab) 8,288 (15.65%)

Steven Reed (UKIP) 1,575 (2.97%)

C Maj 3,040 (5.74%)

0.15% swing LD to C/Electorate 77,842/Turnout 52,965 (68.04%)

Welwyn Hatfield

i C gain from LAB

Grant Shapps (C) 22,172 (49.58%)

Melanie Johnson (Lab) 16,226 (36.29%)

Sara Bedford (LD) 6,318 (14.13%)

C Maj 5,946 (13.30%)

8.05% swing Lab to C/Electorate 65,617/Turnout 44,716 (68.15%)

Wentworth

Lab hold

John Healey (Lab) 21,225 (59.63%)

Mark Hughes (C) 6,169 (17.33%)

Keith Orrell (LD) 4,800 (13.48%)

Jonathan Pygott (BNP) 1,798 (5.05%)

John Wilkinson (UKIP) 1,604 (4.51%)

Lab Maj 15,056 (42.30%)

3.20% swing Lab to C/Electorate 63,561/Turnout 35,596 (56.00%)

West Bromwich East

Lab hold

Tom Watson (Lab) 19,741 (55.59%)

Rosemary Bromwich (C) 8,089 (22.78%)

Ian Garrett (LD) 4,386 (12.35%)

Carl Butler (BNP) 2,329 (6.56%)

Steven Grey (UKIP) 607 (1.71%)

Judith Sambrook (Soc Lab) 200 (0.56%)

Margaret Macklin (Ind) 160 (0.45%)

Lab Maj 11,652 (32.81%)

1.46% swing C to Lab/Electorate 60,565/Turnout 35,512 (58.63%)

West Bromwich West

Lab Co-op hold

Adrian Bailey (Lab Co-op) 18,951 (54.27%)

Mimi Harker (C) 8,057 (23.07%)

Martyn Smith (LD) 3,583 (10.26%)

James Lloyd (BNP) 3,456 (9.90%)

Kevin Walker (UKIP) 870 (2.49%)

Lab Co-op Maj 10,894 (31.20%)

2.23% swing Lab Co-op to C/Electorate 66,752/Turnout 34,917 (52.31%)

West Ham

Lab hold

Lyn Brown (Lab) 15,840 (51.15%)

Lindsey German (Respect) 6,039 (19.50%)

Chris Whitbread (C) 3,618 (11.68%)

Alexandra Sugden (LD) 3,364 (10.86%)

Jane Lithgow (Green) 894 (2.89%)

Stephen Hammond (CPA) 437 (1.41%)

Henry Mayhew (UKIP) 409 (1.32%)

Generoso Alcantara (Veritas) 365 (1.18%)

Lab Maj 9,801 (31.65%)

Electorate 62,184/Turnout 30,966 (49.80%)

Westbury

C hold

Andrew Murrison (C) 24,749 (44.51%)

Duncan Hames (LD) 19,400 (34.89%)

Phil Gibby (Lab) 9,640 (17.34%)

Lincoln Williams (UKIP) 1,815 (3.26%)

C Maj 5,349 (9.62%)

0.42% swing C to LD/Electorate 83,039/Turnout 55,604 (66.96%)

Westmorland & Lonsdale

i LD gain from C

Tim Farron (LD) 22,569 (45.47%)

Tim Collins (C) 22,302 (44.93%)

John Reardon (Lab) 3,796 (7.65%)

Robert Gibson (UKIP) 660 (1.33%)

Anthony Kemp (Ind) 309 (0.62%)

LD Maj 267 (0.54%)

3.55% swing C to LD/Electorate 69,363/Turnout 49,636 (71.56%)

Weston-Super-Mare

i C gain from LD

John Penrose (C) 19,804 (40.34%)

Brian Cotter (LD) 17,725 (36.10%)

Damien Egan (Lab) 9,169 (18.68%)

Paul Spencer (UKIP) 1,207 (2.46%)

Clive Courtney (BNP) 778 (1.58%)

William Human (Ind) 225 (0.46%)

Paul Hemingway-Arnold (Honesty) 187 (0.38%)

C Maj 2,079 (4.23%)

2.48% swing LD to C/Electorate 74,900/Turnout 49,095 (65.55%)

Wigan

Lab hold

Neil Turner (Lab) 18,901 (55.14%)

John Coombes (C) 7,134 (20.81%)

Denise Capstick (LD) 6,051 (17.65%)

John Whittaker (UKIP) 1,166 (3.40%)

Kevin Williams (CAP) 1,026 (2.99%)

Lab Maj 11,767 (34.33%)

3.29% swing Lab to C/Electorate 64,267/Turnout 34,278 (53.34%)

Wiltshire North

C hold

James Gray (C) 26,282 (46.88%)

Paul Fox (LD) 20,979 (37.42%)

David Nash (Lab) 6,794 (12.12%)

Neil Dowdney (UKIP) 1,428 (2.55%)

Philip Allnatt (Ind) 578 (1.03%)

C Maj 5,303 (9.46%)

1.07% swing LD to C/Electorate 80,896/Turnout 56,061 (69.30%)

Wimbledon

i C gain from LAB

Stephen Hammond (C) 17,886 (41.21%)

Roger Casale (Lab) 15,585 (35.91%)

Stephen Gee (LD) 7,868 (18.13%)

Giles Barrow (Green) 1,374 (3.17%)

Andrew Mills (UKIP) 408 (0.94%)

Christopher Coverdale (Ind) 211 (0.49%)

Alastair Wilson (TEPK) 50 (0.12%)

Rainbow George Weiss (Vote Dream) 22 (0.05%)

C Maj 2,301 (5.30%)

7.20% swing Lab to C/Electorate 63,714/Turnout 43,404 (68.12%)

Winchester

LD hold

Mark Oaten (LD) 31,225 (50.64%)

George Hollingbery (C) 23,749 (38.52%)

Patrick Davies (Lab) 4,782 (7.76%)

David Abbott (UKIP) 1,321 (2.14%)

Arthur Uther Pendragon (Ind) 581 (0.94%)

LD Maj 7,476 (12.12%)

2.08% swing LD to C/Electorate 85,810/Turnout 61,658 (71.85%)

Windsor

C hold

Adam Afriyie (C) 21,646 (49.54%)

Antony Wood (LD) 11,354 (25.99%)

Mark Muller (Lab) 8,339 (19.09%)

David Black (UKIP) 1,098 (2.51%)

Derek Wall (Green) 1,074 (2.46%)

Peter Hooper (Ind) 182 (0.42%)

C Maj 10,292 (23.56%)

1.22% swing LD to C/Electorate 68,290/Turnout 43,693 (63.98%)

Wirral South

Lab hold

Ben Chapman (Lab) 16,892 (42.54%)

Carl Cross (C) 13,168 (33.17%)

Simon Holbrook (LD) 8,568 (21.58%)

David Scott (UKIP) 616 (1.55%)

Laurence Jones (Ind) 460 (1.16%)

Lab Maj 3,724 (9.38%)

1.65% swing Lab to C/Electorate 58,834/Turnout 39,704 (67.48%)

Wirral West

Lab hold

Stephen Hesford (Lab) 17,543 (42.55%)

Esther McVey (C) 16,446 (39.89%)

Jeff Clarke (LD) 6,652 (16.13%)

John Moore (UKIP) 429 (1.04%)

Roger Taylor (AP) 163 (0.40%)

Lab Maj 1,097 (2.66%)

3.65% swing Lab to C/Electorate 61,050/Turnout 41,233 (67.54%)

Witney

C hold

David Cameron (C) 26,571 (49.33%)

Liz Leffman (LD) 12,415 (23.05%)

Tony Gray (Lab) 11,845 (21.99%)

Richard Dossett-Davies (Green) 1,682 (3.12%)

Paul Wesson (UKIP) 1,356 (2.52%)

C Maj 14,156 (26.28%)

0.79% swing LD to C/Electorate 78,053/Turnout 53,869 (69.02%)

Woking

C hold

Humfrey Malins (C) 21,838 (47.43%)

Anne Lee (LD) 15,226 (33.07%)

Ellie Blagbrough (Lab) 7,507 (16.30%)

Matthew Davies (UKIP) 1,324 (2.88%)

Michael Osman (UKC) 150 (0.33%)

C Maj 6,612 (14.36%)

0.70% swing C to LD/Electorate 72,676/Turnout 46,045 (63.36%)

Wokingham

C hold

John Redwood (C) 22,174 (48.13%)

Prue Bray (LD) 14,934 (32.41%)

David Black (Lab) 6,991 (15.17%)

Frank Carstairs (UKIP) 994 (2.16%)

Top Cat Owen (Loony) 569 (1.24%)

Richard Colborne (BNP) 376 (0.82%)

Michael Hall (telepath) 34 (0.07%)

C Maj 7,240 (15.71%)

1.02% swing LD to C/Electorate 68,614/Turnout 46,072 (67.15%)

Wolverhampton North East

Lab Co-op hold

Ken Purchase (Lab Co-op) 17,948 (54.46%)

Alexandra Robson (C) 9,792 (29.71%)

David Jack (LD) 3,845 (11.67%)

Lydia Simpson (UKIP) 1,371 (4.16%)

Lab Co-op Maj 8,156 (24.75%)

3.45% swing Lab Co-op to C/Electorate 60,595/Turnout 32,956 (54.39%)

Wolverhampton South East

Lab hold

Pat McFadden (Lab) 16,790 (59.43%)

James Fairbairn (C) 6,295 (22.28%)

David Murray (LD) 3,682 (13.03%)

Kevin Simmons (UKIP) 1,484 (5.25%)

Lab Maj 10,495 (37.15%)

4.26% swing Lab to C/Electorate 54,047/Turnout 28,251 (52.27%)

Wolverhampton South West

Lab hold

Rob Marris (Lab) 18,489 (44.36%)

Sandip Verma (C) 15,610 (37.45%)

Colin Ross (LD) 5,568 (13.36%)

Douglas Hope (UKIP) 1,029 (2.47%)

Edward Mullins (BNP) 983 (2.36%)

Lab Maj 2,879 (6.91%)

0.81% swing Lab to C/Electorate 67,096/Turnout 41,679 (62.12%)

Woodspring

C hold

Liam Fox (C) 21,587 (41.82%)

Mike Bell (LD) 15,571 (30.17%)

Chanel Stevens (Lab) 11,249 (21.79%)

Rebecca Lewis (Green) 1,309 (2.54%)

Anthony Butcher (UKIP) 1,269 (2.46%)

Michael Howson (BNP) 633 (1.23%)

C Maj 6,016 (11.65%)

3.90% swing C to LD/Electorate 71,662/Turnout 51,618 (72.03%)

Worcester

Lab hold

Michael Foster (Lab) 19,421 (41.87%)

Margaret Harper (C) 16,277 (35.09%)

Mary Dhonau (LD) 7,557 (16.29%)

Richard Chamings (UKIP) 1,113 (2.40%)

Martin Roberts (BNP) 980 (2.11%)

Chris Lennard (Green) 921 (1.99%)

Prudence Dowson (Ind) 119 (0.26%)

Lab Maj 3,144 (6.78%)

3.13% swing Lab to C/Electorate 72,384/Turnout 46,388 (64.09%)

Worcestershire Mid

C hold

Peter Luff (C) 24,783 (51.50%)

Matt Gregson (Lab) 11,456 (23.80%)

Margaret Rowley (LD) 9,796 (20.35%)

Tony Eaves (UKIP) 2,092 (4.35%)

C Maj 13,327 (27.69%)

2.01% swing Lab to C/Electorate 71,546/Turnout 48,127 (67.27%)

Worcestershire West

C hold

Sir Michael Spicer (C) 20,959 (45.39%)

Tom Wells (LD) 18,484 (40.03%)

Qamar Bhatti (Lab) 4,945 (10.71%)

Caroline Bovey (UKIP) 1,590 (3.44%)

Malcolm Victory (Green) 199 (0.43%)

C Maj 2,475 (5.36%)

3.32% swing C to LD/Electorate 66,999/Turnout 46,177 (68.92%)

Workington

Lab hold

Tony Cunningham (Lab) 19,554 (49.21%)

Judith Pattinson (C) 12,659 (31.86%)

Kate Clarkson (LD) 5,815 (14.63%)

Mark Richardson (UKIP) 1,328 (3.34%)

John Peacock (LCA) 381 (0.96%)

Lab Maj 6,895 (17.35%)

4.30% swing Lab to C/Electorate 61,441/Turnout 39,737 (64.68%)

Worsley

Lab hold

Barbara Keeley (Lab) 18,859 (51.04%)

Graham Evans (C) 9,491 (25.69%)

Richard Clayton (LD) 6,902 (18.68%)

Bernard Gill (UKIP) 1,694 (4.59%)

Lab Maj 9,368 (25.36%)

3.99% swing Lab to C/Electorate 69,534/Turnout 36,946 (53.13%)

Worthing East & Shoreham

C hold

Tim Loughton (C) 19,548 (43.89%)

Daniel Yates (Lab) 11,365 (25.51%)

James Doyle (LD) 10,844 (24.35%)

Richard Jelf (UKIP) 2,109 (4.73%)

Chris Baldwin (LCA) 677 (1.52%)

C Maj 8,183 (18.37%)

2.06% swing Lab to C/Electorate 72,302/Turnout 44,543 (61.61%)

Worthing West

C hold

Peter Bottomley (C) 21,383 (47.58%)

Claire Potter (LD) 12,004 (26.71%)

Antony Bignell (Lab) 8,630 (19.20%)

Timothy Cross (UKIP) 2,374 (5.28%)

Chris Baldwin (LCA) 550 (1.22%)

C Maj 9,379 (20.87%)

0.02% swing C to LD/Electorate 71,780/Turnout 44,941 (62.61%)

Wrekin, The

i C gain from LAB

Mark Pritchard (C) 18,899 (41.95%)

Peter Bradley (Lab) 17,957 (39.86%)

Bill Tomlinson (LD) 6,608 (14.67%)

Bruce Lawson (UKIP) 1,590 (3.53%)

C Maj 942 (2.09%)

5.37% swing Lab to C/Electorate 67,291/Turnout 45,054 (66.95%)

Wrexham

Lab hold

Ian Lucas (Lab) 13,993 (46.05%)

Tom Rippeth (LD) 7,174 (23.61%)

Therese Coffey (C) 6,079 (20.01%)

Sion Owen (PC) 1,744 (5.74%)

John Walker (BNP) 919 (3.02%)

Janet Williams (FWP) 476 (1.57%)

Lab Maj 6,819 (22.44%)

6.72% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 48,016/Turnout 30,385 (63.28%)

Wycombe

C hold

Paul Goodman (C) 20,331 (45.76%)

Julia Wassell (Lab) 13,280 (29.89%)

James Oates (LD) 8,780 (19.76%)

Robert Davis (UKIP) 1,735 (3.91%)

David Fitton (Ind) 301 (0.68%)

C Maj 7,051 (15.87%)

4.41% swing Lab to C/Electorate 71,464/Turnout 44,427 (62.17%)

Wyre Forest

KHHC hold

Richard Taylor (KHHC) 18,739 (39.88%)

Mark Garnier (C) 13,489 (28.71%)

Marc Bayliss (Lab) 10,716 (22.81%)

Fran Oborski (Lib) 2,666 (5.67%)

Rustie Lee (UKIP) 1,074 (2.29%)

Burt Priest (Loony) 303 (0.64%)

KHHC Maj 5,250 (11.17%)

13.92% swing KHHC to C/Electorate 73,192/Turnout 46,987 (64.20%)

Wythenshawe & Sale East

Lab hold

Paul Goggins (Lab) 18,878 (52.17%)

Jane Meehan (C) 8,051 (22.25%)

Alison Firth (LD) 7,766 (21.46%)

William Ford (UKIP) 1,120 (3.10%)

Lynn Worthington (Soc Alt) 369 (1.02%)

Lab Maj 10,827 (29.92%)

3.02% swing Lab to C/Electorate 71,766/Turnout 36,184 (50.42%)

Yeovil

LD hold

David Laws (LD) 25,658 (51.41%)

Ian Jenkins (C) 17,096 (34.25%)

Colin Rolfe (Lab) 5,256 (10.53%)

Graham Livings (UKIP) 1,903 (3.81%)

LD Maj 8,562 (17.15%)

4.50% swing C to LD/Electorate 77,668/Turnout 49,913 (64.26%)

Ynys Mon

Lab hold

Albert Owen (Lab) 12,278 (34.62%)

Eurig Wyn (PC) 11,036 (31.12%)

Peter Rogers (Ind) 5,216 (14.71%)

James Roach (C) 3,915 (11.04%)

Sarah Green (LD) 2,418 (6.82%)

Elaine Gill (UKIP) 367 (1.03%)

Tim Evans (LCA) 232 (0.65%)

Lab Maj 1,242 (3.50%)

0.58% swing PC to Lab/Electorate 52,512/Turnout 35,462 (67.53%)

York, City of

Lab hold

Hugh Bayley (Lab) 21,836 (46.86%)

Clive Booth (C) 11,364 (24.39%)

Andrew Waller (LD) 10,166 (21.82%)

Andy D'Agorne (Green) 2,113 (4.53%)

Richard Jackson (UKIP) 832 (1.79%)

Ken Curran (Ind) 121 (0.26%)

Damien Fleck (DDTP) 93 (0.20%)

Andrew Hinkles (Ind Hinkles) 72 (0.15%)

Lab Maj 10,472 (22.47%)

3.12% swing Lab to C/Electorate 75,555/Turnout 46,597 (61.67%)

Yorkshire East

C hold

Greg Knight (C) 21,215 (45.21%)

Emma Hoddinott (Lab) 14,932 (31.82%)

Jim Wastling (LD) 9,075 (19.34%)

Christopher Tresidder (UKIP) 1,703 (3.63%)

C Maj 6,283 (13.39%)

1.29% swing Lab to C/Electorate 76,648/Turnout 46,925 (61.22%)

Council results

*Boundry change NOC No overall control

Shire count y authorities

Bedfordshire*

C No change

Ind down 1/Lab down 5/C up 9

New council C 36/Lab 7/LD 9

Buckinghamshire*

C No change

Lab down 3/LD up 2/C up 3

New council LD 11/Lab 2/C 44

Cambridgeshire*

C No change

Lab down 4/LD up 6/C up 8

New council LD 23/Lab 4/C 42

Cheshire

C No change

LD gain 2/C lose 2

New council Ind 1/Lab 16/C 26/LD 8

Cumbria

NOC No change

C lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council LD 11/Ind 2/C 32/Lab 39

Derbyshire*

Lab No change

Respect down 1/Ind down 1/LD up 3/C up 2/Lab down 3

New council Ind 1/LD 10/C 15/Lab 38

Devon*

LD gain from NOC

Lib down 3/Ind down 1/C up 1/LD up 11

New council Ind 2/C 23/LD 33/Lab 4

Dorset*

C No change

LD up 2/C up 1

New council Ind 1/LD 16/C 24/Lab 4

Durham*

Lab No change

LD up 1/Lab up 1

New council C 2/Ind 3/LD 5/Lab 53

Gloucestershire*

C gain from NOC

Ind up 2/Lab down 6/LD down 3/C up 7

New council LD 13/Lab 13/C 33/Ind 4

Hertfordshire

C No change

Ind lose 1/Green gain 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 7/C gain 5

New council Green 1/LD 14/Lab 16/C 46

Kent*

C No change

Ind down 3/LD down 2/C up 5

New council Lab 21/C 57/LD 6

Lancashire*

Lab No change

LD down 1/C up 5/Lab up 2

New council Green 1/Ind 2/C 31/Lab 44/LD 6

Lincolnshire

C No change

LD gain 4/C lose 4

New council Lab 21/Ind 3/C 45/LD 8

Norfolk*

C No change

Green up 1/LD up 4/Lab down 4/C down 1

New council Green 1/Vacant 1/LD 14/Lab 22/C 46

Northumberland

Lab No change

Ind gain 3/LD gain 4/C lose 4/Lab lose 3

New council C 14/LD 14/Lab 35/Ind 4

Nottinghamshire*

Lab No change

Ind down 4/LD up 1/C up 5/Lab up 2

New council C 25/Lab 38/LD 4

Oxfordshire*

C gain from NOC

Green up 4/Lab down 15/LD down 4/C up 19

New council LD 17/C 43/Green 5/Lab 9

Shropshire*

C gain from NOC

Ind down 3/Lab down 2/LD up 3/C up 6

New council LD 11/C 25/Ind 3/Lab 9

Somerset

LD gain from NOC

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 24/LD 30/Lab 4

Staffordshire*

Lab No change

UKIP down 1/LD down 1/C up 6/Lab down 4

New council Vacant 1/LD 2/C 27/Lab 32

Suffolk*

C gain from NOC

Ind down 2/LD down 6/Lab down 12/C up 15

New council Ind 1/Lab 22/C 45/LD 7

Surrey*

C No change

Lab down 4/R up 2/LD down 1/C up 7

New council Ind 1/LD 12/Lab 2/C 58/R 7

East Sussex*

C No change

Ind up 1/Lab down 1/C up 5

New council Ind 1/LD 14/C 29/Lab 5

West Sussex*

C No change

Ind down 1/Lab down 4/LD down 2/C up 6

New council LD 17/C 46/Lab 7

Warwickshire*

NOC No change

Respect down 1/LD down 2/Lab down 4/C up 7

New council Ind 1/LD 11/Lab 23/C 27

Wiltshire*

C No change

Ind down 2/LD up 3/C up 1

New council LD 16/Ind 2/C 28/Lab 3

Worcestershire*

C gain from NOC

Ind down 1/KHHC down 5/LD down 1/Lab up 3/C up 4

New council KHHC 1/Lab 17/Lib 2/C 29/LD 8

North Yorkshire*

C No change

Ind up 2/Lab down 3/LD up 1/C down 2

New council LD 18/Ind 4/C 41/Lab 9

Unitary authorities

Bristol

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 4/LD gain 5

New council C 11/Lab 27/LD 32

Isle of Wight

C gain from NOC

Lab lose 1/LD lose 14/Ind lose 7/C gain 22

New council Lab 2/C 35/LD 5/Ind 6

Stockton-on-Tees*

NOC No change

LD up 2/Ind down 1

New council C 12/Lab 27/LD 8/Ind 9


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

ELECTION2005: SWINGS, SURPRISES AND A RESIGNATION;
 24 HOURS IN THE POLITICAL LIFE OF BRITAIN

BYLINE: BY PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1625 words


In one way it was entirely predictable. Tony Blair yesterday stood outside 10
Downing Street to claim a place in history as the only Labour leader to have won
three elections in a row. Across London the Conservative leader Michael Howard
announced that he would stand down as Tory leader having failed to take his
party back to power. And on the steps of his party's headquarters in central
London, Charles Kennedy was proclaiming the arrival of the era of true
three-party politics after the Liberal Democrats' best showing for 80 years.

But if the outcome might have been forecast from early on in the election
campaign what few would have anticipated was the churn of political influences
which produced it.

For, in the end, one of the most dull and predictable of election campaigns,
produced a slew of results which made election-night exciting and produced an
outcome which introduces a series of unexpected new factors to the political
landscape.

Something of that became obvious from the outset. When the first result came in,
at 10.44pm, from Sunderland South, Labour's majority was significantly reduced.
It was trend that was to be reproduced throughout the country, leaving Mr Blair
not just with his previous majority more than halved, but also as the prime
minister with the lowest share of the vote in modern times.

Which is why he found himself outside No. 10 yesterday saying: 'The great thing
about an election is that you get out and talk to people for week upon week and
I have listened and I have learned' " though what he learned, to judge from his
pledges on sorting out immigration and re-establishing respect in classrooms,
seem to be drawn from the Tory manifesto as from the concerns of real voters.

On one of these he could not acknowledge what it was he might have learned. The
ghosts of Iraq which had haunted the election from the outset figured as
prominently in the results as Labour strategists had privately feared.

Just an hour after the polls closed, at 11.05pm, the first word came that
substantial majority of the sitting Labour candidate in Bethnal Green & Bow,
Oona King, was under serious threat from the former Labour maverick and leading
anti-war candidate, George Galloway, who five hours later was declared the
winner.

And in seat after seat in the 40 constituencies where Muslims constituted more
than 5 per cent of voters the Labour vote was down.

The anti-war backlash was not devastating " Foreign Secretary Jack Straw held on
to his seat in Blackburn, which has a sizeable Muslim population, with only a
slightly reduced majority " but it was a significant in the rise of the Liberal
Democrat vote throughout the country.

In his Sedgefield constituency, Mr Blair acknowledged that the Iraq war had been
a 'divisive' issue for the country, but insisted that people now wanted to 'move
on'. Yet he then had to stand through a moving speech by one of his challengers
Reg Keys, whose son was killed in Iraq, and who pooled 10 per cent of the vote
in the prime minister's own constituency. Mr Blair bit his lip as he listened.
In his heart he must fear that Iraq will never be over for him.

The next decisive indicator of the shape of things to come was just after
12.00am. At the Tories took Putney from Labour. Mr Blair's party took a 9 per
cent drop in its vote. Soon after they took Wimbledon from Labour on 7 per cent
swing. It was a pattern which was to be replicated for the Conservatives in many
places across the South-east, where they had a 2.3 per cent increase in the
share of the vote. Most symbolically they retook Enfield South, perhaps the
Tories most famous loss in 1997 with its defining 'were you up for Portillo?'
moment. The schools minister Stephen Twigg who lost his seat there was not the
only ministerial casualty; the Tories also removed Health minister, Melanie
Johnson, in Welwyn Hatfield and Constitutional Affairs minister, Chris Leslie,
in Shipley.

Nor were all the Tory gains at Labour's expense. They took Newbury, Guildford,
Ludlow, Devon West and Torridge " all from the Liberal Democrats. It is a
measure of the task the Conservatives face to re-establish themselves that most
Conservatives seemed content with this limited revival.

The best they had hoped for in this election was an honourable second place. Mr
Howard delivered that but the party's 33 per cent share of the vote is not much
of an improvement on their share in 1997 and 2001.

What the Liberal Democrats did do was eat substantially into the Labour vote.
That much was evident in within a succession of victories for Labour's big
names. The Deputy Prime Minister, John Prescott, heard his result just before
1am with its 6 per cent swing to the Liberal Democrats. The same swing was there
in Kate Hoey's seat of Vauxhall in London. And David Blunkett's in Sheffield
Brightside. It was not long before the swing was transformed into wins, as Lorna
Fitzsimmons lost Rochdale to the Liberal Democrats on an 8 per cent swing. They
unseated the ex-minister Barbara Roche on a 14 per cent swing.

But it also became apparent that the Liberal Democrats could not make the same
inroads in Tory seats. At 1.09am the party held Torbay but with reduced majority
which indicated, correctly, that they were to lose more seats to the
Conservatives than they were to gain from them.

The much trumpeted Liberal Democrat 'decapitation' strategy to unseat former
Tory chairman Theresa May, shadow Home Secretary David Davis and Oliver Letwin,
and even Mr Howard, failed in southern constituencies. They all retained their
seats with increased majorities.

Only one member of the Tories' top team " education spokesman Tim Collins " was
defeated, in Westmorland and Lonsdale.

The extent to which this posed a problem for Mr Kennedy's future strategy was
revealed by what happened in the cities, particularly those which large student
votes.

At 1.27am the solid Labour seat of Manchester Withington announced a recount; it
eventually fell to the Liberal Democrats on a 16.4 per cent swing. The same
thing happened in Cardiff Central, Birmingham Yardley, Bristol West and
Cambridge. As the night went on this tendency was consolidated, with the Liberal
Democrats taking Hornsey from Labour with 15 per cent swing.

Mr Kennedy's dilemma is that what obviously played well in such seats " issues
like Iraq, tuition fees and the proposal to replace the council tax with a local
income tax " were equally unattractive in Tory seats. It poses a real headache
for the future and exposes the hyperbole behind Mr Kennedy's notion that his
party is 'well poised' for a real breakthrough at the next general election.

Even so, he has broken a significant barrier. For many elections the Liberal
Democrats remained stuck on between 17 and 19 per cent of the vote. This time
they got 23 per cent " and their best result in numbers of seats since the days
of Lloyd George.

There were revealing changes in Wales and Scotland. At 3am the Conservatives
took Monmouth from Labour, gaining their first Welsh MP since 1997. Labour lost
three Welsh seats to the Tories in what was until yesterday a Conservative
free-zone.

Many factors were in play here but an additional influence became evident when
came an independent candidate, Peter Law, took Blaenau Gwent, Labour's safest
Welsh seat. More than that, it was totemic for it was previously held by the
iconic Labour figures Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot.

But the local part and the voters it turned out, resented the imposition of a
lawyer from London. It was evidence of the resentment at increasing
centralisation over the past decade.

It was not a good day for nationalists. In Wales, Plaid Cymru went down from
four seats to three. In Scotland, though the SNP achieved the six seats it
targeted, it lost in its share of the overall voting, making the Liberal
Democrats now the second party north of the border. This has implications both
within the Scottish parliament and for the party in the UK more generally.

Overall the result was good for democracy. Turnout is up about 2 per cent with
big increases in marginal seats. There are now more independents in parliament
than before " indeed more than in any parliament since 1945. In addition to
George Galloway and Peter Law, Dr Richard Taylor " the Keep Kidderminster
hospital open candidate " won again in Wyre Forest.

Small parties fared less well. The British National Party, which stood in more
seats than ever before, slightly increased its share of the vote, but failed to
take any seats. The BNP leader Nick Griffin took 9 per cent of the vote in
Keighley, and a few of its candidates did not lose their deposits. The
anti-Europe party UKIP sank in the polls. And Robert Kilroy- Silk's new party,
Veritas, made little impression. He failed to win Erewash from Labour, polling
just under 3,000 - only 6 per cent of the vote " and only just saved his
deposit.

In the end it is hard to disagree with Mr Kennedy's verdict: 'Overall this
general election has clearly resulted in a new House of Commons which I think
will be healthier in the party political sense than what the last eight years
have been.

'The government cannot ride rough-shod over people's instincts, people's
inspirations and people's views and we will have a major role to play in that,'
he continued. 'I think it is going to be a very different House of Commons from
the one we have had over the past eight years, and I think that is going to be
very healthy, whatever people's political views'.

And if that is not what Mr Blair would have wanted, he should " after a night of
election results like that " count himself lucky that he has got as much as he
has.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              76 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

ELECTION 2005: UKIP'S BUBBLE MAY HAVE BURST, BUT KILROY-SILK'S PARTY ALSO FAILS
TO TAKE OFF

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 257 words


The UK Independence Party won more than 600,000 votes, putting it fourth in the
national vote. But its performance, a year after stunning success in the
European elections, was deeply disappointing to party stalwarts.

The party leader, Roger Knapman, trailed a distant fourth in Totnes, Devon, with
7.7 per cent of the vote. Nigel Farage, one of its best-known Euro-MPs, only
kept his deposit by a whisker in Thanet South, where he picked up 2,079 votes.

Elsewhere it performed poorly, losing its deposit in more than 450
constituencies and suggesting that the party's bubble may have burst after its
acrimonious divorce from Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Its share of the vote was put at 2.3 per cent, up from 1.5 per cent at the last
election but a fraction of the 16.1 per cent support it gained in the European
elections.

A UKIP spokesman said: 'I think the problem for us was that we did not manage to
break into the tribal allegiances of the other parties. It is disappointing,
though. We had expected to do better.'

Its only consolation was the dismal showing of Mr Kilroy-Silk's newly formed
Veritas party, which fielded 65 candidates on a platform of introducing a flat
tax rate of 22 per cent, withdrawal from the European Union and a clamp-down on
the number of immigrants allowed into the UK.

Veritas attracted 39,530 votes nationally, an average of just over 600 votes per
constituency.

Mr Kilroy-Silk came fourth in the Derbyshire constituency of Erewash, with
nearly 3,000 votes, a share of 5.85 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

ELECTION 2005: TRUTH, SPIN AND THE POLITICAL REALITY;
 VICTORY OR DEFEAT? IT DEPENDS ON YOUR VIEWPOINT. 'THE INDEPENDENT'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1132 words


LABOUR

THE SUPPORTER

This is a historic third term, the previously unobtainable goal of Labour
governments. Proof that Labour has become the natural party of government, and
the party trusted to run the economy. A fundamental rebalancing of politics in
favour of social democracy.

THE OPPONENT

Labour limped home wounded. For the first time since 1997 its supporters were
disillusioned en masse. The slashing of its majority shows power is slipping
away. It'll be tricky to get policies like ID cards through the Commons. Next
time Labour will lose.

THE TRUTH

This victory is indeed historic. But Labour has a hard job ahead to re-establish
its credibility and popularity on issues like Iraq, crime and immigration. It
will have to demonstrate improvements in public services and find a more popular
leader.

THE TORIES

The party has taken a big step towards power. It halved Blair's majority, taking
seats off Labour and the Lib Dems. With populist policies on crime and
immigration, it showed that it can set the agenda and reconnect with voters. The
next big push will sweep it to power.

Third-time losers. Labour still has a working majority and the Tories didn't
make nearly enough progress against a party in power for eight years that had
just fought an unpopular war. Second is nowhere in politics.

This is progress, but the Tories should have done better. Iraq was an open goal
but the party fluffed its chances. It failed to establish a popular, alternative
programme for government. But the extra power in the Commons could cause
problems for Labour.

LIB DEMS

The party has gained another handful of seats and has the highest number of MPs
for more than 80 years. It has proved it can win seats across the whole of
Britain. In a decade or so the party could fight an election with a chance of
entering Downing Street.

A few more seats but a long way from government. The Tories are still the
official Opposition. The Lib Dems showed that gains last time can easily be
lost. They are vulnerable to improvement in Tory fortunes. Not a serious party
of opposition yet.

A solid, if uninspiring result. With 62 seats the Lib Dems are becoming a major
force at Westminster. The party is building a power base in the industrial North
of England and cementing its position in the South-west and suburban London.
Steady progress.

TONY

BLAIR

No Labour PM has done better at the polls. In 1995, he took over a failing
party, modernised it, won power, then modernised Britain. He brought peace in
Northern Ireland, devolved government for Scotland and Wales, revived the
economy and improved public services.

An unpopular leader who is working out his notice with grudging backing of the
people. He failed to turn round health and education, ducked decisions on the
euro and led the war on Iraq. He is seen as arrogant, smarmy and devious. Now an
electoral liability.

This is an historic victory despite the reduced majority. Blair turned Labour
into an impressive electoral force. But his personal reputation is tarnished,
probably irrevocably. He is still in charge, but with a bloody nose. Labour
needs a new leader.

GORDON BROWN

The brilliant strategist who steered a faltering campaign to triumph. He brought
Britain a boom decade and Labour a reputation for economic skill. Well
positioned to take over as PM and begin an era of a more left-wing and
straightforward administration.

He can take power only on Blair's coat-tails. A talented number- cruncher but no
charismatic leader. Unlikely to have radical solutions for an inefficient NHS or
the diplomacy to get on with George Bush. His gruff Scottishness will play badly
in southern England.

He saved the campaign and seems unstoppable to succeed Blair. He earned plaudits
for running the economy, though it could be heading for trouble. He could be the
solution to the party's marketing problem: Vote for new, improved Labour with
added Gordon.

MICHAEL

HOWARD

He saved the party from the muddle of Iain Duncan Smith. In just 18 months, he
gave it a harder edge and brought in the Australian election whizzkid Lynton
Crosby to shake up presentation. His hard line on immigration struck a chord
with voters.

Howard is another Tory loser, the fourth Blair has faced. He was never young or
charming enough to mount a serious challenge. The 'dog- whistle politics' on
immigration took some voters back to Labour. Now he says he will quit, just as
the party needs stability.

He probably made the best of a bad job after taking over from IDS. He has left
the Tories in better shape but they are still a long way from power. He failed
to dent Labour's economic record or carve out a clear agenda appealing to the
middle ground.

CHARLES

KENNEDY

He is now the leader of the biggest Liberal grouping in Parliament since Lloyd
George in 1923. His opposition to war and attention-grabbing policies like
ditching university fees won support. He established himself as principled,
intelligent politician. And a winner.

Ten more seats is no breakthrough. Kennedy could have made more of the war; he
was reticent to take advantage of it. He fumbled the tax plans. He still does
not seem to have a good grasp of his own party's policies. A good-time Charlie
making limited progress.

This was a respectable result for Kennedy. He won votes and credibility for his
anti-war stance. His policy of targeting key marginals worked. He needs to step
up a gear to take advantage of a historic opportunity to break through during
the end of the Blair regime.

ELECTORAL SYSTEM

Another clear result for first-past-the-post. Labour wins. Simple. No fussing of
the kind you get with proportional representation about coalitions or party
lists or additional members. No backroom deals on partners in government. The
electorate's wish " Labour received the highest backing " is reflected in the
result. So too is the electorate's desire, seemingly, to limit the party's
power.

What a disgrace. Disillusionment with the system is so strong that just 61 per
cent of the electorate voted. Labour was endorsed by just 36 per cent of those
who did turn out, barely more than when Neil Kinnock lost in 1992. Postal voting
was hit by fraud claims. Tactical voting was commonplace. The Greens, UKIP and
BNP got no MPs despite polling more than one million votes in total.

Democracy has worked. After a fashion. The voters wanted Labour and that's what
they got. But is it really right that hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of
voters backed a less favoured party because otherwise their vote would be
futile? And the postal voting system is so lax that its reform is an urgent
matter for Blair's new administration.

ANALYSIS BY MARTIN HICKMAN

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 149 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

MAKING HISTORY: LABOUR'S 3RD TERM: UKIP HAS A BAD DAY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 83 words


THE anti-European parties suffered a humiliating blow in the election - failing
to win a single seat.

The UK Independence Party did so badly it forfeited nearly £250,000 in lost
deposits in at least 451 seats.

Former member, now Veritas leader, Robert Kilroy-Silk just escaped a similar
disaster with only 2,957 votes in Erewash, Derbyshire.

The ex-TV star, who left UKIP after a leadership row, said he never expected to
win. He vowed to battle on "to get our country back".

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              79 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 7, 2005

MUPPETS REJOICE AS COUNT IS OVER

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: SCOTCHA; OPINION

LENGTH: 435 words


HOW wonderful that the Nats captured Hebridean seat Na h-Eileanan an Iar, better
known as the Muppet Song. In celebration, from now on their party anthem should
go...

Na h-Eileanan an Iar

Na h-Eileanan an An

Na h-Eileanan an Iar

An Iar, an Iar, an Iar nana Na h-Eilananan

SNP heartthrob ALEX SALMOND backed himself at 13/8 for six seats or more. There
were no "more" but the old punter has collected on the strength of the Muppet
Song, thus making him even more attractive to women today, if such a thing were
possible.

SPARE a thought for the man who polled the smallest vote in Scotland - Commie
PETER CLIFFORD found just 37 comrades in Edinburgh East.

AND a fond farewell to UKIP crusader "Hello, hello" BILLY BOYS, who came away
from Edinburgh South West with a comparatively dizzy 205.

AT the other end of the scale GORDON BROWN was pipped at the post as Scotland's
top-polling candidate by TOM CLARKE in Coatbridge, Cryston and Bellshill. Can't
see it becoming a Tory stronghold in my lifetime.

I THOUGHT SALLY MAGNUSSON entered into the spirit of things with: "Take your
partners for the Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey."

WELL, well - there's no keeping Oona-bomber GEORGE GALLOWAY down. It's as if
fate has placed him on the green benches for the day when TONY BLAIR - sorry,
GORDON BROWN - has to snuggle up to GEORGE BUSH when he gets heavy with Iran.
But what was JEREMY PAXMAN doing looking for a fight for the sake of it by
asking George the absurd right-on BBC question as to whether he was proud to
have done Parliament out of one of its few black women MPs in OONA KING? He had
every right to answer: "Come off it, hatchet-face - I don't care who I bomb out,
okay? It's politics. Get real!"

TV election coverage is now almost totally in the hands of the DIMBLEBY brothers
and SNOW cousins. PETER SNOW probably has only one more election left in him (he
could be 72 next time), by which time he'll be the complete WILLY WONKA - batty,
dotty, words falling out of him in torrents, and possibly suffering spontaneous
combustion.

AFTER MICHAEL HOWARD said he'd step down sooner rather than later, may I remind
you I urged readers last month to seek odds on East Kilbride-born party chairman
Dr LIAM FOX being in by Christmas. Ay thang yew.

RESPECT also to the Monster Raving Loony candidate at the Howard count - clearly
up the poll, cheering enthusiastically for every rival.

And finally...SCOTS considering joining a naked protest at the Pamplona Bull Run
- now that's just asking for it.

SERGEI PLATT

s.platt the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              80 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

It's simple, all the new leader has to do is to win over some new voters

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: Home news; 48

LENGTH: 978 words


The Conservatives are well placed to progress. But only if they learn some home
truths, Daniel Finkelstein says

WHO is going to be the next leader of the Conservative Party? It does not matter
in the slightest. And it does not much matter who picks him, either.

Over the next few months there will be plenty of debate about the personal
qualities and appeal of different contenders. Yet, apart from establishing basic
competence, this beauty element to the contest will be largely beside the point.

What counts is whether the winner understands the nature of Thursday's result.
If he does not, he is destined to remain Leader of the Opposition at best. But
if he does, a great prize awaits.

Winning seats has a tremendous positive effect on morale. Having waited at dawn
in Conservative Party headquarters in 1997 to greet the defeated Prime Minister
I had worked for, and having trailed disconsolately around a count as I lost a
marginal seat in 2001, I understand well that this result feels very different
to the Conservative Party. Friends of mine who lost narrowly last time have
woken up this morning as MPs. It would be surprising if they were not happy.

Being seen to have made an advance is good, too. I can confirm that it is a
relief not to have Alastair Campbell waving his hand in derision an inch from
your face, while the media laugh. So all of this is a plus -just so long as no
one makes the mistake of believing that it was a good result.

The Conservative Party scored basically the same proportion of the vote as it
did last time, and little more than in 1997. It only won more seats because it
was helped by three things that may not be repeated next time.

First, Tony Blair's unpopularity with the middle-class Left. Many of them voted
Liberal Democrat and helped the Tories in marginals. The Iraq war is primarily
responsible for this. By the next election, both Mr Blair and Iraq will be
history.

Second, Charles Kennedy is a chump. By positioning the Liberals to the left of
Labour, he won unlikely seats from them, but failed on his main battleground in
the Tory-Lib Dem marginals. This left vulnerable Tories in place. Either he or
someone else in his party might wake up to the idea that this was not wise.

Third, Lynton Crosby, the Tory campaign director, and Gavin Barwell, the
campaign organiser, are not chumps. They produced good on-the-ground campaigns
that helped the Tories to win some tight fights.

Labour's marginal campaign was poor. This, too, may be put right by the next
election.

So the only way for the Tories to advance next time is to win more votes. The
debate about how to do this must begin by facing a few facts.

To start with, the Conservative Party did not lose this election to the UK
Independence Party or to the political wing of a free-market think-tank. It lost
to Mr Blair's Labour Party. The voters that the Tories need to win are those
currently inclined to vote for parties of the Left.

The temptation of political analysts is to seek complicated explanations for why
voters behave as they do. Sometimes, however, the answer is relatively simple.

When Populus, the Times pollster, asked voters to place themselves on a ten
point left-right spectrum, the average was 5.20, just to the right of centre.
When voters placed Labour on the spectrum, the average (5.33) was to the right
of the average voter. But the Conservatives, at 6.01, were seen as significantly
to the right of the average voter.

So the task of the Conservative Party is to move as close, or closer, to the
average voter as new Labour.

Gordon Brown might help a little before the next election by moving his party
left but, at least at first, that will actually move Labour closer to the
average. So the Tories will probably have to do most of the heavy lifting.

As well as shifting general perceptions, the Conservative Party will have to win
back its core vote. This may seem an odd observation. But although the Tory
share of the vote has stayed the same, the type of people voting for it has been
changing.

Tory voting has become more downmarket behaviour. One Conservative MP told me
last week that "now when I'm out campaigning and I see a guy with a T-shirt, big
muscles and a tattoo, I think, 'Oh good, a Tory.' " In 1992, the Conservative
share of AB class professionals was 54 per cent, in 1997, 43 per cent, in 2001,
40 per cent, and this time, 35 per cent. Over the same period, the proportion of
AB voters in the population has risen from 18 per cent to 24.9 per cent.
Disproportionate numbers of these voters live in the marginal seats that the
Tories need to win back.

So a new Conservative leader will have to understand how the class of people who
used to vote Tory has changed, how their values are different from those of
their parents, for example, and their lifestyle.

Part of R. A. Butler's reinvention of the Conservative Party after the landslide
defeat of 1945 involved appealing to suburban housewives as the party of the
consumer. Now the granddaughters of those housewives are out at work and are not
voting Conservative on the way back from the office. A worrying gender gap has
opened up, with the Tories doing worse among women. In the past, at least when
they have won, they have done better among women than men.

None of this need mean that the party has to abandon its basic beliefs. But it
will have to accommodate itself to the views of others and use a more attractive
tone of voice. It will also have to develop a smart new policy agenda, using
traditional Tory policy tools in new combinations and with different priorities.

The Tories have made essentially the same appeal to voters twice and scored
essentially the same number of votes. What is the point in being leader if you
are not going to try something different?


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

An election for a single nation but the choice of many Little Britains

BYLINE: Tim Hames

SECTION: Home news; 60

LENGTH: 1253 words


Regions and even neighbouring seats demonstrated an independence to confound
analysts, writes Tim Hames

THIS proved to be a Little Britains election. To a more striking extent than
ever before, not only the regions but sub-regions and even neighbouring
constituencies behaved more independently from each other than previously. Over
the next few weeks, party strategists will focus on the details of particular
seats and will ask themselves whether the small fortunes that they directed at
the supposedly floating voters in apparently marginal constituencies were worth
it. The troubling truth that they are destined to discover is that perhaps they
were not.

A few examples illustrate this patchwork of a polling day. Labour had to defend
two adjacent seats in Enfield, North London. In one of them, Stephen Twigg, who
enjoyed a majority of 5,546 in Enfield Southgate four years ago, lost his job
after an 8.7 per cent swing against him. In Enfield North, Joan Ryan, who
started off with a more perilous 2,291 vote margin from 2001, was re-elected
with 0.6 per cent swing against her. Elsewhere in the nation, Labour managed not
just to hold but to increase its majority in its two most marginal seats
-Dumfries & Galloway and Dorset South -but was thrown out of much more
comfortable territory such as Hornsey & Wood Green (2001 majority: 10,614) and
Manchester Withington (2001 majority: 11,524); both to the Liberal Democrats.
And formerly safe Labour seats fell to party dissidents for reasons as diverse
as the intervention in Iraq (Bethnal Green & Bow) and all-women shortlists in
Wales (Blaenau Gwent). It was like an election fought in not one but a series of
quite different countries.

Which in a sense it was. A number of Little Britains can be identified within
the bigger one. Scotland, for example, saw the protest vote against Labour
settle not on the SNP but the Liberal Democrats (which when you remember that
Labour and the Lib Dems are actually coalition partners in the Scottish
Parliament is a very odd phenomenon). In Wales, the Labour Party largely held
off the Plaid Cymru threat but lost two seats to the Conservatives -one of
which, Monmouth, is regarded as "very English", the other, Preseli
Pembrokeshire, as "very rural". Not a lot of logic here either then.

But the serious Little Britains occurred in England. The Labour showing in
London and its surroundings was dire. This was because of a combination of
middle class left-of-centre voters here being more willing to defect to the Lib
Dems than anywhere else, the extraordinary surge for the hard-left Respect in
the East End and some genuine Labour-to-Tory conversions, probably motivated by
council tax levels and broader economic anxieties. If the whole of the nation
had behaved like parts of London, then Mr Blair would have been lucky to have
avoided a hung Parliament. Fortunately, in terms of image, for this most
metropolitan of prime ministers, it did not.

The rest of the South East was rather more patchy. The Labour vote did not slump
as heavily as it did in the North London belt and the Liberal Democrats did not
make the gains from the Conservatives that they might have expected. The Tories
made some headway but failed, by narrow margins, to seize three seats in Kent
that they had hopes for: Medway, Sittingbourne and Sheppey & Thanet South, the
latter probably being the only place in Britain where the intervention of the UK
Independence Party saved the Labour candidate's electoral bacon. Nor did they
snatch Hastings & Rye or Hove. If they had won these sorts of constituencies,
then Mr Blair's majority would have been reduced to a squeamishly small level.
In a similar vein, the East of England saw a swing to the Conservatives, but
Labour's losses were not of an intensity to destabilise them truly.

Then again, if the South had behaved like the North, Mr Blair would have romped
home with a margin closer to (possibly exceeding) 100. Labour did suffer some
spectacular losses to the Lib Dems in Leeds and Manchester and was run close in
Durham and Newcastle, but on the whole their discomfort was confined to
university towns full of white affluent electors. The much-prophesied disaster
for Labour in towns beginning with B (Blackburn, Bolton, Bradford) where there
were allegedly large pools of working-class Muslims who were livid about Iraq
did not materialise on the scale predicted (it may have played a part in the
Labour defeat in Rochdale). Labour lost some ultra-marginal seats in this part
of Britain - Lancaster & Wyre and Scarborough & Whitby -but these were the
exceptions and not the rule. On the whole, despite disturbance, the North West
and North East did not desert new Labour.

So it was not, despite the cliche, that grim up North. Indeed, in the North
West, the likes of Ruth Kelly and Jack Straw might argue that the outcomes were
positively decent.

There is one aspect to this showing that neither will care to talk about. The
BNP may have, in effect, helped Labour by siphoning off votes that could
otherwise have (more dangerously) gone to the Tories. Nor was the ballot that
bad for Labour in terms of the overall swing against them in votes in either the
West or East Midlands. There is, nonetheless, an important distinction between
these two important areas. Labour clung on to its key marginal seats better in
the West than in the East of the middle. In Redditch, where Jacqui Smith had
endured a month of reading her own political obituaries, she managed to increase
a wafer-thin opening 2,484 majority slightly. By contrast, the Conservatives
picked up most of their target seats in the East Midlands such as Kettering,
Northampton South, Rugby & Kenilworth and Wellingborough.

Finally, there was the South West and the West of England. Despite the huge
amount of noise made by the pro-hunting fraternity that they were poised to wipe
Labour out, the evidence behind that assertion is very patchy. The Forest of
Dean was lost but other plausible constituencies for the Tories including
Gloucester, Stroud and Worcester remained in the hands of the Labour candidates.
The West Country presented a particularly fascinating and wonderfully
inconsistent picture.

The Tories took Westonsuper-Mare and Devon West & Torridge from the Lib Dems but
suffered defeats of their own such as in Taunton. Labour lost the Falmouth &
Camborne seat but to Charles Kennedy's champion, not the man favoured by Michael
Howard. An enormous amount of energy expended in Dorset ultimately involved
little change in the round.

What on earth should we make of these Little Britains? Three broad points
suggest there is some rationale for what otherwise might strike the reasonable
person as a set of political outcomes in which the anarchists could take
satisfaction. The first is that there is a complicated three-party interplay in
different parts of the country which voters are, understandably, taking their
time to adjust to. The second is that there was an important class factor at
work here, middle-class radicalism in specific types of constituencies and
working-class resilience coming to Labour's rescue. The third is that the
politics of London smells different from the rest and Labour would do well to
ask itself why it lost support in so many diverse kinds of seats here in so many
directions. The Little Britains raise lots of political questions. The chances
are that the 2005 contest will not be the last Little Britains election either.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

What happened to the local heroes who fought the toughest of battles?

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 75

LENGTH: 850 words


A Tory seat gained, a Labour minister lost and the fringe cast aside...Damian
Whitworth, the only reporter at the beck and call of readers, retraces his steps
to see who the voters favoured

SO, WHAT happened to those candidates who found their campaigning briefly
interrupted by the arrival on their doorsteps of a special envoy dispatched by
readers of this newspaper to poke his nose into their constituencies?

Well, the victims chosen for me to visit were involved in some of the tightest
and most exciting races of the election, with the local issues that readers had
spotted clearly playing a key role in swinging results.

In Guildford, which for four years had been the only nonTory seat in Surrey in
living memory, the Conservatives scraped back in, 347 votes ahead of the Liberal
Democrats. I had found Anne Milton hammering away on a theme that appeared to
resonate well for Tories across the country. This was the party's pledge to
abolish regional assemblies and hand greater power over planning decisions back
to local communities. It played well for her.

This message, specifically as it related to mobile phone masts, was delivered
forcefully by David Burrowes, Stephen Twigg's Tory vanquisher in Enfield
Southgate, although voters wanted to vent their anger on a Blairite minister and
Mr Twigg lost votes to the Liberal Democrats. My hunch that he would survive was
wrong.

I spent an entertaining day with Orlando Fraser, the son of Lady Antonia Fraser,
as he tried to find clear blue water between himself and his opponents over wind
farms. His argument, that the Conservatives would strip the Government of the
power to rule on large-scale wind factories, did not win him enough votes to
overcome the Liberal Democrat Nick Harvey. I expect he'll pop up somewhere else.

In Reading East a planning dispute may have been central to Labour's loss of the
seat by 475 votes. Tony Page, the candidate, backed the Labour council's plans
to try to sell part of a Thames-front meadow, causing huge local upset. Although
Mr Page, who avoided me when I tried to talk to him, may also have been
hamstrung by his convictions for "cottaging" offences, Isobel Ballsdon, a local
campaigner and one of the readers who e-mailed me about the constituency, is
convinced that the meadow furore was crucial.

Shrewsbury has a new landmark. At 6ft 8in, Daniel Kawczynski is the tallest MP
on record after taking back this shires town for the Tories. He campaigned full
time for more than two years and rode to victory with strong support from an
angry hunting community. Mr Kawczynski, who had cheekily canvassed the Prime
Minister's father while I was out with him, said yesterday that he planned to
fulfil his pledge to share a bottle of champagne with Leo Blair Sr in the next
few days.

In his victory interviews Adam Afriyie wanted to talk less about being the first
black Tory MP and more about aircraft noise in Windsor. He was the same when I
met him. I suspect that while local issues played a part in his triumph, many in
this safe Tory seat voted for him because they spotted a rising political star.

The fringe parties did not have the impact for which they had hoped. In Dorset
North, I forecast that the political ingenu Richard Frampton Hobbs, whose family
have been local landowners for almost a millennium and whose forebears arrested
the Tolpuddle Martyrs, would have to wait another thousand years to win the seat
for the UKIP. He lost his deposit.

In Keighley, a group of students were worried that if they didn't vote Labour
(which they were reluctant to do) they would let in the BNP, but their fears
proved unfounded. Nick Griffin, the BNP's leader, polled well with more than
4,000 votes but he was no threat to Labour's Ann Cryer.

Peter Franzen, the founder of the Community Action Party, took 2,769 votes but
his party's success on Wigan council did not translate into generalelection
glory in Makerfield. Ian McCartney, Labour's chairman, also enjoyed a minute
swing to him from the Tories.

And what of my friend Doug Reid, the candidate for the Save the Bristol North
Baths Party? His stated aim, in the three-way marginal of Bristol West, was to
contribute to the end of the Labour incumbent Valerie Davey, who backed the
council's plans to close the Edwardian baths he loves. It could be said that he
contributed but he was not the vital agent of her destruction.

In a student-heavy constituency, she lost by more than 5,000 votes to the
Liberal Democrats' Stephen Williams. Doug won 190 votes and lost his deposit. He
is by no means downhearted, having had a "marvellous experience" and hopes that
the media coverage will help his campaign.

The view from my own doorstep is of a changed political landscape. Labour held
Islington South & Finsbury, the cradle of Blairism, but a majority of more than
7,000 was cut to 484. Widespread dissastisfaction with the Government in the
constituency's leafy crescents, particularly over Iraq, almost ended in a
disastrous loss in the seat where Mr Blair lived before Downing Street.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

Election 2005 results

SECTION: Features; 76

LENGTH: 20235 words


GEDLING

Lab hold

Electorate 68,917 (68,540)%Vote *Coaker, V (Lab)20,32946.13 Soubry, A
(C)16,51837.48 Poynter, R (LD)6,07013.77 Margerison, A (UKIP)7411.68 Johnson, D
(Veritas)4110.93 Lab majority3,8118.65 Total vote 44,069Turnout 63.95% Swing Lab
to C 2.06 2001: Total vote 43,816 (63.93%) -Lab 22,383 (51.08%); C 16,785
(38.31%); LD 4,648 (10.61%); Lab Maj 5,598 (12.78%).

Vernon Coaker 51 Elected 1997. Assistant Government Whip; Member, Select
Committee on Social Security. All-party groups include heavily indebted poor
countries, obesity. Ed: Warwick Uni

GILLINGHAM

Lab hold

Electorate 72,223 (70,898)%Vote *Clark, P (Lab)18,62141.23 Butcher, T
(C)18,36740.66 Stamp, A (LD)6,73414.91

Mackinlay, C (UKIP)1,1912.64 Bryan, G (Ind)2540.56 Lab majority2540.56 Total
vote 45,167Turnout 62.54% Swing Lab to C 2.41 2001: Total vote 42,212 (59.54%)
-Lab 18,782 (44.49%); C 16,510 (39.11%); LD 5,755 (13.63%); UKIP 933 (2.21%);
Soc All 232 (0.55%); Lab Maj 2,272 (5.38%).

Paul Clark 48 Elected 1997. Assistant Government Whip; Member, Labour Party
departmental committees for Education and Employment; Environment, Transport and
the Regions; Home Affairs. Ed: Keele Univ

GLASGOW CENTRAL

Lab hold

Electorate 64,053 (126.40% BC)%Vote Sarwar, M (Lab)13,51848.21 Nelson, I
(LD)4,98717.79 Kidd, B (SNP)4,14814.79 Sullivan, R (C)1,7576.27 Masterton, G
(Green)1,3724.89 Gordon, M (SSP)1,1103.96 Hamilton, W (BNP)6712.39

Johnson, I (Soc Lab)2550.91 Greig, T (OCV)1390.50 McKenzie, E (Comm Brit)800.29
Lab majority8,53130.43 Total vote 28,037Turnout 43.77% Swing Lab to LD 7.36
2001: Total vote 27,744 (39.42%) -Lab 15,179 (54.71%); SNP 5,797 (20.89%); LD
2,655 (9.57%); SSP 1,814 (6.54%); C 1,707 (6.15%); Others 592 (2.13%); Lab Maj
9,382 (33.82%).

Mohammed Sarwar 52 Elected 1997. Member of Scottish Affairs Select Committee.

Chair, Scottish Regional Group of Labour MPs. Britain's first Muslim MP. Ed:
Faisalabad University, Pakistan

GLASGOW EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 64,130 (43.70% BC)%Vote Marshall, D (Lab)18,77560.68 McNeill, L
(SNP)5,26817.03 Jackson, D (LD)3,66511.85 Thomson, C (C)2,1356.90 Savage, G
(SSP)1,0963.54 Lab majority13,50743.66

Total vote 30,939Turnout 48.24% Swing Lab to SNP 1.48 2001: Total vote 32,689
(46.59%) -Lab 20,829 (63.72%); SNP 5,591 (17.10%); SSP 2,268 (6.94%); C 1,994
(6.10%); LD 1,892 (5.79%); Others 115 (0.35%); Lab Maj 15,238 (46.62%).

David Marshall 63 Elected MP for Glasgow Shettleston, 1979. Former chair
Transport and Scottish Affairs Select Committees. Opposed the Iraq war and the
lowering of the age of consent for gay men

GLASGOW NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 55,419 (77.50% BC)%Vote McKechin, A (Lab)11,00139.40 Rodger, A
(LD)7,66327.45 McLean, K (SNP)3,61412.94 Pope, B (C)2,4418.74 Bartos, M
(Green)2,1357.65 Tarlton, N (SSP)1,0673.82 Lab majority3,33811.96 Total vote
27,921Turnout 50.38%

Swing Lab to LD 8.70 2001: Total vote 27,326 (42.88%) -Lab 13,214 (48.36%); LD
5,191 (19.00%); SNP 4,473 (16.37%); C 2,241 (8.20%); SSP 1,758 (6.43%); Others
449 (1.64%); Lab Maj 8,023 (29.36%).

Ann McKechin 44 Former solicitor, elected 2001. PPS to Minister of State,
Department of Trade and Industry. All-party groups include genocide prevention,
heavily indebted poor countries Ed: Strathclyde Univ

GLASGOW NORTH EAST

Speaker hold

Electorate 62,042 (30.00% BC)%Vote Martin, M (Speaker)15,15353.32 McLaughlin, J
(SNP)5,01917.66 Kelly, D (Soc Lab)4,03614.20 Campbell, G (SSP)1,4024.93 Houston,
D (Scot U)1,2664.45 McLean, S (BNP)9203.24 Chambers, J (Ind)6222.19 Speaker
majority10,13435.66 Total vote 28,418Turnout 45.80%

Swing Speaker to SNP 6.62 2001: Total vote 31,092 (43.85%) -Speaker 20,851
(67.06%); SNP 5,648 (18.17%); SSP 2,503 (8.05%); Others 1,497 (4.81%); C 335
(1.08%); LD 258 (0.83%); Speaker Maj 15,203 (48.90%).

Michael Martin 59 Former union official, elected 1979. Speaker since 2000;
Chair, House of Commons Commission; joint president, British American
Parliamentary Group.

Ed: St Patrick's School, Glasgow

GLASGOW NORTH WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 61,880 (50.00% BC)%Vote Robertson, J (Lab)16,74849.17 Graham, P
(LD)6,65519.54 Hendry, G (SNP)4,67613.73 Roxburgh, M (C)3,2629.58 Wardrop, M
(Green)1,3333.91 Irwin, A (SSP)1,1083.25 Muir, C (Soc Lab)2790.82 Lab
majority10,09329.63

Total vote 34,061Turnout 55.04% Swing Lab to LD 6.80 2001: Total vote 34,070
(50.78%) -Lab 18,703 (54.90%); SNP 5,472 (16.06%); LD 3,972 (11.66%); C 3,194
(9.37%); SSP 2,108 (6.19%); Green 621 (1.82%); Lab Maj 13,231 (38.83%).

John Robertson 53 Former telecom engineer, elected 2000. Member, Select
committees on Scottish affairs; European scrutiny. All-party groups include
telecommunications, shipbuilding, Scottish Football, smoking and health, music.

GLASGOW SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 68,837 (44.80% BC)%Vote Harris, T (Lab)18,15347.24 Sanderson, A
(LD)7,32119.05 MacLean, F (SNP)4,86012.65 McAlpine, J (C)4,83612.58 Allan, K
(Green)1,6924.40 Stevenson, R (SSP)1,3033.39 Entwistle, D (Soc Lab)2660.69 Lab
majority10,83228.19

Total vote 38,431Turnout 55.83% Swing Lab to LD 4.93 2001: Total vote 39,343
(52.82%) -Lab 19,853 (50.46%); SNP 6,811 (17.31%); C 5,414 (13.76%); LD 4,884
(12.41%); SSP 2,298 (5.84%); Others 83 (0.21%); Lab Maj 13,042 (33.15%).

Tom Harris 41 Elected 2001. Former reporter, Paisley Daily Express; press
officer, Strathclyde Passenger Transport and East Ayrshire and Glasgow City
councils. PPS to John Spellar as Minister of State, Northern Ireland Office

GLASGOW SOUTH WEST

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 62,005 (35.40% BC)%Vote Davidson, I (Lab Co-op)18,65360.22 Dornan, J
(SNP)4,75715.36 Gordon, K (LD)3,59311.60 Brady, S (C)1,7865.77 Baldassara, K
(SSP)1,6665.38 McConnachie, A (Ind Green)3791.22 Shaw, V (Soc Lab)1430.46 Lab
Co-op majority13,89644.86 Total vote 30,977Turnout 49.96% Swing SNP to Lab Co-op
0.22 2001: Total vote 33,061 (49.84%) -Lab 20,467 (61.91%); SNP 5,780 (17.48%);
SSP 3,131 (9.47%); LD 1,807 (5.47%); C 1,786 (5.40%); Others 90 (0.27%); Lab Maj
14,687 (44.42%).

Ian Davidson 54 Elected 1997. Member, Public Accounts Committee. All-party
groups include Bermuda, Namibia, Germany, construction. Founder and chair Labour
against the euro. Ed: Edinburgh University

GLENROTHES

Lab hold

Electorate 66,563 (29.40% BC)%Vote MacDougall, J (Lab)19,39551.91 Beare, J
(SNP)8,73123.37 Riches, E (LD)4,72812.65 Don, B (C)2,6517.09 Rodger, G
(PPS)7161.92 Balfour, M (SSP)7051.89 Smith, P (UKIP)4401.18 Lab
majority10,66428.54 Total vote 37,366Turnout 56.14% Swing Lab to SNP 2.71 2001:
Total vote 38,251 (55.04%) -Lab 22,160 (57.93%); SNP 9,172 (23.98%); LD 3,013
(7.88%); C 2,858 (7.47%); SSP 1,017 (2.66%); Others 31 (0.08%); Lab Maj 12,988
(33.95%).

John MacDougall 57 Elected MP for Fife Central, 2001, after leading Fife council
for nine years. Pro-Europe; former vice-president of the Assembly of the
European Regions

GLOUCESTER

Lab hold

Electorate 82,500 (81,144)%Vote *Dhanda, P (Lab)23,13844.67 James, P
(C)18,86736.42 Hilton, J (LD)7,82515.11 Phipps, G (UKIP)1,1162.15 Meloy, B
(Green)8571.65 Lab majority4,2718.24 Total vote 51,803Turnout 62.79% Swing C to
Lab 0.10 2001: Total vote 48,223 (59.43%) -Lab 22,067 (45.76%); C 18,187
(37.71%); LD 6,875 (14.26%); UKIP 822 (1.70%); Soc All 272 (0.56%); Lab Maj
3,880 (8.05%).

Parmjit Dhanda 33 Elected 2001. Former Labour Party organiser. PPS to Minister
for School Standards; Member, Unopposed Bills Panel; Vice-chair, all-party E
democracy group. Ed: Nottingham University

GORDON

LD hold

Electorate 71,925 (59,996)%Vote Bruce, M (LD)20,00845.02 Brotchie, I
(Lab)8,98220.21 Atkinson, P (C)7,84217.65 Strathdee, J (SNP)7,09815.97 Paterson,
T (SSP)5081.14 LD majority11,02624.81 Total vote 44,438Turnout 61.78% Swing Lab
to LD 3.73 2001: Total vote 39,427 (56.62%) -LD 15,304 (38.82%); Lab 8,459
(21.45%); SNP 7,612 (19.31%); C 7,472 (18.95%); SSP 580 (1.47%); LD Maj 6,845
(17.36%).

Malcolm Bruce 60 Elected 1983. Liberal Democrat Shadow Secretary of State for
Trade and Industry. Chair, deafness group; President, Scottish Liberal Democrats
Ed: St Andrews and Strathclyde Univs

GOSPORT

C hold

Electorate 71,119 (69,626)%Vote *Viggers, P (C)19,26844.77 Williams, R
(Lab)13,53831.46 Roberts, R (LD)7,14516.60 Bowles, J (UKIP)1,8254.24 Smith, A
(Green)1,2582.92 C majority5,73013.32 Total vote 43,034Turnout 60.51% Swing Lab
to C 3.36 2001: Total vote 39,789 (57.15%) -C 17,364 (43.64%); Lab 14,743
(37.05%); LD 6,011 (15.11%); UKIP 1,162 (2.92%); Soc Lab 509 (1.28%); C Maj
2,621 (6.59%).

Peter Viggers 47 Solicitor, elected 1974; Member, Defence Select Committee
chair, sub-committee on Central and Eastern Europe. Ed: Trinity, Cambridge

GOWER

Lab hold

Electorate 60,925 (58,943)%Vote *Caton, M (Lab)16,78642.45 Murray, M
(C)10,08325.50 Tregoning, N (LD)7,29118.44 Caiach, S (PC)3,0897.81 Lewis, R (
UKIP)1,2643.20 Griffiths, R (Green)1,0292.60 Lab majority6,70316.95 Total vote
39,542Turnout 64.90% Swing Lab to C 1.42 2001: Total vote 37,353 (63.37%) -Lab
17,676 (47.32%); C 10,281 (27.52%); LD 4,507 (12.07%); PC 3,865 (10.35%); Green
607 (1.63%); Soc Lab 417 (1.12%); Lab Maj 7,395 (19.80%).

Martin Caton 53 Elected 1997. Member, Select Committees on Welsh Affairs;
Member, Chairmen's Panel; chair, all-party Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty.
Ed: Aberystwyth College of FE

GRANTHAM & STAMFORD

C hold

Electorate 74,074 (74,459)%Vote *Davies, Q (C)22,10946.89 Selby, I
(Lab)14,66431.10 O'Connor, P (LD)7,83816.62 Rising, S (UKIP)1,4983.18 Brown, B
(Eng Dem)7741.64 Andrews, J (CRD)2640.56 C majority7,44515.79 Total vote
47,147Turnout 63.65% Swing Lab to C 3.02 2001: Total vote 46,289 (62.17%) -C
21,329 (46.08%); Lab 16,811 (36.32%); LD 6,665 (14.40%); UKIP 1,484 (3.21%); C
Maj 4,518 (9.76%).

Quentin Davies 61 Elected to this seat 1997. Member, Select Committee on
International Development; All-party groups include Germany, Netherlands and
France. Ed: Gonville and Caius Coll, Cambridge

GRAVESHAM

C gain

Electorate 68,705 (69,590)%Vote Holloway, A (C)19,73943.69 *Pond, C
(Lab)19,08542.24 Parmenter, B (LD)4,85110.74 Coates, G (UKIP)8501.88 Nickerson,
C (Eng Ind)6541.45 C majority6541.45 Total vote 45,179Turnout 65.76% Swing Lab
to C 6.29 2001: Total vote 43,639 (62.71%) -Lab 21,773 (49.89%); C 16,911
(38.75%); LD 4,031 (9.24%); UKIP 924 (2.12%); Lab Maj 4,862 (11.14%).

Adam Holloway Former Grenadier Guards officer and TV news journalist. For the
award-winning No Fixed Abode series lived homeless to show the plight of the
destitute. Ed: Cambridge Uni; Imperialo College London

GREAT GRIMSBY

Lab hold

Electorate 63,711 (63,157)%Vote *Mitchell, A (Lab)15,51247.06 Taylor, G
(C)7,85823.84 de Freitas, A (LD)6,35619.28 Fyfe, S (BNP)1,3384.06 Grant, M (UKIP
)1,2393.76 Brooks, D (Green)6612.01 Lab majority7,65423.22 Total vote
32,964Turnout 51.74% Swing Lab to C 5.78 2001: Total vote 33,017 (52.28%) -Lab
19,118 (57.90%); C 7,634 (23.12%); LD 6,265 (18.98%); Lab Maj 11,484 (34.78%).

Austin Mitchell 70 Elected 1983. Member, Select Committee on Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs; All-party groups include electoral reform; Labour economic
policy Group. Ed: Manchester University

GREAT YARMOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 68,887 (69,131)%Vote *Wright, A (Lab)18,85045.56 Fox, M
(C)15,79538.17 Newton, S (LD)4,58511.08 Poole, B (UKIP)1,7594.25 Skipper, M
(LCA)3890.94 Lab majority3,0557.38 Total vote 41,378Turnout 60.07% Swing Lab to
C 1.96 2001: Total vote 40,366 (58.39%) -Lab 20,344 (50.40%); C 15,780 (39.09%);
LD 3,392 (8.40%); UKIP 850 (2.11%); Lab Maj 4,564 (11.31%).

Tony Wright 50 Elected 1997. All-party groups include ME, transport
infrastructure and trans-European networks and Sea Cadets . Ed: Great Yarmouth
College of Further Education

GREENWICH & WOOLWICH

Lab hold

Electorate 64,033 (62,530)%Vote *Raynsford, N (Lab)17,52749.21 Le Breton, C
(LD)7,38120.72 Craig, A (C)7,14220.05 Sharman, D (Green)1,5794.43 Bushell, G
(Eng Dem)1,2163.41 Gain, S (UKIP)7091.99 Nagalingam, P (Ind)610.17 Lab
majority10,14628.49 Total vote 35,615Turnout 55.62% Swing Lab to LD 8.21 2001:
Total vote 32,536 (52.03%) -Lab 19,691 (60.52%); C 6,258 (19.23%); LD 5,082
(15.62%); UKIP 672 (2.07%); Soc All 481 (1.48%); Soc Lab 352 (1.08%); Lab Maj
13,433 (41.29%).

Nick Raynsford 60 Elected to this seat 1997. MP for Greenwich 1992-97. Minister
of State, Local and Regional Government; Minister, Housing and Planning 1999
2001.

Ed: Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge

GUILDFORD

C gain

Electorate 75,566 (76,046)%Vote Milton, A (C)22,59543.76 *Doughty, S
(LD)22,24843.09 Landles, K (Lab)5,0549.79 Pletts, J (Green)8111.57 Haslam, M (
UKIP)6451.25 Morris, J (PPN-V)1660.32 Lavin, V (Ind)1120.22 C majority3470.67
Total vote 51,631Turnout 68.33% Swing LD to C 0.90 2001: Total vote 47,842
(62.91%) -LD 20,358 (42.55%); C 19,820 (41.43%); Lab 6,558 (13.71%); UKIP 736
(1.54%); Pacifist 370 (0.77%); LD Maj 538 (1.12%).

Anne Milton 49 Nurse. Vice-chairman, Conservative Medical Society.

Ed: Haywards Heath Grammar School, Sussex; St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.

H

HACKNEY NORTH & STOKE NEWINGTON

Lab hold

Electorate 59,260 (60,444)%Vote *Abbott, D (Lab)14,26848.56 Blanchard, J
(LD)6,84123.28 Hurer, E (C)4,21814.36 Borris, M (Green)2,9079.89 Vail, D
(Ind)6022.05 Sen, N (Soc Lab)2961.01 Barrow, N (Loony)2480.84 Lab
majority7,42725.28 Total vote 29,380Turnout 49.58% Swing Lab to LD 10.84 2001:
Total vote 29,621 (49.01%) -Lab 18,081 (61.04%); C 4,430 (14.96%); LD 4,170
(14.08%); Green 2,184 (7.37%); Soc Lab 756 (2.55%); Lab Maj 13,651 (46.09%).

Diane Abbott 51 Elected 1987. Chair, all-party Caribbean group; race and
communit; gun crime. Rebelled against the Government several times. Ed: Newnham
College, Cambridge

HACKNEY SOUTH & SHOREDITCH

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 64,818 (63,990)%Vote Hillier, M (Lab Co-op)17,04852.88 Bayliss, H
(LD)6,84421.23 Moss, J (C)4,52414.03 dan Iyan, I (Green)1,7795.52 Ryan, D
(Respect)1,4374.46 Rae, B (Lib)3130.97 Goldman, M (Comm)2000.62 Leff, J
(WRP)920.29 Lab Co-op majority10,20431.65 Total vote 32,237Turnout 49.73% Swing
Lab Co-op to LD 8.97 2001: Total vote 30,347 (47.42%) -Lab 19,471 (64.16%); LD
4,422 (14.57%); C 4,180 (13.77%); Soc All 1,401 (4.62%); Reform 471 (1.55%);
Comm 259 (0.85%); WRP 143 (0.47%); Lab Maj 15,049 (49.59%).

Meg Hillier 36 Cllr, London Borough of Islington, GLA member for North East
London 2000-04. Freelance journalist, 1998-2000. Member TGWU, Fabian Society Ed:
Oxford; City Uni

HALESOWEN & ROWLEY REGIS

Lab hold

Electorate 65,748 (65,683)%Vote *Heal, S (Lab)19,24346.56 Jones, L
(C)14,90636.07 Turner, M (LD)5,20412.59 Sinclaire, N (UKIP)1,9744.78 Lab
majority4,33710.49 Total vote 41,327Turnout 62.86% Swing Lab to C 4.12 2001:
Total vote 39,274 (59.79%) -Lab 20,804 (52.97%); C 13,445 (34.23%); LD 4,089
(10.41%); UKIP 936 (2.38%); Lab Maj 7,359 (18.74%).

Sylvia Heal 62 Social worker, elected to this seat 1997; MP for Staffs Mid
(1990-92). First deputy chair Ways and Means; Deputy Speaker. Member, Unopposed
Bills Panel; Chairmen's Panel. Ed: University College of Wales

HALIFAX

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 64,861 (69,870)%Vote Riordan, L (Lab Co-op)16,57941.80 Hopkins, K
(C)13,16233.19 Taylor, M (LD)7,10017.90 Wallace, G (BNP)2,6276.62 Holmes, T
(NF)1910.48 Lab Co-op majority3,4178.62 Total vote 39,659Turnout 61.14% Swing
Lab Co-op to C 3.28 2001: Total vote 40,390 (57.81%) -Lab 19,800 (49.02%); C
13,671 (33.85%); LD 5,878 (14.55%); UKIP 1,041 (2.58%); Lab Maj 6,129 (15.17%).

Linda Riordan (51 Cllr, Calderdale Metropolitan Borough Council; chair, Ovenden
Initiative; non-executive director Calderdale & Huddersfield NHS Trust. ;
Private secretary to Alice Mahon MP. Ed: Bradford Uni

HALTEMPRICE & HOWDEN

C hold

Electorate 68,471 (67,055)%Vote *Davis, D (C)22,79247.45 Neal, J (LD)17,67636.80
Hart, E (Lab)6,10412.71 Mainprize, J (BNP)7981.66 Lane, P (UKIP)6591.37 C
majority5,11610.65 Total vote 48,029Turnout 70.15% Swing LD to C 3.16 2001:
Total vote 43,928 (65.51%) -C 18,994 (43.24%); LD 17,091 (38.91%); Lab 6,898
(15.70%); UKIP 945 (2.15%); C Maj 1,903 (4.33%).

David Davis 56 Former company director, elected to this seat 1997. Shadow
Secretary of State for Home and Legal Affairs; Shadow Home Secretary; Contested
Tory Party leadership 2001. Ed: Warwick Univ HALTON

Lab hold

Electorate 64,379 (67,337)%Vote *Twigg, D (Lab)21,46062.78 Bloom, C C
(C)6,85420.05 Barlow, R (LD)5,86917.17 Lab majority14,60642.73 Total vote
34,183Turnout 53.10% Swing Lab to C 3.92 2001: Total vote 34,470 (54.14%) -Lab
23,841 (69.16%); C 6,413 (18.60%); LD 4,216 (12.23%); Lab Maj 17,428 (50.56%).

Derek Twigg 45. Political consultant, elected 1997. Parl Under-Secretary of
State, Dep Educ and Skills; government whip 2003-04; former PPS to Stephen Byers
as Sec of State for Trans, Local Gov and the Regions

HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM

C gain

Electorate 79,082 (79,302)%Vote Hands, G (C)22,40745.43 Smallman, M
(Lab)17,37835.23 Bullion, A (LD)7,11614.43 Harrold, F (Green)1,9333.92 Fisher, G
(UKIP)4931.00 C majority5,02910.20 Total vote 49,327Turnout 62.37% Swing Lab to
C 7.35 2001: Total vote 44,700 (56.37%) -Lab 19,801 (44.30%); C 17,786 (39.79%);
LD 5,294 (11.84%); Green 1,444 (3.23%); UKIP 375 (0.84%); Lab Maj 2,015 (4.51%).

Greg Hands 39 Banker and local campaigner. Cllr, Hammersmith & Fulham Borough
Council; leader of Conservative group since 1999.

Ed: Dr Challoner's Grammar School, Bucks; Cambridge University

HAMPSHIRE EAST

C hold

Electorate 58,673 (78,802)%Vote *Mates, M (C)24,27345.68 Bright, R
(LD)18,76435.31 Broughton, M (Lab)8,51916.03 Samuel, D (UKIP)1,5832.98 C
majority5,50910.37 Total vote 53,139Turnout 90.57% Swing C to LD 3.66 2001:
Total vote 50,289 (63.82%) -C 23,950 (47.62%); LD 15,060 (29.95%); Lab 9,866
(19.62%); UKIP 1,413 (2.81%); C Maj 8,890 (17.68%).

Michael Mates 70 Former company director, elected to this seat 1983. MP for
Petersfield 1974-83. Chair, Select Committee on Northern Ireland Affairs;
Minister for N Ireland 1992-93. Ed: King's College, Cambridge

HAMPSHIRE NORTH EAST

C hold

Electorate 72,939 (71,323)%Vote *Arbuthnot, J (C)25,40753.73 Carew, A
(LD)12,85827.19 McGrath, K (Lab)7,63016.14 Birch, P (UKIP)1,3922.94 C
majority12,54926.54 Total vote 47,287Turnout 64.83% Swing C to LD 1.81 2001:
Total vote 43,947 (61.62%) -C 23,379 (53.20%); LD 10,122 (23.03%); Lab 8,744
(19.90%); UKIP 1,702 (3.87%); C Maj 13,257 (30.17%).

James Arbuthnot 52 Barrister, elected to this seat 1997. MP for Wanstead and
Woodford 1987-97. Shadow Secretary of State for Trade; Member, Joint Committee
on House of Lords Reform; Privy Councillor

HAMPSHIRE NORTH WEST

C hold

Electorate 79,763 (76,359)%Vote *Young, G (C)26,00550.73 Tod, M (LD)12,74124.85
Mumford, M (Lab)10,59420.67 Sumner, P (UKIP)1,9253.75 C majority13,26425.87
Total vote 51,265Turnout 64.27% Swing C to LD 1.50 2001: Total vote 48,631
(63.69%) -C 24,374 (50.12%); Lab 12,365 (25.43%); LD 10,329 (21.24%); UKIP 1,563
(3.21%); C Maj 12,009 (24.69%).

Sir George Young 63 Elected to this seat 1997. Chair, Standards and Privileges
Select Committee; All-party groups include: E-democracy, areas of outstanding
natural beauty. Ed: Christ Church, Oxford

HAMPSTEAD & HIGHGATE

Lab hold

Electorate 68,737 (65,309)%Vote *Jackson, G (Lab)14,62838.31 Wauchope, P
(C)10,88628.51 Fordham, E (LD)10,29326.95 Berry, S (Green)2,0135.27 Nielsen, M (
UKIP)2750.72 Weiss, R G (Vote Dream)910.24 Lab majority3,7429.80 Total vote
38,186Turnout 55.55% Swing Lab to C 6.22 2001: Total vote 35,407 (54.21%) -Lab
16,601 (46.89%); C 8,725 (24.64%); LD 7,273 (20.54%); Green 1,654 (4.67%); Soc
All 559 (1.58%); UKIP 316 (0.89%); Ind X 144 (0.41%); ProLife 92 (0.26%); Ind Kl
43 (0.12%); Lab Maj 7,876 (22.24%).

Glenda Jackson 69 Former actress and Oscar winner, elected 1992. Member, Greater
London Assembly advisory cabinet for homelessness. Under-Secretary for
Environment and Transport 1997-99. Ed: RADA.

HARBOROUGH

C hold

Electorate 74,583 (73,300)%Vote *Garnier, E (C)20,53642.85 Hope, J
(LD)16,64434.73 Evans, P (Lab)9,22219.24 King, M (UKIP)1,5203.17 C
majority3,8928.12 Total vote 47,922Turnout 64.25% Swing C to LD 1.60 2001: Total
vote 46,427 (63.34%) -C 20,748 (44.69%); LD 15,496 (33.38%); Lab 9,271 (19.97%);
UKIP 912 (1.96%); C Maj 5,252 (11.31%).

Edward Garnie 52 Elected 1992. Member, backbench Executive 1922 Committee;
Chair, Exec Committee, Society of Conservative Lawyers. Ed: Jesus College,
Oxford; College of Law, London

HARROGATE & KNARESBOROUGH

LD hold

Electorate 65,622 (65,185)%Vote *Willis, P (LD)24,11356.26 Punyer, M
(C)13,68431.93 Ferris, L (Lab)3,6278.46 Royston, C (UKIP)8451.97 Banner, C
(BNP)4661.09 Allman, J (AFC)1230.29 LD majority10,42924.33 Total vote
42,858Turnout 65.31% Swing C to LD 1.68 2001: Total vote 42,179 (64.71%) -LD
23,445 (55.58%); C 14,600 (34.61%); Lab 3,101 (7.35%); UKIP 761 (1.80%); ProLife
272 (0.64%); LD Maj 8,845 (20.97%).

Phil Willis 63 Former head teacher, elected 1997. Lib Dem Shadow Secretary for
Education and Skills.

Ed: Burnley grammar; City of Leeds and Carnegie College; Birmingham University

HARROW EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 84,033 (81,575)%Vote *McNulty, T (Lab)23,44546.13 Ashton, D
(C)18,71536.82 Nandhra, P (LD)7,74715.24 Cronin, P (UKIP)9161.80 Lab
majority4,7309.31 Total vote 50,823Turnout 60.48% Swing Lab to C 6.92 2001:
Total vote 48,077 (58.94%) -Lab 26,590 (55.31%); C 15,466 (32.17%); LD 6,021
(12.52%); Lab Maj 11,124 (23.14%).

Tony McNulty 46 Former lecturer, elected 1997. Minister of State at Department
of Transport; Assistant Govt Whip 1999-2001; All-party groups include Great
Lakes, Britain. Ed: Liverpool University HARROW WEST Lab Co-op hold Electorate
74,228 (73,505)%Vote *Thomas, G (Lab Co-op)20,29842.50 Freer, M (C)18,27038.25
Noyce, C (LD)8,18817.14 Cronin, J (UKIP)5761.21 Daver, B (Ind)4270.89 Lab Co-op
majority2,0284.25 Total vote 47,759Turnout 64.34% Swing Lab Co-op to C 4.48
2001: Total vote 46,648 (63.46%) -Lab 23,142 (49.61%); C 16,986 (36.41%); LD
5,995 (12.85%); UKIP 525 (1.13%); Lab Maj 6,156 (13.20%).

Gareth R Thomas 40 Teacher, elected 1997. Under-Secretary of State, Department
for International Development; Private Member's Bill on sustainable energy. Ed:
LSE, Univ College of Wales; King's Coll, London

HARTLEPOOL

Lab hold

Electorate 68,776 (67,652)%Vote *Wright, I (Lab)18,25151.50 Dunn, J
(LD)10,77330.40 Vigar, A (C)4,05811.45 Springer, G (UKIP)1,2563.54 Harrison, F
(Soc Lab)3731.05 Ryder, I (Green)2880.81 Hobbs, J (Ind)2750.78 Headbanger, S S
(Loony)1620.46 Lab majority7,47821.10 Total vote 35,436Turnout 51.52% Swing Lab
to LD 11.51 2004: Total vote 31,362 (45.77%) -Lab 22,506 (59.15%); C 7,935
(20.85%); LD 5,717 (15.02%); Soc Lab 912 (2.40%); Ind Cam 557 (1.46%); Ind Booth
424 (1.11%); Lab 12,752 (40.66%); LD 10,719 (34.18%); UKIP 3,193 (10.18%); C
3,044 (9.71%); Respect 572 (1.82%); Green 255 (0.81%); NF 246 (0.78%); Fathers
139 (0.44%); Soc Lab 95 (0.30%); Common Good 91 (0.29%); Ind 90 (0.29%); Loony
80 (0.26%); Ind 45 (0.14%); Eng Dem 41 (0.13%); Lab Maj 2,033 (6.48%).

Iain Wright 32 Hartlepool Councillor, elected 2004 to seat vacated by Peter
Mandelson. Member of the Select Committee on Public Administration. Ed:
University College, London

HARWICH

C gain

Electorate 80,474 (77,539)%Vote Carswell, D (C)21,23542.13 *Henderson, I
(Lab)20,31540.30 Tully, K (LD)5,91311.73 Titford, J (UKIP)2,3144.59 Tipple, J
(Respect)4770.95 Humphrey, C (ND)1540.31 C majority9201.83 Total vote
50,408Turnout 62.64% Swing Lab to C 3.61 2001: Total vote 48,115 (62.05%) -Lab
21,951 (45.62%); C 19,355 (40.23%); LD 4,099 (8.52%); UKIP 2,463 (5.12%); Ind
247 (0.51%); Lab Maj 2,596 (5.40%).

Douglas Carswell 34 Contested Sedgefield, 2001. Member, Cons Party Policy Unit;
former chief project officer Invesco Asset Management.

Ed: Charterhouse; University of East Anglia, King's College, London

HASTINGS & RYE

Lab hold

Electorate 63,437 (70,632)%Vote *Foster, M (Lab)18,10742.11 Coote, M
(C)16,08137.39 Stevens, R (LD)6,47915.07 Grant, T (UKIP)1,0982.55 Phillips, S
(Green)1,0322.40 Ord-Clarke, J (Loony)2070.48 Lab majority2,0264.71 Total vote
43,004Turnout 67.79% Swing Lab to C 2.87 2001: Total vote 41,218 (58.36%) -Lab
19,402 (47.07%); C 15,094 (36.62%); LD 4,266 (10.35%); UKIP 911 (2.21%); Green
721 (1.75%); Ind 486 (1.18%); Loony 198 (0.48%); R & R Loony 140 (0.34%); Lab
Maj 4,308 (10.45%).

Michael Foster 59 Elected 1997. Private Secretary to Lord Goldsmith (Attorney
General) since 2001; secretary, all-party consumer affairs group. Ed: Leicester
University

HAVANT

C hold

Electorate 68,545 (70,246)%Vote *Willetts, D (C)18,37044.42 Bogle, S
(Lab)11,86228.69 Bentley, A (LD)8,35820.21 Dawes, T (Green)1,0062.43 Harris, S (
UKIP)9982.41 Johnson, I (BNP)5621.36 Thomas, R (Veritas)1950.47 C
majority6,50815.74 Total vote 41,351Turnout 60.33% Swing Lab to C 2.67 2001:
Total vote 40,437 (57.56%) -C 17,769 (43.94%); Lab 13,562 (33.54%); LD 7,508
(18.57%); Green 793 (1.96%); UKIP 561 (1.39%); Ind 244 (0.60%); C Maj 4,207
(10.40%).

David Willetts 49 Former civil servant, elected 1992. Shadow Sec of State for
Work and Pensions and Welfare Reform since 2001, Public Service and Science
Minister 1995-96. Ed: Christ Church, Oxford

HAYES & HARLINGTON

Lab hold

Electorate 57,493 (57,561)%Vote *McDonnell, J (Lab)19,00958.69 Worrall, R
(C)8,16225.20 Ball, J (LD)3,1749.80 Hazel, T (BNP)8302.56 Haley, M (UKIP)5521.70
Outten, B (Green)4421.36 Goddard, P (Ind)2200.68 Lab majority10,84733.49 Total
vote 32,389Turnout 56.34% Swing Lab to C 4.03 2001: Total vote 32,403 (56.29%)
-Lab 21,279 (65.67%); C 7,813 (24.11%); LD 1,958 (6.04%); BNP 705 (2.18%); Soc
Alt 648 (2.00%); Lab Maj 13,466 (41.56%).

John McDonnell 53 Elected 1997. Member, Deregulation Select Committee 1999 2002;
All-party groups include Kenya, Ethiopia, Irish in Britain, London arts &
culture.

Ed: Birkbeck College, London

HAZEL GROVE

LD hold

Electorate 64,376 (65,107)%Vote *Stunell, A (LD)19,35549.48 White, A
(C)11,60729.67 Graystone, A (Lab)6,83417.47 Ryan, K (UKIP)1,3213.38 LD
majority7,74819.81 Total vote 39,117Turnout 60.76% Swing LD to C 1.06 2001:
Total vote 38,478 (59.10%) -LD 20,020 (52.03%); C 11,585 (30.11%); Lab 6,230
(16.19%); UKIP 643 (1.67%); LD Maj 8,435 (21.92%).

Andrew Stunell 62 Elected 1997. Lib Dem Chief Whip; energy spokesman; Member,
Select Committes including modernisation of the House of Commons, Private Bills.

Ed: Manchester University

HEMEL HEMPSTEAD

C gain

Electorate 73,095 (72,086)%Vote Penning, M (C)19,00040.33 *McWalter, T (Lab
Co-op)18,50139.27 Grayson, R (LD)8,08917.17 Newton, B (UKIP)1,5183.22 C
majority4991.06 Total vote 47,108Turnout 64.45% Swing Lab Co-op to C 4.61 2001:
Total vote 45,883 (63.65%) -Lab Co-op 21,389 (46.62%); C 17,647 (38.46%); LD
5,877 (12.81%); UKIP 970 (2.11%); Lab Co-op Maj 3,742 (8.16%).

Mike Penning 57 Contested Thurrock, 2001. Former deputy chief press spokesman,
Conservative Central Office.

Ed: Appleton School, Benfleet, Essex

HEMSWORTH

Lab hold. Electorate 67,339 (67,948)%Vote *Trickett, J (Lab)21,63058.79
Mortimer, J (C)8,14922.15 Hall-Matthews, D (LD)5,76615.67 Burdon, J
(Veritas)1,2473.39 Lab majority13,48136.64 Total vote 36,792Turnout 54.64% Swing
Lab to C 3.87 2001: Total vote 35,227 (51.84%) -Lab 23,036 (65.39%); C 7,400
(21.01%); LD 3,990 (11.33%); Soc Lab 801 (2.27%); Lab Maj 15,636 (44.39%).

Jon Trickett 54 Former plumber, elected 1996. Member, Select Committees on
Public Accounts, Education and Employment, Former leader, Leeds City Council.

Ed: Hull and Leeds universities

Hendon

Lab hold

Electorate 71,764 (78,212)%Vote *Dismore, A (Lab)18,59644.45 Evans, R
(C)15,89738.00 Boethe, N (LD)5,83113.94 Williams, D (Green)7541.80 Smallman, M (
UKIP)6371.52 Weiss, R G (Vote Dream)680.16 Stewart, M (PDP)560.13 Lab
majority2,6996.45 Total vote 41,839Turnout 58.30% Swing Lab to C 5.85 2001:
Total vote 40,851 (52.23%) -Lab 21,432 (52.46%); C 14,015 (34.31%); LD 4,724
(11.56%); UKIP 409 (1.00%); WRP 164 (0.40%); Prog Dem 107 (0.26%); Lab Maj 7,417
(18.16%).

Andrew Dismore 50 Solicitor, elected 1997. Member, Standards and Privileges
Select Committee; member, backbench committees health, heritage. Ed: Warwick
University; LSE; London University

HENLEY

C hold

Electorate 68,538 (69,081)%Vote *Johnson, B (C)24,89453.49 Turner, D
(LD)12,10126.00 Saeed, K (Lab)6,86214.75 Stevenson, M (Green)1,5183.26
Gray-Fisk, D (UKIP)1,1622.50 C majority12,79327.49 Total vote 46,537Turnout
67.90% Swing LD to C 4.22 2001: Total vote 44,401 (64.27%) -C 20,466 (46.09%);
LD 12,008 (27.04%); Lab 9,367 (21.10%); UKIP 1,413 (3.18%); Green 1,147 (2.58%);
C Maj 8,458 (19.05%).

Boris Johnson 41 Journalist, elected 2001. Shadow Minister for the Arts
April-December 2004; vice-chairman of the Conservative Party 2003-4; vice chair,
all-party depression group. Ed: Balliol Colege, Oxford

HEREFORD

LD hold

Electorate 71,813 (70,305)%Vote *Keetch, P (LD)20,28543.26 Taylor, V
(C)19,32341.21 Calver, T (Lab)4,80010.24 Lunt, B (Green)1,0522.24 Kingsley, C (
UKIP)1,0302.20 Morton, P (Ind)4040.86 LD majority9622.05 Total vote
46,894Turnout 65.30% Swing LD to C 0.06 2001: Total vote 44,624 (63.47%) -LD
18,244 (40.88%); C 17,276 (38.71%); Lab 6,739 (15.10%); UKIP 1,184 (2.65%);
Green 1,181 (2.65%); LD Maj 968 (2.17%).

Paul Keetch 43 Elected 1997. Lib Dem Shadow Defence Secretary; Health,
Employment and Training 1997-99; Environmental Audit Select Committee 2000-01.
Ed: Hereford Sixth Form College

HERTFORD & STORTFORD

C hold

Electorate 73,394 (75,141)%Vote *Prisk, M (C)25,07450.46 Henry, R
(Lab)11,97724.10 Lucas, J (LD)9,12918.37 Hart, P (Green)1,9143.85 Sodey, D (UKIP
)1,0262.06 Le May, D (Veritas)5721.15 C majority13,09726.36 Total vote
49,692Turnout 67.71% Swing Lab to C 7.24 2001: Total vote 47,176 (62.78%) -C
21,074 (44.67%); Lab 15,471 (32.79%); LD 9,388 (19.90%); UKIP 1,243 (2.63%); C
Maj 5,603 (11.88%).

Mark Prisk 43 Elected 2001. Former marketing director with Derrick Wade &
Waters.

Opposition whip 2004; Member, Select Committee on Welsh affairs. All-party
groups: small business, airport for the South East

HERTFORDSHIRE NORTH EAST

C hold

Electorate 72,190 (68,790)%Vote *Heald, O (C)22,40247.29 Harrop, A
(Lab)13,26428.00 Coleman, I (LD)10,14721.42 Hitchman, D (UKIP)1,5613.30 C
majority9,13819.29 Total vote 47,374Turnout 65.62% Swing Lab to C 5.79 2001:
Total vote 44,645 (64.90%) -C 19,695 (44.11%); Lab 16,251 (36.40%); LD 7,686
(17.22%); UKIP 1,013 (2.27%); C Maj 3,444 (7.71%).

Oliver Heald 50 Barrister, elected here 1997; MP for Herts North 1992-97; Shadow
Sec of State for Constitutional Affairs; Shadow Leader of the House. Ed:
Pembroke College, Cambridge

HERTFORDSHIRE SOUTH WEST

C hold

Electorate 73,170 (73,367)%Vote Gauke, D (C)23,49446.91 Featherstone, E
(LD)15,02129.99 Cross, K (Lab)10,46620.90 Rodden, C (UKIP)1,1072.21 C
majority8,47316.92 Total vote 50,088Turnout 68.45% Swing C to LD 0.54 2001:
Total vote 47,269 (64.43%) -C 20,933 (44.28%); Lab 12,752 (26.98%); LD 12,431
(26.30%); UKIP 847 (1.79%); ProLife 306 (0.65%); C Maj 8,181 (17.31%).

David Gauke 33 Solicitor. Contested Brent East 2001. Deputy chair, Brent East
Cons Assoc, 1998-2000. Parliamentary research assistant to Barry Legg MP
1993-94. Ed: Oxford Univ; College of Law, Chester.

HERTSMERE

C hold

Electorate 67,572 (68,780)%Vote *Clappison, J (C)22,66553.24 Tebb, K
(Lab)11,57227.18 Davies, J (LD)7,81718.36 Dry, J (Soc Lab)5181.22 C
majority11,09326.06 Total vote 42,572Turnout 63.00% Swing Lab to C 7.12 2001:
Total vote 41,505 (60.34%) -C 19,855 (47.84%); Lab 14,953 (36.03%); LD 6,300
(15.18%); Soc Lab 397 (0.96%); C Maj 4,902 (11.81%).

James Clappison 48 Elected 1992. Shadow Minister for Work 2001-02; Conservative
Spokesman on Education 1999-2000; Joint Secretary, all-party Rugby League group.

Ed: Queen's College, Oxford

HEXHAM

C hold

Electorate 60,374 (59,807)%Vote *Atkinson, P (C)17,60542.41 Graham, K
(Lab)12,58530.32 Duffield, A (LD)10,67325.71 Riddell, I (Eng Dem)5211.26
Davison, T (IP)1290.31 C majority5,02012.09 Total vote 41,513Turnout 68.76%
Swing Lab to C 3.06 2001: Total vote 42,413 (70.92%) -C 18,917 (44.60%); Lab
16,388 (38.64%); LD 6,380 (15.04%); UKIP 728 (1.72%); C Maj 2,529 (5.96%).

Peter Atkinson 62 Elected 1992. Opposition whip 1999; member, Select Committee
on Catering; private secretary to ministers including Sir George Young Transport
Sec, 1996-97. Ed: Cheltenham College

HEYWOOD & MIDDLETON

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 71,510 (73,005)%Vote *Dobbin, J (Lab Co-op)19,43849.77 Pathmarajah, S
(C)8,35521.39 Lavin, C (LD)7,26118.59 Aronsson, G (BNP)1,8554.75 Burke, P
(Lib)1,3773.53 Whittaker, J (UKIP)7671.96 Lab Co-op majority11,08328.38 Total
vote 39,053Turnout 54.61% Swing Lab Co-op to C 0.86 2001: Total vote 38,779
(53.12%) -Lab Co-op 22,377 (57.70%); C 10,707 (27.61%); LD 4,329 (11.16%); Lib
1,021 (2.63%); Ch D 345 (0.89%); Lab Co-op Maj 11,670 (30.09%).

Jim Dobbin 63 Elected 1997. Vice-chair, all-party North Korea group; member,
European Scrutiny Committtee; backbench committees include: health, N Ireland.

Ed: St Andrews HS, Kirkcaldy

HIGH PEAK

Lab hold

Electorate 75,275 (73,774)%Vote *Levitt, T (Lab)19,80939.63 Bingham, A
(C)19,07438.16 Godwin, M (LD)10,00020.00 Schwartz, M (UKIP)1,1062.21 Lab
majority7351.47 Total vote 49,989Turnout 66.41% Swing Lab to C 3.93 2001: Total
vote 48,114 (65.22%) -Lab 22,430 (46.62%); C 17,941 (37.29%); LD 7,743 (16.09%);
Lab Maj 4,489 (9.33%).

Tom Levitt 46 Former teacher, elected 1997. PPS to Sec of State for
International Development since 2003; Member, Select Committee on Standards and
Privileges.

Ed: Lancaster and Oxford univs

HITCHIN & Harpenden

C hold

Electorate 67,207 (67,196)%Vote *Lilley, P (C)23,62749.86 Hedges, H
(LD)12,23425.82 Orrett, P (Lab)10,49922.16 Saunders, J (UKIP)8281.75 Rigby, P
(Ind)1990.42 C majority11,39324.04 Total vote 47,387Turnout 70.51% Swing C to LD
2.66 2001: Total vote 44,924 (66.86%) -C 21,271 (47.35%); Lab 14,608 (32.52%);
LD 8,076 (17.98%); UKIP 606 (1.35%); Ind 363 (0.81%); C Maj 6,663 (14.83%).

Peter Lilley 61 Elected to this seat 1997. Shadow Chancellor 1997-98; Shadow
Social Security Secretary 1997; Deputy Leader of the Conservative Party 1998 99.

Ed: Clare College, Cambridge

HOLBORN & ST PANCRAS

Lab hold

Electorate 68,237 (62,813)%Vote *Dobson, F (Lab)14,85743.24 Fraser, J
(LD)10,07029.31 James, M (C)6,48218.87 Oliver, A (Green)2,7988.14 Weiss, R G
(Vote Dream)1520.44 Lab majority4,78713.93 Total vote 34,359Turnout 50.35% Swing
Lab to LD 10.98 2001: Total vote 31,129 (49.56%) -Lab 16,770 (53.87%); LD 5,595
(17.97%); C 5,258 (16.89%); Green 1,875 (6.02%); Soc All 971 (3.12%); Soc Lab
359 (1.15%); UKIP 301 (0.97%); Lab Maj 11,175 (35.90%).

Frank Dobson 65 Elected to this seat 1983. Secretary of State for Health,
1997-99; Labour Spokesman on Environment and London 1994-97; Chair, all-party
historic churches group. Ed: LSE

HORNCHURCH

C gain

Electorate 59,773 (61,008)%Vote Brokenshire, J (C)16,35542.85 *Cryer, J
(Lab)15,87541.59 Green, N (LD)2,8947.58 Moore, I (BNP)1,3133.44 Webb, L (UKIP
)1,0332.71 Brown, M (RA)3951.03 Williamson, G (Third)3040.80 C majority4801.26
Total vote 38,169Turnout 63.86% Swing Lab to C 2.71 2001: Total vote 35,557
(58.28%) -Lab 16,514 (46.44%); C 15,032 (42.28%); LD 2,928 (8.23%); UKIP 893
(2.51%); Third 190 (0.53%); Lab Maj 1,482 (4.17%).

James Brokenshire 36 Solicitor. Leader's campaign tour team, 1994 European
Parliament elections; press officer, Cons Party, 1997 general election. Ed:
Cambridge Centre for Sixth Form Studies; Exeter Uni

HORNSEY & WOOD GREEN

LD gain

Electorate 76,621 (75,967)%Vote Featherstone, L (LD)20,51243.34 *Roche, B
(Lab)18,11738.28 Forrest, P (C)6,01412.71 Forbes, J (Green)2,3775.02 Freshwater,
R (UKIP)3100.65 LD majority2,3955.06 Total vote 47,330Turnout 61.77% Swing Lab
to LD 14.57 2001: Total vote 44,063 (58.00%) -Lab 21,967 (49.85%); LD 11,353
(25.77%); C 6,921 (15.71%); Green 2,228 (5.06%); Soc All 1,106 (2.51%); Soc Lab
294 (0.67%); Reform 194 (0.44%); Lab Maj 10,614 (24.09%).

Lynne Featherstone 53 Contested this seat 1997, 2001. Leader of the Opposition,
Haringey Council 1998-02; chair, Transport Policy Committee, London Assembly,
2000-02 and 2003-05

HORSHAM

C hold

Electorate 80,974 (79,604)%Vote *Maude, F (C)27,24049.99 Sharpley, R
(LD)14,61326.82 Chishti, R (Lab)9,32017.10 Miller, H (UKIP)2,5524.68 Duggan, J
(ND)4160.76 Jeremiah, M (PHF)3540.65 C majority12,62723.17 Total vote
54,495Turnout 67.30% Swing C to LD 1.87 2001: Total vote 50,770 (63.78%) -C
26,134 (51.48%); LD 12,468 (24.56%); Lab 10,267 (20.22%); UKIP 1,472 (2.90%);
Ind 429 (0.84%); C Maj 13,666 (26.92%).

Francis Maude 51 Barrister, elected to this seat 1997. Shadow Foreign Secretary
2000-01; Shadow Chancellor 1998-2000. Ed: Corpus Christi College, Cambridge

HOUGHTON & WASHINGTON EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 67,089 (67,946)%Vote *+Kemp, F (Lab)22,31064.31 Greenfield, M
(LD)6,24518.00 Devenish, A (C)4,77213.75 Richardson, J (BNP)1,3673.94 Lab
majority16,06546.30 Total vote 34,694Turnout 51.71% Swing Lab to LD 7.20 2001:
Total vote 33,641 (49.51%) -Lab 24,628 (73.21%); C 4,810 (14.30%); LD 4,203
(12.49%); Lab Maj 19,818 (58.91%).

Fraser Kemp 46 Elected 1997. Assistant Government Whip since 2001. Member,
Finance Bill Standing Committee; Chair, Cabinet Office Backbench Committee.

Ed: Washington Comp

HOVE & Portslade

Lab hold

Electorate 69,939 (70,889)%Vote Barlow, C (Lab)16,78637.47 Boles, N
(C)16,36636.53 Elgood, P (LD)8,00217.86 Ballam, A (Green)2,5755.75 Bower, S (
UKIP)5751.28 O'Keefe, P (Respect)2680.60 Dobbs, B (Ind)950.21 Franklin, R
(Silent)780.17 Ralfe, B (Ind R)510.11 Lab majority4200.94 Total vote
44,796Turnout 64.05% Swing Lab to C 3.31 2001: Total vote 41,988 (59.23%) -Lab
19,253 (45.85%); C 16,082 (38.30%); LD 3,823 (9.10%); Green 1,369 (3.26%); Soc
All 531 (1.26%); UKIP 358 (0.85%); Lib 316 (0.75%); Free 196 (0.47%); Ind 60
(0.14%); Lab Maj 3,171 (7.55%).

Celia Barlow Lecturer, video production, and former BBC news editor. Labour's
antiwar candidate who replaced Defence Minister Ivor Caplin

HUDDERSFIELD

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 61,723 (64,349)%Vote *Sheerman, B (Lab Co-op)16,34146.77 Bone, E
(LD)7,99022.87 Meacock, D (C)7,59721.74 Stewart-Turner, J (Green)1,6514.73
Hanson, K (BNP)1,0362.97 Quarmby, T (Ind)3250.93 Lab Co-op majority8,35123.90
Total vote 34,940Turnout 56.61% Swing Lab Co-op to LD 7.18 2001: Total vote
35,383 (54.99%) -Lab Co-op 18,840 (53.25%); C 8,794 (24.85%); LD 5,300 (14.98%);
Green 1,254 (3.54%); UKIP 613 (1.73%); Soc All 374 (1.06%); Soc Lab 208 (0.59%);
Lab Co-op Maj 10,046 (28.39%).

Barry Sheerman 64 Elected for this seat in 1983. Member, Education Select
Committee; all-party groups include sustainable waste, design/innovation;
manufacturing.

Ed: Hampton grammar; LSE

HULL EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 65,407 (66,473)%Vote *Prescott, J (Lab)17,60956.76 Sloan, A
(LD)5,86218.90 Lindsay, K (C)4,03813.02 Siddle, A (BNP)1,0223.29 Toker, J
(Lib)1,0183.28 Morris, G (Veritas)7502.42 Noon, R (Ind)3341.08 Muir, L (Soc
Lab)2070.67 Wagner, C (LCA)1820.59 Lab majority11,74737.87 Total vote
31,022Turnout 47.43% Swing Lab to LD 5.88 2001: Total vote 30,875 (46.45%) -Lab
19,938 (64.58%); LD 4,613 (14.94%); C 4,276 (13.85%); UKIP 1,218 (3.94%); Soc
Lab 830 (2.69%); Lab Maj 15,325 (49.64%).

John Prescott 66 Elected 1970. Deputy Prime Minister since 1997 and First
Secretary of State since 2001. Secretary of State for Environment, Transport and
the Regions, 1997-2001. Ed: Hull University

HULL NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 62,590 (63,022)%Vote Johnson, D (Lab)15,36451.93 Healy, D
(LD)8,01327.09 Rivlin, L (C)3,82212.92 Deane, M (Green)8582.90 Wainwright, B
(BNP)7662.59 Robinson, T (Veritas)3891.31 Veasey, C (Northern)1930.65 Wagner, C
(LCA)1790.61 Lab majority7,35124.85 Total vote 29,584Turnout 47.27% Swing Lab to
LD 6.30 2001: Total vote 28,633 (45.43%) -Lab 16,364 (57.15%); LD 5,643
(19.71%); C 4,902 (17.12%); UKIP 655 (2.29%); Soc All 490 (1.71%); LCA 478
(1.67%); Ind 101 (0.35%); Lab Maj 10,721 (37.44%).

Diana Johnson 38 Lawyer. Cllr, Tower Hamlets 1994-2002. Legal member, Mental
Health Act Commission 1995-98. Ed: Sir John Brunel Uni; Queen Mary Coll, London

HULL WEST & HESSLE

Lab hold

Electorate 61,494 (63,077)%Vote *Johnson, A (Lab)15,30555.02 Nolan, D
(LD)5,85521.05 Woods, K (C)5,76920.74 Wallis, S (Veritas)8893.20 Lab
majority9,45033.97 Total vote 27,818Turnout 45.24% Swing Lab to LD 4.66 2001:
Total vote 28,916 (45.84%) -Lab 16,880 (58.38%); C 5,929 (20.50%); LD 4,364
(15.09%); UKIP 878 (3.04%); Ind 512 (1.77%); Soc Lab 353 (1.22%); Lab Maj 10,951
(37.87%).

Alan Johnson 54. Former postman and union official, elected 1997. Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions; Minister for Competitiveness DTI 1999-2001.

Ed: Sloane grammar, Chelsea

HUNTINGDON

C hold

Electorate 83,843 (78,604)%Vote *Djanogly, J (C)26,64650.83 Huppert, J
(LD)13,79926.32 Sartain, S (Lab)9,82118.74 Norman, D (UKIP)2,1524.11 C
majority12,84724.51 Total vote 52,418Turnout 62.52% Swing C to LD 0.78 2001:
Total vote 49,089 (62.45%) -C 24,507 (49.92%); LD 11,715 (23.86%); Lab 11,211
(22.84%); UKIP 1,656 (3.37%); C Maj 12,792 (26.06%).

Jonathan Djanogly 40 Solicitor, elected 2001. Shadow Minister for Home Affairs
since 2004. Member, Select Committee on Trade and Industry. Ed: Oxford Brookes,
Guildford College of Law

HYNDBURN

Lab hold

Electorate 67,086 (66,445)%Vote *Pope, G (Lab)18,13645.97 Mawdsley, J
(C)12,54931.81 Greene, B (LD)5,57714.14 Jackson, C (BNP)2,4446.20 Whittaker, J (
UKIP)7431.88 Lab majority5,58714.16 Total vote 39,449Turnout 58.80% Swing Lab to
C 3.66 2001: Total vote 38,243 (57.56%) -Lab 20,900 (54.65%); C 12,681 (33.16%);
LD 3,680 (9.62%); UKIP 982 (2.57%); Lab Maj 8,219 (21.49%).

Greg Pope 44 Elected 1992. Government Whip 1999-2001; member of Foreign Affairs
Select Committee; backbench committee on Northern Ireland 1997-2001. Ed: Hull
Uni I

ILFORD NORTH

C gain

Electorate 70,718 (68,893)%Vote Scott, L (C)18,78143.68 *Perham, L
(Lab)17,12839.83 Gayler, M (LD)5,89613.71 Cross, A (UKIP)9022.10 Levin, M
(Ind)2930.68 C majority1,6533.84 Total vote 43,000Turnout 60.80% Swing Lab to C
4.55 2001: Total vote 40,234 (58.40%) -Lab 18,428 (45.80%); C 16,313 (40.55%);
LD 4,717 (11.72%); UKIP 776 (1.93%); Lab Maj 2,115 (5.26%).

Lee Scott 49 Cllr, London Borough of Redbridge: cabinet member for regeneration
and the community since 2002. Campaign director, United Jewish Israel Appeal,
1988-98.

Ed: Clarkes College, Ilford

ILFORD SOUTH

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 79,639 (76,025)%Vote *Gapes, M (Lab Co-op)20,85648.85 Metcalfe, S
(C)11,62827.24 Lake, M (LD)8,76120.52 Rana, K (BPP)7631.79 Taylor, C (UKIP
)6851.60 Lab Co-op majority9,22821.61 Total vote 42,693Turnout 53.61% Swing Lab
Co-op to C 6.14 2001: Total vote 41,295 (54.32%) -Lab Co-op 24,619 (59.62%); C
10,622 (25.72%); LD 4,647 (11.25%); UKIP 1,407 (3.41%); Lab Co-op Maj 13,997
(33.90%).

Mike Gapes 52 Elected 1992. Member, Select Committee on Defence; private
secretary to Home Office Minister 2001-02; chair, all-party UN group. Ed:
Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge

INVERCLYDE

Lab hold

Electorate 59,291 (35.30% BC)%Vote Cairns, D (Lab)18,31850.75 McMillan, S
(SNP)7,05919.56 Herbison, D (LD)6,12316.96 Fraser, G (C)3,69210.23 Landels, D
(SSP)9062.51 Lab majority11,25931.19 Total vote 36,098Turnout 60.88% Swing Lab
to SNP 2.51 2001: Total vote 38,935 (59.46%) -Lab 19,555 (50.22%); LD 8,241
(21.17%); SNP 5,453 (14.01%); C 4,211 (10.82%); SSP 1,475 (3.79%); Lab Maj
11,314 (29.06%).

David Cairns 38 Former MP for Greenock & Inverclyde. PPS to Malcolm Wicks, as
Minister for Pensions. Introduced Sunday Working (Scotland) Bill

INVERNESS, NAIRN, BADENOCH & STRATHSPEY

LD gain

Electorate 69,636 (46.20% BC)%Vote Alexander, D (LD)17,83040.29 Stewart, D
(Lab)13,68230.92 Thompson, D (SNP)5,99213.54 Rowantree, R (C)4,57910.35 MacLeod,
D (Green)1,0652.41 Lawson, D (Publican)6781.53 MacDonald, G (SSP)4290.97 LD
majority4,1489.37 Total vote 44,255Turnout 63.55% Swing Lab to LD 6.01 2001:
Total vote 42,795 (63.13%) -Lab 13,772 (32.18%); LD 12,638 (29.53%); SNP 9,836
(22.98%); C 5,262 (12.30%); SSP 885 (2.07%); Others 402 (0.94%); Lab Maj 1,134
(2.65%).

Danny Alexander 32 Head of communications, Cairngorms National Park. Deputy
director and head of comms, European Movement 1997-99; press officer, Scottish
Lib Dems, 1993-95. Ed: Oxford Uni

IPSWICH

Lab hold

Electorate 68,825 (68,198)%Vote *Mole, C (Lab)18,33643.78 West, P (C)13,00431.05
Atkins, R (LD)8,46420.21 West, A (UKIP)1,1342.71 Kay, J (Eng Dem)6411.53
Wainman, S (Ind)2990.71 Lab majority5,33212.73 Total vote 41,878Turnout 60.85%
Swing Lab to C 4.03 2001: Total vote 27,405 (40.16%) -Lab 19,952 (51.33%); C
11,871 (30.54%); LD 5,904 (15.19%); UKIP 624 (1.61%); Soc All 305 (0.78%); Soc
Lab 217 (0.56%); Lab 11,881 (43.35%); C 7,794 (28.44%); LD 6,146 (22.43%); CPA
581 (2.12%); UKIP 276 (1.01%); Green 255 (0.93%); LCA 236 (0.86%); Soc All 152
(0.55%); Eng Ind 84 (0.31%); Lab Maj 4,087 (14.91%).

Chris Mole 46 Elected November 2001. Former BT lab worker. Member, Select
Committees on the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister & Deregulation and
Regulatory Affairs. Ed: University of Kent

ISLE OF WIGHT

C hold

Electorate 109,046 (106,305)%Vote *Turner, A (C)32,71748.95 Rowlands, A
(LD)19,73929.53 Chiverton, M (Lab)11,48417.18 Tarrant, M (UKIP)2,3523.52 Corby,
E (Ind)5510.82 C majority12,97819.42 Total vote 66,843Turnout 61.30% Swing LD to
C 7.48 2001: Total vote 63,482 (59.72%) -C 25,223 (39.73%); LD 22,397 (35.28%);
Lab 9,676 (15.24%); UKIP 2,106 (3.32%); Ind 1,423 (2.24%); Green 1,279 (2.01%);
IOW 1,164 (1.83%); Soc Lab 214 (0.34%); C Maj 2,826 (4.45%).

Andrew Turner 51 Education consultant, elected in 2001. Vice-chairman,
Conservative Party; member, Select Committee on Education and Skills. Ed: Oxford
and Birmingham Unis

ISLINGTON NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 58,427 (61,970)%Vote *Corbyn, J (Lab)16,11851.18 Willoughby, L
(LD)9,40229.85 Talbot, N (C)3,74011.88 Nott, J (Green)2,2347.09 Lab
majority6,71621.32 Total vote 31,494Turnout 53.90% Swing Lab to LD 10.78 2001:
Total vote 30,216 (48.76%) -Lab 18,699 (61.88%); LD 5,741 (19.00%); C 3,249
(10.75%); Green 1,876 (6.21%); Soc Lab 512 (1.69%); Reform 139 (0.46%); Lab Maj
12,958 (42.88%).

Jeremy Corbyn 55 Elected 1983. Vice-chair, all-party human rights group since
1997; member, Social Security Select Committee 1990-97. Noted leftwinger and
Labour's most rebellious MP. Ed: Adams grammar

ISLINGTON SOUTH & FINSBURY

Lab hold

Electorate 57,748 (59,515)%Vote Thornberry, E (Lab)12,34539.87 Fox, B
(LD)11,86138.31 McLean, M (C)4,59414.84 Humphries, J (Green)1,4714.75
Theophanides, P (UKIP)4701.52 Gardner, A T H (Loony)1890.61 Gidden, C
(Ind)310.10 Lab majority4841.56 Total vote 30,961Turnout 53.61% Swing Lab to LD
12.12 2001: Total vote 28,215 (47.41%) -Lab 15,217 (53.93%); LD 7,937 (28.13%);
C 3,860 (13.68%); Soc All 817 (2.90%); Ind 276 (0.98%); Stuck 108 (0.38%); Lab
Maj 7,280 (25.80%).

Emily Thornberry 44 Member, Mike Mansfield's Chambers: Tooks Court. Labour's
candidate to replace Chris Smith, who held the seat since 1983. Ed: Kent
University

ISLWYN

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 50,595 (51,230)%Vote *Touhig, D (Lab Co-op)19,68763.78 Criddle, J
(PC)3,94712.79 Dillon, L (LD)3,87312.55 Howells, P (C)3,35810.88 Lab Co-op
majority15,74051.00 Total vote 30,865Turnout 61.00% Swing PC to Lab Co-op 0.67
2001: Total vote 31,691 (61.86%) -Lab Co-op 19,505 (61.55%); LD 4,196 (13.24%);
PC 3,767 (11.89%); C 2,543 (8.02%); Ind 1,263 (3.99%); Soc Lab 417 (1.32%); Lab
Co-op Maj 15,309 (48.31%).

Don Touhig 57 Journalist, elected 1995. Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State
for Wales. Asst Government Whip Wales Office 1999-2001. Ed: St Francis School,
Aberyschan; East Monmouth College, Pontypool

JARROW

Lab hold

Electorate 61,814 (63,172)%Vote *Hepburn, S (Lab)20,55460.49 Schardt, B
(LD)6,65019.57 Jack, L (C)4,80714.15 Badger, A (UKIP)1,5674.61 Nettleship, R
(SNH)4001.18 Lab majority13,90440.92 Total vote 33,978Turnout 54.97% Swing Lab
to LD 5.06 2001: Total vote 34,479 (54.58%) -Lab 22,777 (66.06%); LD 5,182
(15.03%); C 5,056 (14.66%); UKIP 716 (2.08%); Ind 391 (1.13%); Soc 357 (1.04%);
Lab Maj 17,595 (51.03%).

Stephen Hepburn 45 Elected 1997. Member, Select Committees on Accommodation and
Works & Northern Ireland Affairs; backbenchcommittee on international
development.

Ed: Newcastle Uni

K

KEIGHLEY

Lab hold

Electorate 68,229 (68,349)%Vote *Cryer, A (Lab)20,72044.74 Poulsen, K
(C)15,86834.26 Fekri, N (LD)5,48411.84 Griffin, N (BNP)4,2409.16 Lab
majority4,85210.48 Total vote 46,312Turnout 67.88% Swing C to Lab 0.62 2001:
Total vote 43,333 (63.40%) -Lab 20,888 (48.20%); C 16,883 (38.96%); LD 4,722
(10.90%); UKIP 840 (1.94%); Lab Maj 4,005 (9.24%).

Ann Cryer 65. Elected 1997. Member, Constitutional Affairs Select Committee.

Backbench committees: environment, transport, regions; international
development; social security. Ed: technical college

KENSINGTON & CHELSEA

C hold

Electorate 62,662 (62,007)%Vote Rifkind, M (C)18,14457.90 Kingsley, J
(LD)5,72618.27 Atkinson, C (Lab)5,52117.62 Stephenson, J (Green)1,3424.28
Eilorat, M (UKIP)3951.26 Bovill, A (Ind)1070.34 Adams, E (Green Soc)1010.32 C
majority12,41839.63 Total vote 31,336Turnout 50.01% Swing LD to C 0.46 2001:
Total vote 28,038 (45.22%) -C 15,270 (54.46%); Lab 6,499 (23.18%); LD 4,416
(15.75%); Green 1,158 (4.13%); UKIP 416 (1.48%); ProLife 179 (0.64%); Wrestling
100 (0.36%); C Maj 8,771 (31.28%).

Malcolm Rifkind 59 MP for Edinburgh Pentlands 1974-97. Contested same 2001.

Foreign Sec, 1995-97; Defence Sec, 1992-95; Transport Sec, 1990-92; Scotland
Sec, 1986-90; PC 1986; 1979-82. Ed: Edinburgh Uni

KETTERING

C gain

Electorate 81,887 (79,697)%Vote Hollobone, P (C)25,40145.65 *Sawford, P
(Lab)22,10039.72 Aron, R (LD)6,88212.37 Clark, R (UKIP)1,2632.27 C
majority3,3015.93 Total vote 55,646Turnout 67.95% Swing Lab to C 3.58 2001:
Total vote 53,752 (67.45%) -Lab 24,034 (44.71%); C 23,369 (43.48%); LD 5,469
(10.17%); UKIP 880 (1.64%); Lab Maj 665 (1.24%).

Philip Hollobone 40 Contested Lewisham East 1997, Kettering 2001. Cllr,
Kettering District Council. Investment bank analyst (various) 1987-2000. Ed:
Dulwich College, London; Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford

KILMARNOCK & LOUDOUN

Lab hold

Electorate 72,851 (18.20% BC)%Vote Browne, D (Lab)20,97647.26 Coffey, D
(SNP)12,27327.65 Smith, G (C)5,02611.32 Lang, K (LD)4,94511.14 Kerr, H
(SSP)8331.88 Robertson, R (UKIP)3300.74 Lab majority8,70319.61 Total vote
44,383Turnout 60.92% Swing Lab to SNP 5.45 2001: Total vote 44,645 (61.22%) -Lab
24,532 (54.95%); SNP 10,911 (24.44%); C 4,485 (10.05%); LD 3,394 (7.60%); SSP
1,247 (2.79%); Others 76 (0.17%); Lab Maj 13,621 (30.51%).

Desmond Browne 53 Elected 1997. Minister of State, Home Office. Minister of
State, Dept of Work and Pensions 2003-04. Private Secretary to Donald Dewar
1998-99.

Ed: Glasgow University

KINGSTON & SURBITON

LD hold

Electorate 72,671 (72,687)%Vote *Davey, E (LD)25,39751.05 Davis, K
(C)16,43133.03 Parrott, N (Lab)6,55313.17 Thornton, B (UKIP)6571.32 Hayball, J
(Soc Lab)3660.74 Henson, D (Veritas)2000.40 Weiss, R G (Vote Dream)1460.29 LD
majority8,96618.02 Total vote 49,750Turnout 68.46% Swing LD to C 6.95 2001:
Total vote 49,093 (67.54%) -LD 29,542 (60.18%); C 13,866 (28.24%); Lab 4,302
(8.76%); Green 572 (1.17%); UKIP 438 (0.89%); Soc Lab 319 (0.65%); Unrep 54
(0.11%); LD Maj 15,676 (31.93%).

Edward Davey 39 Elected 1997. Lib Dem spokesman for the Office of the Deputy
Prime Minister; member, Treasury Select Committee. Ed: Jesus College, Oxford;
Birkbeck College, London

KINGSWOOD

Lab hold

Electorate 84,400 (80,531)%Vote *Berry, R (Lab)26,49147.04 Inskip, O
(C)18,61833.06 Brewer, G (LD)9,08916.14 Knight, J (UKIP)1,4442.56 Burnside, D
(Ind)6691.19 Lab majority7,87313.98 Total vote 56,311Turnout 66.72% Swing Lab to
C 6.26 2001: Total vote 52,676 (65.41%) -Lab 28,903 (54.87%); C 14,941 (28.36%);
LD 7,747 (14.71%); UKIP 1,085 (2.06%); Lab Maj 13,962 (26.51%).

Roger Berry 56 Elected 1992. Member, Select Committee on Trade and Industry
since 1997; Deregulation 1995-97. Treasurer, all-party equalities group. Ed:
Huddersfield New College; Bristol and Sussex Universities

KIRKCALDY & COWDENBEATH

Lab hold

Electorate 71,606 (76.00% BC)%Vote Brown, G (Lab)24,27858.09 Bath, A
(SNP)6,06214.50 Cole-Hamilton, A (LD)5,45013.04 Randall, S (C)4,30810.31 West, S
(SSP)6661.59 Adams, P (UKIP)5161.23 Parker, J (Scot Senior)4251.02 Kwantes, E
(Ind K)470.11 Sargent, P (Ind)440.11 Lab majority18,21643.58 Total vote
41,796Turnout 58.37% Swing SNP to Lab 1.84 2001: Total vote 40,687 (54.86%) -Lab
23,805 (58.51%); SNP 7,567 (18.60%); C 4,314 (10.60%); LD 3,724 (9.15%); SSP
1,110 (2.73%); Others 167 (0.41%); Lab Maj 16,238 (39.91%).

Gordon Brown 54. Elected 1983. Chancellor of the Exchequer since 1997; Shadow
Chancellor 1992-97. Chief Labour trade and industry spokesman, 1989-92; entered
the Shadow Cabinet 1987. Ed: Kirkcaldy High School; Edinburgh University

KNOWSLEY NORTH & SEFTON EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 70,403 (70,781)%Vote *Howarth, G (Lab)23,46163.32 Clucas, F
(LD)7,19219.41 Purewal, N (C)5,06413.67 McDermott, M (BNP)8722.35 Whatham, S
(Soc Lab)4641.25 Lab majority16,26943.91 Total vote 37,053Turnout 52.63% Swing
Lab to LD 4.52 2001: Total vote 37,517 (53.00%) -Lab 25,035 (66.73%); C 6,108
(16.28%); LD 5,173 (13.79%); Soc Lab 574 (1.53%); Ind R 356 (0.95%); Ind J 271
(0.72%); Lab Maj 18,927 (50.45%).

George Howarth 55 Elected 1997. Under-Secretary Northern Ireland Office 1999
2001; chair, all-party betting and gaming group.

Ed: Huyton Hey Secondary; Kirkby College of FE; Liverpool Poly

KNOWSLEY SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 70,726 (70,681)%Vote *O'Hara, E (Lab)24,82068.10 Smithson, D
(LD)7,13219.57 Leadsom, A (C)4,49212.33 Lab majority17,68848.53 Total vote
36,444Turnout 51.53% Swing Lab to LD 4.86 2001: Total vote 36,590 (51.77%) -Lab
26,071 (71.25%); LD 4,755 (13.00%); C 4,250 (11.62%); Soc Lab 1,068 (2.92%); Ind
446 (1.22%); Lab Maj 21,316 (58.26%).

Eddie O'Hara 67 Lecturer, elected 1990. Deputy Speaker, Westminster Hall.
Member, Select Committee on Chairman's Panel; all-party groups include: Greece,
maritime, water.

Ed: Magdalen Coll, Oxford; London Uni

L

LANARK & HAMILTON EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 73,736 (78.90% BC)%Vote Hood, J (Lab)20,07246.05 Grieve, F
(LD)8,12518.64 Wilson, J (SNP)7,74617.77 Pettigrew, R (C)5,57612.79 Reilly, D
(SSP)8021.84 Mackay, D (UKIP)4371.00 McFarlane, D (Ind)4160.95 Mawhinney, R
(OCV)4150.95 Lab majority11,94727.41 Total vote 43,589Turnout 59.11% Swing Lab
to LD 5.89 2001: Total vote 44,987 (59.06%) -Lab 22,727 (50.52%); SNP 9,866
(21.93%); C 5,629 (12.51%); LD 5,093 (11.32%); SSP 1,396 (3.10%); Others 276
(0.61%); Lab Maj 12,861 (28.59%).

Jimmy Hood 56. Miner/coalface engineer. Elected 1987. Chairman, Select Cttee on
Euro Scrutiny, 1992-1998; member, Defence Select Cttee. Ed (inc): Motherwell
Tech College; Nottingham University

LANCASHIRE WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 74,777 (72,858)%Vote Cooper, R (Lab)20,74648.07 Doran, A
(C)14,66233.98 Kemp, R (LD)6,05914.04 Freeman, A (UKIP)8712.02 Garrett, S (Eng
Dem)5251.22 Braid, D (Clause 28)2920.68 Lab majority6,08414.10 Total vote
43,155Turnout 57.71% Swing Lab to C 4.17 2001: Total vote 42,971 (58.98%) -Lab
23,404 (54.46%); C 13,761 (32.02%); LD 4,966 (11.56%); Ind Hill 523 (1.22%); Ind
Braid 317 (0.74%); Lab Maj 9,643 (22.44%).

Rosie Cooper 54. Contested Liverpool Broadgreen, 1992. PR and communications
professional; Director Merseyside Centre for Deaf People

LANCASTER & WYRE

C gain

Electorate 80,739 (78,964)%Vote Wallace, B (C)22,26642.77 Sacks, A
(Lab)18,09534.76 Langhorn, S (LD)8,45316.24 Barry, J (Green)2,2784.38 Mander, J
(UKIP)9691.86 C majority4,1718.01 Total vote 52,061Turnout 64.48% Swing Lab to C
4.47 2001: Total vote 52,350 (66.30%) -Lab 22,556 (43.09%); C 22,075 (42.17%);
LD 5,383 (10.28%); Green 1,595 (3.05%); UKIP 741 (1.42%); Lab Maj 481 (0.92%).

Ben Wallace 34 Ski instructor Austrian National Ski School, 1988-89; Army
officer, Scots Guard 1990-98; EU and overseas director Qinetiq. Ed: Millfield
School; Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst

LEEDS CENTRAL

Lab hold

Electorate 62,939 (65,497)%Vote *Benn, H (Lab)17,52660.05 Coleman, R
(LD)5,66019.39 Cattell, B (C)3,86513.24 Collett, M (BNP)1,2014.11 Sewards, P (
UKIP)4941.69 Dear, M (Ind)1890.65 Taiwo, O (Ind T)1260.43 Fitzgerald, J
(AFC)1250.43 Lab majority11,86640.66 Total vote 29,186Turnout 46.37% Swing Lab
to LD 6.53 2001: Total vote 27,306 (41.69%) -Lab 18,277 (66.93%); C 3,896
(14.27%); LD 3,607 (13.21%); UKIP 775 (2.84%); Soc All 751 (2.75%); Lab Maj
14,381 (52.67%).

Hilary Benn 51 Elected 1999. Secretary of State for International Development
since 2003; special adviser to Secretary of State for Education and Employment
1997-99. Ed: University of Sussex

LEEDS EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 54,691 (56,400)%Vote *Mudie, G (Lab)17,79959.18 Tear, A
(LD)6,22120.68 Ponniah, D (C)5,55718.48 Socrates, P (Ind)5001.66 Lab
majority11,57838.49 Total vote 30,077Turnout 54.99% Swing Lab to LD 5.48 2001:
Total vote 29,055 (51.52%) -Lab 18,290 (62.95%); C 5,647 (19.44%); LD 3,923
(13.50%); UKIP 634 (2.18%); Soc Lab 419 (1.44%); Ind 142 (0.49%); Lab Maj 12,643
(43.51%).

George Mudie 60 Elected 1992. Member Select Committee on Treasury since 2001;
Deputy Chief Whip 1997-98; Former Leader of Leeds City Council. Member, AEU.

Ed: local state schools

LEEDS NORTH EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 63,304 (64,123)%Vote *Hamilton, F (Lab)18,63244.93 Lobley, M
(C)13,37032.24 Brown, J (LD)8,42720.32 Foote, C (Green Soc)1,0382.50 Lab
majority5,26212.69 Total vote 41,467Turnout 65.50% Swing Lab to C 2.57 2001:
Total vote 39,773 (62.03%) -Lab 19,540 (49.13%); C 12,451 (31.31%); LD 6,325
(15.90%); Left All 770 (1.94%); UKIP 382 (0.96%); Soc Lab 173 (0.43%); Ind 132
(0.33%); Lab Maj 7,089 (17.82%).

Fabian Hamilton 49 Elected 1997. Member, Foreign Affairs Select Committee;
treasurer, all-party civil contingencies and preparedness group. Backbench
committees include home affairs. Ed: York University

LEEDS NORTH WEST

LD gain

Electorate 71,644 (72,945)%Vote Mulholland, G (LD)16,61237.15 Blake, J
(Lab)14,73532.96 Lee, G (C)11,51025.74 Hemingway, M (Green)1,1282.52 Knowles, A
(Eng Dem)5451.22 Sutton, J (Green Soc)1810.40 LD majority1,8774.20 Total vote
44,711Turnout 62.41% Swing Lab to LD 9.59 2001: Total vote 42,451 (58.20%) -Lab
17,794 (41.92%); C 12,558 (29.58%); LD 11,431 (26.93%); UKIP 668 (1.57%); Lab
Maj 5,236 (12.33%).

Greg Mulholland 34 Cllr, Leeds City Council. District spokesman for Metro (the
West Yorkshire Passenger Transport Authority); campaigner for Tidal (Trade
Injustice Debt Action Leeds) and Cafod

LEEDS WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 62,882 (64,218)%Vote *Battle, J (Lab)18,70455.47 Finlay, D
(LD)5,89417.48 Metcalfe, T (C)4,80714.26 Blackburn, D (Green)2,5197.47 Day, J
(BNP)1,1663.46 Sewards, D (UKIP)6281.86 Lab majority12,81037.99 Total vote
33,718Turnout 53.62% Swing Lab to LD 6.85 2001: Total vote 32,094 (49.98%) -Lab
19,943 (62.14%); C 5,008 (15.60%); LD 3,350 (10.44%); Green 2,573 (8.02%); UKIP
758 (2.36%); Lib 462 (1.44%); Lab Maj 14,935 (46.54%).

John Battle 53 Elected to this seat 1987. Minister of State, Foreign and
Commonwealth Office 1999-2001; member, Select Committee on International
Development.

Ed: Leeds University

LEICESTER EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 66,383 (65,527)%Vote *Vaz, K (Lab)24,01558.14 Fernandes, S
(C)8,13919.70 Cooper, S (LD)7,05217.07 Brown, C (Veritas)1,6664.03 Smalley, V
(Soc Lab)4341.05 Lab majority15,87638.44 Total vote 41,306Turnout 62.22% Swing C
to Lab 2.69 2001: Total vote 40,661 (62.05%) -Lab 23,402 (57.55%); C 9,960
(24.50%); LD 4,989 (12.27%); Soc Lab 837 (2.06%); BNP 772 (1.90%); Ind 701
(1.72%); Lab Maj 13,442 (33.06%).

Keith Vaz 48. Former barrister, elected 1987. Member of the Constitutional
Affairs Select Committee; chair, Labour Party race action group since 1983.

Ed: Caius College, Cambridge.

LEICESTER SOUTH

Lab gain

Electorate 72,310 (72,671)%Vote Soulsby, P (Lab)16,68839.35 *Singh Gill, P
(LD)12,97130.58 McElwee, M (C)7,54917.80 Ridley, Y (Respect)2,7206.41 Follett, M
(Green)1,3793.25 Roseblade, K (Veritas)5731.35 Roberts, D (Soc Lab)3150.74 Lord,
P (Ind)2160.51 Lab majority3,7178.76 Total vote 42,411Turnout 58.65% Swing Lab
to LD 14.26 2004: Total vote 29,408 (41.46%) -Lab 22,958 (54.48%); C 9,715
(23.05%); LD 7,243 (17.19%); Green 1,217 (2.89%); Soc Lab 676 (1.60%); UKIP 330
(0.78%); LD 10,274 (34.94%); Lab 8,620 (29.31%); C 5,796 (19.71%); Respect 3,724
(12.66%); Soc Lab 263 (0.89%); Loony 225 (0.77%); Ind 204 (0.69%); Ind 186
(0.63%); Ind 55 (0.19%); Ind 36 (0.12%); Ind 25 (0.09%); LD Maj 1,654 (5.62%).

Sir Peter Soulsby 56 Contested Leicester South 2004 by-election. Leicester City
Council: Councillor, 1973-2003; Council leader 1981-94, 1995-99. Ed City of
Leicester College; Leicester University.

LEICESTER WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 62,389 (65,267)%Vote *Hewitt, P (Lab)17,18451.72 Richardson, S
(C)8,11424.42 Haq, Z (LD)5,80317.47 Forse, G (Green)1,5714.73 Score, S (Soc
Alt)5521.66 Lab majority9,07027.30 Total vote 33,224Turnout 53.25% Swing Lab to
C 0.86 2001: Total vote 33,219 (50.90%) -Lab 18,014 (54.23%); C 8,375 (25.21%);
LD 5,085 (15.31%); Green 1,074 (3.23%); Soc Lab 350 (1.05%); Soc All 321
(0.97%); Lab Maj 9,639 (29.02%).

Patricia Hewitt 56 Elected 1997. Secretary of State for Trade and Industry;
Economic Secretary to Treasury 1998-99; Minister for Small Business 1999-2001.
Ed: Newnham College, Cambridge

LEICESTERSHIRE NORTH WEST

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 70,519 (68,414)%Vote *Taylor, D (Lab Co-op)21,44945.50 Le Page, N
(C)16,97236.00 Keyes, R (LD)5,68212.05 Blunt, J (UKIP)1,5633.32 Potter, C
(BNP)1,4743.13 Lab Co-op majority4,4779.50 Total vote 47,140Turnout 66.85% Swing
Lab Co-op to C 4.31 2001: Total vote 45,009 (65.79%) -Lab Co-op 23,431 (52.06%);
C 15,274 (33.94%); LD 4,651 (10.33%); UKIP 1,021 (2.27%); Ind 632 (1.40%); Lab
Co-op Maj 8,157 (18.12%).

David Taylor 58 Elected 1997. Member, Select Ctte on Modernisation of Commons.
An overt leader of backbench opposition to the use of private finance in public
services. Ed: Open University LEIGH Lab hold Electorate 72,473 (74,603)%Vote
*Burnham, A (Lab)23,09763.30 Wedderburn, L (C)5,82515.96 Crowther, D
(LD)4,96213.60 Franzen, I (CAP)2,1896.00 Hampson, T (LCA)4151.14 Lab
majority17,27247.34

Total vote 36,488Turnout 50.35% Swing C to Lab 0.49 2001: Total vote 35,298
(49.68%) -Lab 22,783 (64.54%); C 6,421 (18.19%); LD 4,524 (12.82%); Soc Lab 820
(2.32%); UKIP 750 (2.12%); Lab Maj 16,362 (46.35%).

Andy Burnham 35 Inherited seat from Lawrence Cunliffe in 1997. PPS to David
Blunkett. Parliamentary officer, NHS Confederation, 1997; administrator, Special
adviser to Chris Smith 1998-200;, researcher to Tessa Jowell 1994-97. Ed:
Fitzwilliam Coll, Cambridge

LEOMINSTER

C hold

Electorate 63,121 (68,695)%Vote *Wiggin, B (C)25,40752.07 Williams, C
(LD)12,22025.04 Bell, P (Lab)7,42415.22 Norman, F (Green)2,1914.49 Venables, P (
UKIP)1,5513.18 C majority13,18727.03 Total vote 48,793Turnout 77.30% Swing LD to
C 2.42 2001: Total vote 46,729 (68.02%) -C 22,879 (48.96%); LD 12,512 (26.78%);
Lab 7,872 (16.85%); Green 1,690 (3.62%); UKIP 1,590 (3.40%); Ind 186 (0.40%); C
Maj 10,367 (22.19%).

Bill Wiggin 38 Won the seat back for the Tories in 2001. Opposition Spokesman on
Wales since 2003; Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee member since
2002.

Ed: University College of North Wales

LEWES

LD hold

Electorate 67,073 (66,332)%Vote *Baker, N (LD)24,37652.36 Love, R (C)15,90234.16
Black, R (Lab)4,1698.96 Murray, S (Green)1,0712.30 Petley, J (UKIP)1,0342.22 LD
majority8,47418.20 Total vote 46,552Turnout 69.40% Swing LD to C 1.58 2001:
Total vote 45,433 (68.49%) -LD 25,588 (56.32%); C 15,878 (34.95%); Lab 3,317
(7.30%); UKIP 650 (1.43%); LD Maj 9,710 (21.37%).

Norman Baker First elected to Lewes 1997 and won Best Newcomer MP award for
contribution to environmental issues; Channel 4 Opposition MP of the Year Award,
2002; RSPCA Lord Erskine Award in recognition of his campaigning in the field of
animal welfare, 2003

LEWISHAM DEPTFORD

Lab hold

Electorate 59,018 (62,869)%Vote *Ruddock, J (Lab)16,90255.61 Blango, C
(LD)5,09116.75 Cartlidge, J (C)3,77312.41 Johnson, D (Green)3,36711.08 Page, I
(Soc Alt)7422.44 Holland, D (UKIP)5181.70 Lab majority11,81138.86 Total vote
30,393Turnout 51.50% Swing Lab to LD 7.21 2001: Total vote 29,107 (46.30%) -Lab
18,915 (64.98%); C 3,622 (12.44%); LD 3,409 (11.71%); Green 1,901 (6.53%); Soc
All 1,260 (4.33%); Lab Maj 15,293 (52.54%).

Joan Ruddock 61 Elected 1987. Modernisation Committee member; Honorary secretary
of the Women's Parliamentary Labour Party; Chair, CND 1981-85. Ed: Imperial
College, London

LEWISHAM EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 59,135 (58,302)%Vote *Prentice, B (Lab)14,26345.82 Cleverly, J
(C)7,51224.13 Thomas, R (LD)6,78721.80 Baker, A (Green)1,2433.99 Tarling, A (
UKIP)6972.24 Franklin, B (NF)6252.01 Lab majority6,75121.69 Total vote
31,127Turnout 52.64% Swing Lab to C 4.12 2001: Total vote 30,084 (51.60%) -Lab
16,160 (53.72%); C 7,157 (23.79%); LD 4,937 (16.41%); BNP 1,005 (3.34%); Soc All
464 (1.54%); UKIP 361 (1.20%); Lab Maj 9,003 (29.93%).

Bridget Prentice 52 Elected 1992. Assistant government whip; joint private
secretary to Lord Irvine of Lairg, the Lord Chancellor, 1999-2003. Ed: Glasgow
and London universities

LEWISHAM WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 58,349 (60,947)%Vote *Dowd, J (Lab)16,61152.03 Feakes, A
(LD)6,67920.92 McAnuff, E (C)6,39620.04 Long, N (Green)1,4644.59 Winton, J (UKIP
)7732.42 Lab majority9,93231.11 Total vote 31,923Turnout 54.71% Swing Lab to LD
8.25 2001: Total vote 30,815 (50.56%) -Lab 18,816 (61.06%); C 6,896 (22.38%); LD
4,146 (13.45%); UKIP 485 (1.57%); Ind 472 (1.53%); Lab Maj 11,920 (38.68%).

Jim Dowd 54 Telecoms engineer, elected 1992. Member of the health committee;
government whip. Senior negotiator for ASTMS and MSF.

Ed: Sedgehill Comp, London; London Nautical School

LEYTON & WANSTEAD

Lab hold

Electorate 60,444 (61,549)%Vote *Cohen, H (Lab)15,23445.78 Khan, M
(LD)8,37725.18 Foster, J (C)7,39322.22 Gunstock, A (Green)1,5234.58 Jones, N (
UKIP)5911.78 Robertson, M (Ind)1550.47 Lab majority6,85720.61 Total vote
33,273Turnout 55.05% Swing Lab to LD 10.71 2001: Total vote 33,718 (54.78%) -Lab
19,558 (58.00%); C 6,654 (19.73%); LD 5,389 (15.98%); Green 1,030 (3.05%); Soc
All 709 (2.10%); UKIP 378 (1.12%); Lab Maj 12,904 (38.27%).

Harry Cohen 55 Elected to this seat 1997; Member, Defence Select Cttee 1997
2001; secretary all-party race and community parliamentary group since 1997. Ed:
East Ham FE College; Birkbeck College, London

LICHFIELD

C hold

Electorate 65,565 (63,794)%Vote *Fabricant, M (C)21,27448.63 Gardner, N
(Lab)14,19432.45 Jackson, I (LD)6,80415.55 McKenzie, M (UKIP)1,4723.37 C
majority7,08016.19 Total vote 43,744Turnout 66.72% Swing Lab to C 2.78 2001:
Total vote 41,680 (65.34%) -C 20,480 (49.14%); Lab 16,054 (38.52%); LD 4,462
(10.71%); UKIP 684 (1.64%); C Maj 4,426 (10.62%).

Michael Fabricant 54 Elected to this seat 1997. Shadow minister, Trade and
Industry. Member of the Culture, Media and Sport committee; Member, Home Affairs
Select Committee.

Ed: Loughborough and London Unis

LINCOLN

Lab hold

Electorate 65,203 (66,299)%Vote *Merron, G (Lab)16,72445.38 McCartney, K
(C)12,11032.86 Gabriel, L (LD)6,71518.22 Smith, N (UKIP)1,3083.55 Lab
majority4,61412.52 Total vote 36,857Turnout 56.53% Swing Lab to C 5.08 2001:
Total vote 37,125 (56.00%) -Lab 20,003 (53.88%); C 11,583 (31.20%); LD 4,703
(12.67%); UKIP 836 (2.25%); Lab Maj 8,420 (22.68%).

Gillian Merron 45 Elected 1997. Government whip; PPS to John Reid; Backbench
committees include chair East Midlands group of Labour MPs 1999. Ed: Lancaster
University

LINLITHGOW & FALKIRK EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 76,739 (82.60% BC)%Vote Connarty, M (Lab)22,12147.69 Guthrie, G
(SNP)10,91923.54 Glenn, S (LD)7,10015.31 Veitch, M (C)5,48611.83 Hendry, A
(SSP)7631.64 Lab majority11,20224.15 Total vote 46,389Turnout 60.45% Swing Lab
to SNP 1.16 2001: Total vote 44,578 (56.66%) -Lab 23,104 (51.83%); SNP 11,308
(25.37%); LD 4,505 (10.11%); C 4,362 (9.79%); SSP 920 (2.06%); Others 379
(0.85%); Lab Maj 11,796 (26.46%).

Michael Connarty 57 Former teacher. Elected Falkirk East, 1992. Member,
Co-operative Party, T&G, Education Institute of Scotland and Socialist Education
Association. Ed: Uni of Stirling; Uni of Glasgow

LIVERPOOL GARSTON

Lab hold

Electorate 63,669 (65,094)%Vote *Eagle, M (Lab)18,90054.04 Keaveney, P
(LD)11,70733.47 Rudd, A (C)3,4249.79 Kearney, K (UKIP)7802.23 Oatley, D
(WRP)1630.47 Lab majority7,19320.57 Total vote 34,974Turnout 54.93% Swing Lab to
LD 8.85 2001: Total vote 32,651 (50.16%) -Lab 20,043 (61.39%); LD 7,549
(23.12%); C 5,059 (15.49%); Lab Maj 12,494 (38.27%).

Maria Eagle 44 Solicitor, elected 1997. Parliamentary secretary, Department for
Work and Pensions; private secretary to John Hutton, Health Minister, 1999 2001.

Ed: Pembroke College, Oxford

LIVERPOOL RIVERSIDE

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 75,171 (74,827)%Vote *Ellman, L (Lab Co-op)17,95157.55 Marbrow, R
(LD)7,73724.81 Howatson, G (C)2,8439.11 Cranie, P (Green)1,7075.47 Marshall, B
(Soc Lab)4981.60 Irving, A (UKIP)4551.46 Lab Co-op majority10,21432.75 Total
vote 31,191Turnout 41.49% Swing Lab Co-op to LD 10.98 2001: Total vote 25,503
(34.08%) -Lab Co-op 18,201 (71.37%); LD 4,251 (16.67%); C 2,142 (8.40%); Soc All
909 (3.56%); Lab Co-op Maj 13,950 (54.70%).

Louise Ellman 59 Elected 1997. Member of the Transport committee; member,
Environment Select Committee; chair, PLP regional govt group; chair, Israel
group.

Ed: Hull University; York University

LIVERPOOL WALTON

Lab hold

Electorate 62,044 (66,237)%Vote *Kilfoyle, P (Lab)20,32272.76 Reid, K
(LD)4,36515.63 Buckle, S (C)1,6555.93 Moran, J (UKIP)1,1083.97 Wood, D
(Lib)4801.72 Lab majority15,95757.13 Total vote 27,930Turnout 45.02% Swing Lab
to LD 3.05 2001: Total vote 28,458 (42.96%) -Lab 22,143 (77.81%); LD 4,147
(14.57%); C 1,726 (6.07%); UKIP 442 (1.55%); Lab Maj 17,996 (63.24%).

Peter Kilfoyle 58 Elected 1991. Under Secretary for Defence 1999-2000; Under
Secretary of State for Public Service 1997-99. Ed: St Edwards College,
Liverpool; Durham University; Christ's College, Liverpool

LIVERPOOL WAVERTREE

Lab hold

Electorate 69,189 (72,555)%Vote *Kennedy, J (Lab)18,44152.43 Eldridge, C
(LD)13,26837.72 Steen, J (C)2,3316.63 Bill, M (UKIP)6601.88 Theys, G (Soc
Lab)2440.69 Filby, P (Dem Soc All)2270.65 Lab majority5,17314.71 Total vote
35,171Turnout 50.83% Swing Lab to LD 11.81 2001: Total vote 32,138 (44.29%) -Lab
20,155 (62.71%); LD 7,836 (24.38%); C 3,091 (9.62%); Soc Lab 359 (1.12%); Soc
All 349 (1.09%); UKIP 348 (1.08%); Lab Maj 12,319 (38.33%).

Jane Kennedy 46 Former care assistant, elected 1997. Minister of State,
Department of Work and Pensions; member, Criminal Justice Standing Committee. Ed
(inc): Haughton Comp; Liverpool University

LIVERPOOL WEST DERBY

Lab hold

Electorate 64,591 (67,921)%Vote *Wareing, R (Lab)19,14062.83 Maloney, P
(LD)3,91512.85 Radford, S (Lib)3,60611.84 Garrett, P (C)2,5678.43 Andersen, K
(Soc Lab)6982.29 Baden, P (UKIP)5381.77 Lab majority15,22549.98 Total vote
30,464Turnout 47.16% Swing Lab to LD 2.66 2001: Total vote 30,907 (45.50%) -Lab
20,454 (66.18%); Lib 4,601 (14.89%); LD 3,366 (10.89%); C 2,486 (8.04%); Lab Maj
15,853 (51.29%).

Robert Wareing 74 Former lecturer, elected 1983. Labour whip (foreign affairs)
1987-92; member, Foreign Affairs, Trade and Industry & Treasury backbench
committees. Ed: Bolton College of Education; London Uni

LIVINGSTON

Lab hold

Electorate 76,353 (17.10% BC)%Vote Cook, R (Lab)22,65751.10 Constance, A
(SNP)9,56021.56 Dundas, C (LD)6,83215.41 Ross, A (C)4,49910.15 Nimmo, S
(SSP)7891.78 Lab majority13,09729.54 Total vote 44,337Turnout 58.07% Swing Lab
to SNP 1.17 2001: Total vote 42,780 (56.07%) -Lab 23,622 (55.22%); SNP 9,984
(23.34%); LD 4,224 (9.87%); C 3,257 (7.61%); SSP 1,292 (3.02%); Others 401
(0.94%); Lab Maj 13,638 (31.88%).

Robin Cook 59 Elected to this seat 1983. Leader of the House of Commons 2001 03;
resigned over Iraq war. Foreign Secretary 1997-2001; Ed: Aberdeen Grammar;
Edinburgh University.

LLANELLI

Lab hold

Electorate 55,678 (58,148)%Vote Griffith, N (Lab)16,59246.94 Baker, N
(PC)9,35826.48 Phillips, A (C)4,84413.71 Rees, K (LD)4,55012.87 Lab
majority7,23420.47 Total vote 35,344Turnout 63.48% Swing PC to Lab 1.39 2001:
Total vote 36,198 (62.25%) -Lab 17,586 (48.58%); PC 11,183 (30.89%); C 3,442
(9.51%); LD 3,065 (8.47%); Green 515 (1.42%); Soc Lab 407 (1.12%); Lab Maj 6,403
(17.69%).

Nia Griffith 48 Welsh-speaker, head of languages at Morriston Comprehensive
School, Swansea. Secretary of the Carmarthenshire County Labour Party. Sheriff
of Carmarthen, 1997; Deputy Mayor, 1998

LONDONDERRY EAST

DUP hold

Electorate 58,861 (60,276)%Vote *Campbell, G (DUP)15,22542.88 McClarty, D
(UUP)7,49821.12 Dallat, J (SDLP)6,07717.12 Leonard, B (SF)5,70916.08 Boyle, Y
(Alliance)9242.60 Samuel, M (Ind)710.20 DUP majority7,72721.76 Total vote
35,504Turnout 60.32% Swing UUP to DUP 8.50 2001: Total vote 39,869 (66.14%) -DUP
12,813 (32.14%); UUP 10,912 (27.37%); SDLP 8,298 (20.81%); SF 6,221 (15.60%);
Alliance 1,625 (4.08%); DUP Maj 1,901 (4.77%).

Gregory Campbell 52 Elected 2001. Member of the Transport committee since 2002;
elected to the new Northern Ireland Assembly 1998.

Ed: London Technical College and Magee University College

LOUGHBOROUGH

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 72,351 (70,077)%Vote *Reed, A (Lab Co-op)19,09841.39 Morgan, N
(C)17,10237.07 Smith, G (LD)8,25817.90 Sherratt, B (UKIP)1,0942.37 McVay, J
(Veritas)5881.27 Lab Co-op majority1,9964.33 Total vote 46,140Turnout 63.77%
Swing Lab Co-op to C 5.04 2001: Total vote 44,254 (63.15%) -Lab Co-op 22,016
(49.75%); C 15,638 (35.34%); LD 5,667 (12.81%); UKIP 933 (2.11%); Lab Co-op Maj
6,378 (14.41%).

Andrew Reed 40 Elected 1997. PPS to Margaret Beckett, Secretary of State for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs; vice-chair East Mids Group of Labour MPs.
Ed: Longslade Community College; Leicester Poly

LOUTH & HORNCASTLE

C hold

Electorate 75,313 (71,556)%Vote *Tapsell, P (C)21,74446.58 Hodgkiss, F
(Lab)11,84825.38 Martin, F (LD)9,48020.31 Pain, C (UKIP)3,6117.74 C
majority9,89621.20 Total vote 46,683Turnout 61.99% Swing Lab to C 2.10 2001:
Total vote 44,460 (62.13%) -C 21,543 (48.45%); Lab 13,989 (31.46%); LD 8,928
(20.08%); C Maj 7,554 (16.99%).

Sir Peter Tapsell 75 Elected to this seat 1997. Tory Spokesman on the Treasury
1977-78, Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs 1976-77. PA to Anthony Eden during the
1955 election. Ed: Merton College Oxford

LUDLOW

C gain

Electorate 64,572 (63,053)%Vote Dunne, P (C)20,97945.08 *Green, M
(LD)18,95240.72 Knowles, N (Lab)4,97410.69 Gaffney, J (Green)8521.83 Zuckerman,
M (UKIP)7831.68 C majority2,0274.36 Total vote 46,540Turnout 72.07% Swing LD to
C 4.07 2001: Total vote 43,124 (68.39%) -LD 18,620 (43.18%); C 16,990 (39.40%);
Lab 5,785 (13.41%); Green 871 (2.02%); UKIP 858 (1.99%); LD Maj 1,630 (3.78%).

Philip Dunne Chairman of Ottaker's bookshops. Cllr, South Shropshire District
Council; director, Juvenile Diabetes Reasearch Foundation. Ed: Oxford Uni (PPE)

LUTON NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 68,175 (65,998)%Vote *Hopkins, K (Lab)19,06248.72 Hall, H
(C)12,57532.14 Jack, L (LD)6,08115.54 Brown, C (UKIP)1,2553.21 Gurney, K
(Forum)1490.38 Lab majority6,48716.58 Total vote 39,122Turnout 57.38% Swing Lab
to C 4.46 2001: Total vote 39,126 (59.28%) -Lab 22,187 (56.71%); C 12,210
(31.21%); LD 3,795 (9.70%); UKIP 934 (2.39%); Lab Maj 9,977 (25.50%).

Kelvin Hopkins 63 Former economist, elected to this seat 1997. Select Committee
on Commons Services: adviser on yachting to Richard Caborn as Minister of State
for Sport.

Ed: Barnet; Nottingham Uni

LUTON SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 71,949 (68,985)%Vote *Moran, M (Lab)16,61042.68 Stay, R
(C)10,96028.16 Hussain, Q (LD)8,77822.56 Lawman, C (UKIP)9572.46 Scheimann, M
(Green)7902.03 Ilyas, M (Respect)7251.86 Lynn, A (WRP)980.25 Lab
majority5,65014.52 Total vote 38,918Turnout 54.09% Swing Lab to C 5.62 2001:
Total vote 39,351 (57.04%) -Lab 21,719 (55.19%); C 11,586 (29.44%); LD 4,292
(10.91%); Green 798 (2.03%); UKIP 578 (1.47%); Soc All 271 (0.69%); WRP 107
(0.27%); Lab Maj 10,133 (25.75%).

Margaret Moran 49 Elected 1997. Assistant government whip; PPS to Baroness
Morgan 2001-03; member, all-party group on domestic violence. Ed: Birmingham
University

M

MACCLESFIELD

C hold

Electorate 72,267 (73,123)%Vote *Winterton, N (C)22,62849.60 Carter, S
(Lab)13,22728.99 O'Brien, C (LD)8,91819.55 Scott, J (Veritas)8481.86 C
majority9,40120.61 Total vote 45,621Turnout 63.13% Swing Lab to C 2.41 2001:
Total vote 45,585 (62.34%) -C 22,284 (48.88%); Lab 15,084 (33.09%); LD 8,217
(18.03%); C Maj 7,200 (15.79%).

Nicholas Winterton 67 Former sales manager, elected 1971. Select Committees inc:
Chairmen's Panel; Modernisation of Commons; Procedure. Ed: Rugby

MAIDENHEAD

C hold

Electorate 63,978 (68,130)%Vote *May, T (C)23,31250.84 Newbound, K
(LD)17,08137.25 Pritchard, J (Lab)4,1449.04 Rait, T (BNP)7041.54 Lewis, D (UKIP
)6091.33 C majority6,23113.59 Total vote 45,850Turnout 71.67% Swing LD to C 3.00
2001: Total vote 43,318 (63.58%) -C 19,506 (45.03%); LD 16,222 (37.45%); Lab
6,577 (15.18%); UKIP 741 (1.71%); Loony 272 (0.63%); C Maj 3,284 (7.58%).

Theresa May 48 Elected 1997. Shadow Sec of State for the Family; Shadow Env and
Transport Secretary 2003-04; chair, Conservative Party 2002-03. Ed: Wheatley
Park Comp, Oxfordshire; St Hugh's College, Oxford.

MAIDSTONE & THE WEALD

C hold

Electorate 74,054 (74,002)%Vote *Widdecombe, A (C)25,67052.65 Breeze, B
(Lab)10,81422.18 Corney, M (LD)10,80822.17 Robertson, A (UKIP)1,4633.00 C
majority14,85630.47 Total vote 48,755Turnout 65.84% Swing Lab to C 3.92 2001:
Total vote 45,577 (61.59%) -C 22,621 (49.63%); Lab 12,303 (26.99%); LD 9,064
(19.89%); UKIP 978 (2.15%); Ind 611 (1.34%); C Maj 10,318 (22.64%).

Ann Widdecombe 57 Elected 1997. Member, Chairman's Panel; Shadow Home Secretary
1999-2001; Home Office Minister for Prisons 1995-97; Ed: Birmingham University;
Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford

MAKERFIELD

Lab hold

Electorate 69,039 (68,457)%Vote *McCartney, I (Lab)22,49463.22 Ranger, K
(C)4,34512.21 Beswick, T (LD)3,78910.65 Franzen, P (CAP)2,7697.78 Shambley, D
(BNP)1,2213.43 Atherton, G (UKIP)9622.70 Lab majority18,14951.01 Total vote
35,580Turnout 51.54% Swing C to Lab 0.04 2001: Total vote 34,856 (50.92%) -Lab
23,879 (68.51%); C 6,129 (17.58%); LD 3,990 (11.45%); Soc All 858 (2.46%); Lab
Maj 17,750 (50.92%).

Ian McCartney 53 Elected 1987. Labour Party Chairman; Formerly Minister for
Pensions,Minister of State, Cabinet Office 1999-2001.

Ed: Langside Coll, Glasgow; Merchant Navy Sea Training Coll, Gravesend

MALDON & CHELMSFORD EAST

C hold

Electorate 69,502 (69,201)%Vote *Whittingdale, J (C)23,73251.49 Tibballs, S
(Lab)11,15924.21 Lambert, M (LD)9,27020.11 Pryke, J (UKIP)1,9304.19 C
majority12,57327.28 Total vote 46,091Turnout 66.32% Swing Lab to C 4.05 2001:
Total vote 44,100 (63.73%) -C 21,719 (49.25%); Lab 13,257 (30.06%); LD 7,002
(15.88%); UKIP 1,135 (2.57%); Green 987 (2.24%); C Maj 8,462 (19.19%).

John Whittingdale 45 Elected 1997. Opposition Spokesman on Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food; Private Secretary to William Hague 1999-2001; PPS to
Margaret Thatcher (1988-92). Ed: UCL

MANCHESTER BLACKLEY

Lab hold

Electorate 60,229 (59,111)%Vote *Stringer, G (Lab)17,18762.29 Donaldson, I
(LD)5,16018.70 Ahmed, A (C)3,69013.37 Bullock, R (UKIP)1,5545.63 Lab
majority12,02743.59 Total vote 27,591Turnout 45.81% Swing Lab to LD 6.99 2001:
Total vote 26,523 (44.87%) -Lab 18,285 (68.94%); C 3,821 (14.41%); LD 3,015
(11.37%); Soc Lab 485 (1.83%); Soc All 461 (1.74%); Anti-Corrupt 456 (1.72%);
Lab Maj 14,464 (54.53%).

Graham Stringer 55 A former chemist, elected 1997. Member, Transport Select
Committee; government whip 2001-02; vice-chair, all-party aviation group. Ed:
Moston Brook High School; Sheffield University

MANCHESTER CENTRAL

Lab hold

Electorate 69,656 (66,268)%Vote *Lloyd, T (Lab)16,99358.07 Ramsbottom, M
(LD)7,21724.66 Jackson, T (C)2,5048.56 Durrant, S (Green)1,2924.41 Kemp, R
(NF)4211.44 O'Connor, D (Ind Pr Lab)3821.31 Whittaker, J (UKIP)2720.93 Sinclair,
R (Soc Lab)1830.63 Lab majority9,77633.41 Total vote 29,264Turnout 42.01% Swing
Lab to LD 9.80

2001: Total vote 25,928 (39.13%) -Lab 17,812 (68.70%); LD 4,070 (15.70%); C
2,328 (8.98%); Green 1,018 (3.93%); Soc Lab 484 (1.87%); ProLife 216 (0.83%);
Lab Maj 13,742 (53.00%).

Tony Lloyd 55 Elected to this seat 1997. Minister of State, Foreign Office,
1997-99; Labour Spokesman on Foreign Affairs 1995-97.

Ed: Stretford grammar; Nottingham University

MANCHESTER GORTON

Lab hold

Electorate 64,696 (63,834)%Vote *Kaufman, G (Lab)15,48053.15 Afzal, Q
(LD)9,67233.21 Byrne, A (C)2,8489.78 Beaman, G (UKIP)7832.69 Waller, D
(WRP)1810.62 Kay, M (The RP)1590.55 Lab majority5,80819.94 Total vote
29,123Turnout 45.02% Swing Lab to LD 10.79 2001: Total vote 27,229 (42.66%) -Lab
17,099 (62.80%); LD 5,795 (21.28%); C 2,705 (9.93%); Green 835 (3.07%); UKIP 462
(1.70%); Soc Lab 333 (1.22%); Lab Maj 11,304 (41.51%).

Gerald Kaufman 74 Elected 1983. Chairman, Culture, Media and Sport Select
Committee; vice-president all-party anti-Semitism group. Ed: Leeds Grammar;
Queen's College, Oxford

MANCHESTER WITHINGTON

LD gain

Electorate 67,781 (67,480)%Vote Leech, J (LD)15,87242.37 *Bradley, K
(Lab)15,20540.59 Bradley, K (C)3,91910.46 Candeland, B (Green)1,5954.26
Gutfreund-Walmsley, R (UKIP)4241.13 Benett, I (Ind)2430.65 Zalzala, Y (Ind
Z)1530.41 Reed, R (TP)470.13 LD majority6671.78 Total vote 37,458Turnout 55.26%
Swing Lab to LD 17.33 2001: Total vote 35,050 (51.94%) -Lab 19,239 (54.89%); LD
7,715 (22.01%); C 5,349 (15.26%); Green 1,539 (4.39%); Soc All 1,208 (3.45%);
Lab Maj 11,524 (32.88%).

John Leech 34 Deputy Liberal Democrat leader, Manchester City Council. Member,
Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority. Amateur dramatics enthusiast. Ed:
Manchester Grammar, Loretto College and Brunel University

MANSFIELD

Lab hold

Electorate 69,131 (66,748)%Vote *Meale, A (Lab)18,40048.07 Wright, A
(C)7,03518.38 Rickersey, S (Ind)6,49116.96 Shelley, R (LD)5,31613.89 Harvey, M
(Veritas)1,0342.70 Lab majority11,36529.69 Total vote 38,276Turnout 55.37% Swing
Lab to C 0.13 2001: Total vote 36,852 (55.21%) -Lab 21,050 (57.12%); C 10,012
(27.17%); LD 5,790 (15.71%); Lab Maj 11,038 (29.95%).

Alan Meale 55 Former author, editor, elected 1987. Junior Minister, Department
of Environment, Transport and the Regions 1998-99.

Ed: Ruskin College, Oxford

MEDWAY

Lab hold

Electorate 67,251 (64,930)%Vote *Marshall-Andrews, B (Lab)17,33342.18 Reckless,
M (C)17,12041.66 Juby, G (LD)5,15212.54 Oakley, R (UKIP)1,4883.62 Lab
majority2130.52 Total vote 41,093Turnout 61.10% Swing Lab to C 4.64 2001: Total
vote 38,610 (59.46%) -Lab 18,914 (48.99%); C 15,134 (39.20%); LD 3,604 (9.33%);
UKIP 958 (2.48%); Lab Maj 3,780 (9.79%).

Robert Marshall-Andrews 60 QC, elected 1997. Member, Consolidation Bills Select
Committee; member, Association of Labour Lawyers; trustee, Adamson Wildlife
Trust.

Ed: Mill Hill School; Bristol University

MEIRIONNYDD NANT CONWY

PC hold

Electorate 33,443 (33,175)%Vote *Llwyd, E (PC)10,59751.34 Jones, R
(Lab)3,98319.30 Munford, D (C)3,40216.48 Fawcett, A (LD)2,19210.62 Wykes, F (
UKIP)4662.26 PC majority6,61432.04 Total vote 20,640Turnout 61.72% Swing Lab to
PC 2.53 2001: Total vote 21,068 (63.51%) -PC 10,459 (49.64%); Lab 4,775
(22.66%); C 3,962 (18.81%); LD 1,872 (8.89%); PC Maj 5,684 (26.98%).

Elfyn Llwyd 53 Solicitor, elected 1992. Plaid Cymru parliamentary leader;
parliamentary whip; Spokesman for Housing and Local Government, home affairs,
tourism.

Ed: University of Wales, Aberystwyth

MERIDEN

C hold

Electorate 77,342 (74,439)%Vote *Spelman, C (C)22,41648.20 Brown, J
(Lab)15,40733.13 Laitinen, W (LD)7,11315.30 Brookes, D (UKIP)1,5673.37 C
majority7,00915.07 Total vote 46,503Turnout 60.13% Swing Lab to C 3.29 2001:
Total vote 44,559 (59.86%) -C 21,246 (47.68%); Lab 17,462 (39.19%); LD 4,941
(11.09%); UKIP 910 (2.04%); C Maj 3,784 (8.49%).

Caroline Spelman 46 Elected to this seat 1997. Opposition spokeswoman, local and
devolved government; all-party groups inc: poverty, warm homes. Ed: Queen Mary
College London University

MERTHYR TYDFIL & RHYMNEY

Lab hold

Electorate 54,579 (55,368)%Vote *Havard, D (Lab)18,12960.48 Rees, C
(LD)4,19513.99 Turner, N (PC)2,9729.91 Berry, R (C)2,6808.94 Greer, N
(FWP)1,0303.44 Parry, G (UKIP)6992.33 Marsden, I (Soc Lab)2710.90 Lab
majority13,93446.48 Total vote 29,976Turnout 54.92% Swing Lab to LD 3.88 2001:
Total vote 31,684 (57.22%) -Lab 19,574 (61.78%); PC 4,651 (14.68%); LD 2,385
(7.53%); C 2,272 (7.17%); Ind 1,936 (6.11%); Soc Lab 692 (2.18%); ProLife 174
(0.55%); Lab Maj 14,923 (47.10%).

Dai Havard 54 Inherited the seat from Ted Rowlands. Member of the Defence
committee since 2003; secretary, MSF union and a member of Co-operative Party.
Ed: St Peters College, Birmingham; Warwick Uni

MIDDLESBROUGH

Lab hold

Electorate 65,924 (67,659)%Vote *Bell, S (Lab)18,56257.75 Michna, J
(LD)5,99518.65 Flynn-Macleod, C (C)5,26316.38 Armes, R (BNP)8192.55 Landers, M (
UKIP)7682.39 Elder, J (Ind)5031.57 Arnott, D (ND)2300.72 Lab majority12,56739.10
Total vote 32,140Turnout 48.75% Swing Lab to LD 9.03 2001: Total vote 33,717
(49.83%) -Lab 22,783 (67.57%); C 6,453 (19.14%); LD 3,512 (10.42%); Soc All 577
(1.71%); Soc Lab 392 (1.16%); Lab Maj 16,330 (48.43%).

Stuart Bell 66 Elected 1983. Chairman of the Finance and Services committee;
member, Liaison committee; chairman, parliamentary Jordanian group. Ed:
Hookergate grammar, Durham; Pitmans College

MIDDLESBROUGH SOUTH & CLEVELAND EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 71,883 (71,485)%Vote *Kumar, A (Lab)21,94550.22 Brooks, M
(C)13,94531.91 Minns, C (LD)6,04913.84 Groves, G (BNP)1,0992.52 Bull, C (UKIP
)6581.51 Lab majority8,00018.31 Total vote 43,696Turnout 60.79% Swing Lab to C
1.47 2001: Total vote 43,991 (61.54%) -Lab 24,321 (55.29%); C 14,970 (34.03%);
LD 4,700 (10.68%); Lab Maj 9,351 (21.26%).

Ashok Kumar 48 Elected 1997. PPS to Hilary Benn, International Development
Minister; member, Science and Technology Select Committee. Ed: Aston University,
Birmingham; Imperial College London

MIDLOTHIAN

Lab hold

Electorate 60,644 (27.40% BC)%Vote Hamilton, D (Lab)17,15345.49 Mackintosh, F
(LD)9,88826.23 Beattie, C (SNP)6,40016.97 McGill, I (C)3,5379.38 Gilfillan, N
(SSP)7261.93 Lab majority7,26519.27 Total vote 37,704Turnout 62.17% Swing Lab to
LD 6.98 2001: Total vote 38,402 (61.16%) -Lab 19,397 (50.51%); SNP 7,380
(19.22%); LD 6,633 (17.27%); C 3,536 (9.21%); SSP 1,185 (3.09%); Others 271
(0.71%); Lab Maj 12,017 (31.29%).

David Hamilton 54 Former miner. Member of the Scottish Affairs committee since
2003; member, Work and Pensions committee.

Ed: Dalkeith High School

MILTON KEYNES NORTH EAST

C gain

Electorate 78,758 (75,526)%Vote Lancaster, M (C)19,67439.27 *White, B
(Lab)18,00935.94 Carr, J (LD)9,78919.54 Phillips, M (UKIP)1,4002.79 Richardson,
G (Green)1,0902.18 Vyas, A (Ind)1420.28 C majority1,6653.32 Total vote
50,104Turnout 63.62% Swing Lab to C 3.60 2001: Total vote 47,094 (62.35%) -Lab
19,761 (41.96%); C 17,932 (38.08%); LD 8,375 (17.78%); UKIP 1,026 (2.18%); Lab
Maj 1,829 (3.88%).

Mark Lancaster 34 Director Kimbolton Fireworks; major, Royal Engineers (TA).

Contested Nuneaton 2001. Cllr, Huntingdon District Council, 1990-99. former
officer, Royal Engineers. Ed: Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst; Buckingham &
Exeter Unis

MILTON KEYNES SOUTH WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 82,228 (76,607)%Vote *Starkey, P (Lab)20,86242.83 Stewart, I
(C)16,85234.60 Stuart, N (LD)7,90916.24 Harlock, G (UKIP)1,7503.59 Francis, A
(Green)1,3362.74 Lab majority4,0108.23 Total vote 48,709Turnout 59.24% Swing Lab
to C 3.57 2001: Total vote 45,384 (59.24%) -Lab 22,484 (49.54%); C 15,506
(34.17%); LD 4,828 (10.64%); Green 957 (2.11%); UKIP 848 (1.87%); LCA 500
(1.10%); Soc All 261 (0.58%); Lab Maj 6,978 (15.38%).

Phyllis Starkey 58 Former lecturer, elected 1997. PPS to Denis MacShane,
Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office. Member, Foreign Affairs
Select Committee.

Ed: Clare Hall, Cambridge

MITCHAM & MORDEN

Lab hold

Electorate 65,172 (65,671)%Vote *McDonagh, S (Lab)22,48956.41 Shellhorn, A
(C)9,92924.90 Christie-Smith, J (LD)5,58314.00 Walsh, T (Green)1,3953.50
Roberts, A (Veritas)2860.72 Alagaratnam, R (ND)1860.47 Lab majority12,56031.50
Total vote 39,868Turnout 61.17% Swing Lab to C 2.40 2001: Total vote 37,961
(57.80%) -Lab 22,936 (60.42%); C 9,151 (24.11%); LD 3,820 (10.06%); Green 926
(2.44%); BNP 642 (1.69%); UKIP 486 (1.28%); Lab Maj 13,785 (36.31%).

Siobhain McDonagh 45 Elected 1997. Member, Health Select Committee; backbench
committees include Leadership Campaign Team, social security; all-party groups
include charities. Ed: Essex University

MOLE VALLEY

C hold

Electorate 68,181 (67,770)%Vote *Beresford, P (C)27,06054.76 Butt, N
(LD)15,06330.48 Bi, F (Lab)5,31010.75 Payne, D (UKIP)1,4752.98 Meekins, R
(Veritas)5071.03 C majority11,99724.28 Total vote 49,415Turnout 72.48% Swing LD
to C 1.35 2001: Total vote 47,072 (69.46%) -C 23,790 (50.54%); LD 13,637
(28.97%); Lab 7,837 (16.65%); UKIP 1,333 (2.83%); ProLife 475 (1.01%); C Maj
10,153 (21.57%).

Sir Paul Beresford 58 Elected 1997. Member, Select Committees on the Office of
the Deputy Prime Minister, & Procedure. Ed (inc): Otago Uni, New Zealand; London
University

MONMOUTH

C gain

Electorate 63,093 (62,202)%Vote Davies, D (C)21,39646.87 *Edwards, H
(Lab)16,86936.95 Hobson, P (LD)5,85212.82 Clark, J (PC)9932.18 Bufton, J (UKIP
)5431.19 C majority4,5279.92 Total vote 45,653Turnout 72.36% Swing Lab to C 5.39
2001: Total vote 44,462 (71.48%) -Lab 19,021 (42.78%); C 18,637 (41.92%); LD
5,080 (11.43%); PC 1,068 (2.40%); UKIP 656 (1.48%); Lab Maj 384 (0.86%).

David Davies 34 Contested Bridgend 1997. Deputy leader/business secretary, Welsh
Conservative Party; Opposition Spokesman for Education and Lifelong Learning.

Opposition Chief Whip, 1999-2001.

MONTGOMERYSHIRE

LD hold

Electorate 46,766 (44,243)%Vote *Opik, L (LD)15,41951.23 Baynes, S (C)8,24627.40
Tinline, D (Lab)3,45411.48 ap Gwynn, E (PC)2,0786.90 Easton, C (UKIP)9002.99 LD
majority7,17323.83 Total vote 30,097Turnout 64.36% Swing C to LD 1.16 2001:
Total vote 28,983 (65.51%) -LD 14,319 (49.40%); C 8,085 (27.90%); Lab 3,443
(11.88%); PC 1,969 (6.79%); UKIP 786 (2.71%); ProLife 210 (0.72%); Ind 171
(0.59%); LD Maj 6,234 (21.51%).

Lembit Opik 40 Former training and development manager, elected 1997. Lib Dem
Spokesman, Wales, Northern Ireland and youth affairs since 2001. Ed: Royal
Belfast Academical Inst; Bristol University

MORAY

SNP hold

Electorate 66,463 (10.40% BC)%Vote *Robertson, A (SNP)14,19636.59
Halcro-Johnston, J (C)8,52021.96 Hutchens, K (Lab)7,91920.41 Gorn, L
(LD)7,46019.23 Anderson, N (SSP)6981.80 SNP majority5,67614.63 Total vote
38,793Turnout 58.37% Swing C to SNP 4.07 2001: Total vote 36,590 (57.21%) -SNP
10,756 (29.40%); Lab 8,904 (24.33%); C 8,382 (22.91%); LD 6,570 (17.96%); Others
1,093 (2.99%); SSP 885 (2.42%); SNP Maj 1,852 (5.06%).

Angus Robertson 35 Journalist, inherited seat from Margaret Ewing, who stood
down to concentrate on Scottish Parliament. Member, European Scrutiny Committee.

Ed: Edinburgh and Aberdeen Unis

MORECAMBE & LUNESDALE

Lab hold

Electorate 67,775 (68,607)%Vote *Smith, G (Lab)20,33148.83 Airey, J
(C)15,56337.38 Stone, A (LD)5,74113.79 Lab majority4,76811.45 Total vote
41,635Turnout 61.43% Swing Lab to C 0.39 2001: Total vote 41,655 (60.72%) -Lab
20,646 (49.56%); C 15,554 (37.34%); LD 3,817 (9.16%); UKIP 935 (2.24%); Green
703 (1.69%); Lab Maj 5,092 (12.22%).

Geraldine Smith 53 Former Royal Mail clerical employee, elected 1997. Member,
Science and Technology Committee; all-party groups include coastal, tourism,
ports, older people, seaside. Ed: Morecambe High

MORLEY & ROTHWELL

Lab hold

Electorate 72,248 (71,815)%Vote *Challen, C (Lab)20,57048.41 Vineall, N
(C)8,22719.36 Golton, S (LD)6,81916.05 Finnigan, R (Ind)4,60810.84 Beverley, C
(BNP)2,2715.34 Lab majority12,34329.05 Total vote 42,495Turnout 58.82% Swing Lab
to C 1.20 2001: Total vote 38,442 (53.53%) -Lab 21,919 (57.02%); C 9,829
(25.57%); LD 5,446 (14.17%); UKIP 1,248 (3.25%); Lab Maj 12,090 (31.45%).

Colin Challen 51 Former supply accountant, postman and printer. Member,
Environmental Audit Committee. Ed: Norton Secondary School; Malton Grammar

MOTHERWELL & WISHAW

Lab hold

Electorate 66,987 (27.80% BC)%Vote Roy, F (Lab)21,32757.47 MacQuarrie, I
(SNP)6,10516.45 Snowden, C (LD)4,46412.03 Finnie, P (C)3,4409.27 MacEwan, G
(SSP)1,0192.75 Carter, D (Free Scot)3841.03 Thompson, C (OCV)3701.00 Lab
majority15,22241.02 Total vote 37,109Turnout 55.40% Swing SNP to Lab 2.35 2001:
Total vote 37,929 (56.19%) -Lab 21,535 (56.78%); SNP 7,757 (20.45%); C 3,580
(9.44%); LD 3,297 (8.69%); SSP 1,568 (4.13%); Others 192 (0.51%); Lab Maj 13,778
(36.33%).

Frank Roy 46 Elected 1997. PPS to John Reid, Health Secretary; member, Defence
Committee. Ed: Our Lady's High Sch, Motherwell; Glasgow Caledonian UniversityNa
H-Eleanan an Jar

N

NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR

SNP gain

Electorate 21,576 (21,807)%Vote MacNeil, A (SNP)6,21344.90 *MacDonald, C
(Lab)4,77234.49 Davis, J (LD)1,0967.92 Hargreaves, J (OCV)1,0487.57 Maciver, A
(C)6104.41 Telfer, J (SSP)970.70 SNP majority1,44110.41 Total vote 13,836Turnout
64.13% Swing Lab to SNP 9.29 2001: Total vote 13,159 (60.34%) -Lab 5,924
(45.02%); SNP 4,850 (36.86%); C 1,250 (9.50%); LD 849 (6.45%); SSP 286 (2.17%);
Lab Maj 1,074 (8.16%).

Angus MacNeil 34 Part-time education lecturer. Contested Inverness East, Nairn
and Lochaber 2001. Convener, Locaber branch SNP, 1999. Ed: Strathclyde Uni;
Jordanhill College

NEATH

Lab hold

Electorate 57,607 (56,107)%Vote *Hain, P (Lab)18,83552.59 Owen, G (PC)6,12517.10
Waye, S (LD)5,11214.27 Lloyd Davies, H (C)4,13611.55 Jay, S (Green)6581.84
Brienza, G (Ind)3601.01 Tabram, P (LCA)3340.93 Falconer, H (Respect)2570.72 Lab
majority12,71035.49 Total vote 35,817Turnout 62.17% Swing Lab to PC 3.41 2001:
Total vote 35,020 (62.42%) -Lab 21,253 (60.69%); PC 6,437 (18.38%); LD 3,335
(9.52%); C 3,310 (9.45%); Soc All 483 (1.38%); ProLife 202 (0.58%); Lab Maj
14,816 (42.31%).

Peter Hain 55 Elected 1991. Leader of the Commons, Lord Privy Seal and Secretary
of State for Wales. Ed: Pretoria Boys High; Emanuel School, Wandsworth; Queen
Mary's College , London University; Sussex Uni.

NEW FOREST EAST

C hold

Electorate 68,633 (66,767)%Vote *Lewis, J (C)21,97548.58 Dash, B (LD)15,42434.10
Roberts, S (Lab)5,49212.14 Davies, K (UKIP)2,3445.18 C majority6,55114.48 Total
vote 45,235Turnout 65.91% Swing LD to C 2.70 2001: Total vote 42,178 (63.17%) -C
17,902 (42.44%); LD 14,073 (33.37%); Lab 9,141 (21.67%); UKIP 1,062 (2.52%); C
Maj 3,829 (9.08%).

Julian Lewis 53 Research consultant, elected 1997. Shadow Minister for the
Cabinet Office; member, Welsh Affairs, Defence Select Committees; vice-chair
Foreign Affairs Select Committee. Ed: Balliol and St Antony's College, Oxford

NEW FOREST WEST

C hold

Electorate 69,232 (67,806)%Vote *Swayne, D (C)26,00456.45 Kaushik, M
(LD)8,71918.93 Hurne, J (Lab)7,59016.48 Lawrence, B (UKIP)1,9174.16 Richards, J
(Green)1,8373.99 C majority17,28537.52 Total vote 46,067Turnout 66.54% Swing LD
to C 3.80 2001: Total vote 44,087 (65.02%) -C 24,575 (55.74%); LD 11,384
(25.82%); Lab 6,481 (14.70%); UKIP 1,647 (3.74%); C Maj 13,191 (29.92%).

Desmond Swayne 48 Teacher, bank manager, elected to this seat 1997. PPS to
Michael Howard; Opposition whip 2002-04; member, select committees for Scottish
Affairs and Social Security. Ed: St Andrews University

NEWARK

C hold

Electorate 72,249 (71,089)%Vote *Mercer, P (C)21,94648.03 Reece, J
(Lab)15,48233.88 Thompstone, S (LD)7,27615.92 Creasy, C (UKIP)9922.17 C
majority6,46414.15 Total vote 45,696Turnout 63.25% Swing Lab to C 2.56 2001:
Total vote 45,147 (63.51%) -C 20,983 (46.48%); Lab 16,910 (37.46%); LD 5,970
(13.22%); Ind 822 (1.82%); Soc All 462 (1.02%); C Maj 4,073 (9.02%).

Patrick Mercer 48 Freelance journalist, previously served as an Army officer for
25 years working in Uganda and Ulster. Shadow Minister for Homeland Security.
Ed: King's School, Chester; Oxford University

NEWBURY

C gain

Electorate 75,903 (75,490)%Vote Benyon, R (C)26,77148.97 *Rendel, D
(LD)23,31142.64 Van Nooijen, O (Lab)3,2395.92 McMahon, D (UKIP)8571.57 Cornish,
N (Ind NC)4090.75 Singleton, B (Ind)860.16 C majority3,4606.33 Total vote
54,673Turnout 72.03% Swing LD to C 5.54 2001: Total vote 50,807 (67.30%) -LD
24,507 (48.24%); C 22,092 (43.48%); Lab 3,523 (6.93%); UKIP 685 (1.35%); LD Maj
2,415 (4.75%).

Richard Benyon 44 Land agent chartered surveyor, farmer. Contested Newbury 1997
and 2001. Cllr, Newbury District Council 1991-95; Army 1980-85. Ed: Bradfield
College, Reading; Royal Agricultural College

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME

Lab hold

Electorate 68,414 (65,739)%Vote *Farrelly, P (Lab)18,05345.37 Lefroy, J
(C)9,94524.99 Johnson, T (LD)7,52818.92 Nixon, D (UKIP)1,4363.61 Dawson, J
(BNP)1,3903.49 Dobson, A (Green)9182.31 Harvey-Lover, M (Veritas)5181.30 Lab
majority8,10820.38 Total vote 39,788Turnout 58.16% Swing Lab to C 2.72 2001:
Total vote 38,674 (58.83%) -Lab 20,650 (53.40%); C 10,664 (27.57%); LD 5,993
(15.50%); Ind 773 (2.00%); UKIP 594 (1.54%); Lab Maj 9,986 (25.82%).

Paul Farrelly 43 Former Business journalist for Reuters, Independent on Sunday
and Observer. Ed: St Edmund Hall, Oxford (PPE). Was a key lieutenant in the
guerilla campaign against top-up fees in the first months of 2004.

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE CENTRAL

Lab hold

Electorate 62,734 (67,970)%Vote *Cousins, J (Lab)16,21145.13 Stone, G
(LD)12,22934.05 Morton, W (C)5,74916.01 Hulm, J (Green)1,2543.49 Harding, C
(NACVP)4771.33 Lab majority3,98211.09 Total vote 35,920Turnout 57.26% Swing Lab
to LD 11.10 2001: Total vote 34,870 (51.30%) -Lab 19,169 (54.97%); LD 7,564
(21.69%); C 7,414 (21.26%); Soc Lab 723 (2.07%); Lab Maj 11,605 (33.28%).

Jim Cousins 61 Elected 1987. Member, Treasury Select Committee since 1997; joint
secretary, all-party Insurance and Financial Services group. Labour Spokesman on
Foreign Affairs 1994-95; Ed: New College, Oxford; LSE

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE EAST & Wallsend

Lab hold

Electorate 56,900 (61,494)%Vote *Brown, N (Lab)17,46255.12 Ord, D (LD)9,89731.24
Dias, N (C)3,53211.15 Hopwood, W (Soc Alt)5821.84 Levy, M (Comm Brit)2050.65 Lab
majority7,56523.88 Total vote 31,678Turnout 55.67% Swing Lab to LD 9.81 2001:
Total vote 32,694 (53.17%) -Lab 20,642 (63.14%); LD 6,419 (19.63%); C 3,873
(11.85%); Green 651 (1.99%); Ind 563 (1.72%); Soc Lab 420 (1.28%); Comm 126
(0.39%); Lab Maj 14,223 (43.50%).

Nick Brown 54 Elected 1997. Minister of State, Dept of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food since 1998; member, Select Committee on Selection.

Ed: Swattenden Sec Mod; Tunbridge Wells Tech; Manchester University

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 64,599 (63,208)%Vote *Henderson, D (Lab)19,22450.01 Beadle, R
(LD)12,20131.74 Hudson, N (C)6,02215.66 Wood, R (NF)9972.59 Lab
majority7,02318.27 Total vote 38,444Turnout 59.51% Swing Lab to LD 11.22 2001:
Total vote 36,368 (57.54%) -Lab 21,874 (60.15%); C 7,424 (20.41%); LD 7,070
(19.44%); Lab Maj 14,450 (39.73%).

Doug Henderson 55 Elected 1987. Former Minister for Europe; Defence Minister
1998-99; Labour Spokesman, Home Affairs 1995-97 and public services 1994-95. Ed:
Central Coll, Glasgow, Strathclyde University

NEWPORT EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 54,956 (56,118)%Vote Morden, J (Lab)14,38945.21 Townsend, E
(LD)7,55123.73 Collings, M (C)7,45923.44 Asghar, M (PC)1,2213.84 Thomas, R (UKIP
)9452.97 Screen, L (Soc Lab)2600.82 Lab majority6,83821.49 Total vote
31,825Turnout 57.91% Swing Lab to LD 9.60 2001: Total vote 31,282 (55.74%) -Lab
17,120 (54.73%); C 7,246 (23.16%); LD 4,394 (14.05%); PC 1,519 (4.86%); Soc Lab
420 (1.34%); UKIP 410 (1.31%); Comm 173 (0.55%); Lab Maj 9,874 (31.56%).

Jessica Morden 36. General Secretary, Wales Labour Party. Replaces Alan Howarth.

Managed the party's 2001 general election campaign in Wales and the Welsh
Assembly campaign, 2003

NEWPORT WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 60,287 (59,742)%Vote *Flynn, P (Lab)16,02144.84 Morgan, W
(C)10,56329.56 Flanagan, N (LD)6,39817.91 Salkeld, T (PC)1,2783.58 Moelwyn
Hughes, H (UKIP)8482.37 Varley, P (Green)5401.51 Arjomand, S (Ind)840.24 Lab
majority5,45815.27 Total vote 35,732Turnout 59.27% Swing Lab to C 5.63 2001:
Total vote 35,063 (58.69%) -Lab 18,489 (52.73%); C 9,185 (26.20%); LD 4,095
(11.68%); PC 2,510 (7.16%); UKIP 506 (1.44%); BNP 278 (0.79%); Lab Maj 9,304
(26.54%).

Paul Flynn 70 Former steelworker, elected 1987. Welsh Affairs Spokesman 1987;
Social Security Spokesman 1988-90; all-party groups include drug misuse and
Latvian. Ed: St Illtyd's School; University College, Cardiff

NORFOLK MID

C hold

Electorate 81,738 (74,911)%Vote *Simpson, K (C)23,56443.05 Zeichner, D
(Lab)16,00429.24 Clifford-Jackson, V (LD)12,98823.73 Fletcher, S (UKIP)2,1783.98
C majority7,56013.81 Total vote 54,734Turnout 66.96% Swing Lab to C 2.57 2001:
Total vote 52,548 (70.15%) -C 23,519 (44.76%); Lab 18,957 (36.08%); LD 7,621
(14.50%); UKIP 1,333 (2.54%); Green 1,118 (2.13%); C Maj 4,562 (8.68%).

Keith Simpson 56 Elected 1997; contested Plymouth Devonport 1992; Opposition
Spokesman on Defence (1998-99); Opposition whip, 2000-01. Author of military
history books; Ed: Thorpe grammar; King's Coll London

NORFOLK NORTH

LD hold

Electorate 80,784 (80,061)%Vote *Lamb, N (LD)31,51553.45 Dale, I (C)20,90935.46
Harris, P (Lab)5,4479.24 Agnew, S (UKIP)9781.66 Appleyard, J (Ind)1160.20 LD
majority10,60617.99 Total vote 58,965Turnout 72.99% Swing C to LD 8.56 2001:
Total vote 56,220 (70.22%) -LD 23,978 (42.65%); C 23,495 (41.79%); Lab 7,490
(13.32%); Green 649 (1.15%); UKIP 608 (1.08%); LD Maj 483 (0.86%).

Norman Lamb 47 Employment lawyer, elected 2001. Former Lib Dem Norwich Council
Leader. Ed: Wymondham College, Norfolk; Leicester University; City of London
Polytechnic.

NORFOLK NORTH WEST

C hold

Electorate 82,171 (77,387)%Vote *Bellingham, H (C)25,47150.29 Welfare, D
(Lab)16,29132.16 Higginson, S (LD)7,02613.87 Stone, M (UKIP)1,8613.67 C
majority9,18018.12 Total vote 50,649Turnout 61.64% Swing Lab to C 5.66 2001:
Total vote 51,203 (66.16%) -C 24,846 (48.52%); Lab 21,361 (41.72%); LD 4,292
(8.38%); UKIP 704 (1.37%); C Maj 3,485 (6.81%).

Henry Bellingham 49 MP here from 1983-1997, returned in 2001. Private secretary
to Malcolm Rifkind for seven years. Runs investment consultancy practice. Ed:
Eton; Magdalene College, Cambridge.

NORFOLK SOUTH

C hold

Electorate 85,896 (82,710)%Vote *Bacon, R (C)26,39944.76 Mack, I (LD)17,61729.87
Morgan, J (Lab)13,26222.49 Tye, P (UKIP)1,6962.88 C majority8,78214.89 Total
vote 58,974Turnout 68.66% Swing LD to C 1.28 2001: Total vote 55,929 (67.62%) -C
23,589 (42.18%); LD 16,696 (29.85%); Lab 13,719 (24.53%); Green 1,069 (1.91%);
UKIP 856 (1.53%); C Maj 6,893 (12.32%).

Richard Bacon 42 Financial journalist, deputy director of Management
Consultancies Associations 1994-96, Brunswick Public Relations 1996-99, and MD
of English Word Factory.

Ed: King's School, Worcester, LSE

NORFOLK SOUTH WEST

C hold

Electorate 88,260 (83,903)%Vote Fraser, C (C)25,88146.95 Morgan, C
(Lab)15,79528.65 Pond, A (LD)10,20718.52 Hall, D (UKIP)2,7384.97 Hayes, K
(Ind)5060.92 C majority10,08618.30 Total vote 55,127Turnout 62.46% Swing Lab to
C 0.30 2001: Total vote 52,949 (63.11%) -C 27,633 (52.19%); Lab 18,267 (34.50%);
LD 5,681 (10.73%); UKIP 1,368 (2.58%); C Maj 9,366 (17.69%).

Christopher Fraser 42 MP, Dorset Mid & Poole North, 1997-2001. PPS to Lord
Strathclyde, Leader of the Opposition in the House of Lords, 1998 to 2001.

NORMANTON

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 65,129 (65,392)%Vote Balls, E (Lab Co-op)19,16151.20 Percy, A
(C)9,15924.47 Butterworth, S (LD)6,35716.99 Aveyard, J (BNP)1,9675.26 Harrop, M
(Ind)7802.08 Lab Co-op majority10,00226.73 Total vote 37,424Turnout 57.46% Swing
Lab Co-op to C 1.18 2001: Total vote 34,155 (52.23%) -Lab 19,152 (56.07%); C
9,215 (26.98%); LD 4,990 (14.61%); Soc Lab 798 (2.34%); Lab Maj 9,937 (29.09%).

Ed Balls 38 Former secretary, Labour Party Economic Policy Commission; economic
adviser to Chancellor; chief economic adviser, HM Treasury. Ed: Keble College,
Oxford; JFK School of Government, Harvard

NORTHAMPTON NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 73,926 (74,124)%Vote *Keeble, S (Lab)16,90540.20 Collins, D
(C)12,94530.79 Simpson, A (LD)10,31724.54 Howsam, J (UKIP)1,0502.50 Withrington,
P (SOS)4951.18 Otchie, A (CPA)3360.80 Lab majority3,9609.42 Total vote
42,048Turnout 56.88% Swing Lab to C 4.80 2001: Total vote 41,494 (55.98%) -Lab
20,507 (49.42%); C 12,614 (30.40%); LD 7,363 (17.74%); UKIP 596 (1.44%); Soc All
414 (1.00%); Lab Maj 7,893 (19.02%).

Sally Keeble 49 Journalist and author, daughter of civil service mandarin Sir
Kevin Keeble. Elected 1997; private secretary to Hilary Armstrong. Ed:
Cheltenham Ladies' College; Oxford University

NORTHAMPTON SOUTH

C gain

Electorate 89,722 (85,271)%Vote Binley, B (C)23,81843.72 *Clarke, T
(Lab)19,39935.61 Barron, K (LD)8,32715.28 Clark, D (UKIP)1,0321.89 Green, A
(Veritas)5080.93 Harrisson, J (SOS)4370.80 Percival, J (Loony)3540.65
Fitzpatrick, F (Ind)3460.64 Webb, T (CPA)2600.48 C majority4,4198.11 Total vote
54,481Turnout 60.72% Swing Lab to C 4.92 2001: Total vote 51,029 (59.84%) -Lab
21,882 (42.88%); C 20,997 (41.15%); LD 6,355 (12.45%); UKIP 1,237 (2.42%); LP
362 (0.71%); ProLife 196 (0.38%); Lab Maj 885 (1.73%).

Brian Binley 63 Member, Northamptonshire County Cllr; chair finance and
resources scrutiny cttee. National sales manager Phonotas Services, 1980-87;
founder and chair, BCC Marketing Services

NORTHAVON

LD hold

Electorate 81,800 (78,841)%Vote *Webb, S (LD)30,87252.28 Butt, C (C)19,83933.59
Gardener, P (Lab)6,27710.63 Blake, A (UKIP)1,0321.75 Pinder, A (Green)9221.56
Beacham, T (Ind)1140.19 LD majority11,03318.68 Total vote 59,056Turnout 72.20%
Swing C to LD 0.48 2001: Total vote 55,758 (70.72%) -LD 29,217 (52.40%); C
19,340 (34.69%); Lab 6,450 (11.57%); UKIP 751 (1.35%); LD Maj 9,877 (17.71%).

Steve Webb 39 Professor of social policy at Bath University. elected 1997. Lib
Dem Spokesman for Work and Pensions. Ed: Dartmouth High; Hertford Coll, Oxford

NORWICH NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 76,992 (74,911)%Vote *Gibson, I (Lab)21,09744.86 Tumbridge, J
(C)15,63833.25 Whitmore, R (LD)7,61616.19 Holmes, A (Green)1,2522.66 Youles, J (
UKIP)1,1222.39 Holden, B (Ind)3080.65 Lab majority5,45911.61 Total vote
47,033Turnout 61.09% Swing Lab to C 0.62 2001: Total vote 45,614 (60.89%) -Lab
21,624 (47.41%); C 15,761 (34.55%); LD 6,750 (14.80%); Green 797 (1.75%); UKIP
471 (1.03%); Ind 211 (0.46%); Lab Maj 5,863 (12.85%).

Ian Gibson 66 Elected 1997. Member, Select Committee on Science and Technology
since 1997; all-party groups inc: cancer, science and technology. Ed: Dumfries
Academy; Edinburgh University

NORWICH SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 70,409 (65,792)%Vote *Clarke, C (Lab)15,90437.70 Aalders-Dunthorne, A
(LD)12,25129.04 Little, A (C)9,56722.68 Ramsay, A (Green)3,1017.35 Ahlstrom, V (
UKIP)5971.42 Constable, C (Eng Dem)4661.10 Barnard, D (LCA)2190.52 Blackwell, R
(WRP)850.20 Lab majority3,6538.66 Total vote 42,190Turnout 59.92% Swing Lab to
LD 7.09 2001: Total vote 42,592 (64.74%) -Lab 19,367 (45.47%); C 10,551
(24.77%); LD 9,640 (22.63%); Green 1,434 (3.37%); LCA 620 (1.46%); Soc All 507
(1.19%); UKIP 473 (1.11%); Lab Maj 8,816 (20.70%).

Charles Clarke 54 Home Secretary. Former President National Union of Students,
elected 1997. Former head of Neil Kinnock's private office.

Ed: King's College, Cambridge

NOTTINGHAM EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 60,634 (65,339)%Vote *Heppell, J (Lab)7,78732.32 Ghazni, I
(LD)6,84828.43 Thornton, J (C)6,82628.33 Baxter, A (Green)1,5176.30 Ellwood, A (
UKIP)7403.07 Ratcliff, P (Soc Unity)3731.55 Lab majority9393.90 Total vote
24,091Turnout 39.73% Swing Lab to LD 21.02 2001: Total vote 29,731 (45.50%) -Lab
17,530 (58.96%); C 7,210 (24.25%); LD 3,874 (13.03%); Soc All 1,117 (3.76%); Lab
Maj 10,320 (34.71%).

John Heppell 60 Elected 1992. Promoted to whips office 2001. Private secretary
to John Prescott, Deputy Prime Minister; backbench committee on Transport.

Ed: Ashington Tech College

NOTTINGHAM NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 61,894 (64,281)%Vote *Allen, G (Lab)17,84258.72 Patel, P
(C)5,67118.67 Ball, T (LD)5,19017.08 Marriott, I (UKIP)1,6805.53 Lab
majority12,17140.06 Total vote 30,383Turnout 49.09% Swing Lab to C 0.34 2001:
Total vote 30,042 (46.74%) -Lab 19,392 (64.55%); C 7,152 (23.81%); LD 3,177
(10.58%); Soc Lab 321 (1.07%); Lab Maj 12,240 (40.74%).

Graham Allen 52 Elected 1987. Government whip since 1997; Opposition Spokesman
for: Environment 1996-97. Ed: City of London Poly; Leeds University

NOTTINGHAM SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 68,921 (73,049)%Vote *Simpson, A (Lab)16,50647.38 Mattu, S
(C)9,02025.89 Sutton, T (LD)7,96122.85 Browne, K (UKIP)1,3533.88 Lab
majority7,48621.49 Total vote 34,840Turnout 50.55% Swing Lab to C 2.90 2001:
Total vote 36,605 (50.11%) -Lab 19,949 (54.50%); C 9,960 (27.21%); LD 6,064
(16.57%); UKIP 632 (1.73%); Lab Maj 9,989 (27.29%).

Alan Simpson 56 Author, elected in 1992. All-party groups inc: social science &
policy, warm homes. Secretary, Campaign Group of Labour MPs. Ed: Nottingham
Trent Poly

NUNEATON

Lab hold

Electorate 73,440 (72,101)%Vote *Olner, B (Lab)19,94544.05 Pawsey, M
(C)17,66539.01 Asghar, A (LD)5,88412.99 Tyson, K (UKIP)1,7863.94 Lab
majority2,2805.04 Total vote 45,280Turnout 61.66% Swing Lab to C 6.18 2001:
Total vote 43,312 (60.07%) -Lab 22,577 (52.13%); C 15,042 (34.73%); LD 4,820
(11.13%); UKIP 873 (2.02%); Lab Maj 7,535 (17.40%).

Bill Olner 63 Former Rolls-Royce engineer and shop steward, elected 1992.
Member, Chairmen's panel & Select Committee on Environment, Transport and
Regions. Ed: North Warwickshire Technical College

O

OCHIL & PERTHSHIRE SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 70,731 (67.40% BC)%Vote Banks, G (Lab)14,64531.36 Ewing, A
(SNP)13,95729.89 Smith, E (C)10,02121.46 Whittingham, C (LD)6,21813.32 Baxter, G
(Green)9782.09 Campbell, I (SSP)4200.90 Bushby, D (UKIP)2750.59 Kelly, M (Free
Scot)1830.39 Lab majority6881.47 Total vote 46,697Turnout 66.02% Swing Lab to
SNP 0.18 2001: Total vote 44,763 (62.40%) -Lab 14,947 (33.39%); SNP 14,126
(31.56%); C 9,871 (22.05%); LD 4,690 (10.48%); SSP 803 (1.79%); Others 326
(0.73%); Lab Maj 821 (1.83%).

Gordon Banks 49 Director Cartmore Building Supply Co. Contested Mid Scotland &
Fife regional list, Scottish Parliament election, 2003. Ed: Lornshill Academy,
Alloa; Glasgow College of Building; Stirling University

OGMORE

Lab hold

Electorate 52,349 (52,185)%Vote *Irranca-Davies, H (Lab)18,29560.42 Radford, J
(LD)4,59215.17 Lloyd-Nesling, N (C)4,24314.01 Williams, J (PC)3,14810.40 Lab
majority13,70345.26 Total vote 30,278Turnout 57.84% Swing Lab to LD 2.01 2002:
Total vote 18,376 (35.20%) -Lab 18,833 (62.05%); PC 4,259 (14.03%); LD 3,878
(12.78%); C 3,383 (11.15%); Lab 9,548 (51.96%); PC 3,827 (20.83%); LD 1,608
(8.75%); C 1,377 (7.49%); Soc Lab 1,152 (6.27%); Green 250 (1.36%); Soc All 205
(1.12%); Loony 187 (1.02%); Bean 122 (0.66%); Ind 100 (0.54%); Lab Maj 5,721
(31.13%).

Huw Irranca-Davies 42 Replaced Sir Raymond Powell in 2002 by-election; nephew of
Ifor Davies, Labour MP for Gower from 1959 to 1982. Business studies lecturer at
Swansea Institute of Higher Education

OLD BEXLEY & SIDCUP

C hold

Electorate 68,227 (67,841)%Vote *Conway, D (C)22,19149.79 Moore, G
(Lab)12,27127.53 O'Hare, N (LD)6,56414.73 Barnbrook, M (UKIP)2,0154.52 Sayers, C
(BNP)1,2272.75 Peters, G (Ind)3040.68 C majority9,92022.26 Total vote
44,572Turnout 65.33% Swing Lab to C 7.16 2001: Total vote 42,133 (62.11%) -C
19,130 (45.40%); Lab 15,785 (37.46%); LD 5,792 (13.75%); UKIP 1,426 (3.38%); C
Maj 3,345 (7.94%).

Derek Conway 52 Inherited this seat from Sir Edward Heath. Government Whip
1994-97; vice-chair of Young Conservatives 1973-75. Chief executive of Cats'
Protection League. Ed: Beacon Hill Boys' School

OLDHAM EAST & SADDLEWORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 75,680 (74,511)%Vote *Woolas, P (Lab)17,96841.43 Dawson, T
(LD)14,37833.15 Chapman, K (C)7,90118.22 Treacy, M (BNP)2,1094.86 Nield, V (UKIP
)8732.01 O'Grady, P (Ind)1380.32 Lab majority3,5908.28 Total vote 43,367Turnout
57.30% Swing LD to Lab 1.14 2001: Total vote 45,420 (60.96%) -Lab 17,537
(38.61%); LD 14,811 (32.61%); C 7,304 (16.08%); BNP 5,091 (11.21%); UKIP 677
(1.49%); Lab Maj 2,726 (6.00%).

Phil Woolas 45 Former director of communications, GMB; TV producer. Elected
1997.

Deputy Leader of the House of Commons; formerly Assistant Whip. Ed: Nelson and
Colne College, Manchester Uni

OLDHAM WEST & ROYTON

Lab hold

Electorate 70,496 (69,409)%Vote *Meacher, M (Lab)18,45749.13 Moore, S
(C)7,99821.29 Bodsworth, S (LD)7,51920.01 Corbett, A (BNP)2,6066.94 Short, D (
UKIP)9872.63 Lab majority10,45927.84 Total vote 37,567Turnout 53.29% Swing Lab
to C 2.80 2001: Total vote 39,962 (57.57%) -Lab 20,441 (51.15%); C 7,076
(17.71%); BNP 6,552 (16.40%); LD 4,975 (12.45%); Green 918 (2.30%); Lab Maj
13,365 (33.44%).

Michael Meacher 65 Elected to this seat 1997. Minister for Environment 1997
2003; fell out with Tony Blair over Iraq. Ed: Berkhamsted School; New College,
Oxford; LSE

ORKNEY & SHETLAND

LD hold

Electorate 33,048 (31,909)%Vote *Carmichael, A (LD)9,13851.50 Meade, R
(Lab)2,51114.15 Nairn, F (C)2,35713.28 Mowat, J (SNP)1,83310.33 Aberdein, J
(SSP)9925.59 Dyble, S (UKIP)4242.39 Cruickshank, P (LCA)3111.75 Nugent, B (Free
Scot)1760.99 LD majority6,62737.35 Total vote 17,742Turnout 53.69% Swing Lab to
LD 8.29 2001: Total vote 16,733 (52.44%) -LD 6,919 (41.35%); Lab 3,444 (20.58%);
C 3,121 (18.65%); SNP 2,473 (14.78%); SSP 776 (4.64%); LD Maj 3,475 (20.77%).

Alistair Carmichael 39 Solicitor and former hotel manager. Inherited the seat
from Jim Wallace, leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats. Lib Dems' safest
seat in 2001, held by the party since 1950. Ed: Aberdeen Uni

ORPINGTON

C hold

Electorate 78,276 (74,423)%Vote *Horam, J (C)26,71848.81 Maines, C
(LD)21,77139.78 Bird, E (Lab)4,9148.98 Greenhough, J (UKIP)1,3312.43 C
majority4,9479.04 Total vote 54,734Turnout 69.92% Swing LD to C 4.25 2001: Total
vote 50,912 (68.41%) -C 22,334 (43.87%); LD 22,065 (43.34%); Lab 5,517 (10.84%);
UKIP 996 (1.96%); C Maj 269 (0.53%).

John Horam 66 Elected 1992. Chairman, Environmental Audit Select Committee;
Under-Secretary for Health 1995-97; Public Services, 1995. Ed: Silcoates School,
Wakefield; St Catharine's College, Cambridge

OXFORD EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 72,234 (74,421)%Vote *Smith, A (Lab)15,40536.86 Goddard, S
(LD)14,44234.56 Morris, V (C)6,99216.73 Sanders, J (Green)1,8134.34 Blair, H
(Ind)1,4853.55 Leen, M (IWCA)8922.13 Gardner, P (UKIP)7151.71 Mylvaganam, P (Ind
PM)460.11 Lab majority9632.30 Total vote 41,790Turnout 57.85% Swing Lab to LD
11.83 2001: Total vote 39,848 (53.54%) -Lab 19,681 (49.39%); LD 9,337 (23.43%);
C 7,446 (18.69%); Green 1,501 (3.77%); Soc All 708 (1.78%); UKIP 570 (1.43%);
Soc Lab 274 (0.69%); ProLife 254 (0.64%); Ind 77 (0.19%); Lab Maj 10,344
(25.96%).

Andrew Smith 54 Elected 1987. Chief Secretary to Treasury. Minister for
Employment and Welfare to Work and Equal Opportuniversityties 1997-99; Shadow
Transport Secretary 1996-97. Ed: St John's Coll, Oxford

OXFORD WEST & ABINGDON

LD hold

Electorate 80,195 (79,915)%Vote *Harris, E (LD)24,33646.27 McLean, A
(C)16,65331.66 Bance, A (Lab)8,72516.59 Lines, T (Green)2,0913.98 Watney, M (
UKIP)7951.51 LD majority7,68314.61 Total vote 52,600Turnout 65.59% Swing LD to C
1.60 2001: Total vote 51,568 (64.53%) -LD 24,670 (47.84%); C 15,485 (30.03%);
Lab 9,114 (17.67%); Green 1,423 (2.76%); UKIP 451 (0.87%); Ind 332 (0.64%); Ext
Club 93 (0.18%); LD Maj 9,185 (17.81%).

Evan Harris 39 Elected 1997. Lib Dem Spokesman on Higher Education. Member,
Education and Employment Select Committee. Ed: Harvard High School, Los Angeles;
Wadham Coll, Oxford

P

PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 63,076 (76.50% BC)%Vote Sheridan, J (Lab)18,69745.73 Wilson, B
(SNP)7,69618.82 Hutton, L (LD)7,46418.26 Lardner, P (C)5,56613.61 McGregor, A
(SSP)6461.58 McGavigan, K (Soc Lab)4441.09 Pearson, J (UKIP)3720.91 Lab
majority11,00126.91 Total vote 40,885Turnout 64.82% Swing Lab to SNP 1.34 2001:
Total vote 41,979 (61.16%) -Lab 21,933 (52.25%); SNP 9,516 (22.67%); C 5,769
(13.74%); LD 3,169 (7.55%); SSP 1,371 (3.27%); Others 221 (0.53%); Lab Maj
12,417 (29.58%).

James Sheridan 53, Inherited the seat from disgraced and expelled Tommy Graham.

T&G member. Set up local bus users' forum. Chair of Local Youth Audit Team,
Member of Children's Panel Advisory Committee

PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 60,181 (28.70% BC)%Vote Alexander, D (Lab)19,90452.57 McCartin, E
(LD)6,67217.62 Doig, A (SNP)6,65317.57 Begg, T (C)3,1888.42 Hogg, I (SSP)7892.08
Matthew, G (Paisley)3811.01 Rodgers, R (Ind)1660.44 Broadbent, H (Soc
Lab)1070.28 Lab majority13,23234.95 Total vote 37,860Turnout 62.91% Swing Lab to
LD 6.24 2001: Total vote 38,691 (56.87%) -Lab 22,049 (56.99%); SNP 8,081
(20.89%); LD 3,701 (9.57%); C 3,247 (8.39%); SSP 1,099 (2.84%); Others 514
(1.33%); Lab Maj 13,968 (36.10%).

Douglas Alexander 34 Protege of Gordon Brown and involved with him at Millbank
running 2001 election campaign. Elected at a by-election after the suicide of
Gordon McMaster in 1997. Ed: Edinburgh University.

Pendle

Lab hold

Electorate 64,917 (62,870)%Vote *Prentice, G (Lab)15,25037.08 Ellison, J
(C)13,07031.78 Anwar, S (LD)9,52823.16 Boocock, T (BNP)2,5476.19 Cannon, G (UKIP
)7371.79 Lab majority2,1805.30 Total vote 41,132Turnout 63.36% Swing Lab to C
2.73 2001: Total vote 39,732 (63.20%) -Lab 17,729 (44.62%); C 13,454 (33.86%);
LD 5,479 (13.79%); BNP 1,976 (4.97%); UKIP 1,094 (2.75%); Lab Maj 4,275
(10.76%).

Gordon Prentice 54 Elected 1992. Secretary/treasurer, all-party China group;
chairman of PLP environment committee. Ed: George Heriot's School, Edinburgh;
Glasgow University

PENRITH & THE BORDER

C hold

Electorate 70,922 (67,776)%Vote *Maclean, D (C)24,04651.29 Walker, G
(LD)12,14225.90 Boaden, M (Lab)8,95819.11 Robinson, W (UKIP)1,1872.53 Gibson, M
(LCA)5491.17 C majority11,90425.39 Total vote 46,882Turnout 66.10% Swing C to LD
3.89 2001: Total vote 44,249 (65.29%) -C 24,302 (54.92%); LD 9,625 (21.75%); Lab
8,177 (18.48%); UKIP 938 (2.12%); LCA 870 (1.97%); Ind 337 (0.76%); C Maj 14,677
(33.17%).

David Maclean 51 Elected 1983. Conservative Chief Whip. Home Office Minister
1993-97; Environment Minister 1992-93; Government Whip 1988-89. Ed: Fortrose
Academy; Aberdeen University

PERTH & PERTHSHIRE NORTH

SNP hold

Electorate 70,895 (92.90% BC)%Vote Wishart, P (SNP)15,46933.68 Taylor, D
(C)13,94830.37 Maughan, D (Lab)8,60118.73 Campbell, G (LD)7,40316.12 Stott, P
(SSP)5091.11 SNP majority1,5213.31 Total vote 45,930Turnout 64.79% Swing SNP to
C 3.85 2001: Total vote 45,609 (64.49%) -SNP 16,416 (35.99%); C 11,396 (24.99%);
Lab 11,149 (24.44%); LD 5,507 (12.07%); SSP 1,031 (2.26%); Others 110 (0.24%);
SNP Maj 5,020 (11.01%).

Pete Wishart 43 Former community worker. Elected Tayside North, 2001. Former SNP
Chief Whip with responsibilities in Parliament for Transport, Health and Culture
Media & Sport.

PETERBOROUGH

C gain

Electorate 67,499 (64,918)%Vote Jackson, S (C)17,36442.14 *Clark, H
(Lab)14,62435.49 Sandford, N (LD)6,87616.69 Herdman, M (UKIP)1,2423.01 Blackham,
T (NF)9312.26 Potter, M (MNP)1670.41 C majority2,7406.65 Total vote
41,204Turnout 61.04% Swing Lab to C 6.91 2001: Total vote 39,812 (61.33%) -Lab
17,975 (45.15%); C 15,121 (37.98%); LD 5,761 (14.47%); UKIP 955 (2.40%); Lab Maj
2,854 (7.17%).

Stewart Jackson 40 Business adviser, human resources, Business Link for London.

Contested Brent South 1997, Peterborough 2001.

Ed: Chatham House Grammar; Royal Holloway Coll; Thames Valley Univ


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2005, Friday

CORRECTION: John Penrose, the new Conservative MP for Weston-Super-Mare, is 40,
not 50 (Election 2005: The Verdict, May 7) while Anne Main, the new MP for St
Albans, was born in 1957, not 1928 (Conservative class of 2005, May 10). UKIP
won 1,278 votes in Corby, a 2.6 per cent share, and not as reported (May 7). The
revised guide to how Britain has voted since the war and regional analysis of
the 2005 election can be found at www.timesonline.co.uk/ election2005.

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 7, 2005, Saturday

Election results per Council

SECTION: Home news; 86

LENGTH: 5758 words


W

WAKEFIELD

Lab hold

Electorate 73,118 (75,750) %Vote

Creagh, M (Lab) 18,80243.34

Shelbrooke, A (C) 13,64831.46

Ridgway, D (LD) 7,06316.28

Rowe, G (BNP) 1,3283.06

Hardcastle, D (Green) 1,2972.99

Upex, J (UKIP) 4671.08

McEnhill, A (Eng Dem) 3560.82

Griffiths, M (Soc Alt) 3190.74

Sheridan, L (Soc Lab) 1010.23

Lab majority 5,15411.88

Total vote 43,381 Turnout 59.33%

Swing Lab to C 3.70

2001: Total vote 41,254 (54.46%) -Lab 20,592 (49.92%) ; C 12,638 (30.63%) ; LD

5,097 (12.36%) ; Green 1,075 (2.61%) ; UKIP 677 (1.64%) ; Soc Lab 634 (1.54%) ;
Soc

All 541 (1.31%) ; Lab Maj 7,954 (19.28%) .

Mary Creagh 37 Cllr, London Borough of Islington, 1998-2005; leader Labour group

2000-04. Lecturer in entrepreneurship, Cranfield School of Management. Ed:

Pembroke College, Oxford; London School of Economics (MSC European studies)

WALLASEY

Lab hold

Electorate 63,764 (64,889) %Vote

*Eagle, A (Lab) 20,08554.77

Fraser, L (C) 10,97629.93

Pemberton, J (LD) 4,77013.01

Griffiths, P (UKIP) 8402.29

Lab majority 9,10924.84

Total vote 36,671 Turnout 57.51%

Swing Lab to C 4.02

2001: Total vote 37,346 (57.55%) -Lab 22,718 (60.83%) ; C 10,442 (27.96%) ; LD

4,186 (11.21%) ; Lab Maj 12,276 (32.87%) .

Angela Eagle 44 Elected 1992. Member, Treasury Select Committee since 2003;
Junior

Home Office Minister 2001-02; Junior Social Security Minister 1998-2001.

Ed: St John's College, Oxford

WALSALL NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 63,268 (66,020) %Vote

*Winnick, D (Lab) 15,99047.83

Lucas, I (C) 9,35027.97

Taylor, D (LD) 4,14412.40

Locke, W (BNP) 1,9925.96

Lenton, A (UKIP) 1,1823.54

Smith, P (Dem Lab) 7702.30

Lab majority 6,64019.86

Total vote 33,428 Turnout 52.84%

Swing Lab to C 4.60

2001: Total vote 32,312 (48.94%) -Lab 18,779 (58.12%) ; C 9,388 (29.05%) ; LD
2,923

(9.05%) ; UKIP 812 (2.51%) ; Soc All 410 (1.27%) ; Lab Maj 9,391 (29.06%) .

WALSALL SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 60,370 (62,657) %Vote

*George, B (Lab) 17,63349.93

Sabar, K (C) 9,68727.43

Asmal, M H (LD) 3,2409.17

Bennett, D (UKIP) 1,8335.19

Smith, K (BNP) 1,7765.03

Fazal, N (Respect) 1,1463.25

Lab majority 7,94622.50

Total vote 35,315 Turnout 58.50%

Swing Lab to C 2.98

2001: Total vote 34,899 (55.70%) -Lab 20,574 (58.95%) ; C 10,643 (30.50%) ; LD

2,365 (6.78%) ; UKIP 974 (2.79%) ; Soc All 343 (0.98%) ; Lab Maj 9,931 (28.46%)
.

Bruce George 63 Elected 1974. Contested Southport, 1970. Chair. Defence Select

Committee; member, Liaison Select Committee, Nato Parliamentary Assembly.

All-party groups: skin, Latvia, Azerbaijan

WALTHAMSTOW

Lab hold

Electorate 63,079 (64,403) %Vote

*Gerrard, N (Lab) 17,32350.29

Ahmed, F (LD) 9,33027.09

Wright, J (C) 6,25418.16

Brock, R (UKIP) 8102.35

Taaffe, N (Soc Alt) 7272.11

Lab majority 7,99323.21

Total vote 34,444 Turnout 54.60%

Swing Lab to LD 12.18

2001: Total vote 34,429 (53.46%) -Lab 21,402 (62.16%) ; C 6,221 (18.07%) ; LD
5,024

(14.59%) ; Soc Alt 806 (2.34%) ; BNP 389 (1.13%) ; UKIP 298 (0.87%) ; ProLife
289

(0.84%) ; Lab Maj 15,181 (44.09%) .

Neil Gerrard 62 Elected 1992. Member, Information Select Committee. All-party

groups: refugees, Aids, Syria; Ed: Manchester Grammar; Wadham College, Oxford;

Chelsea College, London

WANSBECK

Lab hold

Electorate 63,096 (62,989) %Vote

*Murphy, D (Lab) 20,31555.19

Reed, S (LD) 9,73426.44

Scrope, G (C) 5,51514.98

Best, N (Green) 1,2453.38

Lab majority 10,58128.75

Total vote 36,809 Turnout 58.34%

Swing Lab to LD 3.13

2001: Total vote 37,419 (59.41%) -Lab 21,617 (57.77%) ; LD 8,516 (22.76%) ; C
4,774

(12.76%) ; Ind 1,076 (2.88%) ; Green 954 (2.55%) ; UKIP 482 (1.29%) ; Lab Maj
13,101

(35.01%) .

Denis Murphy 56 Elected 1997. Member, Regulatory Reform Select Committee.

All-party groups: energy, local government councillors.

Ed: St Cuthbert's grammar, Newcastle; Northumberland College

WANSDYKE

Lab hold

Electorate 70,359 (70,728) %Vote

*Norris, D (Lab) 20,68640.61

Watt, C (C) 18,84737.00

Coleshill, G (LD) 10,05019.73

Sandell, P (UKIP) 1,1292.22

Parkes, G (Ind) 2210.43

Lab majority 1,8393.61

Total vote 50,933 Turnout 72.39%

Swing Lab to C 3.86

2001: Total vote 49,547 (70.05%) -Lab 23,206 (46.84%) ; C 17,593 (35.51%) ; LD

7,135 (14.40%) ; Green 958 (1.93%) ; UKIP 655 (1.32%) ; Lab Maj 5,613 (11.33%) .

Dan Norris 45 Elected 1997. Member, General Election campaign team with

responsibility for campaigning against Lib Dems; Labour Leader's campaign team

with responsibility for health 1998-99. Ed: Sussex University

WANTAGE

C gain

Electorate 76,156 (76,129) %Vote

Vaizey, E (C) 22,35443.05

Crawford, A (LD) 14,33727.61

McDonald, M (Lab) 12,46424.00

Twine, A (Green) 1,3322.56

Tolstoy-

Miloslavsky, N (UKIP) 7981.54

Lambourne, G

(Eng Dem) 6461.24

C majority 8,01715.44

Total vote 51,931 Turnout 68.19%

Swing LD to C 1.92

2001: Total vote 49,129 (64.53%) -C 19,475 (39.64%) ; Lab 13,875 (28.24%) ; LD

13,776 (28.04%) ; Green 1,062 (2.16%) ; UKIP 941 (1.92%) ; C Maj 5,600 (11.40%)
.

WARLEY

Lab hold

Electorate 56,171 (58,071) %Vote

*Spellar, J (Lab) 17,46254.42

Bissell, K (C) 7,31522.80

Ferguson, T (LD) 4,27713.33

Smith, S (BNP) 1,7615.49

Connigale, M (Soc Lab) 6371.99

Matthews, D (UKIP) 6351.98

Lab majority 10,14731.62

Total vote 32,087 Turnout 57.12%

Swing Lab to C 3.05

2001: Total vote 31,415 (54.10%) -Lab 19,007 (60.50%) ; C 7,157 (22.78%) ; LD
3,315

(10.55%) ; Soc Lab 1,936 (6.16%) ; Lab Maj 11,850 (37.72%) .

John Spellar 57 Elected here 1997. Minister of State, Northern Ireland Office

since 2003; Minister of State for Transport 2001-03; Junior Minister of State
for

Defence 1999-2001.

Ed: St Edmund Hall, Oxford

WARRINGTON NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 73,352 (72,445) %Vote

*Jones, H (Lab) 21,63253.52

Ferryman, A (C) 9,42823.33

Walker, P (LD) 7,69919.05

Kirkham, J (UKIP) 1,0862.69

Hughes, M (CAP) 5731.42

Lab majority 12,20430.19

Total vote 40,418 Turnout 55.10%

Swing Lab to C 4.38

2001: Total vote 38,910 (53.71%) -Lab 24,026 (61.75%) ; C 8,870 (22.80%) ; LD
5,232

(13.45%) ; UKIP 782 (2.01%) ; Lab Maj 15,156 (38.95%) .

Helen Jones 50 Elected 1997. Member, Education and Skills Select Committee since

2003; Standing Orders Committee. Cafod.

Ed: Chester College; University College, London; Liverpool University

WARRINGTON SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 75,724 (74,283) %Vote

*Southworth, H (Lab) 18,97240.54

Bruce, F (C) 15,45733.03

Marks, I (LD) 11,11123.74

Kelley, G (UKIP) 8041.72

Kennedy, P (Ind) 4530.97

Lab majority 3,5157.51

Total vote 46,797 Turnout 61.80%

Swing Lab to C 4.37

2001: Total vote 45,497 (61.25%) -Lab 22,419 (49.28%) ; C 15,022 (33.02%) ; LD

7,419 (16.31%) ; UKIP 637 (1.40%) ; Lab Maj 7,397 (16.26%) .

Helen Southworth 48 Elected 1997. Private Secretary to Paul Boateng (Chief Sec
to

the Treasury) since 2001. All-party groups; town centre management. Member,
Fabian

Society. Ed: Lancaster University

WARWICK & LEAMINGTON

Lab hold

Electorate 81,205 (81,405) %Vote

*Plaskitt, J (Lab) 22,23840.59

White, C (C) 21,97240.11

Forbes, L (LD) 8,11914.82

Davison, I (Green) 1,5342.80

Warwick, G (UKIP) 9211.68

Lab majority 2660.49

Total vote 54,784 Turnout 67.46%

Swing Lab to C 5.32

2001: Total vote 53,539 (65.77%) -Lab 26,108 (48.76%) ; C 20,155 (37.65%) ; LD

5,964 (11.14%) ; Soc All 664 (1.24%) ; UKIP 648 (1.21%) ; Lab Maj 5,953 (11.12%)
.

James Plaskitt 50 Elected 1997. Member, Treasury Sub-Committee Select Committee;

joint vice-chair, Labour Party Treasury Committee. All-party groups: dying. Ed:

University College, Oxford

WARWICKSHIRE NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 75,435 (73,828) %Vote

*O'Brien, M (Lab) 22,56148.06

Gibb, I (C) 15,00831.97

Roodhouse, J (LD) 6,21213.23

Mackenzie, M (BNP) 1,9104.07

Campbell, I (UKIP) 1,2482.66

Lab majority 7,55316.09

Total vote 46,939 Turnout 62.22%

Swing Lab to C 2.81

2001: Total vote 44,409 (60.15%) -Lab 24,023 (54.09%) ; C 14,384 (32.39%) ; LD

5,052 (11.38%) ; UKIP 950 (2.14%) ; Lab Maj 9,639 (21.71%) .

Michael O'Brien 50 Elected 1992. Minister, Trade and Industry (Energy and

E-Commerce) since 2004; Foreign Office 2002-04: Trade, Investment and Foreign

Affairs Minister (also DTI) 2003-04. Ed: North Staffs Polytechnic

WATFORD

Lab hold

Electorate 76,280 (75,724) %Vote

*Ward, C (Lab) 16,57533.56

Brinton, S (LD) 15,42731.23

Miraj, A (C) 14,63429.63

Rackett, S (Green) 1,4662.97

Wight, K (UKIP) 1,2922.62

Lab majority 1,1482.32

Total vote 49,394 Turnout 64.75%

Swing Lab to LD 12.75

2001: Total vote 46,372 (61.24%) -Lab 20,992 (45.27%) ; C 15,437 (33.29%) ; LD

8,088 (17.44%) ; Green 900 (1.94%) ; UKIP 535 (1.15%) ; Soc All 420 (0.91%) ;
Lab Maj

5,555 (11.98%) .

Claire Ward 32 Elected 1997. Private secretary to John Hutton as Minister of

State, Dept of Health since 2001. All-party groups include youth affairs,

football, chocolate, Royal Marines, film industry. Ed: Herts and Brunel Univs

WAVENEY

Lab hold

Electorate 77,138 (76,585) %Vote

*Blizzard, B (Lab) 22,50545.32

Aldous, P (C) 16,59033.41

Bromley, N (LD) 7,49715.10

Aylett, B (UKIP) 1,8613.75

Elliott, G (Green) 1,2002.42

Lab majority 5,91511.91

Total vote 49,653 Turnout 64.37%

Swing Lab to C 3.11

2001: Total vote 47,167 (61.59%) -Lab 23,914 (50.70%) ; C 15,361 (32.57%) ; LD

5,370 (11.39%) ; UKIP 1,097 (2.33%) ; Green 983 (2.08%) ; Soc All 442 (0.94%) ;
Lab

Maj 8,553 (18.13%) .

Robert Blizzard 54 Elected 1997. Private secretary to Nick Brown (Work and

Pensions Minister) 2001-03. All-party groups: offshore oil and gas industry,

fisheries. Ed: Birmingham University

WEALDEN

C hold

Electorate 82,261 (83,066) %Vote

*Hendry, C (C) 28,97552.06

Wigley, C (LD) 13,05423.46

Rose, D (Lab) 9,36016.82

Salmon, J (Green) 2,1503.86

Riddle, K (UKIP) 2,1143.80

C majority 15,92128.61

Total vote 55,653 Turnout 67.65%

Swing LD to C 1.25

2001: Total vote 52,756 (63.51%) -C 26,279 (49.81%) ; LD 12,507 (23.71%) ; Lab

10,705 (20.29%) ; UKIP 1,539 (2.92%) ; Green 1,273 (2.41%) ; Pensioner 453
(0.86%) ; C

Maj 13,772 (26.11%) .

Charles Hendry 45 Elected here 2001. MP for High Peak 1992-97. Shadow Higher

Education Minister; Deputy Chairman, Conservative Party; Shadow Minister for
Young

People since 2002. Ed: Edinburgh Univ

WEAVER VALE

Lab hold

Electorate 69,072 (68,236) %Vote

*Hall, M (Lab) 18,75947.59

Mackie, J (C) 11,90430.20

Griffiths, T (LD) 7,72319.59

Swinscoe, B (UKIP) 1,0342.62

Lab majority 6,85517.39

Total vote 39,420 Turnout 57.07%

Swing Lab to C 3.58

2001: Total vote 39,271 (57.55%) -Lab 20,611 (52.48%) ; C 10,974 (27.94%) ; LD

5,643 (14.37%) ; Ind 1,484 (3.78%) ; UKIP 559 (1.42%) ; Lab Maj 9,637 (24.54%) .

Mike Hall 52 Elected here 1997. MP for Warrington South 1992-97. Private
secretary

to John Reid (Health Sec) since 2003; former member, Select Committee on

Modernisation of Commons. Ed: Bangor University

WELLINGBOROUGH

C gain

Electorate 79,679 (77,389) %Vote

Bone, P (C) 22,67442.78

*Stinchcombe, P (Lab) 21,98741.48

Church, R (LD) 6,14711.60

Wrench, J (UKIP) 1,2142.29

Alex, N (Veritas) 7491.41

Dickson, A (Soc Lab) 2340.44

C majority 6871.30

Total vote 53,005 Turnout 66.52%

Swing Lab to C 2.96

2001: Total vote 51,006 (65.91%) -Lab 23,867 (46.79%) ; C 21,512 (42.18%) ; LD

4,763 (9.34%) ; UKIP 864 (1.69%) ; Lab Maj 2,355 (4.62%) .

Peter Bone 52 Contested Islwyn 1992; Pudsey 1997; Wellingborough 2001; Mid and

West Wales European Parliament election, 1994. Press sec Paul Channon MP,
1982-84.

Ed: Westcliff-on-Sea Grammar, Essex.

WELLS

C hold

Electorate 77,842 (64,534) %Vote

*Heathcoat-Amory, D (C) 23,07143.56

Munt, T (LD) 20,03137.82

Whittle, D (Lab) 8,28815.65

Reed, S (UKIP) 1,5752.97

C majority 3,0405.74

Total vote 52,965 Turnout 68.04%

Swing LD to C 0.15

2001: Total vote 51,314 (69.17%) -C 22,462 (43.77%) ; LD 19,666 (38.32%) ; Lab

7,915 (15.42%) ; UKIP 1,104 (2.15%) ; Wessex Reg 167 (0.33%) ; C Maj 2,796
(5.45%) .

WELWYN HATFIELD

C gain

Electorate 65,617 (67,004) %Vote

Shapps, G (C) 22,17249.58

*Johnson, M (Lab) 16,22636.29

Bedford, S (LD) 6,31814.13

C majority 5,94613.30

Total vote 44,716 Turnout 68.15%

Swing Lab to C 8.05

2001: Total vote 42,821 (63.91%) -Lab 18,484 (43.17%) ; C 17,288 (40.37%) ; LD

6,021 (14.06%) ; UKIP 798 (1.86%) ; ProLife 230 (0.54%) ; Lab Maj 1,196 (2.79%)
.

Grant Shapps 36 Contested Southwark North & Bermondsey 1997, Welwyn Hatfield
2001

Printhouse Corporation: director 1990-2000.

Ed: Watford Boys Grammar School; Manchester Polytechnic

WENTWORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 63,561 (64,033) %Vote

*Healey, J (Lab) 21,22559.63

Hughes, M (C) 6,16917.33

Orrell, K (LD) 4,80013.48

Pygott, J (BNP) 1,7985.05

Wilkinson, J (UKIP) 1,6044.51

Lab majority 15,05642.30

Total vote 35,596 Turnout 56.00%

Swing Lab to C 3.20

2001: Total vote 33,778 (52.75%) -Lab 22,798 (67.49%) ; C 6,349 (18.80%) ; LD
3,652

(10.81%) ; UKIP 979 (2.90%) ; Lab Maj 16,449 (48.70%) .

John Healey 45 Elected 1997. Economic Secretary, HM Treasury; Junior Minister in

DfES, 2001-02; private secretary to Chancellor of the Exchequer, 1999-2001; Ed:

Christ's College, Cambridge

WEST BROMWICH EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 60,565 (61,198) %Vote

*Watson, T (Lab) 19,74155.59

Bromwich, R (C) 8,08922.78

Garrett, I (LD) 4,38612.35

Butler, C (BNP) 2,3296.56

Grey, S (UKIP) 6071.71

Sambrook, J (Soc Lab) 2000.56

Macklin, M (Ind) 1600.45

Lab majority 11,65232.81

Total vote 35,512 Turnout 58.63%

Swing C to Lab 1.46

2001: Total vote 32,664 (53.37%) -Lab 18,250 (55.87%) ; C 8,487 (25.98%) ; LD
4,507

(13.80%) ; UKIP 835 (2.56%) ; Soc Lab 585 (1.79%) ; Lab Maj 9,763 (29.89%) .

Tom Watson 38 Elected 2001. Assistant goverment whip; Private Secretary to

Paymaster General, 2003-04; former member, Home Affairs Select Committee. Ed:
King

Charles I School, Kidderminster.

WEST BROMWICH WEST

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 66,752 (66,777) %Vote

*Bailey, A (Lab Co-op) 18,95154.27

Harker, M (C) 8,05723.07

Smith, M (LD) 3,58310.26

Lloyd, J (BNP) 3,4569.90

Walker, K (UKIP) 8702.49

Lab Co-op majority 10,89431.20

Total vote 34,917 Turnout 52.31%

Swing Lab Co-op to C 2.23

2001: Total vote 31,840 (47.68%) -Lab Co-op 19,352 (60.78%) ; C 7,997 (25.12%) ;
LD

2,168 (6.81%) ; BNP 1,428 (4.48%) ; UKIP 499 (1.57%) ; Soc Lab 396 (1.24%) ; Lab
Co-op

Maj 11,355 (35.66%) .

Adrian Bailey 59 Elected in by-election, 2000. Member, Select Committees on

Northern Ireland Affairs, Unopposed Bills Panel 2001; chair, Labour
Parliamentary

Group 2004. Ed: Exeter University

WEST HAM

Lab hold

Electorate 62,184 (59,828) %Vote

Brown, L (Lab) 15,84051.15

German, L (Respect) 6,03919.50

Whitbread, C (C) 3,61811.68

Sugden, A (LD) 3,36410.86

Lithgow, J (Green) 8942.89

Hammond, S (CPA) 4371.41

Mayhew, H (UKIP) 4091.32

Alcantara, G (Veritas) 3651.18

Lab majority 9,80131.65

Total vote 30,966 Turnout 49.80%

Swing to

2001: Total vote 29,273 (48.93%) -Lab 20,449 (69.86%) ; C 4,804 (16.41%) ; LD
2,166

(7.40%) ; Green 1,197 (4.09%) ; UKIP 657 (2.24%) ; Lab Maj 15,645 (53.45%) .

Lyn Brown (Lab) 45 Founder London Library Development Board; Member London
Region

Sports Board, London Arts Board, Museums, Libraries and Archives Council, London

WESTBURY

C hold

Electorate 83,039 (75,911) %Vote

*Murrison, A (C) 24,74944.51

Hames, D (LD) 19,40034.89

Gibby, P (Lab) 9,64017.34

Williams, L (UKIP) 1,8153.26

C majority 5,3499.62

Total vote 55,604 Turnout 66.96%

Swing C to LD 0.42

2001: Total vote 50,628 (66.69%) -C 21,299 (42.07%) ; LD 16,005 (31.61%) ; Lab

10,847 (21.42%) ; UKIP 1,261 (2.49%) ; Green 1,216 (2.40%) ; C Maj 5,294
(10.46%) .

Andrew Murrison 44 Elected 2001. Shadow Minister for Health since 2004; Member,

Science and Technology Select Committee since 2001. Ed: Bristol and Cambridge

Universities

WESTMORLAND & LONSDALE

LD gain

Electorate 69,363 (70,637) %Vote

Farron, T (LD) 22,56945.47

*Collins, T (C) 22,30244.93

Reardon, J (Lab) 3,7967.65

Gibson, R (UKIP) 6601.33

Kemp, A (Ind) 3090.62

LD majority 2670.54

Total vote 49,636 Turnout 71.56%

Swing C to LD 3.55

2001: Total vote 47,903 (67.82%) -C 22,486 (46.94%) ; LD 19,339 (40.37%) ; Lab

5,234 (10.93%) ; UKIP 552 (1.15%) ; Ind 292 (0.61%) ; C Maj 3,147 (6.57%) .

WESTON-SUPER-MARE

C gain

Electorate 74,900 (74,343) %Vote

Penrose, J (C) 19,80440.34

*Cotter, B (LD) 17,72536.10

Egan, D (Lab) 9,16918.68

Spencer, P (UKIP) 1,2072.46

Courtney, C (BNP) 7781.58

Human, W (Ind) 2250.46

Hemingway-Arnold, P

(Honesty) 1870.38

C majority 2,0794.23

Total vote 49,095 Turnout 65.55%

Swing LD to C 2.48

2001: Total vote 46,680 (62.79%) -LD 18,424 (39.47%) ; C 18,086 (38.74%) ; Lab

9,235 (19.78%) ; UKIP 650 (1.39%) ; Ind Pev 206 (0.44%) ; Ind Sib 79 (0.17%) ;
LD Maj

338 (0.72%) .

John Penrose 50 Contested Ealing Southall 1997, Weston-super-Mare, 2001.

Publishing and general management; chair Logotron.

Ed Downing College, Cambridge; Columbia University, USA

WIGAN

Lab hold

Electorate 64,267 (64,040) %Vote

*Turner, N (Lab) 18,90155.14

Coombes, J (C) 7,13420.81

Capstick, D (LD) 6,05117.65

Whittaker, J (UKIP) 1,1663.40

Williams, K (CAP) 1,0262.99

Lab majority 11,76734.33

Total vote 34,278 Turnout 53.34%

Swing Lab to C 3.29

2001: Total vote 33,591 (52.45%) -Lab 20,739 (61.74%) ; C 6,996 (20.83%) ; LD
4,970

(14.80%) ; Soc All 886 (2.64%) ; Lab Maj 13,743 (40.91%) .

Neil Turner 59 Elected 1999 in a by-election. Private secretary to Ian McCartney

(Minister without Portfolio and Party Chair) since 2003, (Work and Pensions

Minister) 2001-03.

Ed: Carlisle grammar school

WILTSHIRE NORTH

C hold

Electorate 80,896 (79,524) %Vote

*Gray, J (C) 26,28246.88

Fox, P (LD) 20,97937.42

Nash, D (Lab) 6,79412.12

Dowdney, N (UKIP) 1,4282.55

Allnatt, P (Ind) 5781.03

C majority 5,3039.46

Total vote 56,061 Turnout 69.30%

Swing LD to C 1.07

2001: Total vote 52,948 (66.58%) -C 24,090 (45.50%) ; LD 20,212 (38.17%) ; Lab

7,556 (14.27%) ; UKIP 1,090 (2.06%) ; C Maj 3,878 (7.32%) .

James Gray 50 Elected 1997. Shadow Environment and Transport Minister; Shadow

Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Minister 2001-03. All-party groups: Army,

multiple sclerosis.

Ed: Christ Church College, Oxford

WIMBLEDON

C gain

Electorate 63,714 (63,930) %Vote

Hammond, S (C) 17,88641.21

*Casale, R (Lab) 15,58535.91

Gee, S (LD) 7,86818.13

Barrow, G (Green) 1,3743.17

Mills, A (UKIP) 4080.94

Coverdale, C (Ind) 2110.49

Wilson, A (TEPK) 500.12

Weiss, R G (Vote Dream) 220.05

C majority 2,3015.30

Total vote 43,404 Turnout 68.12%

Swing Lab to C 7.20

2001: Total vote 41,109 (64.30%) -Lab 18,806 (45.75%) ; C 15,062 (36.64%) ; LD

5,341 (12.99%) ; Green 1,007 (2.45%) ; CPA 479 (1.17%) ; UKIP 414 (1.01%) ; Lab
Maj

3,744 (9.11%) .

Stephen Hammond 43 Contested Warwickshire North, 1997 and Wimbledon, 2001.
Deputy

group leader, Merton Borough Council.

Ed: Queen Mary College, London University

WINCHESTER

LD hold

Electorate 85,810 (81,852) %Vote

*Oaten, M (LD) 31,22550.64

Hollingbery, G (C) 23,74938.52

Davies, P (Lab) 4,7827.76

Abbott, D (UKIP) 1,3212.14

Uther Pendragon, A (Ind) 5810.94

LD majority 7,47612.12

Total vote 61,658 Turnout 71.85%

Swing LD to C 2.08

2001: Total vote 59,158 (72.27%) -LD 32,282 (54.57%) ; C 22,648 (38.28%) ; Lab

3,498 (5.91%) ; UKIP 664 (1.12%) ; Wessex Reg 66 (0.11%) ; LD Maj 9,634 (16.29%)
.

Mark Oaten 41 Elected Nov 1997 in by-election after his two-vote victory was

contested. Lib Dem Shadow Home Secretary; chair, Parliamentary Party; spokesman

for Cabinet Office 2001-03. Ed: Hatfield Poly

WINDSOR

C hold

Electorate 68,290 (69,136) %Vote

Afriyie, A (C) 21,64649.54

Wood, A (LD) 11,35425.99

Muller, M (Lab) 8,33919.09

Black, D (UKIP) 1,0982.51

Wall, D (Green) 1,0742.46

Hooper, P (Ind) 1820.42

C majority 10,29223.56

Total vote 43,693 Turnout 63.98%

Swing LD to C 1.22

2001: Total vote 42,110 (60.91%) -C 19,900 (47.26%) ; LD 11,011 (26.15%) ; Lab

10,137 (24.07%) ; UKIP 1,062 (2.52%) ; C Maj 8,889 (21.11%) .

Adam Afriye 39 Constituency branch chair, 1999-200; chair (London region) "No"
to

the Euro campaign, 2001-04. Governor, Museum of London; Board member Policy

Exchange. Ed: Imperial Coll, London (agricultural economics)

WIRRAL SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 58,834 (60,653) %Vote

*Chapman, B (Lab) 16,89242.54

Cross, C (C) 13,16833.17

Holbrook, S (LD) 8,56821.58

Scott, D (UKIP) 6161.55

Jones, L (Ind) 4601.16

Lab majority 3,7249.38

Total vote 39,704 Turnout 67.48%

Swing Lab to C 1.65

2001: Total vote 39,818 (65.65%) -Lab 18,890 (47.44%) ; C 13,841 (34.76%) ; LD

7,087 (17.80%) ; Lab Maj 5,049 (12.68%) .

Ben Chapman 64 Elected 1997. Private secretary to Richard Caborn as Minister for

Sport since 2001, as Trade and Industry Minister, 1999-200. All-party groups:

China, Cuba. Ed: FBIM

WIRRAL WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 61,050 (62,294) %Vote

*Hesford, S (Lab) 17,54342.55

McVey, E (C) 16,44639.89

Clarke, J (LD) 6,65216.13

Moore, J (UKIP) 4291.04

Taylor, R (AP) 1630.40

Lab majority 1,0972.66

Total vote 41,233 Turnout 67.54%

Swing Lab to C 3.65

2001: Total vote 40,475 (64.97%) -Lab 19,105 (47.20%) ; C 15,070 (37.23%) ; LD

6,300 (15.57%) ; Lab Maj 4,035 (9.97%) .

Stephen Hesford 47 Elected 1997. Hon secretary, Labour Party Legal and

Constitutional Affairs Dept Committee; former member, Select Committees on
Health,

Northern Ireland, Deregulation Ed: Bradford University

WITNEY

C hold

Electorate 78,053 (74,624) %Vote

*Cameron, D (C) 26,57149.33

Leffman, L (LD) 12,41523.05

Gray, T (Lab) 11,84521.99

Dossett-Davies, R (Green) 1,6823.12

Wesson, P (UKIP) 1,3562.52

C majority 14,15626.28

Total vote 53,869 Turnout 69.02%

Swing LD to C 0.79

2001: Total vote 49,203 (65.93%) -C 22,153 (45.02%) ; Lab 14,180 (28.82%) ; LD

10,000 (20.32%) ; Green 1,100 (2.24%) ; Ind 1,003 (2.04%) ; UKIP 767 (1.56%) ; C
Maj

7,973 (16.20%) .

David Cameron 48 Elected 2001. Member, Shadow Cabinet since 2004; Head of Policy

Co-ordination Conservative Party since 2004. All-party groups: drugs misuse.

Ed: Brasenose College, Oxford

WOKING

C hold

Electorate 72,676 (71,163) %Vote

*Malins, H (C) 21,83847.43

Lee, A (LD) 15,22633.07

Blagbrough, E (Lab) 7,50716.30

Davies, M (UKIP) 1,3242.88

Osman, M (UKC) 1500.33

C majority 6,61214.36

Total vote 46,045 Turnout 63.36%

Swing C to LD 0.70

2001: Total vote 42,910 (60.30%) -C 19,747 (46.02%) ; LD 12,988 (30.27%) ; Lab

8,714 (20.31%) ; UKIP 1,461 (3.40%) ; C Maj 6,759 (15.75%) .

Humfrey Malins 59 Elected here 1997. MP, Croydon North West 1983-92. Shadow Home

Affairs Minister since 2003; joint vice-chair, Conservative backbench legal

committee. Ed: Brasenose Coll, Oxford

WOKINGHAM

C hold

Electorate 68,614 (68,430) %Vote

*Redwood, J (C) 22,17448.13

Bray, P (LD) 14,93432.41

Black, D (Lab) 6,99115.17

Carstairs, F (UKIP) 9942.16

Owen, T C (Loony) 5691.24

Colborne, R (BNP) 3760.82

Hall, M (telepath) 340.07

C majority 7,24015.71

Total vote 46,072 Turnout 67.15%

Swing LD to C 1.02

2001: Total vote 43,848 (64.08%) -C 20,216 (46.10%) ; LD 14,222 (32.43%) ; Lab

7,633 (17.41%) ; UKIP 897 (2.05%) ; Loony 880 (2.01%) ; C Maj 5,994 (13.67%) .

John Redwood 53 Elected 1987. Shadow Secretary of State for Deregulation;
member,

Shadow Cabinet 1997-2000; Contested leadership of Tory Party twice.

Ed: Magdalen Coll, St Antony's, Oxford

WOLVERHAMPTON NORTH EAST

Lab Co-op hold

Electorate 60,595 (60,486) %Vote

*Purchase, K

(Lab Co-op) 17,94854.46

Robson, A (C) 9,79229.71

Jack, D (LD) 3,84511.67

Simpson, L (UKIP) 1,3714.16

Lab Co-op majority 8,15624.75

Total vote 32,956 Turnout 54.39%

Swing Lab Co-op to C 3.45

2001: Total vote 31,494 (52.07%) -Lab Co-op 18,984 (60.28%) ; C 9,019 (28.64%) ;
LD

2,494 (7.92%) ; UKIP 997 (3.17%) ; Lab Co-op Maj 9,965 (31.64%) .

Kenneth Purchase 66 Elected 1992. Private secretary to Robin Cook (Leader of

Commons) 2001-03, (Foreign Sec) 1997-2001. All-party groups: export. Ed:

Wolverhampton Polytechnic

WOLVERHAMPTON SOUTH EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 54,047 (53,931) %Vote

McFadden, P (Lab) 16,79059.43

Fairbairn, J (C) 6,29522.28

Murray, D (LD) 3,68213.03

Simmons, K (UKIP) 1,4845.25

Lab majority 10,49537.15

Total vote 28,251 Turnout 52.27%

Swing Lab to C 4.26

2001: Total vote 27,297 (50.61%) -Lab Co-op 18,409 (67.44%) ; C 5,945 (21.78%) ;
LD

2,389 (8.75%) ; NF 554 (2.03%) ; Lab Co-op Maj 12,464 (45.66%) .

WOLVERHAMPTON SOUTH WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 67,096 (67,171) %Vote

*Marris, R (Lab) 18,48944.36

Verma, S (C) 15,61037.45

Ross, C (LD) 5,56813.36

Hope, D (UKIP) 1,0292.47

Mullins, E (BNP) 9832.36

Lab majority 2,8796.91

Total vote 41,679 Turnout 62.12%

Swing Lab to C 0.81

2001: Total vote 40,897 (60.88%) -Lab 19,735 (48.26%) ; C 16,248 (39.73%) ; LD

3,425 (8.37%) ; Green 805 (1.97%) ; UKIP 684 (1.67%) ; Lab Maj 3,487 (8.53%) .

Rob Marris 49 Elected 2001. Inherited seat from Jenny Jones. Member, Work and

Pensions Select Committee since 2001. All-party groups: Punjabis in Britain.

Ed: University of British Columbia

WOODSPRING

C hold

Electorate 71,662 (71,023) %Vote

*Fox, L (C) 21,58741.82

Bell, M (LD) 15,57130.17

Stevens, C (Lab) 11,24921.79

Lewis, R (Green) 1,3092.54

Butcher, A (UKIP) 1,2692.46

Howson, M (BNP) 6331.23

C majority 6,01611.65

Total vote 51,618 Turnout 72.03%

Swing C to LD 3.90

2001: Total vote 48,758 (68.65%) -C 21,297 (43.68%) ; Lab 12,499 (25.63%) ; LD

11,816 (24.23%) ; Ind 1,412 (2.90%) ; Green 1,282 (2.63%) ; UKIP 452 (0.93%) ; C
Maj

8,798 (18.04%) .

Liam Fox 43 Elected 1992. Co-chair, Conservative Party since 2003. Member,
Shadow

Cabinet since 1998; Shadow Health Sec 1999-2003; Chief Spokesman on
Constitutional

Affairs 1998-99; Ed: Glasgow University

WORCESTER

Lab hold

Electorate 72,384 (71,255) %Vote

*Foster, M (Lab) 19,42141.87

Harper, M (C) 16,27735.09

Dhonau, M (LD) 7,55716.29

Chamings, R (UKIP) 1,1132.40

Roberts, M (BNP) 9802.11

Lennard, C (Green) 9211.99

Dowson, P (Ind) 1190.26

Lab majority 3,1446.78

Total vote 46,388 Turnout 64.09%

Swing Lab to C 3.13

2001: Total vote 44,210 (62.04%) -Lab 21,478 (48.58%) ; C 15,712 (35.54%) ; LD

5,578 (12.62%) ; UKIP 1,442 (3.26%) ; Lab Maj 5,766 (13.04%) .

Michael Foster 42 Elected 1997. Team Private Secretary for DfES since 2004;
Former

member, Select Committee on Education and Employment. All-party groups: flood

prevention. Ed: Wolverhampton Univ

WORCESTERSHIRE MID

C hold

Electorate 71,546 (71,985) %Vote

*Luff, P (C) 24,78351.50

Gregson, M (Lab) 11,45623.80

Rowley, M (LD) 9,79620.35

Eaves, T (UKIP) 2,0924.35

C majority 13,32727.69

Total vote 48,127 Turnout 67.27%

Swing Lab to C 2.01

2001: Total vote 44,897 (62.37%) -C 22,937 (51.09%) ; Lab 12,310 (27.42%) ; LD

8,420 (18.75%) ; UKIP 1,230 (2.74%) ; C Maj 10,627 (23.67%) .

Peter Luff 50 Elected 1997. Opposition Assistant Chief Whip since 2002; member,

Select Committees on Adminstration, Selection, Information, Liaison and

Agriculture. Ed: Corpus Christi College, Cambridge

WORCESTERSHIRE WEST

C hold

Electorate 66,999 (66,769) %Vote

*Spicer, M (C) 20,95945.39

Wells, T (LD) 18,48440.03

Bhatti, Q (Lab) 4,94510.71

Bovey, C (UKIP) 1,5903.44

Victory, M (Green) 1990.43

C majority 2,4755.36

Total vote 46,177 Turnout 68.92%

Swing C to LD 3.32

2001: Total vote 44,807 (67.11%) -C 20,597 (45.97%) ; LD 15,223 (33.97%) ; Lab

6,275 (14.00%) ; UKIP 1,574 (3.51%) ; Green 1,138 (2.54%) ; C Maj 5,374 (11.99%)
.

Sir Michael Spicer 62 Elected 1997. Chair, Conservative Backbenchers' 1922

Committee; former member, Treasury Select Committee. All-party groups: energy.
Ed:

Emmanuel College, Cambridge

WORKINGTON

Lab hold

Electorate 61,441 (65,965) %Vote

*Cunningham, T (Lab) 19,55449.21

Pattinson, J (C) 12,65931.86

Clarkson, K (LD) 5,81514.63

Richardson, M (UKIP) 1,3283.34

Peacock, J (LCA) 3810.96

Lab majority 6,89517.35

Total vote 39,737 Turnout 64.68%

Swing Lab to C 4.30

2001: Total vote 41,822 (63.40%) -Lab 23,209 (55.49%) ; C 12,359 (29.55%) ; LD

5,214 (12.47%) ; LCA 1,040 (2.49%) ; Lab Maj 10,850 (25.94%) .

Tony Cunningham 52 Elected 2001. MP since 1979. Private secretary to Elliot
Morley

(Environment and Agriculture Minister) since 2003. All-party groups:
Afghanistan.

Ed: Liverpool University

WORSLEY

Lab hold

Electorate 69,534 (69,300) %Vote

Keeley, B (Lab) 18,85951.04

Evans, G (C) 9,49125.69

Clayton, R (LD) 6,90218.68

Gill, B (UKIP) 1,6944.59

Lab majority 9,36825.36

Total vote 36,946 Turnout 53.13%

Swing Lab to C 3.99

2001: Total vote 35,363 (51.03%) -Lab 20,193 (57.10%) ; C 8,406 (23.77%) ; LD
6,188

(17.50%) ; Soc Lab 576 (1.63%) ; Lab Maj 11,787 (33.33%) .

Barbara Keeley (Lab) Trafford Borough councillor 1995-2004. Voluntary sector

consultant. Ed: Salford University

WORTHING EAST & SHOREHAM

C hold

Electorate 72,302 (71,890) %Vote

*Loughton, T (C) 19,54843.89

Yates, D (Lab) 11,36525.51

Doyle, J (LD) 10,84424.35

Jelf, R (UKIP) 2,1094.73

Baldwin, C (LCA) 6771.52

C majority 8,18318.37

Total vote 44,543 Turnout 61.61%

Swing Lab to C 2.06

2001: Total vote 43,068 (59.91%) -C 18,608 (43.21%) ; Lab 12,469 (28.95%) ; LD

9,876 (22.93%) ; UKIP 1,195 (2.77%) ; LCA 920 (2.14%) ; C Maj 6,139 (14.25%) .

Tim Loughton 42 Elected 1997. Shadow Children's Minister since 2004; Shadow

Minister for Children and the Family 2003-04, Health and Education 2003. Ed:

Warwick University; Clare College, Cambridge

WORTHING WEST

C hold

Electorate 71,780 (72,419) %Vote

*Bottomley, P (C) 21,38347.58

Potter, C (LD) 12,00426.71

Bignell, A (Lab) 8,63019.20

Cross, T (UKIP) 2,3745.28

Baldwin, C (LCA) 5501.22

C majority 9,37920.87

Total vote 44,941 Turnout 62.61%

Swing C to LD 0.02

2001: Total vote 43,209 (59.67%) -C 20,508 (47.46%) ; LD 11,471 (26.55%) ; Lab

9,270 (21.45%) ; UKIP 1,960 (4.54%) ; C Maj 9,037 (20.91%) .

Peter Bottomley 60 Elected here 1997. Member, Select Committees on
Constitutional

Affairs, Unopposed Bills Panel; Standards and Privileges. All-party groups
include

refugees.

Ed: Trinity College, Cambridge

WREKIN, THE

C gain

Electorate 67,291 (65,837) %Vote

Pritchard, M (C) 18,89941.95

*Bradley, P (Lab) 17,95739.86

Tomlinson, B (LD) 6,60814.67

Lawson, B (UKIP) 1,5903.53

C majority 9422.09

Total vote 45,054 Turnout 66.95%

Swing Lab to C 5.37

2001: Total vote 41,490 (63.02%) -Lab 19,532 (47.08%) ; C 15,945 (38.43%) ; LD

4,738 (11.42%) ; UKIP 1,275 (3.07%) ; Lab Maj 3,587 (8.65%) .

WREXHAM

Lab hold

Electorate 48,016 (50,465) %Vote

*Lucas, I (Lab) 13,99346.05

Rippeth, T (LD) 7,17423.61

Coffey, T (C) 6,07920.01

Owen, S (PC) 1,7445.74

Walker, J (BNP) 9193.02

Williams, J (FWP) 4761.57

Lab majority 6,81922.44

Total vote 30,385 Turnout 63.28%

Swing Lab to LD 6.72

2001: Total vote 30,048 (59.54%) -Lab 15,934 (53.03%) ; C 6,746 (22.45%) ; LD
5,153

(17.15%) ; PC 1,783 (5.93%) ; UKIP 432 (1.44%) ; Lab Maj 9,188 (30.58%) .

Ian Lucas 44 Solicitor. elected 2001. Member, Transport Select Committee since

2003; Former Member, Select Committees on Environmental Audit and Procedure. Ed:

New College, Oxford

WYCOMBE

C hold

Electorate 71,464 (74,647) %Vote

*Goodman, P (C) 20,33145.76

Wassell, J (Lab) 13,28029.89

Oates, J (LD) 8,78019.76

Davis, R (UKIP) 1,7353.91

Fitton, D (Ind) 3010.68

C majority 7,05115.87

Total vote 44,427 Turnout 62.17%

Swing Lab to C 4.41

2001: Total vote 44,974 (60.25%) -C 19,064 (42.39%) ; Lab 15,896 (35.34%) ; LD

7,658 (17.03%) ; UKIP 1,059 (2.35%) ; Green 1,057 (2.35%) ; Ind 240 (0.53%) ; C
Maj

3,168 (7.04%) .

Paul Goodman 45 Journalist. Shadow Economic Affairs Minister since 2004; member,

Work and Pensions Select Committee since 2001; Shadow Minister for Disabled
People

2003-04. Ed: York University

WYRE FOREST

KHHC hold

Electorate 73,192 (72,152) %Vote

*Taylor, R (KHHC) 18,73939.88

Garnier, M (C) 13,48928.71

Bayliss, M (Lab) 10,71622.81

Oborski, F (Lib) 2,6665.67

Lee, R (UKIP) 1,0742.29

Priest, B (Loony) 3030.64

KHHC majority 5,25011.17

Total vote 46,987 Turnout 64.20%

Swing KHHC to C 13.92

2001: Total vote 49,062 (68.00%) -KHHC 28,487 (58.06%) ; Lab 10,857 (22.13%) ; C

9,350 (19.06%) ; UKIP 368 (0.75%) ; KHHC Maj 17,630 (35.93%) .

Richard Taylor 70 Doctor, elected 2001. Took seat as an independent campaigner
for

local hospital. Member, Health Select Committee 2001. Ed: Clare Coll, Cambridge,

Westminster Med School

WYTHENSHAWE & SALE EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 71,766 (72,127) %Vote

*Goggins, P (Lab) 18,87852.17

Meehan, J (C) 8,05122.25

Firth, A (LD) 7,76621.46

Ford, W (UKIP) 1,1203.10

Worthington, L (Soc Alt) 3691.02

Lab majority 10,82729.92

Total vote 36,184 Turnout 50.42%

Swing Lab to C 3.02

2001: Total vote 35,055 (48.60%) -Lab 21,032 (60.00%) ; C 8,424 (24.03%) ; LD
4,320

(12.32%) ; Green 869 (2.48%) ; Soc Lab 410 (1.17%) ; Lab Maj 12,608 (35.97%) .

Paul Goggins 51 Elected 1997. Junior Home Office (Correctional Services and

Reducing Re-offending) Minister since 2003; Private Secretary to David Blunkett:

(Home Secretary) 2001-03. Ed: Durham Theology College


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2005, Friday

CORRECTION: John Penrose, the new Conservative MP for Weston-Super-Mare, is 40,
not 50 (Election 2005: The Verdict, May 7) while Anne Main, the new MP for St
Albans, was born in 1957, not 1928 (Conservative class of 2005, May 10). UKIP
won 1,278 votes in Corby, a 2.6 per cent share, and not as reported (May 7). The
revised guide to how Britain has voted since the war and regional analysis of
the 2005 election can be found at www.timesonline.co.uk/ election2005.

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 6, 2005

STARS SWAP TO LIB DEMS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words


THE Liberal Democrats have won the support of many celebs thanks to their
opposition to the war in Iraq.

Former Roxy Music musician Brian Eno, Celebrity Big Brother feminist Germaine
Greer, Body Shop founder Anita Roddick and singer Fran Healy from Travis all
voted LibDem.

But famous names have deserted Labour over Tony Blair's controversial decision
to oust Saddam Hussein.

The PM entertained Vivienne Westwood at 10 Downing Street when he swept to power
in 1997 - but the designer recently said: "There's no way I would vote for him.
It's because of the Iraq war."

But Tony Blair still has the support of Oasis star Noel Gallagher.

The guitarist, who famously attended a dinner party at No 10, said he would vote
Labour because Phil Collins claimed he would live in the UK again if the Tories
were in power.

Noel said: "Phil Collins is threatening to come back and live here. And let's
face it, none of us want that."

Former Dynasty queen Joan Collins backed Michael Howard's party after ending her
support for the Eurosceptic UK Independence Party.

Scottish rockers Franz Ferdinand, actor Tim Roth and Brit director Alex Cox all
supported the Green Party.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              86 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 6, 2005

A BRAVE MAN'S LOST BID TO UNSEAT BLAIR

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 531 words


IT IS one hell of a haul from junction five on the A1 where I live to junction
60, but last Saturday I drove it just to spend the day in Sedgefield. I had
never been doorstep canvassing before and will never do it again.

Clearly some are cut out for it - "Good morning (hand outstretched), I am your
Fizzpop Party candidate . . ." - and some are not. I'm in that category.

You need a lot of chutzpah (or is it brass neck? ) to accost stranger after
stranger, risking the rebuff, the apathy, the bovine ignorance, the turned
contemptuous shoulder, the snarl - and all for the chance of one extra vote or
even a glance at your pamphlet. Not for me; I would die of sheer embarrassment
trying to be a doorstep salesman and this is basically what electioneering is.

The reason I went was to support a good, decent, honest man against a tricky,
lying one. I knew there was not a cat in hell's chance of any voter in that
17,000 majority switching to Tory or Lib Dem, let alone Ukip or the new
Verycrass Party. So why go?

Because a chance existed - slim but discernible - of a once-a-century chance of
toppling a party leader in his own fortress. The man I had gone north to speak
for was not from any party at all. He was Reg Keys; working class to Blair's
public schoolboy; honest versus sly; direct versus devious; truthful versus
mendacious.

More, this former ambulance paramedic from Walsall, semi-retired to North Wales,
had seen off his proud young son Tom in his uniform - sent to Iraq by Tony Blair
- and he had been to an airbase to collect the bullet-riddled corpse that came
home. He was standing as an Independent and people were flocking to him.

For the first-time a Labour voter could switch with a clear conscience - and
private polling indicated they might, in just sufficient numbers.

Others, possibly several thousand in Blair's 17,000 majority, could just stay
away in silent protest - narrowing the gap even more. All that was needed was
for the Conservatives and Lib Dems, with their usual 10,000 votes between them,
to seize the moment, withdraw from the fray and urge every supporter to back Reg
Keys.

Could they do it? Sure. Did they do it? You must be joking. So the antiBlair
vote was split three ways (plus the 10 nutcases, of course) and I fear as I
write that a gesture of peopleover-rotteness that could have echoed round the
world has died by Sedgefield war memorial.

You want to ask why politics is not for me? If I want to indulge in silly games,
I'll go to a playpark.

WHAT a spring this has been! One hundred ewes have dropped 200 lambs, turning
Long Meadow white. On the roof of Old Dairy the white doves are doing naughty
things to each other. Eggs are pouring out of the henhouse and six ladies are
trying to go broody.

A pair of Canada geese, four mallards and what looks like half-a-dozen coots and
moorhens are nesting on the island in the lake and at dusk the paddocks are a
moving grey carpet of rabbits.

But it is only really summer when I dare take the roof off the Ginetta 33
(below) and drive with the wind in my hair - or what's left of it! That is what
I intend to do now this ruddy election's over.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              87 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 6, 2005

Guardian Weekly: The colour of politics in Britain today: Gary Younge journeys
across southern England to check how the Tory immigration card has played

BYLINE: Gary Younge

SECTION: Guardian Weekly, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1266 words


The journey from St Ives in Cornwall to East Ham in London starts with a
"Colonial Curry" and clotted cream in Enys Wartha's Victorian tea rooms in
Penzance and ends with a Lithuanian waitress offering curried goat roti in a
Caribbean restaurant in the capital.

It is a trip from the constituency with the lowest proportion of ethnic minority
voters in England to the one with the highest that reveals not only the uneven
range of Britain's physical landscape, but its racial landscape too.

Look at the CD racks in towns, the restaurants in the smallest villages or watch
a football match on any pub television and you get a sense of how much British
culture has changed as a result of postwar migration. In contrast, if you had
listened to the election debate about immigration, you would have realised how
little the political culture has altered.

Having receded as a decisive electoral issue for the best part of a quarter of a
century, "immigration" is back. In a Populus Tracker poll in the Times two weeks
before the May 5 election immigration and asylum emerged as the fourth most
likely issue to influence votes. At the same stage in the elections of 2001 and
1997 it did not rank at all.

And it is back in an ugly manner reminiscent of the racially charged 1960s, when
in the 1964 Smethwick byelection the Conservative, Peter Griffiths, won with the
slogan: "If you want a nigger for a neighbour, vote Labour." Cast an eye over
the 2005 election literature of Bob Spink, Tory candidate for Castle Point in
Essex, which asks: "What bit of 'send them back' don't you understand Mr Blair?"
and it seems little has changed in the intervening years.

In the constituency of St Ives, once a true-blue Tory constituency until the
Liberal Democrats won it in 1997, a black face can still turn heads and twitch
curtains. With about 0.1% of the voters from ethnic minorities the tidal wave of
change that has swept through most of Britain since the arrival of the Windrush
almost 60 years ago with its shipload of Caribbean immigrants has barely caused
a ripple here.

"You still get quite senior people who should know better referring to
'coloureds' and 'half-castes'," says Eileen Bortey, chairwoman of Cornwall's
Council for Racial Equality. In Padstow they still take to the streets in black
face and Afro wigs to sing minstrel songs for their annual Darkie Day
celebrations.

Meanwhile the temporary and low-paid jobs that prevail in Cornwall, the poorest
county in Britain, have been filled by up to 20,000 migrants from eastern Europe
and other poorer parts of the EU. So even here, where most migrants are from the
home counties, immigration plays big.

"It's the one resonance issue that's favouring the Tories," says Andrew George,
the Liberal Democrat candidate for St Ives, who is defending a 10,053 majority.
"On the doorstep people aren't saying, 'I'm voting Conservative because of their
tax and spending plans'. People have been saying, 'We only came down here to get
away from the blacks', and there was no self-consciousness about saying it out
loud."

The question of how to regulate the flow of people into a country with an ageing
population and acute labour shortages in certain areas is an important one. But
the debate in Britain has been chronically misinformed. A Mori poll from 2003
showed that Britons overestimate the proportion of immigrants in the country by
between three- and four-fold. And asylum and immigration - two separate if
related issues - have been conflated in the national conversation as though they
are synonymous.

For many people "immigration" is a code word for non-white people, regardless of
where they are from. "No offence," said a ruddy-faced retired man I met in
Portland, Dorset, just before he caused offence. "You've got a job. You've done
well for yourself. But a lot of them come here with their hand out and there's
got to be limits."

The Conservatives deny they are playing the race card. "Maybe they're not," says
George. "But they're playing the immigration card and that's right next to the
race card in the deck."

However, in using the immigration card the Conservatives may be overplaying
their hand. "I'm surprised at how prominent Michael Howard has made
immigration," says Tariq Modood, a sociology professor at Bristol University.
"If you unleash a rottweiler, it may go and do something you didn't want it to
do. He may be bolstering the prospects of (the rightwing UK Independence party
and the British National party)."

Immigration is important to almost a fifth of Tory supporters, three times the
proportion of Labour voters. But the strategy risks scaring off women voters to
whom, polls indicate, the issue is of far less interest than to men.

Modood argues that even though race and immigration did not play a huge role in
2001, any fragile consensus was breaking down even four years ago. "2001 was a
pivotal year. There were the disturbances in the northern cities, the
appointment of David Blunkett as home secretary and the terrorist attacks on
September 11. Between them they contributed to a change of tone."

Blunkett conflated immigration and race when responding to the riots in Bradford
with calls for citizenship classes and language lessons, as though those
involved in the disturbances were foreign. "We have norms of acceptability,"
Blunkett said shortly before the report into the riots was released. "And those
who come into our home - for that is what it is - should accept those norms just
as we would have to do if we went elsewhere."

By the time you get to Romford Road in East Ham, London, where a jumble of
different languages mingle in the air and the shop signs call you in Cyrillic
and Arabic as well as Roman script, the still bay of St Ives could be another
country. According to Operation Black Vote, with 53,166 black and Asian voters
East Ham has the highest number of minority voters in the country - a mix of
people of Bangladeshi, African and Caribbean descent.

The Conservative candidate, Sarah Macken, is handing out leaflets outside the
Shahjalal mosque. She is attempting to convert Muslims to the Tories, but she
doesn't have a prayer; Labour has a majority of 21,032. However, unlike Humfrey
Malins, the Tory immigration spokesman, who put out two leaflets - one in Urdu
to Muslim voters boasting about his record of helping procure visas and visits,
the other to white voters pledging to be tough on immigration - Macken is
handing out only one leaflet and hers does not mention immigration at all.

Most people take the leaflets politely, although one man berates her, telling
Macken that a party which supported the war in Iraq and anti-terror legislation
should have more respect than to leaflet a mosque.

Most of those asked said they would definitely not vote Labour because of the
war. Most end up conceding that they did not vote last time either. Nothing much
about the immigration debate seems to have troubled or surprised them. It's as
though the election were taking place in another country, where they just happen
to feature prominently in the national paranoia. So where immigrants and their
descendants are many, immigration barely plays at all; where they are few, the
issue plays big.

But the receptive audience the Conservatives have attracted in highlighting
immigration suggests that despite all the contributions of black and Asian
athletes, authors, musicians and midwives over the past 50 years, Britain's
multicultural fabric is not woven half as tight as some might like to believe.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 6, 2005

Sketch: The celebs' party was in full swing. Then Margaret Thatcher came on
board

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 509 words


It was just fine until Margaret Thatcher walked in. We were at the ITN election
night party, on a posh boat moored near the London Eye. There were nibbles,
there were smoothichops PR people, and there was a lot of champagne.

Bit by bit the celebrities began to arrive. "Thanks so much for that wonderful
story about Tony Blair," a media person said, without adding what that story
might be. No one seemed to care very much what was going to happen. By now we
all knew.

Clive Anderson was there. "I have to interview Joan Collins!" he said, in some
distress. Ms Collins, who is now in her 70s, arrived in swirly blue colours. She
used to be with Ukip but is now more moderate, even more sane, having reverted
to the Tories.

And there was Tony Benn. "You know I've never shed that I wash voting for Tony
Blair," he said to a few acolytes.

Television parties are the place that lost politicians are still taken
seriously. There was Edwina Currie, with her new husband. She was being
interviewed with a very tall man, who has possibly never before been on
television and who has certainly never had an affair with John Major.

Suddenly it was 10.01pm, and we were waiting for the exit poll, the result that
would tell us that we could all go home - except we might want to have a chance
of meeting Angela Rippon. Or Nicholas Parsons, host of radio's popular Just a
Minute. Or Lauren Booth, the prime minister's sister-in-law, who said she had
voted in the hopes of giving him a black eye.

There too was Chris Eubank ("yeth, I do worry about countrieth invading other
countrieth") and the impressionist Alistair McGowan, who you think is Richard
Madeley, even though he isn't. And Frederick Forsyth, the author of Day of the
Jackal.

The first results came through. But this was a London party. Who cares about
politics? Nobody at all. As the first result were announced, from Sunderland
South, we were listening to the stylings of a group called Midnight London Jazz,
who drowned out the sound of successful candidates. "Mmm, nice!"

Top person's lawyer Geoffrey Robertson arrived with his wife, the novelist Kathy
Lette. There was Germaine Greer. Is there anything she can't talk about?

The One Foot in the Grave actor Richard Wilson had voted Labour. It's a measure
of how sophisticated the party was that nobody had actually said to him: "I
don't believe it!"

He had voted Labour, but mainly because his MP is Glenda Jackson, who also
opposed the war in Iraq.

Then, there she was! Margaret Thatcher, short but upright in a shiny black
dress, had come among us! There was a round of applause, if not a very loud one.
Banished from the Tory campaign, here she was for the party! She spoke to
Barnett Janner, the former MP, perhaps glad to see someone she knew.

What a disaster! She won three elections, but her poisonous heritage means that
the Tory party has now lost three elections and looks as if it might become a
total irrelevance in British political life. She has destroyed the party she
made invincible!


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 6, 2005

Election 2005: Sketch: The party was in full swing. Then Lady Thatcher came on
board

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 508 words


It was just fine until Margaret Thatcher walked in. We were at the ITN election
night party, on a posh boat moored near the London Eye. There were nibbles,
there were smoothichops PR people, and there was a lot of champagne.

Bit by bit the celebrities began to arrive. "Thanks so much for that wonderful
story about Tony Blair," a media person said, without adding what that story
might be. No one seemed to care very much what was going to happen. By now we
all knew.

Clive Anderson was there. "I have to interview Joan Collins!" he said, in
distress. Ms Collins, who is now in her 70s, arrived in swirly blue colours. She
used to be with Ukip but is now more moderate, even more sane, having reverted
to the Tories.

And there was Tony Benn. "You know I've never shed that I wash voting for Tony
Blair," he said to a few acolytes.

Television parties are the place that lost politicians are still taken
seriously. There was Edwina Currie, with her new husband. She was being
interviewed with a very tall man, who has possibly never before been on
television and who has certainly never had an affair with John Major.

Suddenly it was 10.01pm, and we were waiting for the exit poll, the result that
would tell us that we could all go home - except we might want to have a chance
of meeting Angela Rippon. Or Nicholas Parsons, host of radio's popular Just a
Minute. Or Lauren Booth, the prime minister's sister-in-law, who said she had
voted in the hopes of giving him a black eye.

There too was Chris Eubank ("yeth, I do worry about countrieth invading other
countrieth") and the impressionist Alistair McGowan, who you think is Richard
Madeley, even though he isn't. And Frederick Forsyth, the author of Day of the
Jackal. The first results came through. But this was a London party. Who cares
about politics? Nobody at all. As the first result were announced, from
Sunderland South, we were listening to the stylings of a group called Midnight
London Jazz, who drowned out the sound of successful candidates. "Mmm, nice!"

Top person's lawyer Geoffrey Robertson arrived with his wife, the novelist Kathy
Lette. There was Germaine Greer. Is there anything she can't talk about?

The One Foot in the Grave actor Richard Wilson had voted Labour. It's a measure
of how sophisticated the party was that nobody had actually said to him: "I
don't believe it!"

He had voted Labour, but mainly because his MP is Glenda Jackson, who also
opposed the war in Iraq.

Then, there she was! Margaret Thatcher, short but upright in a shiny black
dress, had come among us! There was a round of applause, if not a very loud one.
Banished from the Tory campaign, here she was for the party! She spoke to
Barnett Janner, the former MP, perhaps glad to see someone she knew.

What a disaster! She won three elections, but her poisonous heritage means that
the Tory party has now lost three elections and looks as if it might become a
total irrelevance in British political life. She has destroyed the party she
made invincible!


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 6, 2005

Election 2005: UKIP and Greens fail to make gains

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 164 words


The government suffered an embarrassing defeat at the hands of a rebel Labour MP
in the Welsh seat of Blaenau Gwent.

Peter Law, a former member of the Welsh assembly, left the party last month in
protest at all-women shortlists but won the seat standing as an independent.

His victory, announced just after 2am, was a big upset as Labour held the seat
at the last election with a majority of almost 20,000.

Blaenau Gwent has historically been home to one of the largest Labour
parliamentary majorities in the UK and was represented when it was known as Ebbw
Vale by former the Labour leader Michael Foot and by Aneurin Bevan, the
architect of the national health service.

UK Independence party

Ukip, contesting 497 seats, had yet to win a seat at 2am. Graham Booth, Ukip's
candidate for Torbay, polled 3,726 votes. The seat was won by the Lib Dems'
Adrian Sanders.

The Green party

The Greens, contesting 202 constituencies, also had yet to win a seat.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 6, 2005

Election 2005: Kilroy-Silk stays silent: Veritas Ex-Ukip star fights for new
party

BYLINE: David Ward

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 341 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk arrived at the count in the Erewash constituency between
Nottingham and Derby just before 1.30am hoping to capitalise on his success last
year in winning the East Midlands European seat for Ukip.

But he has fallen out with Ukip and is now boss of the fledgling Veritas party.
The truth was that the omens were not good, his chances probably snookered by
the presence of the BNP and Ukip.

"How's it going Mr Kilroy-Silk?"

"Where are you from?"

"The Guardian."

At this point, the candidate with the purple rosette on his smart suit walked
away without saying a word, preferring to do an interview for Sky. Mentions of
him on the BBC's election coverage, especially a passing reference to an "odd
curiosity", had prompted ironic cheers in the bar of the West Park sports centre
in Long Eaton where the count looked likely to go on till dawn. There were more
ironic cheers when a reporter said he had brought "glamour and glitz" to the
election.

Previously Mr Kilroy-Silk, who had the advantage of appearing on television with
his roving mike almost every day for 18 years, had seemed relaxed about his poll
prospects.

"The political scientists say (Erewash) is a safe Labour seat," he said. "But we
will have to wait and see."

Not that safe: Elizabeth Blackman had a majority of just under 7,000 in 2001 but
faced a tough challenge from the Conservative, David Simmonds. Victory would
make him the youngest Tory in the Commons. He could also be the shortest.

Other serious candidates included a Lib Dem (the party picked up 11% of the vote
last time). The less serious candidates included RU Seerius of the Monster
Raving Loony party, who headed a phalanx of supporters decked out like
21st-century morris dancers with beards, badges and bells.

David Bishop, of the Church of the Militant Elvis party, was not present at the
early stages of the count. "He's in the pub, too frightened to come out," said
his lone supporter, the broadcaster Ray Gosling. "We are hoping for double
figures."


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 6, 2005

Hospital campaigner retains seat

LENGTH: 187 words



HIGHLIGHT: A retired doctor who caused one of the biggest upsets of the last
general election by toppling a government minister has been re-elected to
parliament.


A retired doctor who caused one of the biggest upsets of the last general
election by toppling a government minister has been re-elected to parliament.

Dr Richard Taylor, who stood as part of a campaign to save his local hospital
from closure, held on to his seat in Wyre Forest with 18,739 votes, giving him a
5,250 majority ahead of Conservative candidate Mark Garnier.

Labour, which had won the seat in the 1997 election when David Lock romped home
with a near 7,000 majority, finished in third place.

Dr Taylor, who stood on an Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern
ticket, took a 39.9% share of the vote yesterday - nearly 20% down on his 2001
victory.

The retired rheumatologist originally swept to power after voters backed his
campaign to save his local Kidderminster hospital from closure, unseating Mr
Lock, who had gone on to become a government minister.

The full result was: Dr Richard Taylor, IKHHC, 18,739; Mark Garnier,
Conservative, 13,489; Marc Bayliss, Labour, 10,716; Fran Oborski, Liberal,
2,666; Rustie Lee, UK Independence party, 1,074; Burt Priest, Official Monster
Raving Loony party, 303.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              93 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 6, 2005

Fourth time lucky for Birmingham council deputy

LENGTH: 195 words



HIGHLIGHT: John Hemming, the deputy leader of Birmingham council, has been
elected an MP after winning the Yardley constituency on behalf of the Liberal
Democrats in his fourth attempt to claim a parliamentary seat.


The deputy leader of Birmingham council has been elected an MP after winning the
Yardley constituency on behalf of the Liberal Democrats.

It was John Hemming's fourth attempt to win a parliamentary seat and he finished
with 13,648 votes - 2,672 votes ahead of Labour's Jayne Innes.

The new MP intends to remain deputy leader of the council, the control of which
is shared between the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives in what the
parties describe as a "progressive partnership" - at least until the annual
meeting of the council later this month. He may also continue as a councillor
indefinitely.

He said after his victory: "I am quite pleased about my result. The party seems
to have done well in the cities and has made good progress there against Labour.

"It is now normal practice for MPs to remain as councillors, but I don't have to
decide that answer at the moment."

Among Mr Hemming's plans as a new MP is a drive to improve the railway network
in the city.

Full results for Yardley:

John Hemming (Liberal Democrat) 13,648

Jayne Innes (Labour) 10,976

Paul Uppal (Conservative) 2,970

Robert Purcell (British National party) 1,523

Mohammed Yaqub (UK Independence party) 314

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              94 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 6, 2005

Galloway strikes back

LENGTH: 404 words



HIGHLIGHT: George Galloway tonight took stunning personal revenge against the
party that expelled him just over a year ago, defeating Labour's Oona King in
east London to become the anti-war Respect party's first and only MP.


George Galloway tonight took stunning personal revenge against the party that
expelled him just over a year ago, defeating Labour's Oona King in east London
to become the anti-war Respect party's first and only MP.

After coming out on top by 823 votes in the Bethnal Green and Bow constituency,
Mr Galloway launched a verbal attack on the prime minister.

"Mr Blair, the people killed and all the lies you have told have come back to
haunt you, and the best thing the Labour party can do tomorrow morning is to
sack you," he said.

After a tense campaign, which ended with both Ms King and Mr Galloway receiving
police protection, Mr Galloway polled 15,801 votes to Ms King's 14,978.

The result was not declared until 4.35am, nearly two hours later than expected.

Mr Galloway had some kinder words for his defeated opponent, saying Ms King was
"an able person who will be back in politics and back in parliament. The defeat
was not for her but for Tony Blair".

Mr Galloway's victory came on a night which saw the independent MP Dr Richard
Taylor retain his seat in Wyre Forest, and the Green party poll an unprecedented
22% in their target seat of Brighton Pavilion but fail to win the seat.

The anti-EU Veritas and Ukip parties appeared to have failed to make a mark,
whilst the far right BNP party leader Nick Griffin polled 9% of the vote in
Keighley, but still came fourth.

Although neither Jack Straw nor Tony Blair were dislodged by anti-war
candidates, Reg Keys scored 4,252 votes in the prime minister's Sedgefield
constituency, campaigning on behalf of his son Tom, killed in Iraq.

In Erewash, Robert Kilroy-Silk, standing for his new anti-EU Veritas party, was
humiliated, coming a distant fourth, and nearly 20,000 votes behind Labour's Liz
Blackman. Mr Kilroy-Silk was Veritas's biggest hope, and his failure left the
future of the breakaway party in grave doubt.

The Green party had hoped to win its first Westminster seat in Brighton
Pavilion, but came third, albeit only just behind the Conservatives, and their
22% was their best ever percentage of the vote.

Their candidate, Keith Taylor, heralded it as a "fantastic" result in the face
of a "grossly unfair electoral system", but the defeat put paid to their best
chance of winning a seat at this election.

Dr Taylor's support in Wyre Forest was reduced, but the doctor turned MP, who
campaigns for a local hospital and on health issues, still polled nearly 40% of
the vote.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              95 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 6, 2005, Friday

ELECTION 2005: TELEVISION REVIEW: BROADCASTERS ARE ALL SHOOK UP AS ITV'S ELVIS
BATTLES THE BBC'S EXCITABLE TIGGER

BYLINE: THOMAS SUTCLIFFE

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 543 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Clockwise, from top left: Sky News, ITV, BBC and the Parliamentary Channel
covered the election in similar, but complicated, ways


The anticipation among amateur psephologists had been intense. For the American
presidential election Peter Snow had allowed himself to be squashed by a giant
computer-generated image of the presidential helicopter " so what would
Britain's most easily aroused pundit come up with for the general election? He
promised he would be 'pushing the frontiers of technology right to the
extremes'.

And he was true to his word. In the phoney war of election coverage " the long,
aching hour and a half between the start of coverage and the first scrap of
substantive information " Peter Snow and his pale imitations on other channels
are the troops the broadcasters throw into the breach. True, every constituency
has its graduate trainees and local reporters, chucking well-honed cliches into
the yawning vacancy of hard fact ('It's going to be a long and interesting
night', 'no sign of champagne corks here'). The analysts have gathered in great,
wheeling flocks " like vultures on a decomposing elephant. But for the moment
it's really the graphics we're here for.

Early results were disappointing. Peter Snow emerged from a computer- generated
No 10 to cue up a No 10 road race. On the other channel they unveiled a virtual
House of Commons, virtually identical to the virtual House of Commons that Snow
had just bounced around so Tiggerishly on the BBC. But as the evening wore on
the wilder fringes of visual explication began to reveal themselves. For ITV
Nick Robinson unveiled Elvis " the Election Visualiser " because, he said, the
map needed to be 'all shook up'.

Snow hit back with a Three Party Battleground which hissed and whooshed like
some Victorian pneumatics and, at a his command, the stylised manikin MPs flew
across the room to embed themselves in the wall. Clearly, the graphics arms race
had resulted in graphics so complicated that they will shortly need their own
graphics to explain them. The BBC's set looked like the atrium of a provincial
shopping mall " with a branch of Paxman's (Sardonic Detachment for the Gentry)
on the ground floor and a Fiona Bruce (Career Woman Couture) on the mezzanine.

ITV had opted for a kind of Superman's Arctic Fortress look " all glacial blues
and faceted shimmer. But whereas the BBC had stuck to political names for the
guest list ITV had decided to add a touch of Hello! glamour to the occasion.

On a riverboat party on the Thames Joan Collins explained away her presence in a
UKIP leaflet to Clive Anderson.

He supplied the pithiest soundbite of the early coverage. 'It's an all-losers
election,' he suggested, unwittingly seconding what Shirley Williams had pointed
out at length on the BBC " after the first exit polls suggested none of the
parties would achieve their larger ambitions. An all-losers election had a ring
to it " and it chimed with the faces of the party spokesmen, grey with fatigue
and the dawning suspicion that the ball might bounce very unpredictably.

At midnight, though, the final score was a long way off and the only task was to
say nothing with conviction. 'We'll be back in a minute' said Jonathan Dimbleby,
as ITV reached its first ad break, 'but I promise you, you won't miss a thing'.
I'm not sure he realised how true his words were.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              96 of 149 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 6, 2005, Friday

THE QUOTES FOR VOTES

SECTION: 1ST Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words

HIGHLIGHT: FIGHTING TALK: John Prescott doesn't mince his words; Picture: ANDREW
STENNING


"Bugger off! Get on your bus, you amateur!- JOHN PRESCOTT TO A REPORTER FROM THE
SOUTH WALES ARGUS

It's a big choice and there's a lot at stake. The British people are the boss.
And they are the ones who will make it.

- Tony Blair after calling the election

Brown and Blair, the Lee Bowyer and Kieron Dyer of politics.

- Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman

I have moved during the last two weeks of this campaign from supervised
nappy-changing to unsupervised.

- Charles Kennedy on being a new dad

It will be Doomsday if you get in! Doomsday!

- Rail worker Alan Birch blasts Michael Howard

They can call me what they like.

- Tony Blair hits back after Michael Howard branded him a liar

The question is whether some of the mud sticks. The honest answer is, I don't
know.

- The PM on personal attacks

We do say sorry for all those people who have died, but I cannot apologise for
taking the country to war.

- Tony Blair

I don't think we should give house room for one minute to the mumbo-jumbo
environmentalist clap-trap of the Green Party, who think we should go back to
living in caves.

- Scottish Tory enterprise spokesman Murdo Fraser

I have two gut feelings on this, maybe appropriate for a man with a gut the size
I have.

- Home Secretary Charles Clarke

It is heartbreaking when you work so long to get a Labour government in power
and then they turn into a Conservative one.

- Jessica Haigh, 20, from Leeds, who confronted Tony Blair.

He did do the dishes once.

- Sandra Howard, when asked whether her husband helped out at home

Not on your nelly!

- Charles Kennedy, when asked if he would form a coalition with Labour

Election time does tend to bring out the more eccentric elements in society.

- Terry Wogan

I'll be honest, I don't know the answer.

- Lib Dem MP Simon Hughes when asked if local income tax would have to be paid
on second homes

I'm not as good an actor as Mr Blair. If people want a good actor, then probably
I'm not the guy to vote for.

- Michael Howard on BBC Radio 1

Mr Blair is staying a full term. That's what he's told you and you still won't
believe it, will you?

- John Prescott, Deputy Prime Minister arguing with reporters

I have said this is my last election.

- Tony Blair at the manifesto launch

We are not a Conservative Party in drag.

- UKIP leader Roger Knapman (a former Tory MP)

It won't be the worst thing that ever happened.

- Oona King, Labour MP on the prospect of losing her seat

Britain deserves better than Tweedle Dum and Tweedle Dee.

- Ex-Labour MP George Galloway hits out at Tony Blair and Gordon Brown

You don't smile enough.

- Betty Pollock, 73-year-old voter from Edinburgh to Gordon Brown

Blair is to frankness what Herod was to baby-sitting.

- Former PM John Major

Charles Kennedy and his plane will have put 100 tonnes of carbon into the
atmosphere by the election.

- Green Party spokesman, Keith Taylor

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              97 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 6, 2005

YOUR VERDICT

SECTION: ELECTION 05.05.05 THE NATION DECIDES

LENGTH: 8829 words


A

ABERAVON

Lab hold

*Francis, Hywel (Lab) 18,077

Waller, Claire (LD) 4,140

Evans, Philip (PC) 3,545

Rees-Mogg, Annunziata (C) 3,064

Wright, Walter (Veritas) 768

La Vey, Miranda (Green) 510

Lab maj 13,937 (46.30%)

3.57% swing Lab to LD

AIRDRIE & SHOTTS

Lab hold

Reid, John (Lab) 19,568

Balfour, Malcolm (SNP) 5,484

Watt, Helen (LD) 3,792

Cottis, Stuart (C) 3,271

Coats, Fraser (SSP) 706

Rowan, Joseph (Scot Ind) 337

Lab maj 14,084 (42.48%)

1.51% swing SNP to Lab

ALDRIDGE-BROWNHILLS

C hold

*Shepherd, Richard (C) 18,744

Phillips, Jon (Lab) 13,237

Sheward, Roy (LD) 4,862

Vaughan, William (BNP) 1,620

Eardley, Graham (UKIP) 1,093

C maj 5,507 (13.92%)

1.98% swing Lab to C

ALTRINCHAM &

SALE WEST

C hold

*Brady, Graham (C) 20,569

Stockton, John (Lab) 13,410

Chappell, Ian (LD) 9,595

Peart, Gary (UKIP) 736

C maj 7,159 (16.16%)

4.70% swing Lab to C

ASHTON UNDER LYNE

Lab hold

*Heyes, David (Lab) 21,211

Brown, Graeme (C) 7,259

Jones, Les (LD) 5,108

Jones, Anthony (BNP) 2,051

Whittaker, John (UKIP) 768

Crossfield, Jack (Local) 570

Lab maj 13,952 (37.74%)

2.82% swing Lab to C

AYRSHIRE CENTRAL

Lab hold

Donohoe, Brian (Lab) 19,905

Clark, Garry (C) 9,482

Kennedy, Iain (LD) 6,881

Hanif, Jahangir (SNP) 4,969

Morton, Denise (SSP) 820

Cochrane, Robert (Soc Lab) 468

Groves, Jim (UKIP) 346

Lab maj 10,423 (24.31%)

0.68% swing C to Lab

B

BANFF & BUCHAN

SNP hold

*Salmond, Alex (SNP) 19,044

Wallace, Sandy (C) 7,207

Anderson, Eleanor (LD) 4,952

Okasha, Rami (Lab) 4,476

Ross, Victor (OCV) 683

Kemp, Kathleen (UKIP) 442

Will, Steve (SSP) 412

SNP maj 11,837 (31.81%)

2.22% swing C to SNP

BARNSLEY CENTRAL

Lab hold

*Illsley, Eric (Lab) 17,478

Crompton, Miles (LD) 4,746

Morel, Peter (C) 3,813

Broadley, Geoff (BNP) 1,403

Wood, Donald (Ind) 1,175

Lab maj 12,732 (44.49%)

5.22% swing Lab to LD

BARNSLEY EAST &

MEXBOROUGH

Lab hold

*Ennis, Jeff (Lab) 20,779

Brook, Sharron (LD) 6,654

Abbott, Carolyn (C) 4,853

Robinson, Terence (Soc Lab) 740

Lab maj 14,125 (42.77%)

4.44% swing Lab to LD

BARNSLEY WEST &

PENISTONE

Lab hold

*Clapham, Michael (Lab) 20,372

Watkinson, Clive (C) 9,058

Brelsford, Alison (LD) 7,422

Lab maj 11,314 (30.70%)

2.52% swing Lab to C

BASSETLAW

Lab hold

*Mann, John (Lab) 22,847

Sheppard, Jonathan (C) 12,010

Dobbie, David (LD) 5,485

Lab maj 10,837 (26.86%)

0.90% swing C to Lab

BATH

LD hold

*Foster, Don (LD) 20,101

Dawson, Sian (C) 15,463

Ajderian, Harriet (Lab) 6,773

Lucas, Eric (Green) 2,494

Crowder, Richard (UKIP) 770

Cobbe, Patrick (Ind) 177

Walker, Graham (Ind W) 58

LD maj 4,638 (10.12%)

5.63% swing LD to C

BATLEY & SPEN

Lab hold

*Wood, Mike (Lab) 17,974

Light, Robert (C) 12,186

Bentley, Neil (LD) 5,731

Auty, Colin (BNP) 2,668

Lord, Clive (Green) 649

Lab maj 5,788 (14.76%)

0.81% swing C to Lab

BEDFORDSHIRE

SOUTH WEST

C hold

*Selous, Andrew (C) 22,114

Still, Joyce (Lab) 13,837

Strange, Andy (LD) 7,723

Wise, Tom (UKIP) 1,923

Gurney, Kenson (Forum) 217

C maj 8,277 (18.07%)

8.15% swing Lab to C

BILLERICAY

C hold

*Baron, John (C) 25,487

Dodds, Anneliese (Lab) 14,281

Hibbs, Mike (LD) 6,471

Robinson, Bryn (BNP) 1,435

Callaghan, Seantino (UKIP) 1,184

C maj 11,206 (22.94%)

5.97% swing Lab to C

BIRKENHEAD

Lab hold

*Field, Frank (Lab) 18,059

Kelly, Stuart (LD) 5,125

Morton, Howard (C) 4,602

Lab maj 12,934 (46.55%)

5.54% swing Lab to LD

BIRMINGHAM

EDGBASTON

Lab hold

*Stuart, Gisela (Lab) 16,465

Alden, Deirdre (C) 14,116

Dixon, Mike (LD) 5,185

Beck, Peter (Green) 1,116

White, Stephen (UKIP) 749

Lab maj 2,349 (6.24%)

3.10% swing Lab to C

BIRMINGHAM

LADYWOOD

Lab hold

*Short, Clare (Lab) 17,262

Khan, Ayoub (LD) 10,461

Stroud, Philippa (C) 3,515

Nazemi-Afshar, Lynette (UKIP) 2,008

Lab maj 6,801 (20.46%)

20.11% swing Lab to LD

BIRMINGHAM

NORTHFIELD

Lab hold

*Burden, Richard (Lab) 15,419

Ford, Vicky (C) 8,965

Sword, Trevor (LD) 4,171

Cattell, Mark (BNP) 1,278

Chant, Gillian (UKIP) 641

Rodgers, Richard (Good) 428

Houldey, Louise (Soc Alt) 120

Sweeney, Francis (WRP) 34

Lab maj 6,454 (20.78%)

2.81% swing Lab to C

BLACKBURN

Lab hold

*Straw, Jack (Lab) 17,562

Ameen, Imtiaz (C) 9,553

Melia, Tony (LD) 8,608

Holt, Nicholas (BNP) 2,263

Murray, Craig (Ind) 2,082

Baxter, Dorothy (UKIP) 954

Carter, Graham (Green) 783

Lab maj 8,009 (19.16%)

1.90% swing Lab to C

BLAENAU GWENT

Ind Law gain Lab

Law, Peter (Ind Law) 20,505

Jones, Maggie (Lab) 11,384

Thomas, Brian (LD) 1,511

Price, John (PC) 843

Lee, Phillip (C) 816

Osborne, Peter (UKIP) 192

Ind Law maj 9,121 (25.87%)

% swing to

BLAYDON

Lab hold

Anderson, David (Lab) 20,120

Maughan, Peter (LD) 14,785

Luckhurst, Dorothy (C) 3,129

Endacott, Norman (UKIP) 1,019

Lab maj 5,335 (13.66%)

3.70% swing Lab to LD

BLYTH VALLEY

Lab hold

*Campbell, Ronnie (Lab) 19,659

Reid, Jeffrey (LD) 11,132

Windridge, Michael (C) 4,982

Lab maj 8,527 (23.84%)

5.72% swing Lab to LD

BOLTON NORTH EAST

Lab hold

*Crausby, David (Lab) 16,874

Brierley, Paul (C) 12,771

Killeya, Adam (LD) 6,044

Epsom, Kevin (UKIP) 640

Ainscow, Alan (Veritas) 375

Lowe, Lynne (Soc Lab) 207

Lab maj 4,103 (11.12%)

5.25% swing Lab to C

BOLTON SOUTH EAST

Lab hold

*Iddon, Brian (Lab) 18,129

Dunleavy, Deborah (C) 6,491

Harasiwka, Frank (LD) 6,047

Bates, Florence (UKIP) 840

Jones, David (Veritas) 343

Lab maj 11,638 (36.54%)

0.57% swing Lab to C

BOOTLE

Lab hold

*Benton, Joe (Lab) 19,345

Newby, Chris (LD) 2,988

Moustafa, Wafik (C) 1,580

Nuttall, Paul (UKIP) 1,054

Glover, Peter (Soc Alt) 655

Lab maj 16,357 (63.84%)

2.59% swing Lab to LD

BRACKNELL

C hold

*Mackay, Andrew (C) 25,412

Keene, Janet (Lab) 13,376

Glendon, Lee (LD) 10,128

Pearson, Vincent (UKIP) 1,818

Roberts, Dominica (Ind) 407

C maj 12,036 (23.53%)

4.95% swing Lab to C

BRADFORD NORTH

Lab hold

*Rooney, Terry (Lab) 14,622

Ward, David (LD) 11,111

Khong, Teck (C) 5,569

Cromie, Lynda (BNP) 2,061

Schofield, Steve (Green) 560

Yildiz, Umit (Respect) 474

Lab maj 3,511 (10.21%)

9.88% swing Lab to LD

BRADFORD SOUTH

Lab hold

*Sutcliffe, Gerry (Lab) 17,954

Carter, Geraldine (C) 8,787

Doyle, Mike (LD) 5,334

Lewthwaite, James (BNP) 2,862

Curtis, Derek (Green) 695

Smith, Jason (UKIP) 552

Muchewicz, Therese (Veritas) 421

Lab maj 9,167 (25.04%)

1.23% swing Lab to C

BRENTWOOD & ONGAR

C hold

*Pickles, Eric (C) 23,609

Stollar, Gavin (LD) 11,997

Adams, John (Lab) 6,579

Gulleford, Stuart (UKIP) 1,805

Appleton, Anthony (Ind) 155

C maj 11,612 (26.30%)

1.91% swing LD to C

BRISTOL SOUTH

Lab hold

*Primarolo, Dawn (Lab) 20,778

Barnard, Kay (LD) 9,636

Hill, Graham (C) 8,466

Bolton, Charlie (Green) 2,127

Dent, Mark (UKIP) 1,321

Lab maj 11,142 (26.32%)

7.86% swing Lab to LD

BROXBOURNE

C hold

Walker, Charles (C) 21,878

Bolden, Jamie (Lab) 10,369

Porrer, Andrew (LD) 4,973

Emerson, Andrew (BNP) 1,929

Harvey, Martin (UKIP) 1,479

C maj 11,509 (28.33%)

2.28% swing Lab to C

BURNLEY

Lab hold

Ussher, Kitty (Lab) 14,999

Birtwistle, Gordon (LD) 9,221

Brooks, Harry (Burnley) 5,786

Miah, Yousuf (C) 4,206

Starr, Len (BNP) 4,003

Slater, Jeff (Ind) 392

McDowell, Robert (UKIP) 376

Lab maj 5,778 (14.82%)

9.15% swing Lab to LD

BURY NORTH

Lab hold

*Chaytor, David (Lab) 19,130

Nuttall, David (C) 16,204

Davison, Wilf (LD) 6,514

Clough, Stewart (BNP) 1,790

Silver, Philip (UKIP) 476

Upton, Ian (Veritas) 153

O'Neill, Ryan (Soc Lab) 107

Lab maj 2,926 (6.59%)

4.00% swing Lab to C

BURY SOUTH

Lab hold

*Lewis, Ivan (Lab) 19,741

Williams, Alex (C) 10,829

D'Albert, Victor (LD) 6,968

Greenhalgh, Jim (UKIP) 1,059

Hossack, Yvonne (Ind) 557

Lab maj 8,912 (22.76%)

4.77% swing Lab to C

C

CAERNARFON

PC hold

*Williams, Hywel (PC) 12,747

Eaglestone, Martin (Lab) 7,538

ab Owain, Melfyn (LD) 3,508

Opperman, Guy (C) 3,483

Williams, Elwyn (UKIP) 723

PC maj 5,209 (18.60%)

3.26% swing Lab to PC

CAERPHILLY

Lab hold

*David, Wayne (Lab) 22,190

Whittle, Lindsay (PC) 6,831

Watson, Stephen (C) 5,711

Ali, Ashgar (LD) 3,861

Beard, Graeme (FWP) 636

Lab maj 15,359 (39.15%)

1.00% swing PC to Lab

CAMBERWELL &

PECKHAM

Lab hold

*Harman, Harriet (Lab) 18,933

Porter, Richard (LD) 5,450

Lee, Jessica (C) 2,841

Ingram, Paul (Green) 1,172

Penhallow, Derek (UKIP) 350

Sharkey, Margaret (Soc Lab) 132

Kulkarni, Sanjay (WRP) 113

Lab maj 13,483 (46.51%)

4.88% swing Lab to LD

CARDIFF CENTRAL

LD gain Lab

Willott, Jenny (LD) 17,991

*Jones, Jon Owen (Lab Co-op) 12,398

Mohindra, Gotz (C) 3,339

Grigg, Richard (PC) 1,271

Raiz, Raja Gul (Respect) 386

Hughes, Frank (UKIP) 383

Savoury, Anne (Ind) 168

Beany, Captain (Bean) 159

Taylor-Dawson, Catherine (Vote Dream) 37

LD maj 5,593 (15.48%)

8.69% swing Lab Co-op to LD

CARDIFF SOUTH &

PENARTH

Lab Co-op hold

*Michael, Alun (Lab Co-op) 17,544

Green, Victoria (C) 8,210

Cox, Gavin (LD) 7,529

Toby, Jason (PC) 2,023

Matthews, John (Green) 729

Tuttle, Jennifer (UKIP) 522

Bartlett, Dave (Soc Alt) 269

Taylor, Andrew (Ind) 104

Taylor-Dawson, Catherine (Vote Dream) 79

Lab Co-op maj 9,334 (25.22%)

4.57% swing Lab Co-op to C

CARDIFF WEST

Lab hold

*Brennan, Kevin (Lab) 15,729

Baker, Simon (C) 7,562

Goldsworthy, Alison (LD) 6,060

McEvoy, Neil (PC) 4,316

Callan, Joe (UKIP) 727

Taylor-Dawson, Catherine (Vote Dream) 167

Lab maj 8,167 (23.63%)

4.79% swing Lab to C

CARLISLE

Lab hold

*Martlew, Eric (Lab) 17,019

Mitchelson, Mike (C) 11,324

Tweedie, Steven (LD) 5,916

Cochrane, Steven (UKIP) 792

Gibson, Lezley (LCA) 343

Lab maj 5,695 (16.09%)

0.12% swing Lab to C

CEREDIGION

LD gain PC

Williams, Mark (LD) 13,130

*Thomas, Simon (PC) 12,911

Harrison, John (C) 4,455

Davies, Alun (Lab) 4,337

Bradney, Dave (Green) 846

Sheridan, Iain (Veritas) 268

LD maj 219 (0.61%)

6.00% swing PC to LD

CHEADLE

LD hold

*Calton, Patsy (LD) 23,189

Day, Stephen (C) 19,169

Miller, Martin (Lab) 4,169

Cavanagh, Vincent (UKIP) 489

Chadfield, Richard (BNP) 421

LD maj 4,020 (8.47%)

4.20% swing C to LD

CHESTERFIELD

LD hold

*Holmes, Paul (LD) 20,875

Rich, Simon (Lab) 17,830

Kreling, Mark (C) 3,605

Brady, Christopher (UKIP) 997

Jerram, Ian (Eng Dem) 814

LD maj 3,045 (6.90%)

0.54% swing Lab to LD

CHINGFORD &

WOODFORD GREEN

C hold

*Duncan Smith, Iain (C) 20,555

Wright, Simon (Lab) 9,914

Beanse, John (LD) 6,832

McGough, Michael (UKIP) 1,078

White, Barry (Ind) 269

C maj 10,641 (27.53%)

6.35% swing Lab to C

CHIPPING BARNET

C hold

Villiers, Theresa (C) 19,744

Coakley-Webb, Pauline (Lab) 13,784

Hooker, Sean (LD) 6,671

Poppy, Audrey (Green) 1,199

Kaye, Victor (UKIP) 924

Weiss, Rainbow George (Vote Dream) 59

C maj 5,960 (14.06%)

3.85% swing Lab to C

CLEETHORPES

Lab hold

*McIsaac, Shona (Lab) 18,889

Vickers, Martin (C) 16,247

Lowis, Geoff (LD) 6,437

Hardie, Bill (UKIP) 2,016

Lab maj 2,642 (6.06%)

3.59% swing Lab to C

CLWYD SOUTH

Lab hold

*Jones, Martyn (Lab) 14,808

Biggins, Tom (C) 8,460

Burnham, Deric (LD) 5,105

Strong, Mark (PC) 3,111

Humphreys, Alwyn (FWP) 803

Powell, Nick (UKIP) 644

Lab maj 6,348 (19.28%)

3.64% swing Lab to C

COATBRIDGE, CHRYSTON & BELLSHILL

Lab hold

Clarke, Thomas (Lab) 24,725

Ross, Duncan (SNP) 5,206

Ackland, Rodney (LD) 4,605

Paterson, Lindsay (C) 2,775

Kinloch, Joan (SSP) 1,033

Lab maj 19,519 (50.90%)

1.82% swing Lab to SNP

COLNE VALLEY

Lab hold

*Mountford, Kali (Lab) 17,536

Throup, Maggie (C) 16,035

Wilson, Elisabeth (LD) 11,822

Fowler, Barry (BNP) 1,430

Hedges, Lesley (Green) 1,295

Martinek, Helen (Veritas) 543

Mumford, Ian (Loony) 259

Lab maj 1,501 (3.07%)

3.40% swing Lab to C

COPELAND

Lab hold

Reed, Jamie (Lab) 17,033

Whiteside, Chris (C) 10,713

Hollowell, Frank (LD) 3,880

Caley-Knowles, Edward (UKIP) 735

Earley, Brian (Ind) 734

Mossop, Alan (Eng Dem) 662

Lab maj 6,320 (18.72%)

2.22% swing C to Lab

CROSBY

Lab hold

*Curtis-Thomas, Claire (Lab) 17,463

Jones, Debi (C) 11,623

Murray, Jim (LD) 6,298

Whittaker, John (UKIP) 454

Bottoms, Geoffrey (Comm Brit) 199

Braid, David (Clause 28) 157

Lab maj 5,840 (16.14%)

3.26% swing Lab to C

CYNON VALLEY

Lab hold

*Clwyd, Ann (Lab) 17,074

Benney, Geraint (PC) 3,815

Phelps, Margaret (LD) 2,991

Dunn, Antonia (C) 2,062

Davies, Susan (UKIP) 705

Lab maj 13,259 (49.76%)

0.77% swing PC to Lab

D

DARLINGTON

Lab hold

*Milburn, Alan (Lab) 20,643

Frieze, Anthony (C) 10,239

Adamson, Robert (LD) 7,269

Hoodless, John (UKIP) 730

Davies, Dai (Veritas) 507

Lab maj 10,404 (26.41%)

0.19% swing C to Lab

DELYN

Lab hold

*Hanson, David (Lab) 15,540

Bell, John (C) 8,896

Jones, Tudor (LD) 6,089

Thomas, Phil (PC) 2,524

Crawford, May (UKIP) 533

Williams, Nigel (Ind) 422

Lab maj 6,644 (19.54%)

2.65% swing Lab to C

DENTON & REDDISH

Lab hold

Gwynne, Andrew (Lab) 20,340

Story, Alex (C) 6,842

Seabourne, Allison (LD) 5,814

Edgar, John (BNP) 1,326

Price, Gerald (UKIP) 1,120

Lab maj 13,498 (38.08%)

3.77% swing Lab to C

DEVON SOUTH WEST

C hold

*Streeter, Gary (C) 21,906

Evans, Judy (LD) 11,765

Mavin, Christopher (Lab) 11,545

Williams, Hugh (UKIP) 3,669

C maj 10,141 (20.74%)

3.86% swing C to LD

DORSET MID &

POOLE NORTH

LD hold

*Brooke, Annette (LD) 22,000

Hayes, Simon (C) 16,518

Murray, Philip (Lab) 5,221

King, Avril (UKIP) 1,420

LD maj 5,482 (12.14%)

5.63% swing C to LD

DUDLEY NORTH

Lab hold

Austin, Ian (Lab) 18,306

Hillas, Ian (C) 12,874

Lewis, Gerry (LD) 4,257

Darby, Simon (BNP) 4,022

Davis, Malcolm (UKIP) 1,949

Lab maj 5,432 (13.12%)

2.26% swing Lab to C

DUDLEY SOUTH

Lab hold

*Pearson, Ian (Lab) 17,800

Longhi, Marco (C) 13,556

Bramall, Jonathan (LD) 4,808

Salvage, John (BNP) 1,841

Benion, Andrew (UKIP) 1,271

Lab maj 4,244 (10.81%)

3.98% swing Lab to C

DUNBARTONSHIRE EAST

LD gain Lab

Swinson, Jo (LD) 19,533

Lyons, John (Lab) 15,472

Jack, David (C) 7,708

Sagan, Chris (SNP) 2,716

Callison, Stuart (Green) 876

Page, Pamela (SSP) 419

LD maj 4,061 (8.69%)

7.49% swing Lab to LD

DUNBARTONSHIRE WEST

Lab Co-op hold

McFall, John (Lab Co-op) 21,600

Chalmers, Tom (SNP) 9,047

Walker, Niall (LD) 5,999

Murdoch, Campbell (C) 2,679

Robertson, Les (SSP) 1,708

Maher, Bryan (UKIP) 354

Dawson, Marlon (OCV) 202

Lab Co-op maj 12,553 (30.18%)

37.96% swing SNP to Lab Co-op

DUNDEE WEST

Lab hold

McGovern, James (Lab) 16,468

Fitzpatrick, Joe (SNP) 11,089

Garry, Nykoma (LD) 5,323

McKinlay, Christopher (C) 3,062

McFarlane, Jim (SSP) 994

Lab maj 5,379 (14.56%)

3.99% swing Lab to SNP

DUNFERMLINE &

FIFE WEST

Lab hold

Squire, Rachel (Lab) 20,111

Herbert, David (LD) 8,549

Chapman, Douglas (SNP) 8,026

Smillie, Roger (C) 4,376

Archibald, Susan (SSP) 689

Borland, Ian (UKIP) 643

Lab maj 11,562 (27.27%)

6.47% swing Lab to LD

DURHAM NORTH

Lab hold

*Jones, Kevan (Lab) 23,932

Latham, Philip (LD) 7,151

Watson, Mark (C) 6,258

Lab maj 16,781 (44.94%)

4.12% swing Lab to LD

DURHAM NORTH WEST

Lab hold

*Armstrong, Hilary (Lab) 21,312

Ord, Alan (LD) 7,869

Devlin, Jamie (C) 6,463

Stelling, Watts (Ind) 3,865

Lab maj 13,443 (34.03%)

6.80% swing Lab to LD

E

EASINGTON

Lab hold

*Cummings, John (Lab) 22,733

Ord, Christopher (LD) 4,097

Nicholson, Lucille (C) 3,400

McDonald, Ian (BNP) 1,042

Robinson, Dave (Soc Lab) 583

Lab maj 18,636 (58.50%)

4.00% swing Lab to LD

EAST HAM

Lab hold

*Timms, Stephen (Lab) 21,326

Mian, Abdul Khaliq (Respect) 8,171

Macken, Sarah (C) 5,196

Haigh, Ann (LD) 4,296

Bamber, David (CPA) 580

Lab maj 13,155 (33.25%)

% swing to

EAST KILBRIDE, STRATHAVEN & LESMAHAGOW

Lab hold

Ingram, Adam (Lab) 23,264

Edwards, Douglas (SNP) 8,541

Oswald, John (LD) 7,904

Lewis, Tony (C) 4,776

Robb, Kirsten (Green) 1,575

Gentle, Rose (Ind) 1,513

Houston, John (Ind Houston) 160

Lab maj 14,723 (30.84%)

0.78% swing SNP to Lab

ECCLES

Lab hold

*Stewart, Ian (Lab) 19,702

Matuk, Thelma (C) 6,816

Brophy, Jane (LD) 6,429

Reeve, Peter (UKIP) 1,685

Lab maj 12,886 (37.21%)

3.29% swing Lab to C

EPPING FOREST

C hold

*Laing, Eleanor (C) 23,783

Charalambous, Bambos (Lab) 9,425

Heavens, Michael (LD) 8,279

Leppert, Julian (BNP) 1,728

Smith, Andrew (UKIP) 1,014

Tibrook, Robin (Eng Dem) 631

C maj 14,358 (32.01%)

6.07% swing Lab to C

F

FIFE NORTH EAST

LD hold

Campbell, Menzies (LD) 20,088

Scott-Hayward, Mike (C) 7,517

King, Tony (Lab) 4,920

Campbell, Rod (SNP) 4,011

Park, Jim (Green) 1,071

Pickard, Duncan (UKIP) 533

Ferguson, Jack (SSP) 416

LD maj 12,571 (32.60%)

3.20% swing C to LD

G

GATESHEAD EAST &

WASHINGTON WEST

Lab hold

Hodgson, Sharon (Lab) 20,997

Hindle, Frank (LD) 7,590

Martin, Lee (C) 4,812

Batty, Jim (UKIP) 1,269

Lab maj 13,407 (38.67%)

7.29% swing Lab to LD

GOWER

Lab hold

*Caton, Martin (Lab) 16,786

Murray, Mike (C) 10,083

Tregoning, Nick (LD) 7,291

Caiach, Sian (PC) 3,089

Lewis, Richard (UKIP) 1,264

Griffiths, Rhodri (Green) 1,029

Lab maj 6,703 (16.95%)

1.42% swing Lab to C

GREAT GRIMSBY

Lab hold

*Mitchell, Austin (Lab) 15,512

Taylor, Giles (C) 7,858

de Freitas, Andrew (LD) 6,356

Fyfe, Stephen (BNP) 1,338

Grant, Martin (UKIP) 1,239

Brooks, David (Green) 661

Lab maj 7,654 (23.22%)

5.78% swing Lab to C

H

HALESOWEN &

ROWLEY REGIS

Lab hold

*Heal, Sylvia (Lab) 19,243

Jones, Les (C) 14,906

Turner, Martin (LD) 5,204

Sinclaire, Nikki (UKIP) 1,974

Lab maj 4,337 (10.49%)

4.12% swing Lab to C

HALIFAX

Lab Co-op hold

Riordan, Linda (Lab Co-op) 16,579

Hopkins, Kris (C) 13,162

Taylor, Michael (LD) 7,100

Wallace, Geoff (BNP) 2,627

Holmes, Thomas (NF) 191

Lab Co-op maj 3,417 (8.62%)

3.28% swing Lab Co-op to C

HALTON

Lab hold

*Twigg, Derek (Lab) 21,460

Bloom, Colin Cromarty (C) 6,854

Barlow, Roger (LD) 5,869

Lab maj 14,606 (42.73%)

3.92% swing Lab to C

HAMPSTEAD & HIGHGATE

Lab hold

*Jackson, Glenda (Lab) 14,628

Wauchope, Piers (C) 10,886

Fordham, Ed (LD) 10,293

Berry, Sian (Green) 2,013

Nielsen, Magnus (UKIP) 275

Weiss, Rainbow George (Vote Dream) 91

Lab maj 3,742 (9.80%)

6.22% swing Lab to C

HAZEL GROVE

LD hold

*Stunell, Andrew (LD) 19,355

White, Alan (C) 11,607

Graystone, Andrew (Lab) 6,834

Ryan, Keith (UKIP) 1,321

LD maj 7,748 (19.81%)

1.06% swing LD to C

HERTSMERE

C hold

*Clappison, James (C) 22,665

Tebb, Kelly (Lab) 11,572

Davies, Jonathan (LD) 7,817

Dry, James (Soc Lab) 518

C maj 11,093 (26.06%)

7.12% swing Lab to C

HEYWOOD &

MIDDLETON

Lab Co-op hold

*Dobbin, Jim (Lab Co-op) 19,438

Pathmarajah, Stephen (C) 8,355

Lavin, Crea (LD) 7,261

Aronsson, Gary (BNP) 1,855

Burke, Phil (Lib) 1,377

Whittaker, John (UKIP) 767

Lab Co-op maj 11,083 (28.38%)

0.86% swing Lab Co-op to C

HOLBORN &

ST PANCRAS

Lab hold

*Dobson, Frank (Lab) 14,857

Fraser, Jill (LD) 10,070

James, Margot (C) 6,482

Oliver, Adrian (Green) 2,798

Weiss, Rainbow George (Vote Dream) 152

Lab maj 4,787 (13.93%)

10.98% swing Lab to LD

HORNSEY &

WOOD GREEN

LD gain Lab

Featherstone, Lynne (LD) 20,512

*Roche, Barbara (Lab) 18,117

Forrest, Peter (C) 6,014

Forbes, Jayne (Green) 2,377

Freshwater, Roy (UKIP) 310

LD maj 2,395 (5.06%)

14.57% swing Lab to LD

HOUGHTON &

WASHINGTON EAST

Lab hold

*Kemp, Fraser (Lab) 22,310

Greenfield, Mark (LD) 6,245

Devenish, Anthony (C) 4,772

Richardson, John (BNP) 1,367

Lab maj 16,065 (46.30%)

7.20% swing Lab to LD

HOVE

Lab hold

Barlow, Celia (Lab) 16,786

Boles, Nicholas (C) 16,366

Elgood, Paul (LD) 8,002

Ballam, Anthea (Green) 2,575

Bower, Stuart (UKIP) 575

O'Keefe, Paddy (Respect) 268

Dobbs, Bob (Ind) 95

Franklin, Richard (Silent) 78

Ralfe, Brian (Ind R) 51

Lab maj 420 (0.94%)

3.31% swing Lab to C

HUDDERSFIELD

Lab Co-op hold

*Sheerman, Barry (Lab Co-op) 16,341

Bone, Emma (LD) 7,990

Meacock, David (C) 7,597

Stewart-Turner, Julie (Green) 1,651

Hanson, Karl (BNP) 1,036

Quarmby, Theresa (Ind) 325

Lab Co-op maj 8,351 (23.90%)

7.18% swing Lab Co-op to LD

HULL EAST

Lab hold

*Prescott, John (Lab) 17,609

Sloan, Andy (LD) 5,862

Lindsay, Katy (C) 4,038

Siddle, Alan (BNP) 1,022

Toker, Janet (Lib) 1,018

Morris, Graham (Veritas) 750

Noon, Ronald (Ind) 334

Muir, Linda (Soc Lab) 207

Wagner, Carl (LCA) 182

Lab maj 11,747 (37.87%)

5.88% swing Lab to LD

HULL NORTH

Lab hold

Johnson, Diana (Lab) 15,364

Healy, Denis (LD) 8,013

Rivlin, Lydia (C) 3,822

Deane, Martin (Green) 858

Wainwright, Brian (BNP) 766

Robinson, Tineke (Veritas) 389

Veasey, Christopher

(Northern) 193

Wagner, Carl (LCA) 179

Lab maj 7,351 (24.85%)

6.30% swing Lab to LD

HULL WEST & HESSLE

Lab hold

*Johnson, Alan (Lab) 15,305

Nolan, David (LD) 5,855

Woods, Karen (C) 5,769

Wallis, Stephen (Veritas) 889

Lab maj 9,450 (33.97%)

4.66% swing Lab to LD

I

ILFORD NORTH

C gain Lab

Scott, Lee (C) 18,781

*Perham, Linda (Lab) 17,128

Gayler, Mark (LD) 5,896

Cross, Andrew (UKIP) 902

Levin, Martin (Ind) 293

C maj 1,653 (3.84%)

4.55% swing Lab to C

ILFORD SOUTH

Lab Co-op hold

*Gapes, Mike (Lab Co-op) 20,856

Metcalfe, Stephen (C) 11,628

Lake, Matthew (LD) 8,761

Rana, Kashif (BPP) 763

Taylor, Colin (UKIP) 685

Lab Co-op maj 9,228 (21.61%)

6.14% swing Lab Co-op to C

INVERCLYDE

Lab hold

Cairns, David (Lab) 18,318

McMillan, Stuart (SNP) 7,059

Herbison, Douglas (LD) 6,123

Fraser, Gordon (C) 3,692

Landels, David (SSP) 906

Lab maj 11,259 (31.19%)

2.51% swing Lab to SNP

ISLINGTON NORTH

Lab hold

*Corbyn, Jeremy (Lab) 16,118

Willoughby, Laura (LD) 9,402

Talbot, Nicola (C) 3,740

Nott, Jon (Green) 2,234

Lab maj 6,716 (21.32%)

10.78% swing Lab to LD

ISLWYN

Lab Co-op hold

*Touhig, Don (Lab Co-op) 19,687

Criddle, Jim (PC) 3,947

Dillon, Lee (LD) 3,873

Howells, Phillip (C) 3,358

Lab Co-op maj 15,740 (51.00%)

0.67% swing PC to Lab Co-op

J

JARROW

Lab hold

*Hepburn, Stephen (Lab) 20,554

Schardt, Bill (LD) 6,650

Jack, Linkson (C) 4,807

Badger, Alan (UKIP) 1,567

Nettleship, Roger (SNH) 400

Lab maj 13,904 (40.92%)

5.06% swing Lab to LD

K

KEIGHLEY

Lab hold

*Cryer, Ann (Lab) 20,720

Poulsen, Karl (C) 15,868

Fekri, Nader (LD) 5,484

Griffin, Nick (BNP) 4,240

Lab maj 4,852 (10.48%)

0.62% swing C to Lab

KENSINGTON & CHELSEA

C hold

Rifkind, Malcolm (C) 18,144

Kingsley, Jennifer (LD) 5,726

Atkinson, Catherine (Lab) 5,521

Stephenson, Julia (Green) 1,342

Eilorat, Mildred (UKIP) 395

Bovill, Alfred (Ind) 107

Adams, Eddie (Green Soc) 101

C maj 12,418 (39.63%)

0.46% swing LD to C

KILMARNOCK & LOUDOUN

Lab hold

Browne, Des (Lab) 20,976

Coffey, Daniel (SNP) 12,273

Smith, Gary (C) 5,026

Lang, Kevin (LD) 4,945

Kerr, Hugh (SSP) 833

Robertson, Ronnie (UKIP) 330

Lab maj 8,703 (19.61%)

5.45% swing Lab to SNP

KINGSTON & SURBITON

LD hold

*Davey, Edward (LD) 25,397

Davis, Kevin (C) 16,431

Parrott, Nick (Lab) 6,553

Thornton, Barry (UKIP) 657

Hayball, John (Soc Lab) 366

Henson, David (Veritas) 200

Weiss, Rainbow George (Vote Dream) 146

LD maj 8,966 (18.02%)

6.95% swing LD to C

KINGSWOOD

Lab hold

*Berry, Roger (Lab) 26,491

Inskip, Owen (C) 18,618

Brewer, Geoff (LD) 9,089

Knight, John (UKIP) 1,444

Burnside, David (Ind) 669

Lab maj 7,873 (13.98%)

6.26% swing Lab to C

KIRKCALDY &

COWDENBEATH

Lab hold

Brown, Gordon (Lab) 24,278

Bath, Alan (SNP) 6,062

Cole-Hamilton, Alex (LD) 5,450

Randall, Stuart (C) 4,308

West, Steve (SSP) 666

Adams, Peter (UKIP) 516> Parker, James (Scot Senior) 425> Kwantes, Elizabeth
(Ind K) 47> Sargent, Pat (Ind) 44> Lab maj 18,216 (43.58%) > 1.84% swing SNP to
Lab> KNOWSLEY NORTH &> SEFTON EAST> Lab hold> *Howarth, George (Lab) 23,461>
Clucas, Flo (LD) 7,192> Purewal, Naman (C) 5,064> McDermott, Michael (BNP) 872>
Whatham, Stephen (Soc Lab) 464> Lab maj 16,269 (43.91%) > 4.52% swing Lab to LD>
KNOWSLEY SOUTH> Lab hold> *O'Hara, Eddie (Lab) 24,820> Smithson, David (LD)
7,132> Leadsom, Andrea (C) 4,492> Lab maj 17,688 (48.53%) > 4.86% swing Lab to
LD> L> LANARK & HAMILTON> EAST> Lab hold> Hood, Jimmy (Lab) 20,072> Grieve,
Fraser (LD) 8,125> Wilson, John (SNP) 7,746> Pettigrew, Robert (C) 5,576>
Reilly, Dennis (SSP) 802> Mackay, Donald (UKIP) 437> McFarlane, Duncan (Ind)
416> Mawhinney, Robin (OCV) 415> Lab maj 11,947 (27.41%) > 5.89% swing Lab to
LD> LEEDS CENTRAL> Lab hold> *Benn, Hilary (Lab) 17,526> Coleman, Ruth (LD)
5,660> Cattell, Brian (C) 3,865> Collett, Mark (BNP) 1,201> Sewards, Peter (
UKIP) 494> Dear, Mick (Ind) 189> Taiwo, Oluwole (Ind T) 126> Fitzgerald, Julian
(AFC) 125> Lab maj 11,866 (40.66%) > 6.53% swing Lab to LD> LEEDS EAST> Lab
hold> *Mudie, George (Lab) 17,799> Tear, Andrew (LD) 6,221> Ponniah, Dominic (C)
5,557> Socrates, Peter (Ind) 500> Lab maj 11,578 (38.49%) > 5.48% swing Lab to
LD> LEEDS NORTH EAST> Lab hold> *Hamilton, Fabian (Lab) 18,632> Lobley, Matthew
(C) 13,370> Brown, Jonathan (LD) 8,427> Foote, Celia (Green Soc) 1,038> Lab maj
5,262 (12.69%) > 2.57% swing Lab to C> LEEDS WEST> Lab hold> *Battle, John (Lab)
18,704> Finlay, Darren (LD) 5,894> Metcalfe, Tim (C) 4,807> Blackburn, David
(Green) 2,519> Day, Julie (BNP) 1,166> Sewards, David (UKIP) 628> Lab maj 12,810
(37.99%) > 6.85% swing Lab to LD> LEICESTER WEST> Lab hold> *Hewitt, Patricia
(Lab) 17,184> Richardson, Sarah (C) 8,114> Haq, Zuffar (LD) 5,803> Forse, Geoff
(Green) 1,571> Score, Steve (Soc Alt) 552> Lab maj 9,070 (27.30%) > 0.86% swing
Lab to C> LEIGH> Lab hold> *Burnham, Andy (Lab) 23,097> Wedderburn, Laurance (C)
5,825> Crowther, Dave (LD) 4,962> Franzen, Ian (CAP) 2,189> Hampson, Thomas
(LCA) 415> Lab maj 17,272 (47.34%) > 0.49% swing C to Lab> LEYTON & WANSTEAD>
Lab hold> *Cohen, Harry (Lab) 15,234> Khan, Meher (LD) 8,377> Foster, Julien (C)
7,393> Gunstock, Ashley (Green) 1,523> Jones, Nick (UKIP) 591> Robertson, Marc
(Ind) 155> Lab maj 6,857 (20.61%) > 10.71% swing Lab to LD> LINLITHGOW &
FALKIRK> EAST> Lab hold> Connarty, Michael (Lab) 22,121> Guthrie, Gordon (SNP)
10,919> Glenn, Stephen (LD) 7,100> Veitch, Michael (C) 5,486> Hendry, Ally (SSP)
763> Lab maj 11,202 (24.15%) > 1.16% swing Lab to SNP> LIVERPOOL GARSTON> Lab
hold> *Eagle, Maria (Lab) 18,900> Keaveney, Paula (LD) 11,707> Rudd, Amber (C)
3,424> Kearney, Kevin (UKIP) 780> Oatley, David (WRP) 163> Lab maj 7,193
(20.57%) > 8.85% swing Lab to LD> LIVERPOOL RIVERSIDE> Lab Co-op hold> *Ellman,
Louise (Lab Co-op) 17,951> Marbrow, Richard (LD) 7,737> Howatson, Gabrielle (C)
2,843> Cranie, Peter (Green) 1,707> Marshall, Beth (Soc Lab) 498> Irving, Ann (
UKIP) 455> Lab Co-op maj 10,214 (32.75%) > 10.98% swing Lab Co-op to LD>
LIVERPOOL WEST DERBY> Lab hold> *Wareing, Robert (Lab) 19,140> Maloney, Patrick
(LD) 3,915> Radford, Steve (Lib) 3,606> Garrett, Peter (C) 2,567> Andersen, Kai
(Soc Lab) 698> Baden, Peter (UKIP) 538> Lab maj 15,225 (49.98%) > 2.66% swing
Lab to LD> LIVINGSTON> Lab hold> Cook, Robin (Lab) 22,657> Constance, Angela
(SNP) 9,560> Dundas, Charles (LD) 6,832> Ross, Alison (C) 4,499> Nimmo, Steven
(SSP) 789> Lab maj 13,097 (29.54%) > 1.17% swing Lab to SNP> LLANELLI> Lab hold>
Griffith, Nia (Lab) 16,592> Baker, Neil (PC) 9,358> Phillips, Adrian (C) 4,844>
Rees, Ken (LD) 4,550> Lab maj 7,234 (20.47%) > 1.39% swing PC to Lab> M>
MAIDENHEAD> C hold> *May, Theresa (C) 23,312> Newbound, Kathryn (LD) 17,081>
Pritchard, Janet (Lab) 4,144> Rait, Tim (BNP) 704> Lewis, Douglas (UKIP) 609> C
maj 6,231 (13.59%) > 3.00% swing LD to C> MAKERFIELD> Lab hold> *McCartney, Ian
(Lab) 22,494> Ranger, Kulveer (C) 4,345> Beswick, Trevor (LD) 3,789> Franzen,
Peter (CAP) 2,769> Shambley, Dennis (BNP) 1,221> Atherton, Gregory (UKIP) 962>
Lab maj 18,149 (51.01%) > 0.04% swing C to Lab> MANCHESTER> BLACKLEY> Lab hold>
*Stringer, Graham (Lab) 17,187> Donaldson, Iain (LD) 5,160> Ahmed, Amar (C)
3,690> Bullock, Roger (UKIP) 1,554> Lab maj 12,027 (43.59%) > 6.99% swing Lab to
LD> MANCHESTER CENTRAL> Lab hold> *Lloyd, Tony (Lab) 16,993> Ramsbottom, Marc
(LD) 7,217> Jackson, Tom (C) 2,504> Durrant, Steven (Green) 1,292> Kemp, Richard
(NF) 421> O'Connor, Damien (Ind Pr Lab) 382> Whittaker, John (UKIP) 272>
Sinclair, Ronald (Soc Lab) 183> Lab maj 9,776 (33.41%) > 9.80% swing Lab to LD>
MANCHESTER GORTON> Lab hold> *Kaufman, Gerald (Lab) 15,480> Afzal, Qassim (LD)
9,672> Byrne, Amanda (C) 2,848> Beaman, Gregory (UKIP) 783> Waller, Dan (WRP)
181> Kay, Matthew (The RP) 159> Lab maj 5,808 (19.94%) > 10.79% swing Lab to LD>
MEIRIONNYDD NANT> CONWY> PC hold> *Llwyd, Elfyn (PC) 10,597> Jones, Rhodri (Lab)
3,983> Munford, Dan (C) 3,402> Fawcett, Adrian (LD) 2,192> Wykes, Francis (UKIP)
466> PC maj 6,614 (32.04%) > 2.53% swing Lab to PC> MERIDEN> C hold> *Spelman,
Caroline (C) 22,416> Brown, Jim (Lab) 15,407> Laitinen, William (LD) 7,113>
Brookes, Denis (UKIP) 1,567> C maj 7,009 (15.07%) > 3.29% swing Lab to C>
MIDDLESBROUGH> Lab hold> *Bell, Stuart (Lab) 18,562> Michna, Joe (LD) 5,995>
Flynn-Macleod, Caroline (C) 5,263> Armes, Ron (BNP) 819> Landers, Michael (UKIP)
768> Elder, Jackie (Ind) 503> Arnott, Derrick (ND) 230> Lab maj 12,567 (39.10%)
> 9.03% swing Lab to LD> MIDLOTHIAN> Lab hold> Hamilton, David (Lab) 17,153>
Mackintosh, Fred (LD) 9,888> Beattie, Colin (SNP) 6,400> McGill, Iain (C) 3,537>
Gilfillan, Norman (SSP) 726> Lab maj 7,265 (19.27%) > 6.98% swing Lab to LD>
MITCHAM & MORDEN> Lab hold> *McDonagh, Siobhain (Lab) 22,489> Shellhorn, Andrew
(C) 9,929> Christie-Smith, Jo (LD) 5,583> Walsh, Tom (Green) 1,395> Roberts,
Adrian (Veritas) 286> Alagaratnam, Rathy (ND) 186> Lab maj 12,560 (31.50%) >
2.40% swing Lab to C> MORAY> SNP hold> *Robertson, Angus (SNP) 14,196>
Halcro-Johnston, Jamie (C) 8,520> Hutchens, Kevin (Lab) 7,919> Gorn, Linda (LD)
7,460> Anderson, Norma (SSP) 698> SNP maj 5,676 (14.63%) > 4.07% swing C to SNP>
MORLEY & ROTHWELL> Lab hold> *Challen, Colin (Lab) 20,570> Vineall, Nick (C)
8,227> Golton, Stewart (LD) 6,819> Finnigan, Robert (Ind) 4,608> Beverley, Chris
(BNP) 2,271> Lab maj 12,343 (29.05%) > 1.20% swing Lab to C> MOTHERWELL &>
WISHAW> Lab hold> Roy, Frank (Lab) 21,327> MacQuarrie, Ian (SNP) 6,105> Snowden,
Conor (LD) 4,464> Finnie, Peter (C) 3,440> MacEwan, Gregor (SSP) 1,019> Carter,
Dallas (Free Scot) 384> Thompson, Coral (OCV) 370> Lab maj 15,222 (41.02%) >
2.35% swing SNP to Lab> N> NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR> SNP gain Lab> MacNeil, Angus
(SNP) 6,213> *MacDonald, Calum (Lab) 4,772> Davis, Jean (LD) 1,096> Hargreaves,
James (OCV) 1,048> Maciver, Andy (C) 610> Telfer, Joanne (SSP) 97> SNP maj 1,441
(10.41%) > 9.29% swing Lab to SNP> NEATH> Lab hold> *Hain, Peter (Lab) 18,835>
Owen, Geraint (PC) 6,125> Waye, Sheila (LD) 5,112> Lloyd Davies, Harri (C)
4,136> Jay, Susan (Green) 658> Brienza, Gerry (Ind) 360> Tabram, Pat (LCA) 334>
Falconer, Heather (Respect) 257> Lab maj 12,710 (35.49%) > 3.41% swing Lab to
PC> NEWBURY> C gain LD> Benyon, Richard (C) 26,771> *Rendel, David (LD) 23,311>
Van Nooijen, Oscar (Lab) 3,239> McMahon, David (UKIP) 857> Cornish, Nicholas
(Ind NC) 409> Singleton, Barrie (Ind) 86> C maj 3,460 (6.33%) > 5.54% swing LD
to C> NEWCASTLE UPON> TYNE CENTRAL> Lab hold> *Cousins, Jim (Lab) 16,211> Stone,
Greg (LD) 12,229> Morton, Wendy (C) 5,749> Hulm, Joe (Green) 1,254> Harding,
Clive (NACVP) 477> Lab maj 3,982 (11.09%) > 11.10% swing Lab to LD> NEWCASTLE
UPON> TYNE EAST &> WALLSEND> Lab hold> *Brown, Nick (Lab) 17,462> Ord, David
(LD) 9,897> Dias, Norma (C) 3,532> Hopwood, William (Soc Alt) 582> Levy, Martin
(Comm Brit) 205> Lab maj 7,565 (23.88%) > 9.81% swing Lab to LD> NEWCASTLE UPON>
TYNE NORTH> Lab hold> *Henderson, Doug (Lab) 19,224> Beadle, Ron (LD) 12,201>
Hudson, Neil (C) 6,022> Wood, Roland (NF) 997> Lab maj 7,023 (18.27%) > 11.22%
swing Lab to LD> NORTHAVON> LD hold> *Webb, Steve (LD) 30,872> Butt, Chris (C)
19,839> Gardener, Patricia (Lab) 6,277> Blake, Adrian (UKIP) 1,032> Pinder, Alan
(Green) 922> Beacham, Thomas (Ind) 114> LD maj 11,033 (18.68%) > 0.48% swing C
to LD> NOTTINGHAM EAST> Lab hold> *Heppell, John (Lab) 7,787> Ghazni, Issan (LD)
6,848> Thornton, Jim (C) 6,826> Baxter, Ashley (Green) 1,517> Ellwood, Anthony (
UKIP) 740> Ratcliff, Pete (Soc Unity) 373> Lab maj 939 (3.90%) > 21.02% swing
Lab to LD> NOTTINGHAM NORTH> Lab hold> *Allen, Graham (Lab) 17,842> Patel, Priti
(C) 5,671> Ball, Tim (LD) 5,190> Marriott, Irena (UKIP) 1,680> Lab maj 12,171
(40.06%) > 0.34% swing Lab to C> NOTTINGHAM SOUTH> Lab hold> *Simpson, Alan
(Lab) 16,506> Mattu, Sudesh (C) 9,020> Sutton, Tony (LD) 7,961> Browne, Ken (
UKIP) 1,353> Lab maj 7,486 (21.49%) > 2.90% swing Lab to C> O> OGMORE> Lab hold>
*Irranca-Davies, Huw (Lab) 18,295> Radford, Jackie (LD) 4,592> Lloyd-Nesling,
Norma (C) 4,243> Williams, John (PC) 3,148> Lab maj 13,703 (45.26%) > 2.01%
swing Lab to LD> OLDHAM EAST &> SADDLEWORTH> Lab hold> *Woolas, Phil (Lab)
17,968> Dawson, Tony (LD) 14,378> Chapman, Keith (C) 7,901> Treacy, Michael
(BNP) 2,109> Nield, Valerie (UKIP) 873> O'Grady, Philip (Ind) 138> Lab maj 3,590
(8.28%) > 1.14% swing LD to Lab> OLDHAM WEST &> ROYTON> Lab hold> *Meacher,
Michael (Lab) 18,457> Moore, Sean (C) 7,998> Bodsworth, Stuart (LD) 7,519>
Corbett, Anita (BNP) 2,606> Short, David (UKIP) 987> Lab maj 10,459 (27.84%) >
2.80% swing Lab to C> OXFORD EAST> Lab hold> *Smith, Andrew (Lab) 15,405>
Goddard, Steve (LD) 14,442> Morris, Virginia (C) 6,992> Sanders, Jacob (Green)
1,813> Blair, Honest (Ind) 1,485> Leen, Maurice (IWCA) 892> Gardner, Peter (
UKIP) 715> Mylvaganam, Pat (Ind PM) 46> Lab maj 963 (2.30%) > 11.83% swing Lab
to LD> P> PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE NORTH> Lab hold> Sheridan, James (Lab) 18,697>
Wilson, Bill (SNP) 7,696> Hutton, Lewis (LD) 7,464> Lardner, Philip (C) 5,566>
McGregor, Angela (SSP) 646> McGavigan, Katharine (Soc Lab) 444> Pearson, John (
UKIP) 372> Lab maj 11,001 (26.91%) > 1.34% swing Lab to SNP> PAISLEY &
RENFREWSHIRE SOUTH> Lab hold> Alexander, Douglas (Lab) 19,904> McCartin, Eileen
(LD) 6,672> Doig, Andrew (SNP) 6,653> Begg, Thomas (C) 3,188> Hogg, Iain (SSP)
789> Matthew, Gordon (Paisley) 381> Rodgers, Robert (Ind) 166> Broadbent, Howard
(Soc Lab) 107> Lab maj 13,232 (34.95%) > 6.24% swing Lab to LD> PENDLE> Lab
hold> *Prentice, Gordon (Lab) 15,250> Ellison, Jane (C) 13,070> Anwar, Shazad
(LD) 9,528> Boocock, Thomas (BNP) 2,547> Cannon, Graham (UKIP) 737> Lab maj
2,180 (5.30%) > 2.73% swing Lab to C> PERTH & PERTHSHIRE NORTH> SNP hold>
Wishart, Peter (SNP) 15,469> Taylor, Douglas (C) 13,948> Maughan, Doug (Lab)
8,601> Campbell, Gordon (LD) 7,403> Stott, Philip (SSP) 509> SNP maj 1,521
(3.31%) > 3.85% swing SNP to C> PETERBOROUGH> C gain Lab> Jackson, Stewart (C)
17,364> *Clark, Helen (Lab) 14,624> Sandford, Nick (LD) 6,876> Herdman, Mary (
UKIP) 1,242> Blackham, Terry (NF) 931> Potter, Marc (MNP) 167> C maj 2,740
(6.65%) > 6.91% swing Lab to C> PLYMOUTH SUTTON> Lab Co-op hold> *Gilroy, Linda
(Lab Co-op) 15,497> Colvile, Oliver (C) 11,388> Gillard, Karen (LD) 8,685>
Cumming, Robert (UKIP) 2,392> Hawkins, Rob (Soc Lab) 230> Lab Co-op maj 4,109
(10.76%) > 4.24% swing Lab Co-op to C> PONTYPRIDD> Lab hold> *Howells, Kim (Lab)
20,919> Powell, Mike (LD) 7,728> Gwynne Edwards, Quentin (C) 5,321> Richards,
Julie (PC) 4,420> Bevan, David (UKIP) 1,013> Griffiths, Robert (Comm) 233> Lab
maj 13,191 (33.28%) > 7.91% swing Lab to LD> POOLE> C hold> *Syms, Robert (C)
17,571> Plummer, Mike (LD) 11,583> Brown, Darren (Lab) 9,376> Barnes, John (
UKIP) 1,436> Pirnie, Peter (BNP) 547> C maj 5,988 (14.78%) > 2.42% swing C to
LD> PORTSMOUTH NORTH> Lab Co-op hold> McCarthy-Fry, Sarah (Lab Co-op) 15,412>
Mordaunt, Penny (C) 14,273> Lawson, Gary (LD) 6,684> Smith, Mike (UKIP) 1,348>
Lab Co-op maj 1,139 (3.02%) > 5.45% swing Lab Co-op to C> PORTSMOUTH SOUTH> LD
hold> *Hancock, Mike (LD) 17,047> Dinenage, Caroline (C) 13,685> Button, Mark
(Lab) 8,714> Pierson, Dennis (UKIP) 928> LD maj 3,362 (8.33%) > 3.60% swing LD
to C> PRESTON> Lab Co-op hold> *Hendrick, Mark (Lab Co-op) 17,210> Bryce, Fiona
(C) 7,803> Parkinson, William (LD) 5,701> Lavalette, Michael (Respect) 2,318>
Boardman, Ellen (UKIP) 1,049> Lab Co-op maj 9,407 (27.60%) > 3.22% swing Lab
Co-op to C> PUDSEY> Lab hold> *Truswell, Paul (Lab) 21,261> Singleton, Pamela
(C) 15,391> Keeley, James (LD) 8,551> Daniel, David (UKIP) 1,241> Lab maj 5,870
(12.64%) > 0.09% swing C to Lab> PUTNEY> C gain Lab> Greening, Justine (C)
15,497> *Colman, Tony (Lab) 13,731> Ambache, Jeremy (LD) 5,965> Magnum, Keith
(Green) 993> Gahan, Anthony (UKIP) 388> C maj 1,766 (4.83%) > 6.46% swing Lab to
C> R> REDCAR> Lab hold> *Baird, Vera (Lab) 19,968> Swales, Ian (LD) 7,852>
Lehrle, Jonathan (C) 6,954> McGlade, Christopher (Ind) 2,379> Harris, Andrew
(BNP) 985> Walker, Edward (UKIP) 564> Taylor, John (Soc Lab) 159> Lab maj 12,116
(31.18%) > 8.25% swing Lab to LD> RENFREWSHIRE EAST> Lab hold> *Murphy, Jim
(Lab) 20,815> Cook, Richard (C) 14,158> Macdonald, Gordon (LD) 8,659> Bhutta,
Osama (SNP) 3,245> Henderson, Ian (SSP) 528> Lab maj 6,657 (14.04%) > 2.43%
swing Lab to C> RHONDDA> Lab hold> *Bryant, Chris (Lab) 21,198> Jones, Layton
Percy (PC) 4,956> Roberts, Karen (LD) 3,264> Stuart-Smith, Paul (C) 1,730> Lab
maj 16,242 (52.14%) > 2.48% swing PC to Lab> ROCHFORD &> SOUTHEND EAST> C hold>
Duddridge, James (C) 17,874> Grindrod, Fred (Lab) 12,380> Longley, Graham (LD)
5,967> Vaughan, Andrew (Green) 1,328> Croft, John (UKIP) 913> C maj 5,494
(14.28%) > 2.25% swing C to Lab> ROTHER VALLEY> Lab hold> *Barron, Kevin (Lab)
21,871> Phillips, Colin (C) 7,647> Bristow, Phillip (LD) 6,272> Cass, Nicholas
(BNP) 2,020> Brown, Gordon (UKIP) 1,685> Lab maj 14,224 (36.01%) > 2.21% swing
Lab to C> ROTHERHAM> Lab hold> *MacShane, Denis (Lab) 15,840> Gordon, Timothy
(LD) 5,159> Rotherham, Lee (C) 4,966> Guest, Marlene (BNP) 1,986> Cutts, David (
UKIP) 1,122> Penycate, Richard (Green) 905> Lab maj 10,681 (35.63%) > 8.83%
swing Lab to LD> RUNNYMEDE &> WEYBRIDGE> C hold> *Hammond, Philip (C) 22,366>
Greenwood, Paul (Lab) 10,017> Bolton, Henry (LD) 7,771> Micklethwait, Anthony (
UKIP) 1,719> Gilman, Charles (Green) 1,180> Collett, Andrew (Loony) 358> Osman,
Katrina (UKC) 113> C maj 12,349 (28.37%) > 4.33% swing Lab to C> RUTHERGLEN &>
HAMILTON WEST> Lab Co-op hold> McAvoy, Tommy (Lab Co-op) 24,054> Robertson, Ian
(LD) 7,942> Park, Margaret (SNP) 6,023> Crerar, Peter (C) 3,621> Bonnar, Bill
(SSP) 1,164> Murdoch, Janice (UKIP) 457> Lab Co-op maj 16,112 (37.24%) > 24.33%
swing LD to Lab Co-op> S> ST HELENS NORTH> Lab hold> *Watts, Dave (Lab) 22,329>
Beirne, John (LD) 8,367> Oakley, Paul (C) 7,410> Hall, Sylvia (UKIP) 1,165> Lab
maj 13,962 (35.55%) > 3.99% swing Lab to LD> ST HELENS SOUTH> Lab hold>
*Woodward, Shaun (Lab) 19,345> Spencer, Brian (LD) 10,036> Riley, Una (C) 4,602>
Nightingale, Malcolm (UKIP) 847> Perry, Michael (Soc Lab) 643> Lab maj 9,309
(26.24%) > 0.17% swing Lab to LD> SALFORD> Lab hold> *Blears, Hazel (Lab)
13,007> Owen, Norman (LD) 5,062> Cash, Laetitia (C) 3,440> Duffy, Lisa (UKIP)
1,091> Lab maj 7,945 (35.15%) > 6.88% swing Lab to LD> SCUNTHORPE> Lab hold>
*Morley, Elliot (Lab) 17,355> Sturdy, Julian (C) 8,392> Poole, Neil (LD) 5,556>
Baxendale, David (UKIP) 1,361> Lab maj 8,963 (27.44%) > 1.70% swing Lab to C>
SHEFFIELD ATTERCLIFFE> Lab hold> *Betts, Clive (Lab) 22,250> Moore, Kevin (LD)
6,283> Critchlow, Tracy (C) 5,329> Arnott, Jonathan (UKIP) 1,680> Jones,
Beverley (BNP) 1,477> Lab maj 15,967 (43.13%) > 5.22% swing Lab to LD> SHEFFIELD
BRIGHTSIDE> Lab hold> *Blunkett, David (Lab) 16,876> Harston, Jonathan (LD)
3,232> Clark, Tim (C) 2,205> Hartigan, Christopher (BNP) 1,537> Clarke, Judith (
UKIP) 779> Lab maj 13,644 (55.40%) > 6.37% swing Lab to LD> SHEFFIELD CENTRAL>
Lab hold> *Caborn, Richard (Lab) 14,950> Qadar, Ali (LD) 7,895> George, Samantha
(C) 3,094> Little, Bernard (Green) 1,808> Bowler, Maxine (Respect) 1,284> Payne,
Mark (BNP) 539> Arnott, Charlotte (UKIP) 415> Lab maj 7,055 (23.53%) > 9.09%
swing Lab to LD> SHEFFIELD HALLAM> LD hold> Clegg, Nick (LD) 20,710> Pitfield,
Spencer (C) 12,028> Hussain, Mahroof (Lab) 5,110> Cole, Rob (Green) 1,331>
Cordle, Sid (CPA) 441> James, Nigel (UKIP) 438> Senior, Ian (BNP) 369> LD maj
8,682 (21.48%) > 1.48% swing LD to C> SHEFFIELD HEELEY> Lab Co-op hold> *Munn,
Meg (Lab Co-op) 18,405> Ross, Colin (LD) 7,035> Crawshaw, Aster (C) 4,987>
Beatson, John (BNP) 1,314> Unwin, Rob (Green) 1,312> Suter, Mark (UKIP) 775>
Dunnell, Mark (Soc Alt) 265> Lab Co-op maj 11,370 (33.35%) > 0.47% swing Lab
Co-op to LD> SHEFFIELD> HILLSBOROUGH> Lab hold> Smith, Angela (Lab) 23,477>
Commons, John (LD) 12,234> Doyle-Price, Jackie (C) 6,890> Wright, David (BNP)
2,010> Patterson, Maurice (UKIP) 1,273> Lab maj 11,243 (24.50%) > 4.87% swing
Lab to LD> SOUTH SHIELDS> Lab hold> *Miliband, David (Lab) 18,269> Psallidas,
Stephen (LD) 5,957> Lewis, Richard (C) 5,207> Afshari-Naderi, Nader (Ind) 773>
Lab maj 12,312 (40.76%) > 2.78% swing Lab to LD> SOUTHAMPTON ITCHEN> Lab hold>
*Denham, John (Lab) 20,871> Drummond, Flick (C) 11,569> Goodall, David (LD)
9,162> Rose, Kim (UKIP) 1,623> Lab maj 9,302 (21.52%) > 2.80% swing Lab to C>
SOUTHAMPTON TEST> Lab hold> *Whitehead, Alan (Lab) 17,845> MacLoughlin, Stephen
(C) 10,827> Sollitt, Steve (LD) 10,368> Spottiswoode, John (Green) 1,482> Day,
Peter (UKIP) 1,261> Lab maj 7,018 (16.80%) > 5.08% swing Lab to C> SOUTHEND
WEST> C hold> *Amess, David (C) 18,408> Wexham, Peter (LD) 9,449> Etienne, Jan
(Lab) 9,072> Sampson, Carole (UKIP) 1,349> Velmurugan, Marimuthu (Ind) 745>
Moss, Jeremy (Eng Dem) 701> Anslow, Dan (Power) 106> C maj 8,959 (22.49%) >
0.55% swing LD to C> SOUTHPORT> LD hold> *Pugh, John (LD) 19,093> Bigley, Mark
(C) 15,255> Brant, Paul (Lab) 5,277> Durrance, Terry (UKIP) 749> Givens, Bill
(YPB) 589> Forster, Harry (Veritas) 238> LD maj 3,838 (9.32%) > 1.00% swing C to
LD> STALYBRIDGE & HYDE> Lab hold> *Purnell, James (Lab) 17,535> Boardman, Lisa
(C) 9,187> Bingham, Viv (LD) 5,532> Whittaker, John (UKIP) 5,373> Byrne, Nigel
(BNP) 1,399> Smee, Mike (Green) 1,088> Lab maj 8,348 (20.81%) > 3.42% swing Lab
to C> STIRLING> Lab hold> McGuire, Anne (Lab) 15,729> Kerr, Stephen (C) 10,962>
Holdsworth, Kelvin (LD) 9,052> McGlinchey, Frances (SNP) 5,503> Illingworth,
Duncan (Green) 1,302> Sheret, Rowland (SSP) 458> McDonald, James (Ind) 261>
Willis, Michael (OCV) 215> Desmond, Matthew (UKIP) 209> Lab maj 4,767 (10.91%) >
4.18% swing Lab to C> STOCKPORT> Lab hold> *Coffey, Ann (Lab) 18,069> Berridge,
Elizabeth (C) 8,906> Floodgate, Lyn-Su (LD) 7,832> Simpson, Richard (UKIP) 964>
Lab maj 9,163 (25.62%) > 3.54% swing Lab to C> STOKE-ON-TRENT> CENTRAL> Lab
hold> *Fisher, Mark (Lab) 14,760> Redfern, John (LD) 4,986> Baroudy, Esther (C)
4,823> Coleman, Michael (BNP) 2,178> Bonfiglio, Joseph (UKIP) 914> Cessford, Jim
(Soc Alt) 246> Lab maj 9,774 (35.02%) > 5.50% swing Lab to LD> STREATHAM> Lab
hold> *Hill, Keith (Lab) 18,950> Sanders, Darren (LD) 11,484> Sproule, James (C)
7,238> Collins, Shane (Green) 2,245> Gittings, Trevor (UKIP) 396> Colvill,
William (WRP) 127> Stone, Philippa (Ind Stone) 100> West, Robert (Ind West) 40>
Acheng, Sarah (Ind) 35> Lab maj 7,466 (18.38%) > 10.09% swing Lab to LD>
STRETFORD &> URMSTON> Lab hold> *Hughes, Beverley (Lab) 19,417> Hinds, Damian
(C) 11,566> Bhatti, Faraz (LD) 5,323> Krantz, Mark (Respect) 950> McManus,
Michael (UKIP) 845> Lab maj 7,851 (20.61%) > 6.71% swing Lab to C> SUNDERLAND
NORTH> Lab hold> *Etherington, Bill (Lab) 15,719> Daughton, Stephen (C) 5,724>
Hollern, James (LD) 4,277> Herron, Neil (Ind) 2,057> Hiles, Debra (BNP) 1,136>
Lab maj 9,995 (34.57%) > 5.11% swing Lab to C> SUNDERLAND SOUTH> Lab hold>
*Mullin, Chris (Lab) 17,982> Oliver, Robert (C) 6,923> Kane, Gareth (LD) 4,492>
Guynan, David (BNP) 1,166> Warner, Rosalyn (Loony) 149> Lab maj 11,059 (36.01%)
> 3.91% swing Lab to C> SUTTON & CHEAM> LD hold> *Burstow, Paul (LD) 19,768>
Willis, Richard (C) 16,922> Shukla, Anand (Lab) 4,954> Weiss, Rainbow George
(Dream) 288> LD maj 2,846 (6.79%) > 2.02% swing LD to C> SWANSEA EAST> Lab hold>
James, Sian (Lab) 17,457> Speht, Robert (LD) 6,208> Bland, Ellenor (C) 3,103>
Couch, Carolyn Shan (PC) 2,129> Holloway, Kevin (BNP) 770> Jenkins, Timothy (
UKIP) 674> Young, Tony (Green) 493> Lab maj 11,249 (36.48%) > 9.27% swing Lab to
LD> SWANSEA WEST> Lab hold> *Williams, Alan (Lab) 13,833> Kinzett, Rene (LD)
9,564> Abdel-Haq, Mohammed (C) 5,285> Roberts, Harri (PC) 2,150> Shrewsbury,
Martyn (Green) 738> Ford, Martyn (UKIP) 609> Holley, Yvonne (Veritas) 401>
Williams, Robert (Soc Alt) 288> Pank, Steve (LCA) 218> Lab maj 4,269 (12.90%) >
9.64% swing Lab to LD> T> TELFORD> Lab hold> *Wright, David (Lab) 16,506>
Kyriazis, Stella (C) 11,100> Jenkins, Ian (LD) 4,941> McCartney, Tom (UKIP)
1,659> Lab maj 5,406 (15.80%) > 5.67% swing Lab to C> THURROCK> Lab hold>
*Mackinlay, Andrew (Lab) 20,636> Hague, Garry (C) 14,261> Palmer, Earnshaw (LD)
4,770> Geri, Nick (BNP) 2,526> Jackson, Carol (UKIP) 1,499> Lab maj 6,375
(14.59%) > 6.08% swing Lab to C> TOOTING> Lab hold> Khan, Sadiq (Lab) 17,914>
Bethell, James (C) 12,533> Dearden, Stephanie (LD) 8,110> Vitelli, Siobhan
(Green) 1,695> Zaidi, Ali (Respect) 700> McDonald, Strachan (UKIP) 424> Perkin,
Ian (Ind) 192> Lab maj 5,381 (12.95%) > 7.36% swing Lab to C> TORBAY> LD hold>
*Sanders, Adrian (LD) 19,317> Wood, Marcus (C) 17,288> Pedrick-Friend, David
(Lab) 6,972> Booth, Graham (UKIP) 3,726> LD maj 2,029 (4.29%) > 4.91% swing LD
to C> TUNBRIDGE WELLS> C hold> Clark, Greg (C) 21,083> Murphy, Laura (LD)
11,095> Jedrzejewski, Jacqui (Lab) 8,756> Webb, Victor (UKIP) 1,568> C maj 9,988
(23.50%) > 0.35% swing C to LD> TYNE BRIDGE> Lab hold> *Clelland, David (Lab)
16,151> Boyle, Chris (LD) 5,761> Fairhead, Tom (C) 2,962> Scott, Kevin (BNP)
1,072> Russell, Jill (Respect) 447> Lab maj 10,390 (39.37%) > 9.38% swing Lab to
LD> TYNESIDE NORTH> Lab hold> *Byers, Stephen (Lab) 22,882> McLellan, Duncan (C)
7,845> Ferguson, Gillian (LD) 6,212> Lab maj 15,037 (40.71%) > 7.09% swing Lab
to C> V> VALE OF CLWYD> Lab hold> *Ruane, Chris (Lab) 14,875> Elphick, Felicity
(C) 10,206> Jewkes, Elizabeth (LD) 3,820> Jones, Mark (PC) 2,309> Young, Mark
(Ind) 442> Khambatta, Edna (UKIP) 375> Ditchfield, Jeff (LCA) 286> Lab maj 4,669
(14.45%) > 1.68% swing Lab to C> VAUXHALL> Lab hold> *Hoey, Kate (Lab) 19,744>
Anglin, Charles (LD) 9,767> Heckels, Edward (C) 5,405> Summers, Tim (Green)
1,705> McWhirter, Robert (UKIP) 271> Lambert, Daniel (Socialist) 240> Polenceus,
Janus (Eng Dem) 221> Lab maj 9,977 (26.71%) > 6.14% swing Lab to LD> W>
WALLASEY> Lab hold> *Eagle, Angela (Lab) 20,085> Fraser, Leah (C) 10,976>
Pemberton, Joanna (LD) 4,770> Griffiths, Philip (UKIP) 840> Lab maj 9,109
(24.84%) > 4.02% swing Lab to C> WALSALL NORTH> Lab hold> *Winnick, David (Lab)
15,990> Lucas, Ian (C) 9,350> Taylor, Douglas (LD) 4,144> Locke, William (BNP)
1,992> Lenton, Anthony (UKIP) 1,182> Smith, Peter (Dem Lab) 770> Lab maj 6,640
(19.86%) > 4.60% swing Lab to C> WALSALL SOUTH> Lab hold> *George, Bruce (Lab)
17,633> Sabar, Kabir (C) 9,687> Asmal, Mohamed Hanif (LD) 3,240> Bennett, Derek
(UKIP) 1,833> Smith, Kevin (BNP) 1,776> Fazal, Nadia (Respect) 1,146> Lab maj
7,946 (22.50%) > 2.98% swing Lab to C> WALTHAMSTOW> Lab hold> *Gerrard, Neil
(Lab) 17,323> Ahmed, Farid (LD) 9,330> Wright, Jane (C) 6,254> Brock, Robert (
UKIP) 810> Taaffe, Nancy (Soc Alt) 727> Lab maj 7,993 (23.21%) > 12.18% swing
Lab to LD> WARLEY> Lab hold> *Spellar, John (Lab) 17,462> Bissell, Karen (C)
7,315> Ferguson, Tony (LD) 4,277> Smith, Simon (BNP) 1,761> Connigale, Malcolm
(Soc Lab) 637> Matthews, David (UKIP) 635> Lab maj 10,147 (31.62%) > 3.05% swing
Lab to C> WARRINGTON NORTH> Lab hold> *Jones, Helen (Lab) 21,632> Ferryman,
Andrew (C) 9,428> Walker, Peter (LD) 7,699> Kirkham, John (UKIP) 1,086> Hughes,
Mike (CAP) 573> Lab maj 12,204 (30.19%) > 4.38% swing Lab to C> WARRINGTON
SOUTH> Lab hold> *Southworth, Helen (Lab) 18,972> Bruce, Fiona (C) 15,457>
Marks, Ian (LD) 11,111> Kelley, Gerald (UKIP) 804> Kennedy, Paul (Ind) 453> Lab
maj 3,515 (7.51%) > 4.37% swing Lab to C> WENTWORTH> Lab hold> *Healey, John
(Lab) 21,225> Hughes, Mark (C) 6,169> Orrell, Keith (LD) 4,800> Pygott, Jonathan
(BNP) 1,798> Wilkinson, John (UKIP) 1,604> Lab maj 15,056 (42.30%) > 3.20% swing
Lab to C> WEST BROMWICH EAST> Lab hold> *Watson, Tom (Lab) 19,741> Bromwich,
Rosemary (C) 8,089> Garrett, Ian (LD) 4,386> Butler, Carl (BNP) 2,329> Grey,
Steven (UKIP) 607> Sambrook, Judith (Soc Lab) 200> Macklin, Margaret (Ind) 160>
Lab maj 11,652 (32.81%) > 1.46% swing C to Lab> WEST BROMWICH WEST> Lab Co-op
hold> *Bailey, Adrian (Lab Co-op) 18,951> Harker, Mimi (C) 8,057> Smith, Martyn
(LD) 3,583> Lloyd, James (BNP) 3,456> Walker, Kevin (UKIP) 870> Lab Co-op maj
10,894 (31.20%) > 2.23% swing Lab Co-op to C> WIGAN> Lab hold> *Turner, Neil
(Lab) 18,901> Coombes, John (C) 7,134> Capstick, Denise (LD) 6,051> Whittaker,
John (UKIP) 1,166> Williams, Kevin (CAP) 1,026> Lab maj 11,767 (34.33%) > 3.29%
swing Lab to C> WIMBLEDON> C gain Lab> Hammond, Stephen (C) 17,886> *Casale,
Roger (Lab) 15,585> Gee, Stephen (LD) 7,868> Barrow, Giles (Green) 1,374> Mills,
Andrew (UKIP) 408> Coverdale, Christopher (Ind) 211> Wilson, Alastair (TEPK) 50>
Weiss, Rainbow George (Vote Dream) 22> C maj 2,301 (5.30%) > 7.20% swing Lab to
C> WIRRAL SOUTH> Lab hold> *Chapman, Ben (Lab) 16,892> Cross, Carl (C) 13,168>
Holbrook, Simon (LD) 8,568> Scott, David (UKIP) 616> Jones, Laurence (Ind) 460>
Lab maj 3,724 (9.38%) > 1.65% swing Lab to C> WOKINGHAM> C hold> *Redwood, John
(C) 22,174> Bray, Prue (LD) 14,934> Black, David (Lab) 6,991> Carstairs, Frank (
UKIP) 994> Owen, Top Cat (Loony) 569> Colborne, Richard (BNP) 376> Hall, Michael
(telepath) 34> C maj 7,240 (15.71%) > 1.02% swing LD to C> WOLVERHAMPTON> NORTH
EAST> Lab Co-op hold> *Purchase, Ken (Lab Co-op) 17,948> Robson, Alexandra (C)
9,792> Jack, David (LD) 3,845> Simpson, Lydia (UKIP) 1,371> Lab Co-op maj 8,156
(24.75%) > 3.45% swing Lab Co-op to C> WOLVERHAMPTON> SOUTH EAST> Lab hold>
McFadden, Pat (Lab) 16,790> Fairbairn, James (C) 6,295> Murray, David (LD)
3,682> Simmons, Kevin (UKIP) 1,484> Lab maj 10,495 (37.15%) > 4.26% swing Lab to
C> WOLVERHAMPTON> SOUTH WEST> Lab hold> *Marris, Rob (Lab) 18,489> Verma, Sandip
(C) 15,610> Ross, Colin (LD) 5,568> Hope, Douglas (UKIP) 1,029> Mullins, Edward
(BNP) 983> Lab maj 2,879 (6.91%) > 0.81% swing Lab to C> WORSLEY> Lab hold>
Keeley, Barbara (Lab) 18,859> Evans, Graham (C) 9,491> Clayton, Richard (LD)
6,902> Gill, Bernard (UKIP) 1,694> Lab maj 9,368 (25.36%) > 3.99% swing Lab to
C> WREXHAM> Lab hold> *Lucas, Ian (Lab) 13,993> Rippeth, Tom (LD) 7,174> Coffey,
Therese (C) 6,079> Owen, Sion (PC) 1,744> Walker, John (BNP) 919> Williams,
Janet (FWP) 476> Lab maj 6,819 (22.44%) > 6.72% swing Lab to LD> WYCOMBE> C
hold> *Goodman, Paul (C) 20,331> Wassell, Julia (Lab) 13,280> Oates, James (LD)
8,780> Davis, Robert (UKIP) 1,735> Fitton, David (Ind) 301> C maj 7,051 (15.87%)
> 4.41% swing Lab to C> WYTHENSHAWE &> SALE EAST> Lab hold> *Goggins, Paul (Lab)
18,878> Meehan, Jane (C) 8,051> Firth, Alison (LD) 7,766> Ford, William (UKIP)
1,120> Worthington, Lynn (Soc Alt) 369> Lab maj 10,827 (29.92%) > 3.02% swing
Lab to C> Y> YEOVIL> LD hold> *Laws, David (LD) 25,658> Jenkins, Ian (C) 17,096>
Rolfe, Colin (Lab) 5,256> Livings, Graham (UKIP) 1,903> LD maj 8,562 (17.15%) >
4.50% swing C to LD> YNYS MON> Lab hold> *Owen, Albert (Lab) 12,278> Wyn, Eurig
(PC) 11,036> Rogers, Peter (Ind) 5,216> Roach, James (C) 3,915> Green, Sarah
(LD) 2,418> Gill, Elaine (UKIP) 367> Evans, Tim (LCA) 232> Lab maj 1,242 (3.50%)
> 0.58% swing PC to Lab>

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              98 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 6, 2005

ELECTION SPOT

SECTION: ELECTION 05.05.05: THE NATION DECIDES; GENERAL ELECTION

LENGTH: 25 words


ALISON West, an Ipswich UKIP candidate, dumped her election leaflets because
they mistakenly included details of hubby John, also up for UKIP.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              99 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 6, 2005

YOUR VERDICT

SECTION: ELECTION 05.05.05: THE NATION DECIDES; GENERAL ELECTION

LENGTH: 2487 words


A

ABERDEEN NORTH

Lab hold

Doran, Frank (Lab)15,557

Delaney, Steve (LD)8,762

Stewart, Kevin (SNP)8,168

Anderson, David (C)3,456

Connon, John (SSP)691

Lab maj 6,795 (18.55%)

9.25% swing Lab to LD

ABERDEEN SOUTH

Lab hold

Begg, Anne (Lab)15,272

Harris, Vicki (LD)13,924

Whyte, Stewart (C)7,134

Watt, Maureen (SNP)4,120

Reekie, Rhonda (Green)768

Munro, Donald (SSP)403

Lab maj 1,348 (3.24%)

3.13% swing Lab to LD

ABERDEENSHIRE WEST & KINCARDINE

LD hold

Smith, Robert (LD)19,285

Johnstone, Alex (C)11,814

Barrowman, James (Lab)5,470

Little, Caroline (SNP)4,700

Grant, Lorna (SSP)379

LD maj 7,471 (17.94%)

2.25% swing C to LD

AIRDRIE & SHOTTS

Lab hold

Reid, John (Lab)19,568

Balfour, Malcolm (SNP)5,484

Watt, Helen (LD)3,792

Cottis, Stuart (C)3,271

Coats, Fraser (SSP)706

Rowan, Joseph (Scot Ind)337

Lab maj 14,084 (42.48%)

1.51% swing SNP to Lab

ANGUS

SNP hold

*Weir, Mike (SNP)12,840

Bushby, Sandy (C)11,250

Bradley, Doug (Lab)6,850

Rennie, Scott (LD)6,660

Manley, Alan (SSP)556

SNP maj 1,590 (4.17%)

1.32% swing C to SNP

AYR, CARRICK & CUMNOCK

Lab hold

Osborne, Sandra (Lab)20,433

Jones, Mark (C)10,436

Waugh, Colin (LD)6,341

Brodie, Charles (SNP)5,932

Sharp, Donald (SSCUP)592

Steele, Murray (SSP)554

McDaid, James (Soc Lab)395

McCormack, Bryan (UKIP)365

Lab maj 9,997 (22.19%)

2.18% swing Lab to C

AYRSHIRE CENTRAL

Lab hold

Donohoe, Brian (Lab)19,905

Clark, Garry (C)9,482

Kennedy, Iain (LD)6,881

Hanif, Jahangir (SNP)4,969

Morton, Denise (SSP)820

Cochrane, Robert (Soc Lab)468

Groves, Jim (UKIP)346

Lab maj 10,423 (24.31%)

0.68% swing C to Lab

AYRSHIRE NORTH & ARRAN

Lab hold

Clark, Katy (Lab)19,417

Connell, Stewart (C)8,121

Gurney, Tony (SNP)7,938

White, George (LD)7,264

Turbett, Colin (SSP)780

Pursley, John (UKIP)382

McDaid, Louise (Soc Lab)303

Lab maj 11,296 (25.55%)

2.68% swing Lab to C

B

BANFF & BUCHAN

SNP hold

*Salmond, Alex (SNP)19,044

Wallace, Sandy (C)7,207

Anderson, Eleanor (LD)4,952

Okasha, Rami (Lab)4,476

Ross, Victor (OCV)683

Kemp, Kathleen (UKIP)442

Will, Steve (SSP)412

SNP maj 11,837 (31.81%)

2.22% swing C to SNP

C

CAITHNESS, SUTHERLAND & EASTER ROSS

LD hold

Thurso, John (LD)13,957

Jamieson, Alan (Lab)5,789

Shirron, Karen (SNP)3,686

Ross, Angus (C)2,835

Campbell, Gordon (Ind)848

Ivory, Luke (SSP)548

LD maj 8,168 (29.53%)

7.60% swing Lab to LD

COATBRIDGE, CHRYSTON & BELLSHILL

Lab hold

Clarke, Thomas (Lab)24,725

Ross, Duncan (SNP)5,206

Ackland, Rodney (LD)4,605

Paterson, Lindsay (C)2,775

Kinloch, Joan (SSP)1,033

Lab maj 19,519 (50.90%)

1.82% swing Lab to SNP

CUMBERNAULD, KILSYTH & KIRKINTILLOCH EAST

Lab hold

McKenna, Rosemary (Lab)20,251

Hepburn, James (SNP)8,689

O'Donnell, Hugh (LD)5,817

Boswell, James (C)2,718

O'Neill, Willie (SSP)1,141

Elliott, Patrick (OCV)472

Lab maj 11,562 (29.58%)

1.11% swing Lab to SNP

D

DUMFRIES & GALLOWAY

Lab win

*Russell Brown (Lab)20,924

Peter Duncan (C)18,002

Douglas Henderson (SNP)6,182

Keith Legg (LD)4,259

John Schofield (Green)745

John Dennis (SSP)497

Mark Smith (OCV)282

Lab maj 2,922

2.73% swing C to Lab

DUNBARTONSHIRE EAST

LD gain Lab

Swinson, Jo (LD)19,533

Lyons, John (Lab)15,472

Jack, David (C)7,708

Sagan, Chris (SNP)2,716

Callison, Stuart (Green)876

Page, Pamela (SSP)419

LD maj 4,061 (8.69%)

7.49% swing Lab to LD

DUNBARTONSHIRE WEST

Lab Co-op hold

McFall, John (Lab Co-op)21,600

Chalmers, Tom (SNP)9,047

Walker, Niall (LD)5,999

Murdoch, Campbell (C)2,679

Robertson, Les (SSP)1,708

Maher, Bryan (UKIP)354

Dawson, Marlon (OCV)202

Lab Co-op maj 12,553 (30.18%)

37.96% swing SNP to Lab Co-op

DUNDEE EAST

SNP gain Lab

Hosie, Stewart (SNP)14,708

Luke, Iain (Lab)14,325

Bustin, Chris (C)5,061

Sneddon, Clive (LD)4,498

Duke, Harvey (SSP)537

Low, Donald (UKIP)292

Allison, David (Ind)119

SNP maj 383 (0.97%)

1.13% swing Lab to SNP

DUNDEE WEST

Lab hold

McGovern, James (Lab)16,468

Fitzpatrick, Joe (SNP)11,089

Garry, Nykoma (LD)5,323

McKinlay, Christopher (C)3,062

McFarlane, Jim (SSP)994

Lab maj 5,379 (14.56%)

3.99% swing Lab to SNP

DUNFERMLINE & FIFE WEST

Lab hold

Squire, Rachel (Lab)20,111

Herbert, David (LD)8,549

Chapman, Douglas (SNP)8,026

Smillie, Roger (C)4,376

Archibald, Susan (SSP)689

Borland, Ian (UKIP)643

Lab maj 11,562 (27.27%)

6.47% swing Lab to LD

E

EAST KILBRIDE, STRATHAVEN & LESMAHAGOW

Lab hold

Ingram, Adam (Lab)23,264

Edwards, Douglas (SNP)8,541

Oswald, John (LD)7,904

Lewis, Tony (C)4,776

Robb, Kirsten (Green)1,575

Gentle, Rose (Ind)1,513

Houston, John (Ind Houston)160

Lab maj 14,723 (30.84%)

0.78% swing SNP to Lab

EAST LOTHIAN

Lab hold

*Picking, Anne (Lab)18,983

Butler, Chris (LD)11,363

Stevenson, William (C)7,315

McLennan, Paul (SNP)5,995

Collie, Michael (Green)1,132

Galbraith, Gary (SSP)504

Robb, Eric (UKIP)306

Thompson, William (OCV)178

Lab maj 7,620 (16.65%)

7.54% swing Lab to LD

EDINBURGH EAST

Lab hold

Strang, Gavin (Lab)15,899

Mackenzie, Gordon (LD)9,697

Tymkewycz, Stefan (SNP)6,760

Brown, Mev (C)4,093

Gillespie, Cara (Green)2,266

Grant, Catriona (SSP)868

Harris, Brett (DDTP)89

Clifford, Peter (ND)37

Lab maj 6,202 (15.62%)

8.47% swing Lab to LD

EDINBURGH NORTH & LEITH

Lab Co-op hold

Lazarowicz, Mark (Lab Co-op)14,597

Crockart, Mike (LD)12,444

Whyte, Iain (C)7,969

Hutchison, Davie (SNP)4,344

Sydenham, Mark (Green)2,482

Scott, Bill (SSP)804

Lab Co-op maj 2,153 (5.05%)

12.10% swing LD to Lab Co-op

EDINBURGH SOUTH WEST

Lab hold

Darling, Alistair (Lab)17,476

Buchan, Gordon (C)10,234

Clark, Simon (LD)9,252

Elliott-Cannon, Nick (SNP)4,654

Blair-Fish, John (Green)1,520

Smith, Pat (SSP)585

Boys, William (UKIP)205

Lab maj 7,242 (16.49%)

0.71% swing Lab to C

EDINBURGH WEST

LD hold

Barrett, John (LD)22,417

Brogan, David (C)8,817

Ghaleigh, Navraj Singh (Lab)8,433

Cleland, Sheena (SNP)4,124

Spindler, Ailsa (Green)964

Clark, Gary (SSP)510

LD maj 13,600 (30.05%)

6.71% swing C to LD

F

FALKIRK

Lab hold

*Joyce, Eric (Lab)23,264

Love, Laura (SNP)9,789

Chomczuk, Callum (LD)7,321

Potts, David (C)4,538

Quinlan, Danny (SSP)838

Lab maj 13,475 (29.45%)

0.36% swing Lab to SNP

FIFE NORTH EAST

LD hold

Campbell, Menzies (LD)20,088

Scott-Hayward, Mike (C)7,517

King, Tony (Lab)4,920

Campbell, Rod (SNP)4,011

Park, Jim (Green)1,071

Pickard, Duncan (UKIP)533

Ferguson, Jack (SSP)416

LD maj 12,571 (32.60%)

3.20% swing C to LD

G

GLASGOW CENTRAL

Lab hold

Sarwar, Mohammad (Lab)13,518

Nelson, Isabel (LD)4,987

Kidd, Bill (SNP)4,148

Sullivan, Richard (C)1,757

Masterton, Gordon (Green)1,372

Gordon, Marie (SSP)1,110

Hamilton, Walter (BNP)671

Johnson, Ian (Soc Lab)255

Greig, Thomas (OCV)139

McKenzie, Elinor (Comm Brit)80

Lab maj 8,531 (30.43%)

7.36% swing Lab to LD

GLASGOW EAST

Lab hold

Marshall, David (Lab)18,775

McNeill, Lachlan (SNP)5,268

Jackson, David (LD)3,665

Thomson, Carl (C)2,135

Savage, George (SSP)1,096

Lab maj 13,507 (43.66%)

1.48% swing Lab to SNP

GLASGOW NORTH

Lab hold

McKechin, Ann (Lab)11,001

Rodger, Amy (LD)7,663

McLean, Kenneth (SNP)3,614

Pope, Brian (C)2,441

Bartos, Martin (Green)2,135

Tarlton, Nick (SSP)1,067

Lab maj 3,338 (11.96%)

8.70% swing Lab to LD

GLASGOW NORTH EAST

Speaker hold

Martin, Michael (Speaker)15,153

McLaughlin, John (SNP)5,019

Kelly, Doris (Soc Lab)4,036

Campbell, Graham (SSP)1,402

Houston, Daniel (Scot U)1,266

McLean, Scott (BNP)920

Chambers, Joe (Ind)622

Speaker maj 10,134 (35.66%)

6.62% swing Speaker to SNP

GLASGOW NORTH WEST

Lab hold

Robertson, John (Lab)16,748

Graham, Paul (LD)6,655

Hendry, Graeme (SNP)4,676

Roxburgh, Murray (C)3,262

Wardrop, Martha (Green)1,333

Irwin, Anthea (SSP)1,108

Muir, Colin (Soc Lab)279

Lab maj 10,093 (29.63%)

6.80% swing Lab to LD

GLENROTHES

Lab hold

MacDougall, John (Lab)19,395

Beare, John (SNP)8,731

Riches, Elizabeth (LD)4,728

Don, Belinda (C)2,651

Rodger, George (PPS)716

Balfour, Morag (SSP)705

Smith, Paul (UKIP)440

Lab maj 10,664 (28.54%)

2.71% swing Lab to SNP

GORDON

LD hold

Bruce, Malcolm (LD)20,008

Brotchie, Iain (Lab)8,982

Atkinson, Philip (C)7,842

Strathdee, Joanna (SNP)7,098

Paterson, Tommy (SSP)508

LD maj 11,026 (24.81%)

3.73% swing Lab to LD

I

INVERCLYDE

Lab hold

Cairns, David (Lab)18,318

McMillan, Stuart (SNP)7,059

Herbison, Douglas (LD)6,123

Fraser, Gordon (C)3,692

Landels, David (SSP)906

Lab maj 11,259 (31.19%)

2.51% swing Lab to SNP

K

KILMARNOCK & LOUDOUN

Lab hold

Browne, Des (Lab)20,976

Coffey, Daniel (SNP)12,273

Smith, Gary (C)5,026

Lang, Kevin (LD)4,945

Kerr, Hugh (SSP)833

Robertson, Ronnie (UKIP)330

Lab maj 8,703 (19.61%)

5.45% swing Lab to SNP

KIRKCALDY & COWDENBEATH

Lab hold

Brown, Gordon (Lab)24,278

Bath, Alan (SNP)6,062

Cole-Hamilton, Alex (LD)5,450

Randall, Stuart (C)4,308

West, Steve (SSP)666

Adams, Peter (UKIP)516

Parker, James (Scot Senior)425

Kwantes, Elizabeth (Ind K)47

Sargent, Pat (Ind)44

Lab maj 18,216 (43.58%)

1.84% swing SNP to Lab

L

LANARK & HAMILTON EAST

Lab hold

Hood, Jimmy (Lab)20,072

Grieve, Fraser (LD)8,125

Wilson, John (SNP)7,746

Pettigrew, Robert (C)5,576

Reilly, Dennis (SSP)802

Mackay, Donald (UKIP)437

McFarlane, Duncan (Ind)416

Mawhinney, Robin (OCV)415

Lab maj 11,947 (27.41%)

5.89% swing Lab to LD

LINLITHGOW & FALKIRK EAST

Lab hold

Connarty, Michael (Lab)22,121

Guthrie, Gordon (SNP)10,919

Glenn, Stephen (LD)7,100

Veitch, Michael (C)5,486

Hendry, Ally (SSP)763

Lab maj 11,202 (24.15%)

1.16% swing Lab to SNP

LIVINGSTON

Lab hold

Cook, Robin (Lab)22,657

Constance, Angela (SNP)9,560

Dundas, Charles (LD)6,832

Ross, Alison (C)4,499

Nimmo, Steven (SSP)789

Lab maj 13,097 (29.54%)

1.17% swing Lab to SNP

M

MIDLOTHIAN

Lab hold

Hamilton, David (Lab)17,153

Mackintosh, Fred (LD)9,888

Beattie, Colin (SNP)6,400

McGill, Iain (C)3,537

Gilfillan, Norman (SSP)726

Lab maj 7,265 (19.27%)

6.98% swing Lab to LD

MORAY

SNP hold

*Robertson, Angus (SNP)14,196

Halcro-Johnston, Jamie (C)8,520

Hutchens, Kevin (Lab)7,919

Gorn, Linda (LD)7,460

Anderson, Norma (SSP)698

SNP maj 5,676 (14.63%)

4.07% swing C to SNP

MOTHERWELL & WISHAW

Lab hold

Roy, Frank (Lab)21,327

MacQuarrie, Ian (SNP)6,105

Snowden, Conor (LD)4,464

Finnie, Peter (C)3,440

MacEwan, Gregor (SSP)1,019

Carter, Dallas (Free Scot)384

Thompson, Coral (OCV)370

Lab maj 15,222 (41.02%)

2.35% swing SNP to Lab

N

NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR

SNP gain Lab

MacNeil, Angus (SNP)6,213

*MacDonald, Calum (Lab)4,772

Davis, Jean (LD)1,096

Hargreaves, James (OCV)1,048

Maciver, Andy (C)610

Telfer, Joanne (SSP)97

SNP maj 1,441 (10.41%)

9.29% swing Lab to SNP

O

OCHIL & PERTHSHIRE SOUTH

Lab hold

Banks, Gordon (Lab)14,645

Ewing, Annabelle (SNP)13,957

Smith, Elizabeth (C)10,021

Whittingham, Catherine (LD)6,218

Baxter, George (Green)978

Campbell, Iain (SSP)420

Bushby, David (UKIP)275

Kelly, Maitland (Free Scot)183

Lab maj 688 (1.47%)

0.18% swing Lab to SNP

P

PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE NORTH

Lab hold

Sheridan, James (Lab)18,697

Wilson, Bill (SNP)7,696

Hutton, Lewis (LD)7,464

Lardner, Philip (C)5,566

McGregor, Angela (SSP)646

McGavigan, Katharine (Soc Lab)444

Pearson, John (UKIP)372

Lab maj 11,001 (26.91%)

1.34% swing Lab to SNP

PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE SOUTH

Lab hold

Alexander, Douglas (Lab)19,904

McCartin, Eileen (LD)6,672

Doig, Andrew (SNP)6,653

Begg, Thomas (C)3,188

Hogg, Iain (SSP)789

Matthew, Gordon (Paisley)381

Rodgers, Robert (Ind)166

Broadbent, Howard (Soc Lab)107

Lab maj 13,232 (34.95%)

6.24% swing Lab to LD

PERTH & PERTHSHIRE NORTH

SNP hold

Wishart, Peter (SNP)15,469

Taylor, Douglas (C)13,948

Maughan, Doug (Lab)8,601

Campbell, Gordon (LD)7,403

Stott, Philip (SSP)509

SNP maj 1,521 (3.31%)

3.85% swing SNP to C

R

RENFREWSHIRE EAST

Lab hold

*Murphy, Jim (Lab)20,815

Cook, Richard (C)14,158

Macdonald, Gordon (LD)8,659

Bhutta, Osama (SNP)3,245

Henderson, Ian (SSP)528

Lab maj 6,657 (14.04%)

2.43% swing Lab to C

RUTHERGLEN & HAMILTON WEST

Lab Co-op hold

McAvoy, Tommy (Lab Co-op)24,054

Robertson, Ian (LD)7,942

Park, Margaret (SNP)6,023

Crerar, Peter (C)3,621

Bonnar, Bill (SSP)1,164

Murdoch, Janice (UKIP)457

Lab Co-op maj 16,112 (37.24%)

24.33% swing LD to Lab Co-op

S

STIRLING

Lab hold

McGuire, Anne (Lab)15,729

Kerr, Stephen (C)10,962

Holdsworth, Kelvin (LD)9,052

McGlinchey, Frances (SNP)5,503

Illingworth, Duncan (Green)1,302

Sheret, Rowland (SSP)458

McDonald, James (Ind)261

Willis, Michael (OCV)215

Desmond, Matthew (UKIP)209

Lab maj 4,767 (10.91%)

4.18% swing Lab to C

T

TELFORD

Lab hold

*Wright, David (Lab)16,506

Kyriazis, Stella (C)11,100

Jenkins, Ian (LD)4,941

McCartney, Tom (UKIP)1,659

Lab maj 5,406 (15.80%)

5.67% swing Lab to C

THURROCK

Lab hold

*Mackinlay, Andrew (Lab)20,636

Hague, Garry (C)14,261

Palmer, Earnshaw (LD)4,770

Geri, Nick (BNP)2,526

Jackson, Carol (UKIP)1,499

Lab maj 6,375 (14.59%)

6.08% swing Lab to C

V

VALE OF CLWYD

Lab hold

*Ruane, Chris (Lab)14,875

Elphick, Felicity (C)10,206

Jewkes, Elizabeth (LD)3,820

Jones, Mark (PC)2,309

Young, Mark (Ind)442

Khambatta, Edna (UKIP)375

Ditchfield, Jeff (LCA)286

Lab maj 4,669 (14.45%)

1.68% swing Lab to C

W

WALLASEY

Lab hold

*Eagle, Angela (Lab)20,085

Fraser, Leah (C)10,976

Pemberton, Joanna (LD)4,770

Griffiths, Philip (UKIP)840

Lab maj 9,109 (24.84%)

4.02% swing Lab to C

Y

YEOVIL

LD hold

*Laws, David (LD)25,658

Jenkins, Ian (C)17,096

Rolfe, Colin (Lab)5,256

Livings, Graham (UKIP)1,903

LD maj 8,562 (17.15%)

4.50% swing C to LD

YNYS MON

Lab hold

*Owen, Albert (Lab)12,278

Wyn, Eurig (PC)11,036

Rogers, Peter (Ind)5,216

Roach, James (C)3,915

Green, Sarah (LD)2,418

Gill, Elaine (UKIP)367

Evans, Tim (LCA)232

Lab maj 1,242 (3.50%)

0.58% swing PC to Lab


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              100 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2005, Friday

Putney turned out to be tipping seat for Tories

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean

SECTION: Home news; 3

LENGTH: 790 words


Victory in this key marginal was to prove the barometer for the Conservatives
elsewhere, Alexandra Frean reports

THE Conservatives received an early boost last night when they snatched back the
key marginal London seat of Putney from Labour.

The Tories had had high hopes of recapturing the seat, which was held from 1979
to 1997 by the gap-toothed former Tory Cabinet minister David Mellor and which
this year was 53rd on its list of winnable marginals.

For Justine Greening, the Tory candidate, the victory was sweet. Sir James
Goldsmith's taunting and slow hand-clapping of a defeated Mr Mellor was an
enduring and iconic image of the election night in 1997 and one that has haunted
Putney Tories ever since.

Sir James, standing for his own Referendum Party, took just 1,518 votes in 1997,
but it was enough to knock Mr Mellor off the top spot and hand the seat to
Labour's Tony Colman, a former businessman.

Ms Greening won last night with a majority of 1,766, winning 15,497 votes to Mr
Colman's 13,731. Early estimates put turnout at 58.2 per cent, comfortably above
the 56 per cent of 2001, indicating the closeness of the contest.

Ms Greening, 35, who mounted a frenetic last-ditch of bout canvassing on the
streets yesterday from dawn to dusk, said that while in 2001 Putney voters had
been willing to give the Labour Party the benefit of the doubt, they had shown
that they were no longer prepared to do so.

"They are no longer willing to tolerate a government that raises taxes...and
that has not stayed with the people on issues of importance," she said.

Mr Colman accepted his defeat with considerably more aplomb than Mr Mellor
demonstrated when he attacked Sir James as the "lager lout" of British politics.

But paraphrasing Jose Mourinho of Chelsea FC on his team's European Cup defeat
to Liverpool, he said that the best team had lost. He lamented the fact that
Putney, which does not have a single Labour local councillor, had now become a
"Labour-free zone".

Ms Greening, an accountant born in Rotherham who fought and lost Ealing, Acton &
Shepherd's Bush at the last election, had attracted early ridicule for
distributing campaign literature leaving out all mention of the Conservative
Party and Michael Howard in the main text.

Last night, however, she was fully behind the Tory leadership, saying that she
believed in the party's main message on immigration and low taxation. "People in
this area have looked at the low taxes and good services run by their Tory
council of Wandsworth and have said, 'Why can't we have this at a national
level?' " she said.

Coming so early in the evening, at quarter past midnight and hours before many
counts were due to end, the result gave Tory morale throughout the country a
huge early boost, indicating the extend of Labour vulnerability in marginal
seats.

Disillusionment with Tony Blair among Labour voters over Iraq had been Mr
Colman's greatest fear, and one that appeared to have materialised last night.

"The Conservative voters in Putney don't give a fig about Iraq but it is
something that really concerns my core voters," he said.

He added that Tory attempts to put immigration at the centre of the election
campaign probably had very little impact in a constituency with such as high
proportion of immigrants from around the world.

There is a particularly large South African community of about 25,000 in the
area, as well as many Europeans.

Putney, situated South of the Thames, is a suburban constituency but is
politically quite distinctive, encompassing both affluent and poor pockets and
eschewing the ebb and flow of many national trends.

Many who voted new Labour at a national level seem perfectly comfortable
supporting their true-blue local council, Wandsworth, which boasts the lowest
council tax in England.

Until Mr Mellor won the seat in 1979, benefiting from the gentrification of many
run-down streets, it had been held by Labour for 15 years.

Putney was always going to be a two-horse race between Labour and the
Conservatives as the Liberal Democrats poured all their campaigning energy into
neighbouring Richmond. Jeremy Ambache won 5,965 votes for the Liberal Democrats,
Keith Magnum polled 993 for the Greens and Anthony Gahan took 388 for the UK
Independence party.

Later, South London Tories had further cause to celebrate after they took
Wimbledon from the Liberal Democrats and, in East London, they won Ilford North.

PUTNEY. WIN JUSTINE GREENING, CONSERVATIVE 42.4%

Swing: 6.5% from Lab to C Swing: 6.5% from Lab to C Swing: 6.5% from Lab to C
Tony Colman (Labour) 37.5%

Jeremy Ambache (Lib Dem) 16.3%

Keith Magnum (Green) 2.7%

Anthony Gahan (UKIP) 1.1%


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2005, Friday

Alison West

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 7

LENGTH: 47 words


Trouble in the family? Alison West, the UK Independence Party candidate for
Ipswich, had to pulp her election address after it was printed with the
biography of the neighbouring candidate...her husband John, a fellow UKIP
candidate in Suffolk Central and Ipswich North.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 05, 2005, Thursday

Sandra Howard signs up for two-book deal

BYLINE: By CELIA WALDEN

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 023

LENGTH: 287 words

Sandra Howard has always had a penchant for romantic literature. The glamorous
wife of the Tory leader was famously wooed by her future husband when he sent
her a copy of the F Scott Fitzgerald classic Tender is the Night.

And now we will be able to read Sandra's own romantic fiction, as news reaches
me that yesterday she signed a two-book deal with publishers Simon & Schuster.
"The first novel is a love story set in Westminster, provisionally entitled Love
in High Profile," says Howard's editor, Suzanne Baboneau. "Sandra is a natural
writer, and it should be published in spring 2007."

A delighted Mrs Howard confirms the deal when I call. "I've only just heard the
news myself," she tells me excitedly, "so I'd rather not be drawn on the
specifics.  "I wrote it some time ago, but it was a bit of an amateur effort so
I am rewriting it. If you try again at something, you get there eventually."

An omen for the Tories, perhaps.

Michael Howard's speech writer, Ed Vaizey, can expect to enter the Commons next
week as MP for Wantage. But it hasn't been plain sailing for his UKIP rival,
Count Nikolai Tolstoy.  "I have a rather old house with steep stairs and I
somehow managed to fall down them last Thursday," the great-grandson of Leo
Tolstoy tells me. "I'm pretty sure that nothing is broken, but I think I have
cracked a rib or two." After the accident, Tolstoy was forced to miss several
hustings, and was unfairly dubbed "Nikolai No Show".  "It's absolutely maddening
that it happened in the middle of the campaign, but I've still been hobbling
around. I haven't had time to see a doctor about it as I wanted to get on with
things, but my wife has now issued a firm ruling that I should do so."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              103 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 5, 2005

Election 2005: On road with party leaders PM, Howard and Kennedy end campaign by
targeting marginals to woo undecided voters: Blair's last plea to waverers over
Iraq

BYLINE: Michael White, Nicholas Watt and Tania Branigan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1014 words


The three main party leaders entered a final frenzy of campaigning yesterday,
travelling from television studios to marginal seats across the country.

Tony Blair

The Labour leader last night appealed to disaffected Guardian readers and other
voters in the "progressive politics" camp to support the election of a
third-term Labour government for the achievements they agree with - not help to
throw it out in a self-defeating protest over Iraq.

Speaking to the Guardian at the end of the last election in which he will seek
ministerial office, Tony Blair said he stood by his claim that a protest vote
for the Liberal Democrats could produce the "miscalculation" which would let the
Tory leader, Michael Howard, into No 10 tomorrow.

"The truth is, in seats where the Conservatives are second and the Lib Dems are
not going to win the seat, if people stay at home or vote Liberal Democrat, you
are going to get a Tory MP by the back door. Let's keep that back door locked,"
he said.

After a day spent crossing the country in support of beleaguered Labour candi
dates in marginal seats, Mr Blair rejected the charge that he was trying to
blackmail what he called "comfortably off" voters by pointing out that they
would suffer much more if policies on public service reform or tax credits were
reversed by a Tory government.

"People can disagree over Iraq, that is fair enough. But what has been put at
risk is progressive politics, which is not just the measures of social justice
we have taken as a government here, but also in relation to Africa and world
poverty and other issues of immense importance to people," Mr Blair said.

Tired, but still in strong voice before addressing a party rally above the
seafront in marginal Scarborough, he repeatedly invoked the risk of a
"miscalculation" by disappointed voters, and rejected the suggestion that a
reduced majority would give beneficial influence to either the Labour left or
the Liberal Democrats.

"The blunt truth is that without Labour showing it has been capable of reaching
out to new ground, we would never have had a full second-term government, or the
prospect of a third."

He acknowledged strong feelings over the Iraq war, especially in London and the
south-east, though he insisted that such feelings were exag gerated in other
parts of the country. He did not raise the issue in speeches in marginal
Rossendale, Lancashire, or in ultra-marginal Dumfries and Galloway in Scotland.

"There will always be things that any progressive government does that
progressive people disagree with," Mr Blair said. "But it is important to
measure the government by the whole of what it does and say, is it better, has
it made progressive advances? And is it better than the alternative, which is a
return to the Conservatives?"

Throughout yesterday's 500-mile crisscross dash by helicopter, he had struck a
confident note before party audiences, but betrayed anxiety about the turnout
today. Mr Blair's gruelling last day of the campaign was typical of the past
month. Rising at 6.30, he did media interviews with GMTV, a more aggressive
session with John Humphrys on Radio 4's Today programme, snatched briefings with
aides, and then gave his final press conference - staged with the entire cabinet
- in Finchley, another Labour-Conservative marginal in north London.

At his side, Gordon Brown was again loyal and supportive, evidently confident
that his long wait will soon be over. Gossip on the campaign trail suggests it
could be as soon as 18 months. When a reporter suggested that Mr Blair would not
last four years, Jack Straw called out: "Eight years." John Prescott said more
ironically: "Twelve years."

Michael Howard

If Mr Howard has any doubts about the outcome of today's election, he did an
excellent job of hiding them as he flew across Britain on a final campaign
swing.

Brushing aside a succession of protesters - from a Ukip heavy mob in Guildford
to Labour's "grim reapers" in Tadcaster - the Tory leader looked confident as he
pledged to open a "new chapter of hope" if elected.

"You can help to build a brighter Britain by voting Conservative," he told
cheering supporters in the marginal Yorkshire seat of Selby last night. "Let us
have a government that will stand up for Britain."

As he toured the marginal constituencies of Guildford and Norwich South, he
reeled off the "timetable for action" he pledged to implement within days of
taking office. "Vote for more of the same or vote for positive change," he said.

"There will be peculiar results, it may be an odd night," one aide said of
opinion polls which indicate that Labour may hold once rock-solid Tory seats
while losing seats further down the Conservative target list.

"You'll no doubt hold us to account on Friday," another aide said. "But we've
stayed on track with our strategy and specific commitments."

Charles Kennedy

A buoyant Mr Kennedy wrapped up his 14,000-mile tour of Britain by visiting the
key seats of Brent East, Leeds North West and Edinburgh South. He admitted that
the contests would be extremely close, but predicted "many, many more" Lib Dem
MPs.

"I am raising expectations, but I think we have every reason to," he said.

The Lib Dems enter polling day with their highest level of support for two
decades, and hoping to return the most MPs since 1923. They expect to claim
seats from both Labour and the Tories and notch up strong second places to
position the party for the next general election in 2009-10.

"When the tide goes out for this prime minister and this Labour government . . .
there is now an increasing incredibility that the alternative to what we have
had over the last eight years is the Conservative party," Mr Kennedy said.
"There is a great opportunity for the Liberal Democrats here and now - and there
will be a great opportunity in another four years' time."

On a walkabout in Brent East, he accused Mr Blair of insulting the intelligence
of electors by warning that voting Lib Dem would produce a Tory government.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 5, 2005

Election 2005: Stage-managed rings of confidence: Campaigning As television
exerts ever greater influence, the roadshow choreography attains ever more
finesse

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham, Oliver Burkeman, James Meek and Ed Vulliamy

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1135 words


Election campaigns have been made-for-television events since the 1960s. But in
the degree of its choreography, the amount of effort expended on controlling
every aspect of the experience, 2005 set a new standard.

To watch the campaign on television was to witness none of the frenetic
behind-the-scenes activity focused on presenting each leader in the best
possible light.

Wherever the party leaders travelled, the campaign bubble was isolated from the
community in which it floated; by the time most voters in the vicinity even knew
Tony Blair or Michael Howard had visited, the bubble would long since have
popped.

Each meticulously orchestrated event consisted of a series of concentric rings,
arranged to balance just two concerns: security and looking good on television.

The leaders and supporters

At the centre would be the leader himself, with or without wife, local
candidate, senior party figures and celebrities - and frequently, even at the
smallest venues, with a hi-tech, near-invisible glass auto cue machine. The next
layer out would be the "backfill" - the carefully selected group of loyal
supporters who stand behind the leader while he's speaking. They are not there
as a treat: normally, it's considered rude to address an audience with your back
to them. They are there to make the leader look like he is not alone, as if he
is literally leading people.

And not just any people. Party organisers deliberately choose young, attractive
ones, particularly for the area directly over the leader's shoulder. A family
with a small child and ethnic-minority supporters were often dotted around the
crowd.

The next circle was the rest of the loyal audience - party members and
supporters, attending by invitation only. They were often not informed of an
event until the evening before.

The campaign managers

Forming a protective ring around this inner core were the party aides, press
officers and local party workers.

Just outside the range of the cameras, Blair's communications director, David
Hill, was silently omnipresent, staring expressionlessly at his shoes for the
duration of many of the prime minister's speeches.

The media

Beyond the party personnel were the media. In descending order of importance: TV
crews, who have licence to do pieces to camera in the middle of any event; the
Press Association, the national news agency; and the local media, to whom the
leaders are keen to give interviews - Ian Onions, political editor of the
Bristol Evening Post, spent 15 minutes chatting to Mr Blair on the train after a
visit to Bristol, securing a promise from the prime minister to "sort out"
Bristol's schools were he to return to power. At the bottom of the heap are the
national newspapers.

Protesters

Surrounding all this is the security screen, which can be anything from metal
detectors, dozens of police and a ring of steel barriers to a single chap in a
suit with an earpiece.

Embedded on the edge of the security screen, like a blister on a bubble, an
"official" set of demonstrators was often penned in. At one Labour rally in
Rushden, Northamptonshire, a group of about 80 hunting supporters gave Blair and
John Prescott a ferocious barracking, but never managed to get within touching
distance. At the end Prescott drove slowly past them in his coach, grinning and
shouting into a microphone: "Friendly people! Friendly people! Right to roam!
Right to roam!"

Party apparatchiks tried to create perfect rallying points, ideally enclosed by
high chain-link fencing. The bleak International Conference Centre in Telford
had just the sort of secure borders for Michael Howard to launch his immigration
policy. He landed his helicopter in car park six and took the battle bus 200
yards to the main entrance, well out of earshot of the four Labour students and
two Ukip protesters stuck behind the perimeter.

This campaign was not, after all, the end of the battle bus: they proved useful
mechanical shields for screening out protests.

The celebrity guests

The celebrity speakers called in to warm up the crowds were chosen with
scrupulous attention to local demographics. For Mr Blair, Kevin Whateley adopted
a homespun approach in Long Eaton, while Jo Brand, in a Hove venue full of
Brighton residents, swore with abandon.

Even in a hall of handpicked supporters, Brand's sarcastic remarks about
pro-hunt lobbyists - "They say people are going to lose their jobs. What kind of
jobs? The shouting 'Ooh, there's a fox!' job?" - would have played disastrously
if reported by local media in a rural constituency.

On the road

The leaders' travels were organised with military precision. The brevity of some
of the leaders' visits, and the vast distances spanned in a single day, would
have seemed absurd to the voters if they had witnessed the whole journey. But to
the electorate, watching the nightly news, the leaders may have seemed magically
ubiquitous.

The phrase "Charles Kennedy's battle bus" was bandied about, for instance, and
wherever he went campaigning, there was a banana-yellow coach with his face
painted on the back of it. But since he was zooming from one end of the country
to the other by plane each day, it would have been physically impossible for the
same bus to have been with him all the time. In fact there was a small fleet of
yellow battle buses.

And despite their nationwide campaigning, all three spent the vast majority of
nights during the campaign at home in bed in London: Blair, for example,
"overnighted" fewer than half a dozen times.

Staging the events

At Howard's Telford event, reporters were shunted out of the way so they did not
spoil the "arrival shot" where the Conservative leader was greeted by 400
ecstatic Tories. Even the faithful were frisked: one Tory had his Countryside
Alliance rubber tyre removed as Tory advisers hurriedly decided on a "no
banners" rule. On television it looked as if Howard was being met with the
natural enthusiasm of ordinary voters.

Made-for-television events sometimes became so distanced from the real world as
to seem surreal. This phenomenon arguably reached its apogee a week ago, at the
Business Design Centre in Islington, where Blair and Gordon Brown arrived to
unveil a poster on economic policy. The poster was erected on scaffolding in a
darkened exhibition room; cameras were placed on a platform opposite.

There was no visible backdrop and nobody present except the PM, the chancellor,
journalists, and a ready supply of invited young activists; there were no
windows, and no member of the public could have seen the poster. Blair spoke for
under a minute, took no questions, and left. The event would have appeared no
different to TV viewers had it been pre-recorded at Labour headquarters.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 5, 2005

G2: 'Howard is a Cancerian metal snake': Who's going to win the election? If
only we could see into the future! Tanya Gold asks some of those who claim to be
able to do just that

BYLINE: Tanya Gold

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 976 words


Christine Hilliard, Tarot reader The date of the election brings a sense of
conflict (05/05/05) which indicates that the process will not go smoothly.
Charles Kennedy (Page) comes across as inexperienced and will not be elected.
Michael Howard (Knight) is a stronger contender than people think; he will be
higher in the polls than expected and will pose a real threat to Tony Blair.
We're looking at a photo finish. Blair (King) has a vision and a strong team
that will lead him to victory but the final lap will be strenuous.

Richard Brown, astrologer

I'm a bit surprised at Blair's selection of an election date from an
astrological point of view. True, the election is taking place on the occasion
of his solar return, and the solar return chart has a yod apex Pluto in the
second house, which implies determination yielding success in mass movements
involving the public. It is interesting, though, that this yod manifests its
energy in his eighth house, the house of power, death and rebirth.

Pluto magnifies the law of karma, and that which is sent out is amplified before
it comes back to the sender. To mix my metaphors, there will be political
chickens coming home to roost in spades for Blair from this election. Things are
not helped any with Jupiter in a retrograde transit conjuncting his natal Quaoar
on election day, suggesting a period of frustrating confusion stretching into
early July.

That brings us to the next energy in his chart on election day. Mars is
transiting his natal chart in Pisces, the sign of deception, and also in the
11th house, the house of friends. Mars by transit is also squaring his natal
12th house Mars in Gemini. The 12th house is the house of hidden enemies. This
isn't rocket science, a beginner astrologer could figure this one out.

Michael Korel, Tarot reader

I pulled three tarot cards for the three main parties:

Liberal Democrat: The Six of Cups is an empty package; the Liberal Democrats are
talking a lot but they are not actually saying anything. The Nine of Pentacles
means take time to pause and rethink your strategy. The Page of Swords is a
puppy chasing its tail! There's no solid definition here and no chance
whatsoever of success.

Conservative: The Wheel of Fortune shows a party out of their time. The Knight
of Wands shows movement and some gains on last time. But the po-faced Page of
Cups means these gains will not be nearly enough.

Labour: The card the Queen of Pentacles shows a reliance on previous glories.
The King of Swords means the party hides its intentions within layers of
inscrutability. The six of Pentacles exposes a need for greater responsibility
and a duty of care to voters. Labour will win with a much smaller majority.

Sharon Rimmer, clairvoyant

When I am asked a question like this, I see and hear the answer, crystal clear
in my head. Labour will just scrape through. The big surprise will be the
Liberal Democrats, who will take seats from both the Conservatives and Labour.
It will not be a hung parliament but it will be close. There will be no defining
power. Blair will last for a while longer and then Brown will come in. We are
heading for dark days. For a few years, the balance of power will be hit and
miss. There is no great leader coming. Robert Kilroy-Silk will not win a seat
but Oona King will defeat the threat of George Galloway.

Camilla Ventham Fraser, spiritual medium

I asked the spirit guides and then used automatic writing. The polls are flawed.
Blair will be voted out. The Labour party will lose and a May miracle will
occur. The Conservatives will return a government with a three-seat majority.
Howard is our next prime minister. He will team up with Ukip and the Ulster
Unionists. The smaller parties will become important. Kilroy-Silk will win a
seat. Ukip and other independents will do well, but I don't see any Greens.

Wimbledon will go Tory. The Liberal Democrats will gain seven seats. In four
months' time the Liberal Democrats will choose a new leader and Kennedy will
return to the backbenches.

Robin Lown, hand psychologist/palmist

I intuit Blair will win the election by a whisker. There will be a huge loss of
marginal seats and of women's votes. Howard will lose on immigration. He's
looked more of a control freak than even Blair; his life is more insular. His
hands show soft gestures and palms towards himself indicating he is not open
about his policies. He will survive as Tory leader - he has the leadership
qualities. He shows this by using his index finger. After the election, Blair
will hold on until the spring of 2006 then a health problem will resurge. Many
people have died in Iraq; their families hate Blair and that thought energy will
pass through the ether and will affect Blair in his physical body. His heart
problem will return and there will be a handover. After a tussle between Brown
and Prescott - engineered by Blair - Brown will be leader.

Paul Watson, western and Chinese astrologer

Blair is a Taurean water snake. He comes across as being magnificently insincere
but his combination is, in fact, sincere. He is a really genuine, caring,
considerate man. Howard is a Cancerian metal snake - a ruthless character who
will do anything to attain power. Little Kennedy is a fluffy Scorpio earth pig.
He shouldn't really be in politics - he's too nice.

It's not a terrible year for earth pigs but it's not great either. The Liberals
will do fairly well but nothing spectacular. It's a good year for snakes; Howard
will do better than expected but will still lose and Blair will not do as well
as expected. It will be closer than the polls predict. This year is one of the
best years of Blair's life. He will win the election and hand over the reigns to
Mr Brown - a metal hare, a really gentle soul - and go off into the sunset.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 5, 2005

The bigger they are ...

LENGTH: 792 words



HIGHLIGHT: With the election upon us, Helène Mulholland takes a look at some of
the most prominent parliamentarians who face defeat in their marginal
constituencies today.


Michael Howard, Folkestone and Hythe

Conservative: Party leader

Majority: 5,907

Biggest threat: Lib Dems

The Tory leader is high on the Liberal Democrats' "decapitation" hit list.
Michael Howard has held the seat for 22 years. A crowded list of candidates is
contesting the seat, including the Get Britain Back party, Ukip, the Senior
Citizens party and the Peace and Progress party. Mr Howard should be safe from a
drubbing, helped by his ascent to the top of the Conservative pile in November
2003.

David Davis, Haltemprice and Howden

Conservative: Shadow home secretary

Majority: 1,903

Biggest threat: Lib Dems

Mr Davis, currently shadow home secretary and would-be heir to the Tory
leadership, is facing a knife-edge election this Thursday. However, despite
remarks by his colleague Liam Fox that Mr Davis' short-term political future
looks uncertain in this key marginal, a Guardian poll this week suggests the
tide may be turning, with a 1.5% swing to the Conservatives in the seat.

Oliver Letwin, Dorset West

Conservative: Shadow chancellor

Majority: 1,414

Biggest threat: Lib Dems

Former merchant banker Oliver Letwin has held this seat since 1997. Both it and
Dorset South had been Tory strongholds since the war, but Dorset South fell to
Labour in 2001, and Mr Letwin has never had a majority of more than 2,000, with
the Lib Dems gaining on the seat at each successive election since 1992.

Chris Leslie, Shipley

Labour: Junior minister in the Department of Constitutional Affairs

Majority: 1,428

Biggest threat: Conservatives

Mr Leslie, by his own admission, has an uncertain future. The MP backed the Iraq
war and was also responsible for the postal voting arrangements which have come
under attack over the course of the past few weeks.

Theresa May, Maidenhead

Conservative: Shadow family minister

Majority: 3,284

Biggest threat: Lib Dems

First elected in 1997, Ms May is one of only two women in the Conservative front
bench, but vulnerable to the campaigning zeal of fellow female candidate Kathryn
Newbound, from the Liberal Democrats.

Dr Antony Wright, Great Yarmouth

Labour: Chair of public administration committee

Majority: 4,564

Biggest threat: Conservatives

The high profile chair of the scrutiny committee will be relying on tactical
voting from Lib Dems to ward off the threat of a Tory win, and on disaffected
Labour voters resisting the temptation to make a protest vote.

Jacqui Smith, Redditch

Labour: Minister for industry and the regions and deputy minister for women and
equality in the Department of Trade and Industry

Majority: 2,484

Biggest threat: Conservatives

With the demise of MG Rover on her doorstep, the minister's prospects of winning
another parliamentary term are not rosy. The seat is being contested by
Conservative candidate Karen Lumley for a second time.

Chris Pond, Gravesham

Labour: Junior minister in the Department of Work and Pensions

Majority: 4,862

Biggest threat: Conservatives

Mr Pond will be hoping for some Liberal Democrat tactical voting generosity to
protect his seat. First elected in 1997, he will also have to pray that the
presences of both a UKIP and English Independent candidate serve to dent the
Tory vote.

Dr Stephen Ladyman, Thanet South

Labour: Junior health minister

Majority: 1,792

Biggest threat: Conservatives

Mr Ladyman may have some more time to practise his golf if he falls foul of a
Labour protest vote and a lack of tactical voting by Liberal Democrats willing
to help him keep the Tories out. One of the most vulnerable futures for a member
of the current government.

Charles Clarke, Norwich South

Labour:Home secretary

Majority: 8,816

Biggest threat: Students

His majority may be relatively big, but the former education secretary may
suffer at the hands of a large student population still reeling after the
government's decision to introduce university top-up fees. Mr Clarke's backing
of the war is a red-rag double whammy to the youth vote in his constituency.
Plenty of candidates for students to choose from, including the Green party, the
English Democrats, and even the Workers Revolutionary party.

Tim Collins, Westmorland and Lonsdale

Conservative: Shadow education spokesman

Majority: 3,147

Biggest threat: Lib Dems

Mr Collins is one of the contenders for "decapitation" by the Liberal Democrats.
All Tim Farron, the Lib Dem candidate, needs to knock Mr Collins off his perch
is a concerted round of tactical voting by some of the 5,000 local voters who
gave Labour their vote last time.

Ruth Kelly, Bolton West

Labour: Education secretary

Majority: 5,518

Biggest threat: Conservatives

Ms Kelly is the cabinet minister most likely to lose her seat this week.
Unpopular with teachers unions after succeeding Charles Clarke to the post, Ms
Kelly may have to rely on the power of prayer to keep her place in Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              107 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

ELECTION2005: ELECTION DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1309 words

HIGHLIGHT:
With campaigning over, Charles Kennedy, Tony Blair and Michael Howard are at the
mercy of the electorate AP


Good campaign (part 1)

Gordon Brown, who emerged from his cocoon to refresh parts of the party that
Tony Blair couldn't reach, winning himself the title of the prime
minister-in-waiting into the bargain.

Good campaign (part 2)

Charles Kennedy, who rode out a shaky start, and the distraction of his new-born
son, to leave his party in its strongest polling day position for 80 years.

Bad Day (part 1)

Tony Blair, who emerged as the man everyone loves to hate and submitted himself
to a relentless beating over Iraq. (Still, don't feel too sorry for him, he
might well end up with an unprecedented third landslide.)

Bad Day (part 2)

Michael Howard, who aggressively set the agenda but ended up over-egging his
attacks on asylum and may have upset British sensibilities with strident claims
that Mr Blair is a 'liar'.

What campaign?

Whatever happened to: Geoff Hoon, below, the Defence Secretary seen as
box-office poison by Labour HQ; Ian McCartney, the party's chairman, who is
well-regarded but whose Scottish accent is incomprehensible to many English
voters; and Alan Johnson, the straight-talking Pensions Secretary, who was also
mysteriously absent from Labour's campaign?

Where was Conservative Vulcan John Redwood and posh and portly defence supremo
Nicholas Soames?

Even the Liberal Democrats had their missing men. For a party claiming to be
green on everything, their environment man, Norman Baker, weirdly, didn't seem
to get out of Sussex.

Lastminute wonder

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, was relegated to the back row of cabinet
ministers during Labour's manifesto launch, but won back his front-line seat at
the final press conference yesterday after hauling himself into bat as Labour's
night watchman to defend the war.

Gaffes of the campaign

Oliver Letwin, below, the title-holder from the 2001 election, was responsible
for three top Tory policies crumbling. First, he admitted there would be no tax
cuts in the Tory government's first year. Then he disclosed that only 35 ports
would be guarded day and night. Finally, he could not rule out an increase in
National Insurance.

Charles Kennedy had his own hiccup when he could not remember his flagship
council tax proposals.

Sultans of spin

Labour has been spinning outrageously with its claim that the Tories could win
if just one in 10 Labour voters defect or stay at home. That one evaporated
within hours.

Powers behind the throne

Lynton Crosby, the Conservatives' hired gun from Down Under has been credited
with running a highly professional campaign, which has had Labour rattled.
Alastair Campbell, Mr Blair's former communications guru, has been back, even
once facing his old foes in the press. Oh, and the Lib Dems have got someone
called Sandy, who used to work for BT.

Spare a thought for ...

The poor old people in Watford and Birmingham Yardley, the only constituencies
to have visits from Blair, Howard and Kennedy (and the media circus with them).

Slogans of the campaign

Michael Howard's mantra, 'Are you thinking what we're thinking?' became 'Take a
stand on the issues that matter'.

Labour's verb-free 'Forward not back' has metamorphosed into, 'If one in 10
Labour voters don't vote, the Tories win'.

The Liberal Democrats say they are 'the real alternative'. Locally they say
'Winning here'.

Most dramatic moment

The leak of Lord Goldsmith's advice on the legality of war, and the veteran
Labour MP Brian Sedgemore's defection to the Liberal Democrats.

Least dramatic moment

An election meeting in the marginal seat of Enfield Southgate had to be called
off because only one voter turned up.

Grumpy old man of the campaign

John Prescott, below, started the campaign mouthing 'fucking pillock' at a
journalist and ended it saying: 'Let's go and meet the people, the real people.'

Final words

'What I'm planning to do on Friday morning " I'm planning our first steps in
government.' Michael Howard

'I'm very confident of our case but I never take anything for granted.'

Tony Blair

'So let's have none of this Blair nonsense. He has cried wolf one too many
times. No one believes his claims any more.'

Charles Kennedy

Quote of the campaign

'I am renouncing Tony Blair, the Devil, New Labour and all their works.' Brian
Sedgemore.

'People don't want a date with destiny, they want a date with the dentist.'
Michael Howard.

'My drug is adrenaline.' The former SAS part-timer and Shadow Home Secretary
David Davis.

'I am proud to be leading the only party with a serious programme for the future
of this country.' Tony Blair

'Even if he wins a third term, he is now going to be a lame duck prime minister.
Iraq will haunt his premiership and his legacy, just as Suez did for Sir Anthony
Eden.'

Charles Kennedy on Tony Blair.

'Being called a playboy politician by Peter Hain is like being told to sit up
straight by the Hunchback of Notre Dame.'

George Galloway.

Most ludicrous fight

UKIP and Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas party, right, fighting it out for the
Eurosceptic vote. UKIP appear to have mustered 1 per cent of the vote, and
Veritas has not troubled the scorers.

The invisible issues:

The environment, or transport, or Europe, or nuclear power, or weapons, or
constitutional reform, in fact anything much apart from immigration, crime, Iraq
and tax.

Most tiresome mantra:

'The only poll that matters is the one on May 5,' repeated, in one form or
other, by all party leaders.

Angriest campaign:

The battle for Bethnal Green and Bow, which has pitted the loyal, pro- war
Labour MP Oona King against the former Labour MP turned Respect leader George
Galloway. Mr Galloway has stormed out of a TV show, allegations of electoral
fraud are being investigated and claims of violence have marred the campaign.

Football fillip:

Michael Howard has been drawing strength from his beloved Liverpool FC.

And what the bookies say:

Labour is the runaway favourite. William Hill are offering just 1/50 on it
becoming the largest party and yesterday slashed the odds on Labour winning with
an overall majority from 1/20 to 1/33.

Ladbrokes also have Labour at 1/33 to win. The Conservatives are on 10/1, while
the Liberal Democrats are at 150/1.

Q&A

1. Who believes they could be about to make history in Brighton Pavilion?

2. Which party leader is in grave danger of losing his seat?

3. Where is Na h-Eileanan an Iar, the country's smallest constituency?

4. What record could Tory Stanley Johnson achieve in Teignbridge?

5. Which party is on course to get its first black MP?

6. The constituency of Sunderland South expects to retain what record today?

7. What distinction is held by William Hague in Richmond, Yorkshire?

8. Why will there be no election in Staffordshire South?

9. Why will the Liberal Democrat Patsy Calton have a nerve-racking night?

10. Why are general elections always held on Thursdays?

Answers

1. The Greens, who are optimistic that they will see their first MP elected.

2. David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist leader, faces a daunting challenge in
fighting off the Democratic Unionists in Upper Bann.

3. The Outer Hebrides - it's the official Gaelic name of the Western Isles.

4. If elected, he would become the first father to follow his son (Boris
Johnson) into the Commons.

5. The Conservatives.

6. Traditionally the first constituency to declare its result.

7. It's the safest Tory seat in the country.

8. It has been cancelled following the death of the Liberal Democrat candidate.

9. She's defending the country's most marginal seat, Cheadle. Her majority in

2001 was 33.

10. By convention as the Prime Minister can choose any day. (The 1931 election
was held on Tuesday 27 October).

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              108 of 149 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

05/05/05: THE ELECTION: 9 REASONS TO VOTE LABOUR BY TONY BLAIR

BYLINE: BY ROSA PRINCE AND OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 668 words


TONY Blair today spells out nine compelling reasons to vote Labour back in power
in a handwritten message to Mirror readers.

The Premier wrote his plea yesterday as he took his fight for votes to the wire
and gave the strongest signal yet that he will not step down early if he wins
today's general election.

Declaring "If you value it, vote for it" Mr Blair tells readers to "seize the
moment" and vote Labour for a strong economy, more jobs, home ownership,
childcare and pensions, tax credits, a rising minimum wage, investments in
schools and hospitals and a better future for Britain's families.

He penned the note on a sheet of blue A4 paper as he criss-crossed Britain in a
helicopter in a final push for votes.

Standing on the brink of a ground-breaking third term in power after his
historic victories in 1997 and 2001, Mr Blair said he felt "great optimism".

But with dozens of marginal seats hanging in the balance he again warned against
complacency and urged Labour supporters to the ballot box so the Tories do not
slip in by the back door.

He said: "A few hundred or thousand votes either way will determine the result.
This thing is tight and tough and we've got to fight for every vote. We take
absolutely nothing for granted.

"There's a very simple choice before the country - people either wake up on May
6 with a Labour Government or a Conservative Government."

Though a poll published today suggests Labour could be heading for another
three-figure majority, early signs from postal votes show the party could lose
several marginals.

A strong Labour win will transform Britain's political landscape and crush Tory
hopes of regaining power. It will also place Mr Blair in the history books - no
Labour leader has ever won three general elections in a row.

In a sign of confidence yesterday Mr Blair and his Cabinet took the drive for
votes into Margaret Thatcher's old seat of Finchley, in North London, snatched
by Labour in 1997.

The Premier then left Elstree airfield on a helicopter shuttle to Lancashire,
the Lake District and Yorkshire before ending up at his Sedgefield seat.

On the way he rejected speculation he will quit within 18 months if re-elected,
saying: "The reason I want to carry on now is because I believe passionately
there are things to do."

Mr Blair - who yesterday appeared to rule out another rise in National Insurance
to fund the NHS - wants to see through huge reforms in the welfare state which
could take three years.

It is likely he will hand over the top job in autumn 2008 so a new Labour
leader, widely expected to be Gordon Brown, will be in place for that year's
party conference.

Mr Blair said: "There's going to be a change at some point. You can leave the
detail until later." Asked whether Mr Brown would have to wait three more years,
he added: "I believe I too have something to contribute to this."

The warning to Labour voters not to stay at home or flirt with the Lib Dems was
repeated by Mr Brown.

If they did so, he said, they risked a Tory victory. In an attack on Tory
policies aimed at the better off, the Chancellor said: "By harming Labour,
people will end up harming the very people who need Labour."

Michael Howard - who visited Surrey, North Yorks and Norfolk - was heckled by
UKIP activists as he pledged to open a new "chapter of hope" for Britain. He
said: "The British people can vote for things to stay as they are, or for
positive change."

In the Lib Dem seat of Brent East Charles Kennedy predicted his party would take
a "massive step forward".

An ICM poll for The Guardian gives Labour 38 per cent, the Tories 32 per cent
and the Lib Dems 22 per cent.

If these figures were translated into a uniform swing across the country Labour
would have a 130 majority.

A Populus survey for The Times puts Labour on 41 per cent, the Tories on 27 per
cent and the Lib Dems on 23 per cent. That would give the Tories their worst
result for more than a century.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              109 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

The moment of truth

BYLINE: David Mattin

SECTION: Features; Times2; 28

LENGTH: 458 words


Scarcely a whimper has been heard from Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas Party during
the election campaign. But he has big plans for polling day, T2 discovers.

6.15am, BBC Television Centre

It's happened again: burst into the usual studio only to remember that my
(brilliant) show was axed 16 months ago. End up standing next to Dale Winton and
three poodles in a broadcast of Pets Win Prizes.

08.20, Jean Claude's Tan and Tone Boutique

Jean says he's run out of Deep Brown Moroccan Wilderness with a Hint of Satsuma,
so it will have to be standard San Tropez. Need to look my best for my trip to
the ballot box: The Erewash Advertiser says there's a chance they'll send a
photographer. Starting, incidentally, to suspect Jean Claude is not of pure
Anglo-Saxon descent. Could it be a Gallic name?

10.32, Veritas Party war rooms

Last meeting of key members of party machine at HQ, aka Big Bob's Greasy Proud
to be British Spoon. Once party machine arrives. I outline to him our radical
polling day strategy to capture the Arab vote.

12.15, Radio East Picton-upon-the-Wald

Arrive to find had been dumped from my promised interview for a Monster Raving
Loony candidate in favour of a 99 per cent tax on the income of former chat show
hosts. What can I expect from the liberal London elite who run Radio Picton?
Damien calls them Guardianistas on our way out. Memo: ask Damien what
Guardianista means.

14.20, Polling station, Erewash

Have my silver highlights re-done in the car on way. No sign of the expected
press horde when we pull up. I sense a UKIP-Brussels-Arab-multicultural-liberal
London elite plot to scupper me. Stand in the usual pose -ballot paper in hand,
hovering over the box -for over two hours in hope someone will take a
photograph. In the end Paul takes one. He e-mails it to The Times, but gets
message back saying there are no work experience vacancies.

20.05, Veritas HQ

Big Bob is having an election night lock-in, so we can watch the television
coverage. Damien's mother telephones -apparently HSBC have told her she will
have to remortgage her house to cover our lost deposits.

01.13, Veritas HQ

Bob leaves me keys. Damien has to go, too: says he's setting up a new party with
Terry Wogan. Judas. Everything is the fault of the European Parliament. Expect
the PM will be arriving at Downing Street for the night about now. Picture self
standing on the steps, the gasps of awe when I announce immediate plan to
dismantle Channel Tunnel. Dream over until 2009. Write article saying that
without me in government, even the English language itself will fall victim to
the liberal London elite and the imposition of foreign words on British culture.
C'est la vie, I suppose.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

Withdraw from UK should be UKIP's cry

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 500 words


Howard's achievement was to build himself up into a politician voters could
dislike even more than Blair

Do you ever get the feeling that life is passing you by? That the action is
somehow, always, happening somewhere else? Don't worry, I have a helpline for
you to call: 0800 587 6587, also known as the United Kingdom Independence
Party's general election number.

I guarantee not only that the party is suffering more than you, but that it will
have the time to talk through any of your insecurities, however far they go back
in your childhood.

Take last Thursday. The political world was convulsed by the leak of the
Attorney-General's advice on the war in Iraq, a story big enough to set the
election alight, dominating it thereafter. Which is why I found myself sitting
in a dark Westminster basement, watching a video depicting a giant, badly
animated blue octopus.

It was an advance screening of the UKIP's party political broadcast, and I had
something of an exclusive, being the only journalist there among rows of 30 odd
seats.

When the octopus had stopped roaring and eating innocent British citizens (yes,
European Union octopuses have huge mouths with fangs, it's Brussels regulations,
see) there was a long pause.

Roger Knapman, its leader, peered over his lectern and asked of the audience
(me): "Any questions?" I do have a question now, Roger. What happened to the
UKIP? Where is the breakthrough in domestic politics, so confidently predicted
after your triumph at the European elections last June?

And I don't mean to sound unsympathetic, because, as one of the few journalists
assigned to report on your party, I share your fate. If you are, as you say, the
gadflies of British politics, I am the flea on the gadfly, and pickings have
been thin.

Not all of it is your fault. Despite your manifesto's valiant attempt to
encourage us to participate more in school sports and nuclear power, the voters
just want to hear from you when Europe is on the agenda.

No wonder all the main parties have made sure that Europe is not mentioned in
this campaign, or only to defer the issue of the constitution to the referendum.

The great irony here is that while you are fading away in Britain, in Europe,
you are a quiet but runaway success. Last week, as the octopus and I whiled away
the afternoon, more than 100 journalists from across Europe packed the room of
the UKIP press conference in Brussels.

In just six months Nigel Farage, the party's leader in the European Parliament,
has done more to expose EU corruption than the whole of the Parliament put
together. He revealed the two most recent scandals: Peter Mandelson's new year
holiday freebie, and that the French European Commissioner, Jacques Barrot, had
an embezzlement conviction.

Perhaps, UKIP, you should make it your policy to withdraw from Britain. And
until then, you owe me a pint -or even a litre -of beer. Here's to the British
referendum on the European constitution.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

Lib Dems have such nice faces - even if they all have two of them

BYLINE: Gerard Baker

SECTION: Home news; 35

LENGTH: 984 words


On the one hand, there is the soft-left Blair-bashing to woo the disaffected
Shiraz-drinking professionals. On the other, the old-fashioned centrism for
wooing Tories. It's the best of both worlds for now, writes Gerard Baker

How nice to be a Liberal Democrat these days. Your party is mounting a perfectly
timed surge in the opinion polls. Your leader is weaving unscathed through the
crossfire between the two other parties' unpopular frontmen. And you are getting
lionised by everyone for your brave and positive stance on the big issues.

It is hardly surprising that tonight is shaping up to be another big one for the
Lib Dems.

Yesterday I dropped in to gauge this momentum in two London constituencies, one
Labour-held, one Tory -the two most winnable seats for the Lib Dems in the
capital. In North London, Hornsey & Wood Green, a mixed collection of urban
neighbourhoods that tumble down the slopes from Highgate through Muswell Hill
and Crouch End.

And, a couple of bumpy commuter train rides away, in southeast London,
Orpington, a pleasant greensward of suburbia, the site of one of the great
by-election moments in Liberal history.

Pounding the very different streets of Hornsey and Orpington it is immediately
clear why it is such a good time for the Lib Dems. Most obviously, being a
Liberal Democrat means being able to say different things to different people.
The Hornsey seat was held for Labour at the last election with a majority of
more than 10,000 by the resolutely Blairite Barbara Roche. Ms Roche has enraged
the Left of her party by supporting the Iraq war, top-up university tuition fees
and foundation hospitals.

The Lib Dems are hoping to cash in with a campaign aimed squarely at angry
Labour voters who think that their party has betrayed its socialist roots.

The constituency is classic modern left-leaning territory. The Tories, who held
the seat not much more than a decade ago, are reduced to a rump. Gone too are
the traditional working-class, white Labour voters.

In their place are large numbers of ethnic minorities, especially Asians in the
Hornsey and Harringay areas, and in the big houses in Highgate and Muswell Hill,
the Shiraz-quaffing, well-educated, Blair-loathing professional malcontents of
modern Labour folklore.

The Lib Dem candidate, Lynne Featherstone, a member of the London Assembly, has
found rich pickings for her anti-Blair message. In a recent campaign newsletter
sent to wavering Labour voters there are more references to George W. Bush than
there are to Charles Kennedy.

A ragtag army of antiwar B-list celebrities has bolstered her campaign -from
Andy Kershaw, the broadcaster, to Lauren Booth, the Prime Minister's
sister-in-law, and, most proudly for Ms Featherstone, if the effusions on her
website are a guide, the favourite son of Muswell Hill, the anti-imperialist
firebrand Tariq Ali.

Over in Orpington, once part of the great leafy swaths of safe Tory Outer
London, you won't hear much from Tariq Ali in these final hours before polling.
Indeed you have not heard anything from him in the course of the campaign. The
Liberal Democrat candidate there is waging a classic Liberal battle against a
beleaguered Tory incumbent.

Orpington was won by Eric Lubbock for the Liberals in 1962 in one of the most
celebrated by-elections in history. The Conservatives won back this part of
their natural territory in 1970, but in the past decade they have felt the
steady advance of Lib Dems chipping away at their electoral margins.

Chris Maines, who cut the Tory majority to just 262 here in 2001, is the very
model of your hardworking, decent, respectable Liberal candidate. He has fought
the constituency four times for the Lib Dems, reducing the Tory majority every
time.

Once again his opponent is the Tory John Horam, a man whose career reads like a
gazetteer of political opportunism, a model of carpetbagging political
cross-dressing. He has been an MP for three different parties -Labour, SDP and
Conservative -and Orpington is his fourth constituency.

For Orpington's mostly affluent electorate the war is not a big deal, Mr Maines
acknowledges. Instead the campaign has focused on bread-and-butter issues such
as the inadequacy of local hospitals, transport and top-up fees. This is in many
ways the oddest spectacle of this general election.

The Lib Dems' biggest gains in this election are coming from disgruntled Labour
left-wingers in places such as Hornsey who now find the old centrist party much
more to their taste -on Iraq, civil liberties, taxes and public spending -than
their own party.

But for many years the Lib Dems have made most of their gains by persuading
voters in places such as Orpington that they represent a safe bolthole from the
Tories for disillusioned Conservatives. These voters had no intention of taking
the plunge and crossing all the way over to Labour with its cast of scary
Muswell Hill-dwelling Labour voters.

By a strange twist of electoral fate, come tomorrow many disgruntled Tories may
find themselves living side by side in the same party as their fearsome old
enemies.

ORPINGTON

MP: John Horam since 1992

2001 result

Conservative........22,334

Lib Dem.............22,065

Labour...............5,517

UK Independence........996

Majority...............269

Candidates Emily Bird (Labour) John Horam (Conservative) Chris Maines (Lib Dem)
Mick Greenhough (UKIP)

HORNSEY & WOOD GREEN

MP: Barbara Roche since 1992

2001 result

Labour...............21,967

Lib Dem..............11,353

Conservative..........6,921

Green.................2,228

Socialist Alliance....1,106

Socialist Labour........294

Reform........... 2000 194

Majority 10,614

Candidates Barbara Roche (Lab) Lynne Featherstone (Lib Dem) Peter Forrest
(Conservative) Jayne Forbes (Green) Roy Freshwater (UKIP)


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

Roger Knapman

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; 38

LENGTH: 31 words


Roger Knapman, the leader of the UK Independence Party, has difficulty being
recognised even by his own supporters. At a UKIP meeting in Wales he was
introduced as Roger Napkin.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2005, Thursday

Quiz question of the day

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; 38

LENGTH: 15 words


Which party has put cards in telephone boxes promoting itself?

ANSWER: UKIP


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 4, 2005

How to give Mr Blair a bloody nose: your tactical voting guide

BYLINE: EDWARD HEATHCOAT AMORY

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 3663 words



IF THE polls are right (and although nobody on either side really believes them,
they are the only indicator we have), Tony Blair is heading for a third term
with a majority of at least 96. It could even be as high as 158. It would take a
massive, and improbable, swing away from Labour across the country to bring
about a change of Government.

The fact remains that many people, even those who will vote Labour, would like
to see Mr Blair's majority dramatically cut. If this were to happen, the Tories
and the Liberal Democrats would be revitalised. An 'awkward squad' of Labour
backbenchers would keep the Prime Minister's wilder ambitions in check and our
democracy would be revived.

If Mr Blair lost all 60 of his most marginal seats (as listed on these pages),
his majority would be slashed to just 40.

This could be achieved through tactical voting, with opposition supporters
backing the candidate most likely to beat Labour, whichever party they are
standing for. So in the 49 key Labour marginals where the Tories are second,
Liberals should vote for Michael Howard. In the seven seats where the Liberals
are best placed, Tory voters should back Charles Kennedy. In three seats in
Scotland, Liberals and Tories should both vote Scottish Nationalist, and in one
Welsh seat, all opposition voters should back Plaid Cymru.

As for Labour voters who want to limit Mr Blair's power, they should make their
protest by backing the second-placed party in their constituency.

A tactical vote in the places on this list couldn't put Michael Howard in No.
10, but it could make your vote really count tomorrow.

1. DUMFRIES & GALLOWAY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 141 The
Tories won the old Galloway seat last time, but boundary changes have turned
this into the most vulnerable 'Labour' seat in Scotland. The Scottish
Nationalists are a decent third with 12,660 votes in the new seat, but the Tory
is the best bet to oust Labour.

2. DORSET SOUTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 153 In 2001,
Labour's Jim Knight became the party's only MP in Dorset. Sadly, the Tory
challenger, Ed Matts, has blotted his copybook by faking a picture in his
campaign literature. With the Liberals a distant third, their supporters should
grit their teeth and vote Conservative.

3. BRAINTREE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 358 Conservative
candidate Brooks Newmark is clever, moderate and fought the seat last time as
well.

New Labour clone and war supporter Alan Hurst would be no loss, and the Liberals
- with only 11 per cent last time - can't win, so should back the Tory.

4. MONMOUTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 384 Represented in
the Welsh Assembly by David Davies, a Tory who is also the candidate at the
General Election, Monmouth is the Conservatives' top target in the principality.
With help from the 5,080 Liberals, Davies can expect to take the seat.

5. LANCASTER & WYRE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 481 Labour
MP Hilton Dawson has stood down and the new candidate Anne Sacks was chosen from
an allwomen shortlist. Tory Ben Wallace is a former Scots Guards officer.

The Liberals, with 5,383 votes last time, can choose the winner if they back the
Conservative hopeful.

6. KETTERING 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 665 This marginal
constituency was graced with personal appearances by Michael Howard and Tony
Blair recently, who were on fishing expeditions to catch wavering voters.

The Tory candidate is a local councillor and school governor. The Liberals, with
5,469 votes last time, could help oust Labour's Phil Sawford by backing the
former.

7. DUNDEE EAST 2nd place: Scottish National Party Tactical votes needed: 496
Labour had a majority of 4,466 at the last election, but boundary changes have
given the SNP an opportunity. A big problem for Labour is the merging of the
Black Watch and other regiments. The Tories and Liberals command about 9,249
votes between them, so judicious tactical voting for the SNP could get rid of
Labour's Iain Luke.

8. NORTHAMPTON SOUTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 885 A
manufacturing town where Labour MP Tony Clarke just won in 1997. Tory Brian
Binley is a selfmade local businessmen and a councillor. The Liberals - who
polled 6,355 votes last time - can't win, so should vote Conservative.

9. OCHIL & PERTHSHIRE SOUTH 2nd place: Scottish National Party Tactical votes
needed: 821 Labour had a majority of 4,349 here last time, but after boundary
changes the key lies with 9,871 Tory voters; only 8 per cent of them have to
vote SNP in order to dispose of Labour candidate Gordon Banks.

10. CARDIFF CENTRAL 2nd place: Liberal Democrats Tactical votes needed: 659 The
Tories polled only 5,537 votes at the last election and their supporters could
choose to back the Liberals in order to oust Labour's vulnerable Jon Owen Jones.
With the highest student population in Wales, key issues are top-up loans and
Iraq.

11. YNYS MON (ANGLESEY) 2nd place: Plaid Cymru Tactical votes needed: 800 With
the Tories in third place, their 7,653 voters should back the Welsh
Nationalists, whose sympathetic attitude to foxhunting has gathered local
support.

12. INVERNESS, NAIRN, BADENOCH AND STRATHSPEY 2nd place: Liberal Democrats
Tactical votes needed: 1,134 A four-way marginal at the gateway to the
Highlands, Labour held it last time with a majority of over 4,000, but boundary
changes have put it up for grabs. The Liberals and the SNP are the principle
challengers, so the 5,262 Conservatives should switch to the second-placed
Liberals.

13. WELWYN HATFIELD 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,196
Blairite Labour Public Health Minister Melanie Johnson looks vulnerable, despite
heavyweight campaigning support from Gordon Brown. The local Tory, Grant Shapps,
is energetic, and it needs only a few of the 6,021 Liberals in the constituency
to switch allegiance and Labour will be facing their first ministerial loss.

14. SHIPLEY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,428 A Tory seat
from 1950 to 1997, the Conservatives will be expecting to win this back from
Christopher Leslie, the young (24 when first elected in 1997) Labour MP.

Mr Leslie is the Junior Minister who helped promote postal votes, so the 4,996
Liberals should be happy to back the Tories in order to get rid of him.

Two appearances since Christmas by Tony Blair won't have helped.

15. CLWYD WEST 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,115 A two-way
race between Labour and the Tories, this used to be represented by Sir Anthony
Meyer, the 'stalking horse' who helped bring down Margaret Thatcher. Now held by
an undistinguished Blairite loyalist, so the Tory candidate, a solicitor from
Llandudno, should be an attractive option for the 8,387 Plaid Cymru and Liberal
voters.

16. BEXLEYHEATH & CRAYFORD 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,472
South London commuter-land with the second highest number of semidetached houses
in Britain.

Labour candidate Nigel Beard is a notorious parliamentary toady, and the 4,476
voters who chose the Liberal Democrats last time might like to think again and
vote Tory.

17. MILTON KEYNES NE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,829 The
local council is controlled by the Liberals, but they came a distant third in
2001, so there must have been a large tactical Liberal vote for Labour. It
wouldn't take many of those voters switching, either to the Tories or back to
their own party, to oust Labour. John Prescott's plans to build another 71,000
homes here won't help.

18. HORNCHURCH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,482 Classic
Essex seat, with 82 per cent of houses owned by owneroccupiers. There were 2,928
Liberal voters and 893 votes for UKIP in 2001.

Both should consider backing Tory candidate James Brokenshire, despite the
mildly antiwar stance of the incumbent Labour MP.

19. SELBY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,138 Part rural, part
power stations, part York university campus, part closed-down mines, this is a
confusing constituency. But with the pits closed, and top-up fees alienating the
student vote, local experts predict a Conservative return here, and the 5,569
Liberal voters should consider voting Tory.

20. HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,015
Once Fulham was Tory, Hammersmith Labour, and the seat fluctuated between the
two. But Hammersmith has become more affluent, and the Tories are in with a good
chance. The 5,294 Liberal voters should consider backing Tory Greg Hands, who
names his three favourite local pubs on his official biography.

21. THANET SOUTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 1,792 Lost for
the Tories by disgraced ex-Cabinet Minister Jonathan Aitken, Labour's Stephen
Ladyman calls the constituency 'the birthplace of the English'. As the English
in Thanet are fed up with Blair, it won't take many of the 3,706 Liberals to
elect Tory Mark MacGregor, a former chief executive of the party who fell out
badly with Iain Duncan Smith.

22. FOREST OF DEAN 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,049 Once a
safe Labour seat, their majority shrank as the coal mines closed. Tory Mark
Harper is standing again after securing a good 4 per cent swing in 2001, and
could capture the seat with help from the 5,762 voters who backed the Liberals
last time.

23. WELLINGBOROUGH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,355 Labour
increased their 187 majority from 1997 here last time, but the seat is still
within easy reach of the Conservative candidate Peter Bone, and tactical support
from some of the 4,763 Liberal voters in the constituency would clinch it.

Michael Howard has been to help.

24. ILFORD NORTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,115 Known as
the constituency with more London cabbies than any other, Labour's success in
1997 and 2001 has surprised political pundits, and the Tories are expected to
recapture it. They've a good local councillor who could oust Blairite Linda
Perham, especially with help from the 4,717 Liberal voters.

25. RUGBY & KENILWORTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,877 A
seat known for swinging between Tories and Labour, Rugby has the larger Labour
vote and Kenilworth is Tory. But the Tories are the largest party on the
council, and could win back the seat from Blairite loyalist Andy King.

The 7,444 Liberal voters at the last election would unseat him by backing the
Tories.

26. GILLINGHAM 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,272 Labour's
victory in 1997 in this constituency based on the old Chatham Royal Navy
Dockyard was thanks to Liberals voting tactically for Paul Clark, the
ultra-Blairite Labour candidate. This time around, if many Liberals return to
their party or even the Tories, Gillingham should be a Conservative gain.

27. HARWICH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,596 The ferry port
is one of our most Eurosceptic constituencies, and has Tory candidate Douglas
Carswell, who proclaims that Britain must be an 'independent country'. So he
should pick up some of UKIP's 2,463 voters from 2001. Then it would take only a
few Liberal votes to oust Labour's Ivan Henderson.

28. ENFIELD NORTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,291 Tories
won all the wards except one at the 2002 local elections. Blairite Labour MP
Joan Ryan's only claim to fame was to send constituents a calendar showing her
constituency work - part funded by the taxpayer. The Tories are hoping to win
this one back, but may need help from the 3,355 Liberals.

29. OLDHAM EAST & SADDLEWORTH 2nd place: Liberal Democrats Tactical votes
needed: 2,726 Once a Tory seat but boundary changes make it a fight between
Labour and the Liberals. At the last election, there were 7,000 Tory voters and,
sadly 5,091 votes for the BNP in the wake of the Oldham riots.

Conservative tactical voters could easily dispose of Labour's pro-war Minister
Phil Woolas by backing the Liberals.

30. DUNBARTONSHIRE EAST 2nd place: Liberal Democrats Tactical votes needed:
2,601 Another victim of the boundary changes, Labour MP John Lyons had a
majority more than 11,000 in the old Strathkelvin constituency, but is now
defending a marginal with the Liberals close behind. The Tory voters from 2001
could hand the seat the Liberals by voting tactically.

31. CALDER VALLEY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,094 Labour
won the seat in 1997, but their chance. They didn't help by deselecting first
candidate in a messy row, but the constituency's 7,000-plus Liberal voters
should majority was halved in 2001, and the Tories have a for the Tory if they
want to get rid of Labour.

good their go

32. REDDITCH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,484 Jacqui Smith,
a middle-ranking trade and industry minister, will have been buoyed by positive
2004 local election results.

But Redditch is in the Rover fallout area, with several component manufacturers
based here, so it won't take too many of the constituency's 3,808 Liberal voters
backing the Tories to eject Labour.

33. PETERBOROUGH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,854 Appalling
Labour MP Helen Clark has had several run-ins with the police, and recently
accused the Tory candidate of assault; the police have dropped the investigation
and he is suing for defamation. Luckily for the citizens of Peterborough, the
5,761 Liberal voters could easily get rid of her by plumping for the
Conservatives this time round.

34. SHREWSBURY & ATCHAM 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,579
One voter who won't be backing the Tories is Leo Blair, the Prime Minister's
father, but he had the Tory Daniel Kawczynski to tea. Still, the Conservatives
should win, as the former Labour MP defected to the Liberals and then ditched
the seat. For the 6,173 Liberals, a tactical switch to Tory would be logical.

35. DARTFORD 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,306 A traditional
two-party seat, Labour MP Howard Stoate, a Blairite loyalist, has received a
visit from the Prime Minister. But this may not be enough to keep him in the
Commons, as the Tories have come back strongly on the council. The 3,781 Liberal
voters could oust Labour by switching to the Tories.

36. SCARBOROUGH & WHITBY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,585
Until 1997, like most coastal resorts this was solid Tory, and they have a
strong candidate in Robert Goodwill, until recently a Eurosceptic MEP.

One local issue is the lack of NHS dentists; Valerie Holsworth from Scarborough
confronted the Prime Minister and told him that she had pulled out seven of her
own teeth. There are 3,977 potential tactical Liberal voters who should back the
Conservatives.

37. HOVE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,171 The Tories have
an excellent candidate for this bit of the Brighton seafront: openly gay
Nicholas Boles comes from the party's moderate wing. The Labour MP, Ivor Caplin,
is standing down, and the Conservatives stand a good chance. The 3,823 Liberal
voters could be decisive if they back Boles.

38. BRISTOL WEST 2nd place: Liberal Democrats Tactical votes needed: 4,426 A
real three-way marginal, with the Liberals and Tories only 39 votes apart behind
Labour. But Tory voters should back the second-placed Liberals because local
pundits believe the war and student fees will push much of the large Bristol
University vote to Mr Kennedy.

39. PRESELI PEMBROKESHIRE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,946
New Labour candidate Sue Hayman was selected from a locally unpopular, all-woman
shortlist, and promptly got the constituency name wrong. Tory support has been
building at local level, and even a small amount of tactical voting from the
8,540 Liberal and Plaid Cymru voters would see off Labour.

40. GLOUCESTER 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,880 Labour held
the seat in 1997 and 2001, but the Conservatives are now the largest party on
the council with Labour in third place, so there's a good chance the Tories can
take the seat if they can secure the support of Lib Dem tactical voters (6,875
backed the party in 2001).

41. PUTNEY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 2,771 Labour's Tony
Colman is defending a far from typical London seat, once held - and lost in 1997
- by David Mellor. The Tories have an excellent and energetic female candidate
and are confident, but Colman is well dug in, and more than half of the 4,671
Liberal voters will need to make a tactical switch to the Tories to oust him.

42. HEMEL HEMPSTEAD 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,742
Labour's Tony McWalter is a former

philosophy don, a contrast to Tory Mike Penning, a former soldier and fireman
who demonstrated his opposition to the euro by paying his electoral deposit in
500 Pounds 1 coins. The Tories have a tough challenge, but tactical switching to
them by the 5,877 Liberals could make the difference.

43. NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR (WESTERN ISLES) 2nd place: Scottish National Party
Tactical votes needed: 1,074 The smallest constituency electorate in Britain
(22,000) but one of the largest constituencies. It would take a concerted
tactical vote by the combined 2,099 Tory and Liberal voters to get rid of
Labour's Calum MacDonald.

44. RIBBLE SOUTH 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,802 David
Blunkett has been eating Jaffa Cakes with the residents here, but even that may
not be enough to save Labour's David Borrow.

The 7,150 Liberal Democrats can't win, but by backing the Tories they could
choose the winner.

46. WOLVERHAMPTON SW 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,487 For
25 years, this was Enoch Powell's seat, but now the Conservative candidate is an
Asian woman, Sandip Verma. With Tories strong locally, she has a good chance of
ousting Labour's undistinguished Rob Marris, and the 3,425 Liberal voters will
be crucial.

47. BIRMINGHAM YARDLEY 2nd place: Liberal Democrats Tactical votes needed: 2,576
With Labour MP Estelle Morris leaving Parliament, and the Liberal challenger
John Hemmings distinguishing himself by exposing postal vote fraud, the 3,941
Tory voters could back him to eject Labour.

48. THE WREKIN 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,587 The Tories
face a struggle here, as Labour slightly increased its majority in 2001. But if
the 4,738 Liberals vote tactically for the Conservatives, they just might spring
a surprise.

49. CROYDON CENTRAL 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,984 A
swing seat, this is never going to be safe for any party, although a leaked memo
from Labour election co-ordinator Alan Milburn warns that the campaign there is
'very difficult'. The 5,156 Liberal voters hold the balance of power and could
put the Tories in.

50. ELMET 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 4,171 Tory Andrew
Millard knocked 4 per cent off the Labour vote in 1997 and is hoping to finish
the job. With Labour turnout likely to be low, a tactical switch to the
Conservatives by the 5,001 Liberals could be critical.

51. WIMBLEDON 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,744 A big
surprise when Labour won it in 1997, but MP Roger Casale has been an out-and-out
Blairite toady, and the Tories are doing better on the ground.

The 5,341 Liberal voters could choose the winner if they vote tactically and go
Tory.

52. STROUD 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 5,039 Some way down
the Tory target list, but they are in with a chance, as local strategists
believe that around 5,000 Liberals voted tactically for Labour in 2001. If they
return to the Liberal fold or vote Tory, then Labour will be out.

53. KEIGHLEY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 4,005 Labour MP Ann
Cryer should be safe-ish, but BNP leader Nick Griffin's decision to stand here
is pushing a lot of Liberal Democrats (there were 4,722 last time) towards the
Tories - and they might just cause a shock.

54. SITTINGBOURNE & SHEPPEY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed:
3,509 The Tories stand a good chance here, not least because around 5,000
Liberals made a tactical vote for Labour last time. If they switch back, Labour
would lose its majority instantly.

55. HIGH PEAK 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 4,489 One of
Britain's most beautiful constituencies. The Liberals - with 7,743 votes last
time - can't win, but could easily remove Labour by backing the Tories.

56. ABERDEEN SOUTH 2nd place: Liberal Democrats Tactical votes needed: 3,931
Once a safe Tory seat, now they are in third place, but their 8,202 voters
(allowing for boundary changes) could easily see off Labour if they back the
Liberals.

57. STOURBRIDGE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,812 The
Prescott battle bus has been to Stourbridge, without incident.

The Tories stand a chance, but probably only with help from the 4,833 Liberal
voters.

58. BRIGG & GOOLE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,961 Labour's
Ian Cawsey is a member of the only parliamentary rock band and is likely to be
allowed to play on unless Liberal voters (3,796 last time) help remove him by
voting Tory.

59. FALMOUTH & CAMBORNE 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 4,527
Top Labour toady and former mayor of Islington Candy Atherton would lose easily
if enough of the 11,453 Liberals voters from 2001 backed Ashley Crossley, the
gay Tory candidate.

60. MEDWAY 2nd place: Conservatives Tactical votes needed: 3,780
Larger-than-life Labour MP Bob Marshall-Andrews is probably more of a thorn in
the side of the Government than any Tory could be, so Liberal voters might
choose not to vote tactically in this seat.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              115 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 4, 2005

HOW YOUR VOTE CAN SPARK A CHANGE

BYLINE: DOMINIK DIAMOND

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 538 words


TOMORROW you'll be asked to vote. Why bother? This has been a dreadful election
campaign. As TV spectacles go it's been even worse than Big Brother 3.

Can you remember any barnstorming speeches? Any inspirational slogans? Any
scraps? It's just as well there's nothing important at stake like the future of
this country or anything.

There have been no ideas in this campaign. No passion. It's been full of people
who want to win a seat rather than people who look like they really, genuinely
care about this country and its people. The two main parties have one message:
Vote for us otherwise the other lot will get in and they'll be even worse.

Sorry, but that's piss-poor.

It's like eating rancid, stinking prawns because you're scared of getting BSE
from beef.

It's no surprise people can't be arsed to vote. But you must. Because if you
don't then you have no right to complain about your local hospital being filthy,
your local post office disappearing or your local park being used as a shooting
den for drug addicts.

You may think that it doesn't matter what you do because Labour will get back
into power anyway and they almost certainly will. But rather than using that as
an excuse not to vote, why not use it as an opportunity to truly express
yourself ?

Charles Kennedy is right to say "a vote for the Lib Dems is a vote for the Lib
Dems". Too many smaller parties fall victim to this myth that we have to vote
for one of the big two or it's a waste. I certainly used to think that. Not
after this campaign. Every single tiny vote counts because every journey begins
with a single step.

It's not just about who's running the country. It's about who's asking the
questions in Parliament. A single MP from a party can make a difference.

They can start debates. They have a vote on motions, which are important to
other parties, so they will court that MP's vote and give them something in
return. But it's not even about getting elected. Give a tiny party a handful of
votes and a handful of other people will take notice. If an independent
candidate is standing on a single issue of keeping a hospital open and he gets a
decent vote, then that may encourage someone else next time. Who might do even
better.

Get selfish. What moves you? Wherever you live there will be someone who
reflects your views. Do you want your kids to breathe clean air? Vote Green. Do
you want our way of life to be protected from the EU? Vote UKIP.

Do you want more race hate? Vote BNP.

Some say turnout will be low because Dot Cotton is learning to drive on
EastEnders. That's horrific. Watching that crap instead of using a right that
people have fought and died for?

You're an idiot if you do that. And a selfish one. Because this isn't even about
you and me. It's about our kids. They CAN'T vote, yet their lives are affected
by the people who get in. We owe it to them to make this country better.

Otherwise when they're wheezing from asthma because the Government won't tackle
climate change or they can't play in the street because it's full of dogshit or
unmonitored sex offenders remember: On May 5, 2005 you could have done something
about it.

If not for you then for them.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              116 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 04, 2005, Wednesday

Ukip wins apology after legal threat

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News Pg. 006

LENGTH: 111 words

THE Tories apologised yesterday to the UK Independence Party after wrongly
telling voters it was not fielding a candidate.

The apology, from the Somerton and Frome Conservative Association, came after
Ukip threatened to take legal action to force a re-run of tomorrow's contest.

The Tory association said the claim, in the main election communication of Clive
Allen, the Conservative candidate, was made in "good faith" after the local Ukip
branch said it was not fighting the constituency.

But Ukip's national HQ later overruled the local branch and Bill Lukins will
fight the seat. The Tories are 668 votes behind the Liberal Dems in the
constituency.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              117 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 04, 2005, Wednesday

CAMPAIGN BRIEFING Strange case of the European dog that didn't manage one bark

BYLINE: By Toby Helm

SECTION: News Pg. 007

LENGTH: 537 words

"EUROPE? It's not one of our five priorities," said a Tory official yesterday as
if the subject had simply vanished from his political radar screen. "We are
concentrating on the issues that the people feel matter most to them."

If he had made the same remark during the 2001 campaign, he would have been
sacked on the spot. Then it was a key battleground -- the one subject more than
any other that divided the two main parties.

Yesterday, the United Kingdom Independence Party called a press conference to
complain at the lack of coverage of Europe and claimed the three main parties
were deliberately keeping it off the agenda.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the European Parliament and candidate for Thanet
South, said that with 70 per cent of laws being decided in Brussels --
"everything from curvature of cucumbers to our asylum policy" -- the absence of
a debate on Europe had been nonsense.

Four years ago it was all so different. Then William Hague toured the country
decrying the creeping powers of Brussels and warning that Britain was becoming a
"foreign land" to its own people.

Tony Blair, still idealistically pro-European, preached that Britain could never
punch its weight in the EU unless it was serious about joining the euro.  It was
a real ding-dong between alternative visions.

This time, however, the European dog has not just failed to bark during the
election campaign. It hasn't even stirred from its slumbers.

The reason is not that Britain's relations with the EU are suddenly less
relevant to the politicians or that the British government faces less pressures
from Brussels.

Quite the reverse. In a little over three weeks, after France has voted in its
referendum on the EU constitution, Europe will again be the most important issue
in British politics.

When Britain takes over the EU presidency on July 1, the public will hear of
little else.

Its disappearance from campaigning in the current election is due to the fact
that none of the main parties, other than the Ukip, which received 0.5 per cent
of the vote in 2001, has any interest in saying much about it. Mr Farage is
right.

Although Michael Howard is an instinctive euro-sceptic, the Tories realised
after 2001 that their Europe-dominated campaign had been a disaster. They had
pandered too much to the Tory core vote while turning off voters on the middle
ground who they needed to attract back in huge numbers.

The entire strategy and the emotive language deployed by Mr Hague had made the
party look obsessive and narrow. Moreover his strident opposition to the euro
failed to excite voters because Tony Blair had already promised a referendum
before Britain went in.  "It simply didn't work at all," said one front bencher.
Lessons had been learned. "This time Blair has promised a referendum on the
constitution so there is no point in repeating the Hague error by going on about
that on the doorstep."

Other Tories say the party's own commitment to staying in Europe while trying to
renegotiate the terms of membership lacks the simplicity needed in an election
campaign.

It is difficult therefore not to feel a little sorry for Ukip, a one-issue party
whose issue has failed to surface at all.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              118 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 04, 2005, Wednesday

Another view It's the dinner party vote, stupid

BYLINE: By Oliver Pritchett

SECTION: News Pg. 027

LENGTH: 731 words

WE HAVE heard a lot in this election about Labour anxieties over the "dinner
party vote". These are the Labour supporters in the chattering classes who may
defect or abstain this time because of the Government's record on Iraq and on
civil liberties. Thousands of readers have contacted me, asking how to organise
the perfect dinner party vote, so here are some tips.

Obviously, it's best to hold the dinner party on polling day itself, then, just
before the polls close at 10 o'clock, those who want to cast their anti-Labour
vote can toddle off and do so, while the abstainers can stay behind with a
couple of bottles of shiraz and perhaps a box of bitter mints. You can top up
the glasses of the ones who are voting, to sustain them in the polling booth. A
circle of red wine from the base of a glass makes an original spoilt ballot
paper and a good conversation piece for the tellers at the count. I would
recommend holding back the cheese board until everyone has returned from voting.

It is advisable to prepare a little extra food for your dinner, because some
eager Liberal Democrat party worker is bound to show up uninvited in the middle
of the evening to try to persuade you to go out and vote and they won't need
much encouragement to squeeze in at the table and tuck in. I usually recommend a
casserole - lamb with spring vegetables perhaps.

As a fun alternative why not hold a tactical dinner party? For this, you simply
invite a group of people who you know are supporting rival candidates to your
chosen one. Then you just keep them at the table until it is too late to vote.
It's a good idea to serve them something fiddly to keep them occupied. Devilled
spatchcocked poussin would be nice. Although it has to be prepared at the last
moment, and means you will be too busy in the kitchen to get out to vote
yourself, you can be confident that this is more than cancelled out by all those
people enjoying their asparagus starters in the next room.

What are the hazards of the dinner party vote? Of course there is always the
chance you may get the dinner party vote bore, bragging about how he was once
interviewed by an opinion pollster. Incidentally, you should take care with the
seating plan and make sure you don't put an ardent fan of YouGov next to a
passionate devotee of Gallup. This can lead to terrible rows. I once witnessed a
fist fight which arose from a disagreement about sampling methods.

Talking of rows, you can also get the most frightful marital bust-ups. At a
dinner party vote I attended at the last election, a Labour-supporting couple
named Clive and Lucy Whimbrel arrived tight-lipped and spoiling for a fight.
Over the meal, after Clive had told her "It's the economy, stupid" for the 14th
time, she put on her coat, flounced out and voted for the Socialist Workers'
Party candidate. The Whimbrels split up shortly after that. Lucy ran off with
the election returning officer and now lives in a cottage in one the Tories' top
10 target constituencies. Clive went to pieces. I gather he gets odd seasonal
jobs driving election battle buses.

Beware of dinner party dirty tricks. You may find your babysitter is suddenly
unavailable on the night, forcing you to abandon your plans to abstain in style
with a few friends over a delicious pumpkin risotto. It may turn out that she
has been secretly dating the Green Party candidate and you are being lured to
the polling station by trickery.

There could be a problem if you hire caterers for your dinner party vote. You
and your guests may be drumming your fingers, wondering when the salmis of
guinea fowl is going to appear when you notice that it has turned awfully quiet
in the kitchen. You go and check up and discover the caterers have done a runner
to cast their votes for the UK Independence Party candidate.

A lot of election experts are now saying: "Forget about the dinner party vote -
what about the barbecue vote?" This could be a crucial factor, particularly if a
large number of barbecue parties are held in key marginals tomorrow. Groups of
potential voters may be standing round, waiting for the charcoal to light
properly and they could become so hypnotised by this that they forget to go to
the polling station until it's too late. A low turnout would be fatal for
Labour. In the end, the fate of this Government may depend on half a dozen duff
charcoal briquettes.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              119 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 4, 2005

Election 2005: Bookies' favourite Flurry of last-minute bets

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 431 words


Will it be a monkey on Michael or a pony on Tony? Neither, according to
political punters, who are rushing to a lay a carpet (that's £3) on Charles
Kennedy instead.

Liberal Democrats are proving the most enthusiastic gamblers in the election,
with dozens of candidates, policy wonks and party apparatchiks backing
themselves and their party in the thriving constituency betting market.

While tight odds on Labour and a spread-betting market convinced Tony Blair will
be returned with a comfortable if shrunken majority of about 80 seats, the
last-minute money is instead going on constituencies and other bizarre bets.

Follow the grassroots gamblers' money and clues on the fate of key marginals
emerge. Ladbrokes has taken a £7,000 bet on David Davis resisting the Lib Dems
to hold on in Haltemprice and Howden. But the money is not following Oliver
Letwin with any conviction: the Lib Dems are odds on in West Dorset and bookies
have taken one £400 bet on him losing.

"There are a lot of people who have backed themselves, particularly Lib Dems,"
said Warren Lush of Ladbrokes. "If the Lib Dems have a bad night we will have a
good night, but if they do well it will be terrible for us."

While Ladbrokes was happy to pocket a £250 bet on the Lib Dems to form
government at 150/1, bookies and spread-betting exchanges have also taken
significant bets on the Lib Dems in their target seats, including Hornsey and
Wood Green, Watford, and Cambridge, where the Lib Dems hope the student vote can
help overhaul Anne Campbell's 8,579 majority.

Speculation is also rife over the identity of the bold gambler who has put a
£3,000 spread bet on the Lib Dems to win 67 seats or more. If the party holds
only the 52 seats it won in 2001, he will lose £45,000. If they win 87 seats, he
will pocket £60,000.

Bethnal Green and Bow has attracted the most money, with odds on George Galloway
shrinking from 20-1 to 2-1 during the campaign. But bookmakers have detected a
clear shift back to Oona King in recent days.

Respect is the clear favourite among the minor parties to win a seat, but you
can still get odds of 12-1 on Robert Kilroy-Silk, 22-1 on Ukip and 25-1 on the
Green party.

The bookmakers could lose a fortune if the Tories spring a surprise, with plenty
of people snatching odds of up to 20-1 on a Tory victory. William Hill has taken
a £2,000 bet from a punter in Aberdeen on such a victory.

And the weirdest bet? A punter who put money on Mr Blair being seen hunting in
his constituency before polling day. Time is running out. . .


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 149 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 4, 2005

'Trust' is keyword at Howard's end

LENGTH: 606 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael Howard ended his first - and possibly last - election
campaign as Conservative leader tonight with an attack centred on the issue of
"trust", as the polls suggested he cannot win tomorrow.


Michael Howard ended his first - and possibly last - election campaign as
Conservative leader tonight with an attack centred on the issue of "trust", as
the polls suggested he cannot win tomorrow.

A Times/Populus poll taken over the Bank Holiday weekend put the Tories down
four points at 31%, whilst a poll conducted north of the border for the Scotsman
suggested the party had flatlined since 2001 and was stuck in fourth place with
15% of the vote, which suggested they would only hang on to their single seat in
Scotland.

Mr Howard was heckled by Labour, Ukip and Green party supporters this afternoon
as he campaigned in Guildford, Surrey, a traditionally true blue constituency
lost to the Liberal Democrats in 2001.

This morning, Mr Howard, now 63, again refused to answer questions about his
future if he failed to win. "I don't think about that," he told the BBC.

And he insisted it was lies told by Tony Blair rather than Tory attacks on the
prime minister's integrity, such as posters branding him a "liar", that had
damaged trust in politicians.

Mr Blair had not told the truth about taxes, national insurance and top-up fees,
Mr Howard said, and was lying about Tory plans to win the election.

Mr Howard denied claims in a Labour election broadcast that the Tories would
introduce charges for hospital operations. "I can categorically say we will
not," he said.

He added: "It is not telling the truth that makes politics seem negative, that
makes people think all politicians do not tell the truth. That is what
contributes, I think, to the lack of trust in politics and politicians."

He insisted he had never told a lie for political advantage. "I don't believe
that politicians need to do that and most of them don't do that," he said.

"We want to be talking about our plans for the future but Mr Blair and his party
simply spend their time not telling the truth about our policies."

Mr Howard visited key marginal seats in Norwich and Yorkshire today, but, at a
stump speech in Guildford, supporters and opponents competed to drown each other
out as he arrived.

As well as Labour activists, UK Independence party members went to greet him for
the first time since his campaign began.

The Eurosceptics carried placards on 30ft poles to keep them beyond the bunches
of balloons Tory activists used to mask their rivals' messages.

Mr Howard was also heckled by a lone environmentalist who repeatedly shouted
"vote Green".

As the Tory leader delivered his stump speech from the steps of the Guildhall, a
police officer filmed the crowd. Another officer explained this was simply "best
practice" in case there was any trouble. After the scuffles of yesterday, just
one Ukip supporter was led off by police for "pushing in".

Mr Howard repeated his call for voters to "send a message" to Tony Blair.

"The British people can vote for things to stay as they are or they can vote for
positive change.

"If they vote for positive change tomorrow, the country will wake up on Friday
to a brighter, better Britain.

"We will have a government that will take action, action that really matters to
the country, action that really matters to the people of our country."

At Labour's final press conference today, Gordon Brown, John Prescott and Tony
Blair all appealed to disillusioned Labour voters not to vote Lib Dem as a
protest.

Mr Brown said a protest vote would not only allow the Tories into government "by
the back door", but would also "by punishing Labour, end up punishing the people
who most need Labour".

Mr Prescott said that he had got "no sense at all" that voters wanted a return
to Tory government as he toured the country during the campaign.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              121 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 4, 2005, Wednesday

COUNTRY LIFE: IN THE STICKS, THE NEXT HARVEST IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN ANY
MANIFESTO

BYLINE: BRIAN VINER

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 628 words


THERE IS an old joke about a racist, misogynistic farmer in the US Deep South,
who dies and, much to his surprise, is escorted to the gates of heaven, where St
Peter confirms that he, Tyler B Grudge, late of Pike County, Alabama, is indeed
to be permitted entry. 'But before you go in, there's just one thing you should
know about God,' adds St Peter. 'She's black.'

So, too, is Sandra Samuels, 47-year-old daughter of Jamaican immigrants, and
Labour's parliamentary candidate for North Shropshire. I would not dream of
comparing the good folk of North Shropshire with Tyler B Grudge, but it would be
a notable first for such a rural constituency, for many years the Tory seat of
the Right Honourable John Biffen MP, to be represented on the Labour benches by
a black woman.

Her campaign team e-mailed me to say that, since north Shropshire is probably
much like north Herefordshire, where I live, I might be interested in her
candidature.

She is a health service manager and a councillor in Wolverhampton, where much of
her ward is non-white. If she does overturn the 6,000 Tory majority, she will
have to get used to a very different complexion of constituency. Last week I
rang her, and she told me that, in three months of canvassing in North
Shropshire's five market towns " Wem, Whitchurch, Market Drayton, Ellesmere and
Oswestry " she had encountered not one other black face, and just one brown one,
an Asian newsagent.

Nor, happily, had she encountered any overt racism. 'Everyone's been very polite
to my face,' she said. 'Whether there have been comments behind my back, I don't
know. I have noticed a few raised eyebrows when I've gone into country pubs, but
on the whole I think the main shock to people is not that I'm black and female,
but that there's someone telling them to vote Labour.'

In north Herefordshire, meanwhile, we have seen neither hide nor hair of our
Labour candidate. Nor, along the 11 miles of road between Bromyard and
Leominster, have I spotted a single Labour poster. Or a Lib Dem one, for that
matter. There are loads of Vote Conservatives, and a couple of huge boards
proclaiming the virtues of the UK Independence Party. All this is in stark
contrast to our environment at the last Election. In our part of Hornsey and
Wood Green it was as hard to spot blue posters as it is here to spot
yellow-and-red ones. Which is neither good nor bad; it just is.

As for black faces, they are even scarcer hereabouts than yellow-and- red
posters. Scarcer, probably, than in north Shropshire, which at least has Sandra
Samuels buzzing around. It is dispiriting that support for the Tories " and
therefore, presumably, support for Michael Howard's immigration policies " is at
its most unquestioning in parts of the country where there are hardly any
immigrants. It's the classic fear of the unknown, I suppose.

But I don't want to sound condescending. And I don't want to sound like an
unquestioning Labour voter, either, which I'm not. Besides, there is also
something beguiling about living in the sticks at election time, something
reassuring in the awareness that the next harvest is more important than any
manifesto. Recently, I was flicking through a collection of Alistair Cooke's
Letters From America, and in one of them he told the story of a poll conducted
by Dr Gallup himself, in 1940. While the Battle of Britain raged, Dr Gallup went
round England asking people if they had ever heard of Winston Churchill.
Apparently, 96 per cent had. The 4 per cent who hadn't were all farmers, all
from one county. The identity of that county has never been made public. But I
wouldn't mind betting it was Herefordshire.

'Tales of the Country', by Brian Viner, is published by Simon & Schuster (
£12.99)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              122 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 4, 2005, Wednesday

THE WEEK IN RADIO: THE ELECTION JUST SHOULDN'T BE A LAUGHING MATTER

BYLINE: ROBERT HANKS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 546 words


On The Now Show (6.30pm, Friday, Radio 4), Mitch Benn introduced one of his
moderately amusing comic songs by saying: 'You know the only thing I find boring
about elections? People droning on about how boring elections are.' I know what
he means, but for me there is a worse scourge: people trying to be funny about
elections. And now, alas, Radio 4 has actually commissioned a show to do just
that.

In principle, The Unofficial Election (11.45pm, Tuesday-Thursday, Radio 4) is a
good idea " a programme that, as the Radio 4 website puts it, 'takes the day's
election news, pushes it to the ground, and gives it the kicking it's had
coming.' But it rarely lives up to that billing. The central problem is a
mismatch between Nick Revell's self-consciously laid-back, dry presentation
style and the Beano-level political analysis. A couple of sketches last week
worked intermittently: one involved an RSPCA inspector trying to coax Clare
Short out of a garden shed where she had built a nest; another had Iraqis
(played by real Arabic speakers borrowed from the World Service) giving their
views on the Attorney General's legal advice. 'Focusing the whole Iraq issue on
this irrelevant technical issue,' one Iraqi said, 'seems to me to be like going
to an expensive restaurant, being served a salad of used syringes, poison and
gravel, but complaining only about the fact that the guy on the table next to
you is smoking.' Good lord, actual satire. But the odd heartfelt moment is
undermined by the overall lack of quality control. Thursday's edition ended with
the line: 'We're out of time, like a bad Italian restaurant.' It took me a
second to realise that a pun had been made " time/thyme, geddit? " and then I
just felt a spurt of resentment that I'd wasted any time at all thinking about a
joke that weak.

But what really irritates me is the fact that even serious news programmes have
decided we need to be jollied along to the polling station. Today (6am-9am,
Monday-Saturday, Radio 4) has been offering a weekly election poem by Ian
McMillan. I find McMillan's permanent cheerfulness hard to take at the best of
times, but last Saturday week he outdid himself: 'I love standing in the voting
booth/ With my little black pencil poised to make a cross,/ but why do many of
my fellow-voters not give a... care!' Unforgivable.

And on Tuesdays, Today has the astoundingly prolific Marcus Brigstocke
accompanying the various parties on election battle-buses in his Giles
Wemmbley-Hogg persona. This faux-naif character has always struck me as a rather
pointless joke, but it can be a useful vehicle for political jokes. I
particularly liked his admiring words about the cheery orange colour-scheme on
board the Lib-Dem bus: 'It's like anyone can say anything and it really wouldn't
matter.' But it seems to me that the time and budgets spent on this sketch would
be better used analysing what politicians say, or getting John Humphrys to shout
at them.

By far the funniest election humour so far came in the UK Independence Party's
election broadcast on Friday night, which began with a neat spoof of the opening
of The War of the Worlds, substituting Brussels for Mars. So that's the HG Wells
parody vote sewn up, then. The Eurocrats must be terrified.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 4, 2005, Wednesday

'Luvvies' and unions top up Labour's campaign coffers

BYLINE: David Charter, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 326 words


A COMBINATION of Labour "luvvies" and a big union backer ensured that the party
raised twice as much as the Conservatives during the third week of the campaign,
official figures showed yesterday.

Labour supporters in the theatre, comedy, business and advertising were joined
by the biggest private sector union to swell party funds by £650,000 compared
with the Tories' third week total of £326,000.

The Liberal Democrats raised just £25,000 through a single donation while the UK
Independence Party received £31,000 for leaflet printing and polling.

The Amicus donation of £250,000 to Labour follows a gift of Pounds 273,000 from
the T&G in the first week and leaves Labour and the Tories neck and neck for the
campaign so far on £1.6 million each in cash and kind.

Celebrity donors dug deep in the third week, according to the figures published
by the Electoral Commission.

Sir Christopher Ondaatje, the publishing millionaire and regular donor, gave
£100,000; Sir Gerry Robinson, chairman of Allied Domecq, who was chairman of the
Arts Council until last year, gave £15,000 and Eddie Izzard; the comedian, gave
£10,000.

The Old Vic Theatre, where Bill Clinton's friend Kevin Spacey is artistic
director, donated £6,000 in use of facilities for a Labour rally when the former
US President was beamed in live from New York.

A donation of £100,000 for Labour came from Sir Frank Lowe, founder of the Lowe
Group advertising giant, who has already given about £2 million in sponsorship
to a city academy school.

Lord Bhattacharyya, the manufacturing guru who gave £100,000 earlier in the
campaign, found another £40,000, and Labour's advertising company, Trevor
Beattie's TBWA, recorded £11,275 in staff time.

The Labour total was also increased by £10,000 from Muslims for Labour.

Conservative coffers were helped by Peter Stringfellow, the nightclub
entrepreneur, whose company gave £16,000.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 4, 2005, Wednesday

Huntsmen's passions inflame Tory toffland

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Home news; 28

LENGTH: 669 words


THE High Street in Chipping Sodbury is the epicentre of Tory toffland. There is
the Beaufort Hunt pub, the Fish and Field Country Sports shop and, opposite our
meeting place -The Squire pub. Inside, though, the hunt supporters who have
gathered to go canvassing for the Conservative candidate are at pains to point
out that they are a real cross-section of Gloucestershire's rural population.

What unites them is an abiding hatred of Labour. Not only did it ban hunting,
but they believe that it despises and ignores rural folk. David and Georgina
Bennett are a retired couple and lifelong Tory voters, but they have not been
activists until now. They are dedicated to unseating the anti-hunting Liberal
Democrat Steve Webb. Both riders with the Beaufort Hunt, they held a drinks
party at Badminton courtesy of the Marquess of Worcester and raised Pounds
2,000. Another £10,000 was pledged at a cocktail party and auction.

The couple have roped in about 30 people and reckon that they will have
delivered 25,000 leaflets and mailshots in all. "We never knew how much work we
were letting ourselves in for," Mr Bennett said.

The Vicar of Badminton, the Rev Christopher Mulholland, who hunts with Beaufort,
has joined us in the pub. Reputed to be the Prince of Wales's favourite priest,
he met Michael Howard at the Prince's wedding and was not impressed. "I shook
his hand and wished him well and he barely acknowledged me. He was as cold as a
bloody fish counter."

Maybe that explains his anti-Semitic comment when a BLT sandwich arrived. The
waitress asked who it was for and the vicar said: "Well, it's certainly not for
Michael Howard! I always say I couldn't trust a man who has not tasted pork."

This constituency, Northavon, is home to the Beaufort and is ridden across by
the Berkeley Hunt. "Hunting's been a catalyst," Jack Wedel, a retired surveyor,
said.

"But it's not all about hunting. I'm concerned about what the Labour
Government's done to country life. I am appalled by the way it dealt with
foot-and-mouth.

Frankly, Mr Blair stinks."

Chris Butt, the Tory candidate, now has almost double the activists and the
huntsmen, who are used to waking at dawn on a freezing January morning, are
happy to go anywhere to support the cause.

Mr Webb's majority is nearly 10,000, so he will not be easy to defeat, and
hunting is not a one-way issue in the five towns. "People who live in the
hunting villages assume that because I'm anti-hunting, I'm out of touch with my
constituents," he said. "Whichever way I voted, I would have alienated half of
them. I resent the fact that the hunting issue has hijacked the countryside
issue. If I were anti-rural I would not get in round here."

Mr Webb, 39, a former academic economist, admitted that, as a liberal: "The
presumption is that you do not constrain people's freedoms. But I don't think
the freedom to be cruel is a freedom to defend."

Mr Butt is against the ban on libertarian grounds. He is young, good-looking,
peppers his speech with management-speak and engages well on the doorstep. He
has spent every day but Christmas in Northavon over the past 15 months.

Hunting will not be the issue that decides this battle but it has energised the
campaign. If the result were determined by pavement pounding, then the Tories
would have a good chance of winning back what used to be a safe seat.

THE QUARRY

Target seats for the hunt lobby:

Shipley (Lab maj 1,428)

Falmouth & Camborne (Lab 4,527)

Monmouth (Lab 384)

Newbury (Lib Dem 2,415)

Stevenage (Lab 8,566)

Enfield Southgate (Lab 5,546)

The Wrekin (Lab 3,587)

Forest of Dean (Lab 2,049)

Redditch (Lab 2,484)

Hammersmith & Fulham (Lab 2,015)

NORTHAVON

MP: Steve Webb since 1997

2001 RESULT

Lib Dems. 29,217

Conservative. 19,340

Labour. 6,450

UKIP. 751

Majority. 9,877

OTHER CANDIDATES

Chris Butt (C); Patricia Gardener (Lab); Thomas Beacham (Ind); Adrian Blake (
UKIP); Alan Pinder (Green)


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 03, 2005, Tuesday

A quiet life on the fringes of power Not all political wives are as high-profile
as Mrs Blair, reports Iain Hollingshead

BYLINE: By Iain Hollingshead

SECTION: Features Pg. 015

LENGTH: 1014 words

The media will always be a fickle beast for political spouses. Cherie Blair used
to be viewed as an electoral asset to the Prime Minister. Yet a YouGov poll in
2002 placed her four times more likely than Sandra Howard to turn voters away
from their husbands.  "It is rotten to have to judge someone by their wife,"
says Carolyn Knapman, the kindly wife of UKIP's leader, Roger Knapman. "It is
all part of the glib media nonsense we're getting into." Eleri Llwyd, the softly
spoken spouse of Plaid Cymru's parliamentary leader, Elfyn Llwyd, concurs:
"People might be interested in seeing what kind of clothes they're wearing, but
I don't think it would sway voters one way or the other."

They aren't very impressed by the parading of the latest addition to the Kennedy
clan, either. "She had the baby, not him," says Mrs Knapman, who has been
married for 38 years. "My babies are slightly too big for cradling in front of
the cameras now," says Mrs Llwyd, who has two children in their twenties.

These lower-profile political wives have the advantage of living their lives
away from the prying eyes of the media. That is not to suggest, however, that
they are any less supportive. Mrs Knapman has been canvassing on doorsteps since
she was 12 years old. "It's in your blood," she says in a voice hoarse from the
current campaign trail. "It's genetic, like a disease." When her husband was a
Conservative MP in the Thatcher and Major governments, she used to work as his
secretary in the Commons. She now pounds the streets for UKIP, sometimes
alongside her husband, sometimes with local activists on his behalf.

It helps, of course, if a married couple share similar political views.

Eleri Llwyd met her husband at Aberystwyth University, where they discovered
that both sets of parents worked for Plaid Cymru. Mrs Llwyd describes herself as
"fairly political, which means something much deeper in Wales than mere party
affiliation". The pair "always agree on politics, if not on everything else".
Mrs Knapman, in turn, also agrees with her husband on most political matters,
especially in his distaste for Brussels. "My birthday is May 29, the same day as
the French referendum on the European Constitution," she says. "I hope we have
two reasons to open the champagne."

Yet the supportive role of the political wife goes far beyond acting as a
sounding board to her husband's ego. It has a significant social element as
well. Chris Taylor, the wife of the independent incumbent for Wyre Forest, Dr
Richard Taylor, talks of the "silly season that lasts from May to September, the
endless round of carnivals and fetes". She is also in the unusual situation of
being an apolitical wife of an independent MP, allowing her to do as much or as
little as she chooses. She appears to relish the role. "Folding and packaging up
leaflets -- that's my forte. He's the boss; I let him get on with it. I'm quite
happy beetling away in the background."

Mrs Knapman has no desire to step into the limelight, either. "Roger has far
better insight than me. I couldn't give a speech to save my life." Mrs Llwyd has
a time-consuming career as head of English at the local comprehensive school. "I
would be too shy to stand for elected office myself," she says.

There are many advantages to being married to a successful politician. Mrs Llwyd
enjoys a busy social life through her husband's work, with more invitations than
they can accept. "We really get to know everyone in the local community," she
says. For Mrs Knapman, it is the "many lovely and contrasting things one enjoys
by osmosis" that really appeals. She recalls one weekend that began with a
candidates' course at Butlins in Skegness on Saturday and ended with a
fund-raising dinner hosted by the Duke of Rutland at Beauvoir Castle on Sunday.
Their political life exposes them to "more interesting situations and characters
than would a normal existence in deepest, darkest Devon".

Of course, the life of the political wife is not all rose-tinted. Many find the
loneliness hard to deal with, especially those in seats further away from
Westminster. "Family-friendly working hours only really make a difference to
London-based MPs," says Mrs Llwyd. The campaign trail can further exacerbate
these distances. As parliamentary leader, Elfyn Llwyd has a punishing schedule
that takes him far beyond his local constituency of Meirionnydd Nant Conwy. "Our
finances don't quite stretch to a helicopter," says his wife.

Mrs Taylor, on the other hand, appears to find the balance easier to strike. "I
do girly stuff when he's not there during the week, and then we spend nice time
together when he's back at the weekend." In any case, modern communications and
transport systems seem to allow political couples to maintain closer contact
than used to be the case. Gail Redwood was not aware that her husband, John, had
decided to run for the Conservative leadership contest in 1995 until she heard
the news on the radio. Similarly, Muriel Humphrey, wife of the American Senator
Hubert, learnt of his decision to enter the 1960 presidential race from the
morning paper. "Congratulations," she wrote in a telegram. "Do let me know if I
can help."

The abiding impression is that the happiest political spouses operate almost
entirely behind the scenes. Moira Salmond, the wife of the SNP leader, Alex
Salmond, always refuses interviews. "Politics and family life should be kept
separate," says an SNP spokesman. None the less, Mrs Salmond, a former senior
civil servant and 18 years her husband's senior, is clearly a rock in a crisis.
"My wife had an effective veto over me becoming leader again," said Alex Salmond
on his return to frontline politics. "If she had said 'no', it would have been
'no'."

Mr Salmond, however, guards his family's privacy. "Look at Mrs Blair," he said
in an interview earlier this year. "I think she has crossed that line and as
soon as you cross that line you are fair game." It is a similar message to Denis
Thatcher's recollection of his father's advice: "Whales don't get killed unless
they spout."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              126 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 3, 2005

HICKEY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 521 words


HE MAY be less than a month old but Charles Kennedy's son Donald James is
already embroiled in a behindthe-scenes political squabble, Hickey hears.

With Kennedy junior widely seen as a campaign asset, some members of the Lib
Dems' election team are miffed that their portly leader has been reluctant to
show off his son more frequently in public.

"We've been told in no uncertain terms that he is 'a Kennedy baby and not a
campaign baby', " sighs one party official.

"It's a real shame. Any other party would make a big thing out of it but as Lib
Dems we're expected to play the whole thing down."

HIS SPOOF of number one hit Amarillo may be one of the most cringe-worthy sights
on our screens in recent years but presenter Andrew Neil is curiously upbeat
about it.

Neil, who begins his late-night political show This Week by strutting through
Westminster's streets in velvet suit and boa singing his version of the Tony
Christie song - bizarrely accompanied by a pouting Michael Portillo - insists he
is delighted by the infamous item's growing popularity on the Web. Speaking at
the Veuve Cliquot Business Woman Of The Year bash at Claridges, he bragged:
"Apparently, my version of Amarillo has become one of the most downloaded files
on the BBC website, which is obviously flattering."

Hickey suspects you wouldn't be quite so flattered if you heard what people were
really saying about your performance, Andrew. . .

THEY are seen as dated and naff but the garden gnome is set to make a comeback,
Hickey hears. According to TV gardening guru Diarmuid Gavin, they are to become
the next must-have garden feature. "They've rather fallen out of favour over the
years and have become comparatively rare but they're on their way back, " he
says. "I wouldn't be surprised if before long everyone is wanting one. He adds:
"I have a lot of respect for people who display garden gnomes.

They are making a brave statement."

AS HE bids to follow in his gaffe-prone son Boris's footsteps by being elected a
Tory MP, Hickey fears Stanley Johnson had better double-check his diary. Johnson
senior managed to leave voters a tad bemused when he recently took to the
campaign trail in Teignbridge, Devon.

"Stanley was on his battlebus with a loudspeaker, urging people to vote
Conservative on May 7, " Hickey is informed.

"Someone had better tell him the election is on May 5."

WHILE the main political leaders rely on their planes, helicopters and hi-tech
battlebuses during the election campaign, the UK Independence Party's official
mode of transport has failed to get off the starting blocks. As Hickey revealed
earlier this month, the party's communications director Mark Croucher had bought
a kit car for a modest £410. After personally revamping it, he had intended to
unveil the car as an official mode of transport for Ukip candidates.

Alas, it now seems it will not be participating after all. "I've been working on
it but it hasn't got its MOT yet and, sadly, isn't going to be ready in time, "
sighs Croucher.

Good job they're not going to be running the country, isn't it?

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              127 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 3, 2005

Election 2005: 2 days to go

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 177 words


Taking a pounding

An over-zealous Ukip activist has landed his party in trouble in Southampton
Test after dipping into his life-savings. Bill McCormack, 75, stuck 200 £1 coins
on leaflets delivered to sheltered housing. He said it was a "gimmick" to
demonst-rate Ukip's commitment to the pound but party bosses admit-ted it could
be seen as a bribe.

Two's a crowd

Postal voters in Havant, Hamp-shire, thought they had a reformed electoral
system after a ballot paper printing error told them to put a cross by "no more
than two candidates".

Yes, that's me

The battle is on for the soap vote. Michael Howard professed to be pleased when
a focus group named him as most resembling Coronation Street's Ken Barlow . .
.who has been married four times, enjoyed 21 onscreen lovers and is still seen
as boring.

From smirk to sneer

Poor Tony Blair. Now BBC correspondent Mark Mardell has asked if Labour's appeal
to its wavering supporters was like a wife-beater sneering: "You won't leave me
'cos you haven't got anywhere else to go."


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 149 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 3, 2005, Tuesday

05/05/05 THE ELECTION: THE EIGHT SCOTTISH BATTLE GROUNDS THAT WILL DECIDE IF
LABOUR IS STILL THE DOMINANT POWER

BYLINE: BY SIOBHAN MCFADYEN

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1266 words


WITH the General Election just days away politicians across the nation are
desperately fighting for your votes.

But there are just eight crucial seats which party chiefs believe hold the key
to victory in Scotland

These are the constituencies which already sit on a knife-edge and could, so
easily, change hands.

If you live in one of these key battlegrounds, dozens of leaflets will have
poured through your letterbox.

And there will be legions of party footsoldiers on the ground, bussed in by
panicking campaign bosses.

There might even be the odd appearance by big names like Tony Blair and Michael
Howard.

Most of all, there will be lots of hot air spouted by candidates trying to
squeeze out every last vote.

But the most annoying thing for the parties is that nobody is really sure how
these key seats will swing.

It's all because boundary changes - and the cut in seats from 72 to 59 - have
mucked up their predictions, forcing experts to guess at "notional" majorities.

Here are the eight key battlegrounds that could change hands on May 5:

1. DUMFRIES

& GALLOWAY

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote (%)

Labour 16,327 (32.4)

Conservative 16,186 (32.1)

SNP 12,660 (25.1)

Lib Dem 4,465 (8.8)

SSP 819 (1.6)

Majority 141

Candidates: Russell Brown (Lab); John Dennis (SSP); Peter Duncan (Con); Douglas
Henderson (SNP); Keith Legg (Lib Dem); John Schofield (Green); Mark Smith
(Operation Christian Vote)

THE most marginal Labour seat in the UK and the Tories' top target in Scotland.

Even the SNP fancies its chances, with a strong showing making this new
constituency one they could clinch.

Notional - or hypothetical - results give Brown a 141-vote lead over Scotland's
sole Tory MP, who requires a swing of 0.1 per cent to keep his place at
Westminster.

Labour is strong in the town of Dumfries, while the Tories are in control in the
countryside.

This is a battle that the Tories need to win if they are to signal a
mini-revival in Scotland.

But the SNP's Douglas Henderson held the Galloway and Upper Nithsdale seat up
until three years ago. A 4.8 per cent swing to him would send another Nat to
Westminster.

2. DUNDEE EAST

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote (%)

Labour 14,369 (37.4)

SNP 13,873 (36.1)

Conservative 5,903 (15.3)

Lib Dem 3,346 (8.7)

SSP 980 (2.6)

Majority 496

Candidates: David Allison (Ind); Christopher Bustin (Con); Harvey Duke (SSP);
Stewart Hosie (SNP); Donald Low (UKIP); Iain Luke (Lab); Clive Sneddon (Lib Dem)

ONE of the few seats in a Scots city where the SNP has high hopes of victory.

Boundary changes make this one even more winnable for the Nats, who held the old
seat in the 1980s and won it at the Holyrood election.

An SNP victory will also create a rare husband and wife team, with Stewart
Hosie's missus Shona holding the Holyrood seat.

He needs a 0.6 per cent swing to defeat Labour's sitting MP, Iain Luke.

3. ANGUSSNPNotional 2001 Vote (%)

SNP 11,595 (33.2)

Conservative 11,063 (31.6)

Labour 6,386 (18.3)

Lib Dem 5,157 (14.8)

SSP 663 (1.9)

Others: 102 (0.3%)

Majority 532

Candidates: Doug Bradley (Lab); Sandy Bushby (Con); Alan Manley (SSP); Scott
Rennie (Lib Dem); Mike Weir (SNP)

THIS one is a real ding-dong battle between the Tories and the SNP.

A swing of a couple of hundred votes could see the Tories snatch it - and they
are putting in a lot of work on the ground.

Their candidate Sandy Bushby is seen as a hard worker, but the SNP's Mike Weir
is also well-liked.

With a furious final few hours of campaigning left, this one really is too close
to call.

4. OCHIL & SOUTH PERTHSHIRE

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote (%)

Labour 14,947 (33.4)

SNP 14,126 (31.6)

Conservative 9,871 (22.1)

Lib Dem 4,690 (10.5)

SSP 803 (1.8)

Other 326 (0.7)

Majority 821

Candidates: Gordon Banks (Lab); George Baxter (Green); David Bushby (UKIP); Iain
Campbell (SSP); Annabelle Ewing (SNP); Maitland Kelly (Free Scotland Party);
Elizabeth Smith (Con); Catherine Whittingham (Lib Dem)

THE SNP is determined to get its hands on this Labour seat, which is hardly
rock-solid.

Fewer than 1,000 votes away from causing an upset, a Nats victory would need
just a tiny 1.8 per cent swing.

The retirement of former Ochil MP Martin O'Neill is a blow for Labour.

George Reid's victory in the area at the last Scottish parliamentary election
gives the SNP another boost.

5. INVERNESS, NAIRN, BADENOCH AND STRATHSPEY

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote(%)

Labour 13,772 (32.2)

Lib Dem 12,638 (29.5)

SNP 9,836 (23%)

Conservative 5,262 (12.3)

SSP 885 (2.1%)

Others 402 (0.9%)

Majority 1,134

Candidates: Danny Alexander (Lib Dem); Donald Lawson (Publican Party); George
MacDonald (SSP); Donnie MacLeod (Green); Robbie Rowantree (Con); David Stewart
(Lab); David Thompson (SNP)

ONE seat where Labour, the Lib Dems and the Nats all fancy their chances.

The most marginal Highlands seat is also one of Scotland's most unpredictable.

While parts of the sprawling constituency are held by Labour at Westminster and
the SNP at Holyrood, the Lib Dems are most people's favourites to win the
three-way marginal.

6. EAST DUNBARTONSHIRE

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote(%)

Labour 13,792 (33.3)

Lib Dem 11,191 (27.1)

Conservative 9,290 (22.5)

SNP 6,099 (14.7)

SSP 1,006 (2.4)

Majority 2,601

Candidates: Stuart Callison (Green); David Jack (Con); John Lyons (Lab); Pamela
Page (SSP); Christopher Sagan (SNP); Jo Swinson (Lib Dem)

TAKING in the posh towns of Bearsden, Milngavie and Lenzie, Scotland's most
middle-class seat is a three-way marginal.

Independent hospital candidate Dr Jean Turner sits as the MSP while the Lib Dems
hold 12 of the new 19 council wards.

Labour has a notional majority, but the Lib Dems and Tories will be giving this
one everything they've got.

7. NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote(%)

Labour 5,924 (45)

SNP 4,850 (36.9)

Conservative 1,250 (9.5)

LibDem 849 (6.5)

SSP 286 (2.2)

Majority 1,074

Candidates: Jean Davis (Lib Dem); James Hargreaves (Operation Christian Vote);
Calum MacDonald (Lab); Andy Maciver (Con); Angus MacNeil (SNP); Joanne Telfer
(SSP)

THE Western Isles seat - now with a Gaelic name - was held by the SNP for years
until Labour snatched it in 1992.

And the Nats would love to get this one back.

They trail Jack McConnell's party at a Holyrood level by around 700 votes in the
Outer Hebrides, while the notional deficit at Westminster is 1,074, requiring a
swing of 4.1 per cent.

History also gives the Nats a chance, as Donald Stewart held the seat for the
SNP between 1970 and 1987.

But Calum MacDonald's high standing could see him through.

8. EDINBURGH SOUTH

LABOUR

Notional 2001 Vote(%)

Labour 16,292 (39.3)

Lib Dem 10,507 (25.3)

Conservative 9,422 (22.7%)

SNP 3,840 (9.3%)

SSP 915 (2.2%)

Others 498 (1.2%)

Majority 5,785

Candidates: Gavin Brown (Con); Steve Burgess (Green); Nigel Griffiths (Lab);
Marilyne MacLaren (Lib Dem); Morag Robertson (SSP); Graham Sutherland (SNP)

ANOTHER Labour seat which is vulnerable to the Lib Dems through tactical voting.

Labour's Nigel Griffiths is being mercilessly picked on by the Tories and Lib
Dems.

Strong showings from Morag Robertson, of the SSP, could see Griffiths - a key
Gordon Brown ally - given a right bloody nose.

Will Griffiths' core support in Gilmerton and Moredun will be enough to offset
Lib Dem gains in Morningside and Marchmont?

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              129 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3, 2005, Tuesday

Why the Cornish fresh air could be turning into an ill wind

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 24

LENGTH: 818 words


IN REBECCA, Daphne du Maurier's classic thriller, the beauty of Cornwall
disguises the paranoia and scheming the heroine faces. The same goes for the
salty fresh air of Falmouth: the newcomer would never know that this is one of
the most poisoned seats of the general election. Here politicians are civil to
each other, but don't be fooled, it is an uneasy pact hiding bitter histories
that they would rather not air.

Take Ashley Crossley, the Conservative candidate in Falmouth & Camborne and
close challenger to Labour in this three-way marginal. This gay, clean-cut
barrister was almost dismissed by his association last year amid feverish
accusations of homophobia.

He survived deselection only for several members of his executive to defect to
the UK Independence Party, which came first in the area in the European
elections, but has itself split again in the seat with the arrival of Veritas.
Oh, and a former Tory MP, who held the seat for 22 years, is standing again, as
an Independent.

"Tories in turmoil!" the Liberal Democrat leaflet crowed, but Julia Goldsworthy,
26, Lib Dem candidate, is herself challenged by a well-known local for the plain
old Liberal Party.

Meanwhile Candy Atherton, the Blair loyalist who defeated the Conservative
Sebastian Coe in 1997, has recently been vindicated in a messy employment
tribunal case brought by her former researcher. Finally, the candidate for
Mebyon Kernow (Party for Cornwall in Kernewek, the local language) was born in
Surrey.

Confused? Yes, well so is the seat, swinging between Labour and Conservative
over the decades like a wind chime in one of Falmouth's New Age trinket shops.
It is the only Cornwall constituency not to have fallen to the Lib Dems.

"We have a history of maverick candidates here," Ms Atherton, 49, said,
referring to the voters' preference for independent-minded politicians.

But is she one of them? A newspaper recently named her "top toady" for rebelling
against the Government only six times out of 1,521. She concentrates on her
heartland in the north of the seat, including the poor former mining town of
Redruth, where she ordered a cappuccino before lunch.

A cappuccino? Yes, well, she is a former Mayor of Islington and Labour Party
press officer, although with a majority of 4,527, she has also been hard at work
in her constituency, campaigning, for example, for the new university in the
area.

Although confident of winning, she was also flustered and defensive, especially
about her local press coverage. When John Prescott arrived on a morale boosting
visit, even his bulk could not hide a determined group of pro-hunt protesters
and in the end the Labour Party had to block them with the Prescott Express bus.

Mr Crossley, 33, said that just as Ms Atherton may have been carried in by the
new Labour tide of 1997, she may be carried out again by Iraq. He brushed off
his deselection, saying that only two people had raised his sexuality on the
doorstep.

Instead he has been trying to invade Ms Atherton's turf, targeting old Labour
supporters disillusioned by the war. He believes that his tough crime and
anti-EU message can win them over, or at least get his turnout above Ms
Atherton's. "There is a big swing there, and it's not to the Lib Dems," he said.
"They are very earthy in their outlook, not wishy-washy in anything, not Lib
Dem."

He and Ms Atherton want to make this a two-way fight, but are prevented by the
efforts of Ms Goldsworthy, who won 24 per cent of the vote for the Lib Dems last
time to the Tories' 29 per cent. With the fracturing of the Conservative vote,
and the toady reputation of Ms Atherton, the seat can no longer resist the
Cornish tendency to the Lib Dems, she said.

There the conclusion would have rested: the Labour incumbent is running scared,
the Conservative is charming the hearts of her voters and the Lib Dem is
cleaning up from both.

If not for the fact that they all changed considerably at a hustings in Camborne
that night, attended by more than a hundred local people. Ms Goldsworthy's
speaking showed inexperience, Mr Crossley was funny and nice but did not go in
for the kill, and Ms Atherton provoked boos from the audience by speaking her
mind: most untoady-like behaviour.

No wonder they changed their outlook after dark; in Falmouth & Camborne the
future is murky.

FALMOUTH & CAMBORNE.

MP: Candy Atherton since 1997

RESULT IN 2001:

Labour 18,532

Conservative 14,005

Liberal Democrat 11,453

UK Independence 1328

Mebyon Kernow 853

Liberal 649

Majority 4,527

OTHER CANDIDATES:

Ashley Crossley (Conservative).

Peter Gifford (Veritas).

Julia Goldsworthy (Liberal Democrat).

Paul Holmes (Liberal).

Michael Mahon (UK Independence Party).

David Mudd (Independent).

Richard Smith (Removal of Tetra Masts in Cornwall).

Hilda Wasley (Mebyon Kernow).


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3, 2005, Tuesday

John and Jim put on a fast show suited for the seafront

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Features; 26

LENGTH: 638 words


JOHN REID, the Health Secretary, has never struck me as a beach person. Ever
since I heard that he was coming to help Jim Knight at Weymouth, in Labour's
most marginal seat of Dorset South, I had been trying to imagine him in sandals.

And it wasn't working. He was running a bit late yesterday and we were waiting
in front of the Chair-o-Plane and Hi- Impact rides on the seafront. There was a
kite festival and the skies were filled by inflat-ables, including a giant red
devil, a huge penguin and a woman in a bikini. The air smelt of candyfloss and
chips and the weather was sunny-ish, though clouds were scudding our way.

So, I asked, was Mr Reid actually going on to the beach? Mr Knight looked a bit
queasy. "I'm not sure we want sandy socks for the Secretary of State," he said.

"We might stick to the pavement."

A Jaguar glided up and Mr Reid stepped out in a smart blue suit and red tie.
This did not look like beachwear. It did not even look like smart casual. He was
the most formally dressed man in Weymouth. And the shoes! They were black Oxford
lace-ups when, for once, a politician in flip-flops would have been perfect.

We began to move along the crowded seafront. Mr Knight, with a majority of only
153 in Dorset South, needs every vote he can get. He had spent the morning
running from house to house in a "street blitz" operation. For the seafront, his
team had created signs that said "Jim Knight is here" and "John Reid is here".

These were held above Jim and John. It sounds odd, but it certainly got
everyone's attention. "Are we going on the beach?" asked Mr Reid eagerly. And
then, before anyone answered, he hit the sand. His sign-holder scurried after
him, followed by Mr Knight and his sign-carrier. Then we all followed, a motley
crew of press and Labour Party workers and various hangers-on.

No one on the sand was safe. Mr Reid was fearless. I had always thought he was a
bit taciturn but now he would not shut up. I asked Mr Reid's elegant wife,
Carine, who was carrying her rather nice pumps, if he always talked so much. "I
still find him very interesting," she said, by way of an answer.

"Are you going to vote for us?" Mr Reid asked a man named Barry, who had been
trying to stop his children's ice-cream cones dripping.

"You supported the war. I didn't," Barry said.

Mr Reid stopped short. "If you stay at home, you aren't going to change what
happened in Iraq," he said.

"Are you going to invade Syria?" asked Barry.

"No, we aren't going to invade Syria," said Mr Reid, in what is the most
straightforward answer to that question that I have ever heard. And still Mr
Reid lingered. I think, by the time he moved away, Barry was voting -and for
Labour, too.

"One of the excitements about coming to the beach on a Bank Holiday," said Mr
Reid, sidestepping a rather impressive sand castle, "is that you always get a
chance to discuss Iraq and various other things with Cabinet ministers."

He hovered above another random sunbather. "Have you met my friend Jim? He's
with me all the time," he said, laughing. "We are as close as Gordon and Tony."

Mr Knight did actually seem to know an awful lot of people on the beach but then
his goal has been to meet everyone in the constituency at least twice. The Jim
and John Show worked the seafront for almost an hour. And when, as was almost
inevitable, it started to rain, no one seemed to mind. After all, it was a Bank
Holiday.

DORSET SOUTH:

MP: Jim Knight since 2001

2001 Result:

Labour 19,027

Conservative 18,874

Liberal Democrat 6,531

UKIP 913

Majority 153

OTHER CANDIDATES:

Colin Bex (Wessex Reg); Hugh Chalker (UKIP); Vic Hamilton (LCA); Andrew Kirkwood
(PARTY); David Marchesi (Soc Lab); Ed Matts (C); Graham Oakes (Lib Dem); Bernard
Parkes (Respect)


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3, 2005, Tuesday

Anger at UKIP over rewritten history

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 29

LENGTH: 210 words


WAS it another case of dirty tricks, or just the UKIP shooting itself in the
foot in one of the most fiercely fought marginals?

The police have been called after the Conservative newsletter in Somerton &
Frome claimed that there was no UK Independence Party candidate.

In the last election the Lib Dems held on to the seat with a 668 majority; the
UKIP candidate polled 919 votes.

Bill Lukins, the UKIP standard bearer, said: "I think it's outrageous. They
published this newsletter knowing full well I was standing as a candidate. They
could have telephoned the printers or post office at any time to stop this going
out."

The offending newsletter was sent to the printers on April 11, a day after Peter
Bridgwood, the UKIP chairman in Somerton & Frome, publicly urged members to back
Clive Allen, the Conservative candidate.

The UKIP national office disagreed, Bridgwood resigned, and Lukins was selected
as candidate on April 19.

By that time, 50,000 of the Conservative newsletters were at the post office
ready for distribution.

Roger Williams, the Tory area director, said: "We were not aware that they were
putting a candidate in until after the leaflets had been printed. They have got
nobody to blame but themselves."


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 02, 2005, Monday

CAMPAIGN DIARY 2005

BYLINE: By Ben Fenton

SECTION: News Pg. 009

LENGTH: 487 words

Ukip calls men in blue

A SMALL but significant footnote in one of Clive Allen's election leaflets may
come to be a cause of regret to the Tory candidate for Somerton and Frome.

For, under the headline "Ukip in support", Mr Allen claims "Ukip in Somerton and
Frome are not entering a candidate and instead are supporting Clive Allen".

In fact, Ukip is standing in the Somerset constituency and so much are they NOT
supporting Clive Allen that yesterday they reported him to the police in nearby
Yeovil for a breach of the Representation of the People Act.

Mr Allen did not return the Diary's calls yesterday, but his press
representative said that originally the local branch of Ukip had decided to
withdraw to avoid letting David Heath, the Lib Dem incumbent, retain his
wafer-thin majority.

But Ukip's regional bosses countermanded them and the party had a candidate duly
included in the nominations, which were completed by April 19.

The full story is told on Mr Allen's website, but the edited version in his
leaflet, which was being distributed over the weekend, certainly gives the
impression to the casual reader that Ukip is backing the Tory.

Ukip wants an immediate retraction and a new Tory leaflet to put things right.

Helmsman Watch Day 31

IF his much-admired campaign website is to be believed, John Prescott is a
bounder.

Or he may have become a political giant.

The most recent update from the daily adventures of the Great Helmsman as he
criss-crosses Britain tells us that the pedometer he wears at all times has
crossed the 100,000 mark.

The little device, normally worn on the belt, measures the number of steps its
carrier takes.

The Helmsman's diarist claims his 100,000 steps are "equivalent to a 100-mile
walk so far".

This means Mr Prescott has an average stride length of 1.76 yards, or 5ft 3in.

According to research by the Diary based on a 6ft tall subject whose stride
length is 2ft 4in, either the GH is leaping around Britain like an energised
kangaroo or he has grown to 12ft 7in tall without anyone noticing.

A more reliable estimate is that Mr Prescott has covered 41 miles, which is a
jolly good effort and a lot farther than most diarists manage in a full year.

Coastal votes

Taxpayers will face an pounds 18,000 bill for the hire of a helicopter to
collect votes in the Outer Hebrides so the result from the Labour/SNP marginal
will be known within four hours.

Previously it has been as late as the following afternoon.

The aircraft will retrieve ballot boxes from more isolated parts of the 130-mile
chain of islands such as Barra and the Uists, before delivering them to the
central count at Stornoway.

The cost, according to local officials is "a recoverable expense from
Westminster".

The council used to hire fishing boats to bring the votes of around 400
islanders on Scalpay, Berneray and Eriskay but these now have fixed links to the
main islands.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              133 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 02, 2005, Monday

Octopuses have long endured a bad press Notebook

BYLINE: By Sam Leith

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 020

LENGTH: 636 words

Very curious, it was, watching Newsnight the other night, where they screened
the official election broadcast for the UK Independence Party. In case anyone
missed it, it depicted a doomsday scenario in which an enormous blue octopus
appeared -- loomed, I should say; in the way only an octopus can loom -- over
the Palace of Westminster and laid about with its tentacles, smashing up all the
buildings and setting the terrified citizens to flight. Trippy.

The octopus, we were given to understand, represented the EU. Westminster was
playing itself. The message appeared to be that Britain's involvement in Europe
is a threat just as urgent, just as terrifying, as the prospect of a
land-dwelling, blue cephalopod terrorising Parliament Square. And so, perhaps,
it is.

But what is it about the poor old octopus, that it should be so maligned?
Octopuses are intelligent, sensitive creatures. Marine biologists have
discovered that they can be taught to open jam jars. They are shy, seldom if
ever venturing on to land, and have never shown any signs of hostility either to
human beings or Barry and Pugin architecture. If you meet one, it will jet away,
wriggle its tentacles into a tiny hole, and squeeze its head through with an
imaginary underwater "pop". So why should UKIP choose the octopus as the code
for all we're supposed to hate and fear?

There is a slightly unpleasant undercurrent to all this daftness. The octopus
has a long -- and far from attractive -- history of being used in nationalist
propaganda. It appeared, labelled "imperialism", in Soviet propaganda posters,
has turned up as "global capitalism" on the odd anti-globalisation placard, and
is "Zionism" at Arab demos. Its most enduring use in recent memory is as the
classic Nazi representation of the Jewish Conspiracy. Hitler talked about the
"octopus" in Mein Kampf and, in the Nazi weekly Der Strmer, a famous cartoon
showed an octopus, labelled with a Star of David, being stabbed to death with
spears marked "truth" and "enlightenment".

It would be ridiculous, I think, to try to arraign UKIP as some sort of
neo-Nazis cunningly hoping to play on the anti-Semitic subtext of the image. But
you use this iconography with care. I think we can call them clots.

Also, scenes you seldom see...

Giant Blue Octopus: "I'm off out."

Giant Blue Octopus's mum: "Where you going, our kid?"

GBO: "I'm off to that Palace of Westminster, our mam, for to smash up the
enduring symbols of British democracy. Ooh. Their ancient tradition of judicial
independence and free trade between sovereign nations gets right up my pipes."

GBO's mum: "Aww. Our kid. You'll only shrivel up. Why can't you be like the
other octopuses, and mooch around the rocks eating shellfish and changing the
colour of your spots? What's wrong with that? That's what we've always done.
Aren't we good enough for you any more?"

GBO: "I'm sorry, our mam. But if there's one thing I can't abide, it's Magna
Carta."

GBO's mum: "I don't know. You young 'uns are a mystery to me. Run along, then.
Only mind you take your jumper off, or you won't feel the benefit."

A number of people over the past few weeks, in politics no less than in the
media, have broken cover and declared themselves in favour of integrity in
public life. We have worried at the Attorney General's musings, and at Tony
Blair's generous interpretation of them, like dogs at a bone.

It all reminds me, rather, of the famous, outraged passage from Ezra Pound's
Hugh Selwyn Mauberley, describing soldiers returning from the First World War.
To adapt his lines:

Died some, pro patria, walked eye-deep in hell believing in old men's laws, then
unbelieving came home, home to a law, home to many deceits, home to old laws and
new infamy; usury age-old and age-thick and lawyers in public places.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              134 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 2, 2005, Monday

YOU CAN HELP THE LIB DEMS BY VOTING LABOUR;
 TO ANTI-WAR FRIENDS, I SAY: IF YOU WANT A LEFT-OF- CENTRE GOVERMENT,

BYLINE: BILLY BRAGG

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 781 words


I have a number of friends who are telling me that they won't be voting in the
coming election. Natural Labour supporters, they cannot bring themselves to vote
for a government that took us to war. While I share their opposition to the
invasion of Iraq, I strongly disagree with their decision not to vote.

The arguments we have sound a lot like the dialogue between Little Britain's Lou
and Andy:

'What do you want from this election?'

'Want to punish New Labour.'

'But that means they'll lose lots of seats to the Tories.'

'Yeah, I know.'

'But you don't like the Tories.'

'Yeah, I know.'

'You're against the war. The Tories voted for the war and you want to reward
them.'

'Yeah, I know.'

I just hope that, the morning after the election, my friends are not looking at
a victorious Conservative Party and glumly saying: 'Don't want that one. Want
that one.'

Because there is just no way of 'punishing' New Labour without rewarding the
Tories. Of the 77 seats the Government has to retain to stay in power, only a
handful are vulnerable to the Liberal Democrats. The rest, if they fall, will go
to Michael Howard.

Even if Blair wins with a reduced majority, as some hope, Labour abstentions
will have helped to create a resurgent Conservative Party who will feel that
there is political capital to be gained by pandering to racism.

The truth is that Howard is relying on my anti-war friends staying at home on
election day. That's why he is spending the last few days of the campaign
attacking the Prime Minister. He knows that many progressives are very angry
with Blair and hopes they will think of that on polling day, rather than the
possibility of a Conservative government.

Knowing that a low turnout will favour the Tories, Howard has stirred up hatred
of immigrants in the hope of bringing his core supporters to the polling
station, and is now promoting hatred of Blair to keep Labour supporters away.

Progressive voters, particularly those in seats which only Labour or the
Conservatives can win, face hard choices: vote Labour and Blair will see the
result as a vindication of his term in office, pushing for more 'unremittingly
New Labour' policies and greater closeness with George Bush. Cast a protest vote
and run the risk that a Tory MP will be elected. Faced with these two outcomes,
is it any wonder that some might seek to wash their hands of the whole process
by abstaining?

Yet there is a third outcome on offer at this election " one which could help
shift the centre of gravity of British politics to the left. The Liberal
Democrats are hoping to make big gains at this election. They have a realistic
chance of taking 75-plus seats, giving them their biggest- ever total. Yet this
would make little difference to the parliamentary arithmetic if the Tories win,
say, 200 seats while Labour scrapes home with a workable majority.

It would be a pyrrhic victory for the Liberal Democrats if, having defeated
Oliver Letwin in West Dorset, their supporters in seats like neighbouring South
Dorset vote in a way that helps the Tories to win that seat back from Labour.
Cynics would still claim that a Liberal Democrat vote is a wasted vote.

In order for the Liberal Democrats to come out of this election with the
momentum to challenge New Labour, the Tories must not prosper. At the last
election, tactical voting kept Tory gains to the absolute minimum " they only
took one seat in the whole country.

This time, given the presence of UKIP, tactical voting could result in the
Tories losing seats " maybe as many as 30. If that happens, the Conservative
Party will go into a tailspin, clearing the way for the Liberal Democrats to
become the official opposition.

However, for this third outcome to unfold, Liberal Democrat supporters in seats
that only Labour or the Tories are capable of winning will have to act in the
long-term interest of their party by voting tactically for the Labour candidate.

I realise that this will not be easy for them " many feel very strongly about
Iraq. But look what has happened in Scotland. There, Liberal Democrats have
forced New Labour to move to the left on issues such as tuition fees and care
for the elderly.

I believe if the Liberal Democrats were to replace the Tories as the official
opposition at Westminster, a New Labour administration would be forced to tack
left to deal with the perceived threat.

So I say to my anti-war friends: if you want left-of-centre government, then
vote tactically by supporting whichever party will defeat the Tories. It is the
best way to reward the Liberal Democrats for their principled stance on the war.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              135 of 149 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 2, 2005, Monday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: POLITICS HITS A BUM NOTE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 41 words


KNICKERS in political party colours, stamped with party names and personal
messages are selling by the hundred. Lib Dem undies are most popular with Ukip
bottom. Ian Whitworth, whose web firm flogs them, says: "The demand is
surprising."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              136 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2005, Monday

Wake up and smell the latte, darling, and vote for Glenda

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: Home news; 20

LENGTH: 641 words


GLENDA JACKSON is at her most theatrical. Surrounded by latte-drinking acolytes
on a street corner in well-heeled Highgate, the only Oscar winner running for
Parliament offers a sonorous soliloquy for the Blair-hating, Labour-voting,
antiwar, chardonnaysocialist classes: "Send me back with an increased majority,
and I'll give Blair a run for his money."

Ms Jackson is running on an anti-Blair ticket: it's as simple, and as
complicated, as that.

Among the most awkward of Labour's Awkward Squad, she insists that the best way
of giving the Prime Minister a black eye would be to vote for rebels, like her,
who disagree with and dislike him. Got that? Re-elect the Labour MP for
Hampstead & Highgate, contribute to Labour's majority, and undermine the future
Labour Government.

I suggest (tentatively, for these actresses can be touchy) that it must feel
slightly odd to be running as a candidate for the Labour Party, while
vigorously, furiously opposed to the man who heads it.

Ms Jackson explodes, with such melodrama that the Saturday morning patrons of
Cafe Mozart look up, startled, from their patisseries. "Excuse me! I have been a
supporter of the Labour Party far longer than he's been on this earth.

"Leaders come and leaders go. The basic principles of the party have been around
a lot longer than Tony Blair. This isn't a presidential election; you don't vote
for Blair, you vote for Jackson."

This slightly weird rationalisation is what the left-of-centre opponents of the
war in Hampstead & Highgate want to hear. It allows them to vote Labour, while
continuing to loathe the Prime Minister. They can feel both righteous and
indignant simultaneously; have their patisserie and eat it.

Ms Jackson is so far outside the party mainstream that, as of last Friday, she
had not even bothered to read the Labour manifesto. Mr Blair's war is the
overriding issue, and one that seems likely to return Ms Jackson with an
increased majority.

"I think the result will be very close. Perhaps a Labour majority of between 50
and 70 seats," Ms Jackson says. Her vulpine grin suggests how very much she
would relish that result: as part of a reduced majority, she and other rebels
would be able to stamp their influence on a weakened government.

Brittle, and spiny as a sea urchin, the former actress seems poised, and
pointed, and more or less permanently peeved. Even with a pint of latte inside
her, she carries an air of chilliness. Like many thespians, she seems impatient,
and happiest in monologue. Yet she has a reputation as a hard-working
constituency MP, and her local popularity is obvious, not least because she has
provided Labour voters with a way though an electoral conundrum. Vote Glenda:
Bash Blair.

"Of course I'll vote Labour, but not as enthusiastically," Matthew Devereaux
says, clutching his copy of The Guardian with one hand and Ms Jackson with the
other.

"It's like making a marriage work: it may not be perfect, but it's better than a
divorce."

Ms Jackson won her first Oscar for Women in Love, in which she played the
mandestroyer, Gudrun Brangwen. Back then, in 1969, the critic Penelope Mortimer
wrote of her performance: "Every movement expresses the passionate longing of a
frigid woman for freedom and domination."

If she wins here, and enough other Labour candidates lose, then Ms Jackson may
get the political role one suspects she has long coveted: freedom from party
control, and the opportunity to dominate.

HAMPSTEAD & HIGHGATE.

MP: Glenda Jackson since 1992

2001 result: Lab 16,601;

C 8,725; Lib Dem 7,273;

Green 1,654; Soc Alliance 559; UKIP 316. Majority: 7,876

OTHER CANDIDATES.

Sian Berry (Green); Ed Fordham (Lib Dem); Magnus Nielsen (UKIP); Piers Wauchope
(C); Rainbow George Weiss (vote for yourself rainbow dream ticket)


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2005, Monday

Westminster? That's the last place I want to go

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Features; 24

LENGTH: 767 words


Reporter at your beck and call.

I HAD no difficulty locating the most unconventional candidate I have met during
this campaign.

I weaved through the shoppers in the centre of Ashton-in-Makerfield, Greater
Manchester, towards the source of a curious mix of amplified music. M People's
Search for the Hero and snatches of a gospel choir singing Power to the People
blared from a public address system mounted on an ageing BMW. The man who
emerged from the vehicle was wearing a Hagar the Horrible tie.

Peter Franzen is a founder and chairman of the Community Action Party (CAP). He
was defensive when I mentioned the tie. "You're not going to make fun of us are
you?" he asked. "We are very serious."

I've spent the past few weeks looking at local issues and you don't get much
more local than Mr Franzen's brand of politics in what was once the industrial
heartland of central Lancashire. I didn't go to make fun of him. Mr Franzen's
achievements speak for themselves.

In 2002 this longstanding Labour voter was frustrated at "years of neglect" in
his village and complacency on Wigan council, which Labour had dominated for as
long as anyone could remember. At the time it held all but three seats. Mr
Franzen calls it "the last bastion of Stalinism in Western Europe because all
the Labour councillors are handpicked to toe the party line".

He and a friend decided to run for the council as Independents and formed the
Community Action Party. Their platform consisted of zero tolerance of crime and
improved facilities for young people. "Crime, vandalism and antisocial behaviour
were totally out of control," he said. He recalled a time when every window in
the local library had been broken and, on one particular Saturday morning,
finding that the glass had been shattered in every bus shelter.

They won their seats, with Mr Franzen deposing the deputy leader of the council.

The next year they won five seats and last year their numbers swelled to 18,
making the CAP the main opposition, with more seats on the council than the
Liberal Democrats and Tories combined. Labour's overall majority was cut to
nine.

Mr Franzen admits that it is difficult to achieve results when they are still in
opposition but says that crime has fallen in his area because police have moved
resources to "where people were shouting the loudest. I phone 999 when I see
motorcycles riding on the parks or yobbish behaviour. I tell everyone to report
every single crime." His relationship with the police has not always been
smooth.

It is "not a dream but an intention" to take control of the council. Community
Action councillors are free to vote as individuals on any issue. They include
former supporters of all three main parties.

Mr Franzen believes that the man on the street, regardless of political opinion,
shares many common values. What unites party members, as well as the issues of
crime and the need to occupy young people better, is the desire to preserve
traditional town centres. The party is big on environmental issues and is
opposed to the Iraq war and ID cards.

Mr Franzen is challenging Ian McCartney in Makerfield, where the Labour Party
chairman is defending a majority of almost 18,000. Three other CAP candidates,
one of them Mr Franzen's brother, Ian, are standing in other seemingly
impregnable Labour fortresses.

Why, when Mr Franzen is so concerned with solving very local problems, does he
want to step on to the national stage? "Personally, Westminster is the last
place I want to go to," he said. He felt, though, that it would be good for
local people to have someone who did not represent big party interests fighting
for them.

More pragmatically, he wants to raise the profile of his young party. This
ambition is shared by a number of other Independents, including the Upminster
and Cranham Residents Association, which has council seats on Havering council
and has a candidate in Upminster, where the Tory Angela Watkinson is defending a
majority of 1,241.

Mr McCartney's office said that he was not in the constituency and that he would
not have time to talk on the phone about the Community Action Party. I asked if
anyone else in the Labour office would be prepared to talk about this grassroots
local political movement. They suggested I go through the national press office.

MAKERFIELD. MP: Ian McCartney since 1987

2001 result: Lab 23,879; C 6,129; Lib Dem 3,990;Soc Alliance 858; majority
17,750

OTHER CANDIDATES. Gregory Atherton (UKIP); Trevor Beswick (Lib Dem);Kulveer
Ranger (C) Dennis Shambley (BNP)


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

INSIDE LINES: SPORT AND THE ELECTION: ROBERT KILROY SILK

BYLINE: ALAN HUBBARD

SECTION: Final Edition; SPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words


The political pairing of Robert Kilroy Silk and the black ex-boxer who is the
sports spokesman for his breakaway Veritas party is one of the election's
oddities.

Winston McKenzie, the 48-year-old elder brother of former champions Duke and
Clinton (and uncle of Norwich striker Leon), who fought as a lightweight in the
Seventies, says of the axed TV inquisitor: 'Some may have called him racist, but
he's the only politician who has given me a chance.' McKenzie (pictured) says
Veritas would 'start a sporting revolution by giving sport back to the kids'.
Kilroy Silk's former alma mater, the UK Independence Party, which promoted
another fight figure, manager Frank Maloney, as their London mayoral candidate,
want a referendum on 2012. The Greens are similarly cool on the Games, which
they don't think would be as green as they are painted, according to their
London Assembly member Jenny Jones. 'Good for tourism, but what will they do for
the little old lady whose council can't afford to repair a malfunctioning lock
on her front door?'

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              139 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

ELECTION 2005: LIB DEMS POISED TO SNATCH LABOUR VOTES, POLL SHOWS

BYLINE: BY JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words


The final IoS poll of the campaign gives Labour a lead of eight percentage
points, but shows that the Liberal Democrats, on 23 per cent, are well placed
for a last-minute surge at Labour's expense.

The poll puts Labour on 39 per cent and the Conservatives on 31 per cent. If
those figures are reflected in the polling booths on Thursday, Tony Blair would
be returned to Downing Street with a 144-seat majority.

But an extra poll for the IoS suggests the main uncertainty of the final days of
the campaign is the scope for a Liberal Democrat surge. Charles Kennedy goes
into the final stretch with his party riding higher in the opinion polls than at
any of the last three elections.

And nearly three-quarters of Labour voters who name a second choice say they
would go to the Liberal Democrats. Whereas 71 per cent of Labour voters name the
Lib Dems as their second preference, only 42 per cent of Lib Dems return the
favour. The Conservatives are the second choice for 22 per cent of Lib Dems, and
22 per cent name the Green Party.

Of Conservative voters, 50 per cent opt for the Lib Dems as their second
preference, and 17 per cent name the UK Independence Party.

CommunicateResearch, the IoS polling company, has taken several steps to try to
ensure that its final figures are as robust as they can be. The poll published
today was conducted face-to-face in people's homes, while previous polls have
been carried out over the telephone.

Labour is one point lower than in last week's telephone poll, the Conservatives
four points lower and the Lib Dems five points higher.

The interviews were done using a coding system to allow people to indicate how
they would vote without the interviewers knowing their answer. The voting
intention figures are from the 57 per cent who say they are 'absolutely certain
to vote'. Half of the don't knows and won't says were allocated to the parties
they voted for last time, if any.

CommunicateResearch, a member of the British Polling Council, interviewed a
random sample of 1,091 adults on 23-28 April. Details at www.
communicateresearch.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              140 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  May 1, 2005

THE SISTERHOOD DESCEND ON REDDITCH AND THE STRANGEST ELECTION I'VE EVER COVERED

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 8; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 601 words


WELCOME to the Redditch Unpopularity Contest. Things are so bad here for
Labour's Jacqui Smith that the skies over this Worcestershire new town are dark
with Government heavyweights, parachuting in to offer her their support.

Ms Smith, the pink-jacketed embodiment of Blairite orthodoxy, is defending a
majority of 2,484, which would be hard in a good year. It is not a good year.

The Prime Minister has been twice, Gordon Brown, David Blunkett, John Prescott
and even the usually submerged Geoff Hoon have appeared to show how much they
value the Minister for Women and Equality. On Thursday, a minibus of female
Ministers, including Harriet Harman and Caroline Flint, arrived to demonstrate
the New Labour sisterhood's solidarity with their besieged friend.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Nigel Hicks, thinks this invasion of big noises
is actively counterproductive. 'It makes it look as if they are panicking,' he
suggests.

Mr Hicks believes 'something very strange is happening here'. My own attempts at
an opinion survey tend to back up his claim that the polls may be missing
something.

Several voters mention immigration unprompted as a reason for switching away
from Labour. Here, nobody cares much about Iraq, apart from the 3,000 or so
Muslims. But with a 2,484 majority, 3,000 Muslims could be rather important.

Is it possible we have all got it wrong, that the polls have missed something
big and that Thursday will be a very bumpy night?

Something doesn't seem quite right to me in the strangest Election I have
witnessed.

There is no excitement, the air fails to crackle and there's no feeling that a
great event is taking place. Yet a British General Election ought to be a great
event.

Few governments have ever deserved their cards as much as this one. Yet, thanks
to arithmetic, personality and history, it cannot be done this time and most
people have realised this. So they are trying to teach Mr Blair a lesson by
tactical voting and 'sending a message', or several messages. The trouble is
that our system cannot cope with such subtlety. Redditch illustrates this very
neatly. Those who turn out for the UKIP's John Ison might help to save the
Europhile, feminist Ms Smith. And those who vote for Liberal Mr Hicks will
almost certainly help to elect the Tory candidate, Karen Lumley.

Mrs Lumley would normally be in some trouble. The Redditch Tories used a brief
period in control of the Town Hall to abolish pensioners' bus passes.

This act of genius got them thrown out at last year's local elections and is
still greatly resented by older voters.

And she is up against skilled, effective opponents. As of Thursday, no fewer
than 9,833 postal votes had been applied for in Redditch, and it is reasonable
to assume a large proportion will be Labour's.

But if the angry and the disenchanted decide that Thursday should be a festival
of protest, the postal tally may not be enough to save Mr Blair's favourite.

Mrs Lumley could find herself at Westminster as part of a revived Tory Party
still completely unsure about what it stands for. Michael Howard could have done
too well to resign and hand over to the next generation. Mr Blair might even
find that he can govern only with the consent of Charlie Kennedy.

Absolutely nobody, above all the voters, will have what they wanted.

And it will probably be only a couple of years before we all have to go through
the same thing again because a minority government is seldom much use. And the
deadly disenchantment of the people for the politicians will keep on growing.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              141 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  May 1, 2005

Sisterhood descend in the oddest poll I've ever seen

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: HI; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words


WELCOME to the Redditch Unpopularity Contest. Things are so bad here for
Labour's Jacqui Smith that the skies over this Worcestershire new town are dark
with Government heavyweights, parachuting in to offer her their support. Miss
Smith, the pinkjacketed embodiment of Blairite orthodoxy, is defending a
majority of 2,484 which would be hard in a good year. It is not a good year.

The Prime Minister has been twice, Gordon Brown, David Blunkett, John Prescott
and even the usually submerged Geoff Hoon have appeared to show how much they
value the Minister for Women and Equality. On Thursday, a minibus of female
Ministers, Harriet Harman and Caroline Flint, arrived to demonstrate the
solidarity of the New Labour sisterhood with their besieged friend.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Nigel Hicks, thinks this invasion of big noises
is actively counterproductive. 'It makes it look as if they are panicking,' he
suggests.

My own attempts at an opinion survey tend to back up his claim that the polls
may be missing something. Several voters mention immigration unprompted as a
reason for switching away from Labour. Here, nobody cares much about Iraq, apart
from the 3,000 or so Muslims. But with a 2,484 majority, 3,000 Muslims could be
rather important.

Is it possible we have all got it wrong, that the polls have missed something
big and that Thursday will be a very bumpy night? Something doesn't seem quite
right to me in the strangest Election I have witnessed.

There is no excitement, the air fails to crackle and there's no feeling that a
great event is taking place.

Few governments have deserved their cards as much as this one. Yet, thanks to
arithmetic, personality and history, it cannot be done this time and most people
have realised this. So they are trying to teach Mr Blair a lesson by tactical
voting and 'sending a message' or several messages.

The trouble is that our system cannot cope with such subtlety. Redditch
illustrates this neatly. Those who turn out for the UKIP's John Ison might help
to save Europhile feminist Miss Smith. And those who vote for Liberal Mr Hicks
will almost certainly help to elect the Tory candidate, Karen Lumley.

Mrs Lumley would normally be in some trouble. The Redditch Tories used a brief
period in control of the Town Hall to abolish pensioners' bus passes.

This act of genius got them thrown out at last year's local elections.

And she is up against skilled, effective opponents. As of Thursday, no fewer
than 9,833 postal votes had been applied for in Redditch and it is reasonable to
assume a large proportion will be Labour's.

But the postal tally may not be enough to save Mr Blair's favourite. Karen
Lumley could find herself at Westminster as part of a revived Tory Party still
completely unsure of what it stands for. Michael Howard could have done too well
to resign and hand over to the next generation. Mr Blair might even find he can
govern only with the consent of Charlie Kennedy. Absolutely nobody, above all
the voters, will have what they wanted.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              142 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 1, 2005

Comment: It's not easy being a good Samaritan

BYLINE: Euan Ferguson

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 592 words


A FRANTICALLY hot Friday lunchtime at the foot of Highgate West Hill, and the
world was ending. Eighteen machines ripping up the roundabout and, do you know,
making the process look like fun. Men shouted, laughed, barked into phones, took
an odd pride in the process: the machines were called things like Tarmac Muncher
and Grit Gobbler and had logos - Dynapac, Wirtgen - which spoke of small angry
towns on distant planets, and it was all rather exciting, except for the noise,
the thunder and drilling and revving and shouting and those startling beeps
designed to let you know something metal is about to reverse into you in four
seconds from a wholly unexpected direction: hell, really, so only a deaf fool or
an alcoholic would have sat down for a pint in the sunshine.

I had been supping away and marvelling at it all - we used not to do this in
Britain, did we, make things work? - for three or four minutes when she limped
across from the next table and cast her sad shadow over my reverie and
newspaper. How, she asked, do you spell 'Christians'? I told her, and she wrote
it down in front of me on the letter she was writing and I couldn't help
noticing that the word she wrote before she wrote 'Christians' was 'fucking'.

She went back to her wooden table and continued scrawling, two cans of Red Bull
overturned beside her, dripping unnoticed on to unlovely grey trainers. She had
a kindly face but pursed, defensive lips, and those terrified looks that make
you think for one second that someone is 36 and then realise they are 60, or
600. The sun cranked up and the Tarmacadam roadshow continued, but it had lost
some of its pulling-power; I couldn't help but look across at her. Four letters
lay in envelopes before her, one to a council, one to a hospital, all stamped;
folded fat and bulky, as if she'd left her own fingers inside; appallingly
addressed, peppered diligently with exclamations and misspellings. The letter
she was then writing was being scratched out on lined paper; the ballpoint
looked as though it had torn through at points.

Because I felt the need, on a sunny Friday, to be insulted by a complete
stranger, I asked if there was any way I could help. She was just trying to sort
her life out, she said, and, yes, there was a way I could help and it would be
by going back sharpish to my own deuced table, except she didn't say deuced.

Chiding myself for even thinking of worrying about precisely which hideous
aspect of my personality or demented troglodytic appearance had led me to be
rejected as a human being by someone who looked like she rooted in bins for dog
food, I wondered, for a little while, for whom I felt more sorry: her or the
poor bastards who were going to have to open and attempt to make sense of and
then throw away the letters.

Would the letters have had more chance if (as everyone who is middle class and
not insane unaccountably prides themselves on knowing) they had been typed, not
scrawled, no matter the lunatic thoughts and moon-wired anger within? (Not
necessarily, but they would probably have won a reply, or at least a job with
Ukip.) She came over once more, to ask how to spell 'rheumatic': I thought at
first she said 'romantic'.

The road is now, incredibly quickly, nice and new and shiny and hard and
unyielding in preparation for the next time I choose to offer it a look at parts
of my body other than my boring feet. Didn't we mend it quickly? Don't we do
that well? I don't think my querulous companion will be mended for quite a time.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

BACON AT THE MOVIES : EPIC BLOOMER;
 ORLANDO CAN'T ACT

BYLINE: RICHARD BACON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 449 words

HIGHLIGHT: BED & BROADSWORD: Orlando Bloom gets ready for battle and (above)
relaxes with Sybilla (Eva Green).


KINGDOM OF HEAVEN Action Cert: PG

IN the golden years of Hollywood, the word epic used to mean "a spectacular
historical saga with a cast of thousands and a story that lived forever".

Nowadays, it seems to mean "a badly-written, poorly-acted and dull movie, with a
tedious message, one original and spectacular battle scene, and starring someone
who's more handsome than talented".

Kingdom Of Heaven, though, refuses to match up to those lazy expectations.

But that's only because it doesn't have an original battle scene.

Come with me now to the 12th century city of Jerusalem. Trust me, we'll enjoy it
- this film isn't showing there.

The European Christian Crusaders are in possession of the Holy City (not Holby
City, that's in the possession of the BBC's midweek schedule), and are trying to
defend it from the Muslim hordes who want to reclaim it.

Think UKIP, but with bigger swords and fewer prejudices.

Balian (Orlando Bloom) is a blacksmith in France. His long-lost father Godfrey
(Liam Neeson) returns from the Middle East, asking him to help defend Jerusalem.

(A blockbuster with Christians defending themselves from Muslim aggression is
kinda oddly-timed.)

This Balian ends up going with his dad, but when dad dies, he takes over and
serves Jerusalem's Leper King (ie he's Jerusalem's King and he's got leprosy -
not Jerusalem's Leprechaun, which is what I actually thought they said).

As the uneasy peace falls apart, it's up to Balian to defend the city. Not that
you'll care. You'll be out in the foyer trying to sneak into another screen
instead.

Director Ridley Scott is best known for the classic Alien, where an alien burst
out of John Hurt. Well, that's more likely to happen than a good performance
bursting out of Orlando Bloom.

There's a scene where Liam Neeson teaches him to sword-fight. It's a shame that
it wasn't a drama lesson. The stirring speech Bloom gives to the besieged troops
as the Muslims gather outside Jerusalem made me want to fight to the death - for
the Muslims.

In the spirit of Gladiator (another Ridley movie), it's a
small-town-boy-becomes-great-hero story, and if you've seen Gladiator, you've
seen a better version of that tale.

The final battle looks great, but it's also very similar to the more spectacular
siege that appears in the last Lord of the Rings.

Kingdom Of Heaven is not particularly bad, but not that good either. It is
ultimately about tolerance, but that's not what you'll be feeling two hours in.
You'll be feeling boredom, possibly DVT.

And, contrary to some daft newspaper reports it won't encourage anti-Muslim
sentiment, but it WILL encourage you to stay in.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              144 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

Brace yourself for Europe's best theme parks

SECTION: Features; Travel; 6

LENGTH: 3084 words


From Spanish dragons to Dutch Rumpelstiltskins, the Continent out-thrills and
out-imagines anything Stateside

Why cross the pond when European theme parks offer everything the Americans can
- plus UFO flights over the Alps and Catalan chicken in chocolate sauce?

In the race to create bigger and bigger thrills, Uncle Sam doesn't have things
all his own way: the world's loopiest roller-coaster, for example, is right here
in Europe, well within "Ryanair range". And whereas a trip to Orlando is all
about fast food and white knuckles, European parks offer something extra: the
taste of an entirely new culture -with its own language, folklore and food
-comes alongside all the fun.

We sent our Travel writers off with their families to test the best: five top
parks in five different countries, each with an individual flavour and a clutch
of new attractions for 2005. Hold on tight!

*PORTAVENTURA, SPAIN

Tested by Vincent and Joan Crump, plus Daisy, 11

WHEN THE Mouse chose Paris, the Catalans got catty, and opened a park of their
own on the Costa Dorada, 70 miles west of Barcelona. Ten years old this year,
PortAventura has mushroomed into a mighty resort, with three hotels and the
Caribe Aquatic water park.

The park has a marketing tie-up with Universal Studios, but those expecting
Hollywood SFX and a Shrek on every corner will be disappointed. Instead of Jaws
and the Terminator, you get Woody Woodpecker and the Pink Panther, and the only
men in black are the performers in the kiddies' puppet show.

There are thrills to be had, certainly -including the world's loopiest
rollercoaster -but PortAventura puts the accent on atmosphere. Its five zones
take you on a globetrotting journey from a Mediterranean village to Mayan Mexico
via the Great Wall of China, the Polynesian jungle and the Wild West. The clever
theming extends to the 15 or so live shows staged daily around the park. Time
things right, and you'll see Tahitian dancers with grass skirts a gogo, Chinese
magicians sporting scimitars and serious eye make-up, and a really good stunt
extravaganza where cowboys somersault off the saloon roof.

There is plenty to get your internal organs cartwheeling, too, including the Sea
Odyssey simulator, where you board a futuristic sub to rescue a sister vessel
attacked by sea monsters. Top fun. And the trio of splash rides are
exceptionally good: pray that it's a warm day, because you're definitely going
to get drenched - people were wringing out their children after the Silver River
Flume.

To mark its 10th anniversary, on May 19 the park introduces Hurakan Condor, a
328ft tower from which victims plummet face-down at 70mph into the park below.

Roll up ...

The big ride: for the next 18 days at least, Dragon Khan, in the China zone -a
tangle of red metalwork so fiendishly twisty that from a distance it looks like
a wiggle-wire from a funfair. It has a 70mph first drop and eight inversions,
but the ride is surprisingly smooth -not too much headbanging. Daisy was
delighted with it, not least because she learnt a few new expletives from Daddy.

The best thing: Daisy liked PortAventura's sister attraction, Caribe Aquatic
Park: "It's got wicked water rides and lots of squirty things. Great for cooling
off in the afternoon." Dad liked the Catalan chicken with chocolate sauce:
"Proper food, proper restaurants!" And Mum liked the Far West zone -a
museum-quality frontier town including a cemetery, a sawmill and a schoolhouse:
"It's the first theme park I've been to where people stop just to photograph the
buildings."

The worst thing: the surly attitude of the staff, which even extended to the
visitor information people at the gate. They had run out of park maps in
English, and showed no inclination to help us find one.

The final reckoning: 8/10 -or 9 if you pay extra to spend a couple of hours in
Caribe Park.

We want to go: park admission with unlimited rides costs £23.75 (Pounds 19 for
ages 4-10), from 0800 966540 or www.

portaventura.com. There are no family tickets, but a two-day pass saves you
almost 50% on the second day. A high-season day pass for Caribe Aquatic Park
costs £12.50/£10.

There are three four-star mega-hotels to choose from in the park: the 500-room
Hotel PortAventura, the even more kid-centric Hotel El Paso, or the Hotel Caribe
Resort, with the world's biggest white-sand swimming pool and a sea of palms.
All three, bookable through the main reservations number above, start from £32pp
per night, including breakfast and park admission, based on two sharing and a
minimum three-night stay; the first two have a complimentary "character
breakfast" with Woody and co at weekends. There's a shuttle service to the
nearby beach in summer, and your room key confers some queue-jumping privileges
in the park.

Off-site, the three-star Hotel Casablanca Playa (00 34-977 380107), in Salou,
has doubles from £55pp, half-board, in May; 50% discount for under-10s. Or try
the Occidental Blau Mar (977 350444).

First Choice (0870 850 3928, www.firstchoice.co.uk) offers seven nights,
half-board, including charter flights from Gatwick and transfers, from Pounds
365 per adult, £195 per child. Or fly independently to Reus, 10 minutes from
PortAventura, with Ryanair (0871 246 0000, www.ryanair.com) from Stansted (from
£26), Liverpool (from £36), or Dublin (from E45).

*GARDALAND, ITALY

Tested by Rob and Deborah Ryan, plus Bella, 11, Gina, 7, and Gabriel, 6

RIGHT ON the shores of Lake Garda, this is Italy's largest theme park. It's well
put together, with 40 rides, including a couple of gut-wrenching rollercoasters
and several water chutes. Take the Flying Island, for example -a UFO, lifted on
a hydraulic arm, which provides a great vista over the park, the lake and the
snow-tipped Alps.

New this season is Sequoia Adventure, which eschews the quest for speed in
favour of heart-jarring near misses and long, "slow-motion" loops. Other rides
have a more familiar Disney feel: I Corsari, for instance, is er, a homage to
Pirates of the Caribbean.

Non-ride attractions include a dolphin show, Chinese acrobats, jousting knights,
and a new ice performance based on Hans Christian Andersen's The Little Mermaid.

There's also a show based on the "magic of soap bubbles" -honest.

The big ride: Atlantis, a very impressive double-decker water chute, nicely
themed and suitably hair-raising, is new this year, as is the Robots of Mars 4-D
Adventure, a less successful virtual rollercoaster. Stick with the real thing -
Magic Mountain and the terrifying Blue Tornado.

The best thing: Atlantis and Blue Tornado.

The worst thing: the lack of timed tickets. And sitting through Mary Poppins. In
Italian. On ice. To a disco beat. With juggling.

The final reckoning: 7/10 -familiar, friendly and Italian, with one of the best
settings of any theme park.

We want to go: a single adult ticket is £16.30; children under 10 pay £13.60;
children under one metre go free. Book at www. gardaland.it or call 00 39-045
644 9777. There are no family tickets, but decent reductions for two day entry
(£26.20/£21.50).

On site, the 250-room Gardaland hotel is very like the Disneyland hotel in
Paris, and just down the road from the park. A four-bed family room costs £167,
B&B, in high season, via the park's website.

The Venezia Park Hotel (045 645 0838, doubles from £52, B&B) is a three-minute
drive away: simple and friendly, but some rooms suffer from traffic noise.
Gardaland offers packages to this and other three-and four-star hotels in places
such as Peschiera (10 minutes from the park); prices from £190 for a two-night
stay for two adults, and one child under 10, including one-day park passes. See
www.gardaland.it for details.

Fly to Verona (about eight miles away) from Gatwick with British Airways (0870
850 9850, www.ba.com), from £99; or to Brescia (about 25 miles away) from
Stansted with Ryanair (0871 246 0000, www.

ryanair.com), from about £28.

Holiday Autos (0870 400 4461, www.holidayautos.co. uk) has three days' inclusive
car hire from £89.

*EFTELING, HOLLAND

Tested by Vincent and Joan Crump, plus Daisy, 11, and Xander, 1

EFTELING IS not just a park, it's a Dutch institution. Mention the name to any
Netherlander, and they'll go into a giggle of anticipatory glee at the thought
of their annual outing here. It's in the south, 20 minutes from Tilburg, and it
was launched by two priests in the 1930s, to provide "development and relaxation
within the spirit of Catholicism".

This might not be the whizziest, bangiest or poppiest park in Europe, but it's
the most enchanting by miles. Pay your money and you're immediately magicked
into a fairy-tale forest full of medieval dragons and ogres and knights.
Designed in the 1950s by the illustrator Anton Pieck, these are characters
straight from your most cherished childhood storybook, now charmed into life by
sophisticated animatronics. Wandering the tree-lined trail, Hansel and
Gretel-style, brings you to talking, moving tableaux from Rumpelstiltskin,
Rapunzel, Little Red Riding Hood and many more. Xander loved it, and so
(secretly) did the rest of us.

The attention to detail is a delight: instead of fibreglass fakery, all of
Efteling's cottages and castles are built from brick, timber and thatch. We
especially liked the Land of Laaf, a full-size village peopled by a tribe of
cheerful, chubby-cheeked grotesques, apparently modelled on Boris Johnson.

If you want your hair raised, Efteling offers another 180 acres of
rollercoasters, flumes and haunted houses. And be sure to make time for the
better-than-it-sounds PandaVision, a 3-D movie where you get pelted with fruit
by big-screen baboons and splattered with water by playful polar bears.

The big ride: Daisy's biggest scream came on the Python, a stomach-squeezing
hurtle through two loop-the-loops and a double corkscrew. The Bobsleigh coaster
attracts even longer queues -up to an hour. But the one you'll be dashing back
to at closing time is Dream Flight, a captivating sleigh ride through vast
flower-decked grottoes where fairies and trolls frolic.

The best thing: Daisy's favourite was Dream Flight -"It's just so lovely."
Xander seemed to like the talking rubbish bins, modelled on fairy-tale
creatures, which implore you to deposit "Papier Hier". And Mum liked the
immaculate gardens, with their patriotic commitment to the Dutch bulb-growing
industry.

The worst thing: extras are expensive -£4 for parking; £1 for a map of the park;
£5.30 for on-ride snapshots. And the live entertainment is a little too
homespun: a mix of long-in-the-tooth ladies got up as fairy princesses and
red-nosed clowns in politically incorrect national costumes.

The final reckoning: 8/10 - but a 10 for the under-10s.

We want to go: admission with unlimited rides costs £16.75 (under-4s free); book
on 00 31- 416 288111 or visit www.efteling.nl. One night's B&B this summer at
the 120-room Efteling Hotel (416 287111), including park tickets, costs £42pp
(children aged 4-12 sharing a room, £26 each). If you've a big piggy bank, book
one of the themed suites (they sleep four, from £136 per night, room-only). One
is like a shipwrecked galleon; another a

Victorian carousel ride.

The three-star Hotel Den Drent (416 272480, www.hotel dendrent.nl), opposite the
park, has B&B doubles in summer for £37; children (up to 12) Pounds 15.

Fly to Eindhoven with Ryanair (0871 246 0000, www.

ryanair.com) from Stansted (from £26), Luton (from £30), or Dublin (from E43),
then catch a train to Tilburg (30min), then bus number 136 to Efteling (20min)
from outside the station. Stena Line (0870 400 6798, www.stenaline.co.uk) offers
a three-day return crossing from Harwich to the Hook of Holland for four, with
car, from £249.

*EUROPA-PARK, GERMANY

Tested by Tom and Linda Kneale, plus Kate, 11, and Lucy, 8

NEAR RUST, in Germany, and close to the borders of both Switzerland and France,
Europa-Park is a UKIP member's nightmare, themed into 12 countries (Germany,
Denmark, Austria, Greece and so on) that merge seamlessly into each other, plus
Adventureland, Chocoland and Children's World. And it's one of the best themed
and decorated parks in Europe. It is meticulously conceived, Teutonically well
run, and has more than 100 rides, including the excellent new flume-chute
Atlantica SuperSplash. Throw in costumed characters, acrobats and stilt-walkers,
and Europa-Park really gives Disney a run for its dollar.

The big ride: without doubt, Silver Star, Europe's biggest rollercoaster. It's
236ft high, with a top speed of 80mph and centrifugal forces of up to 4g.
There's also Poseidon, a great combination of rollercoaster and water chute;
Eurosat, a dark ride inside a huge globe; and Pirates in Batavia, a real rival
to the Caribbean variety.

The best thing: the excellent infrastructure and immaculate theming, which is
carried through that little bit further (no tacky facades here). And the quality
of the architecture.

The worst thing: there are no timed tickets/fast-tracks available for the
popular rides. And England isn't a very exciting

section - why don't we have a whizzy rollercoaster like France or Russia?

The final reckoning: 9/10 - there are those who think Silver Star isn't quite as
scary as it could be (there are no inversions, for instance), but that caveat
apart, it's a pretty unbeatable park.

We want to go: adults pay £18.50, ages 4-11 £16.50, and children under four go
free. Two-day passes cost £33.50/ £29.50. Call 00 49 1805 776 688 or visit
www.europapark.de.

There are three four-star hotels on site: the brand-new Colosseo (445 rooms,
including themed suites, some with child-sized bathrooms), which incorporates a
huge piazza with cafes and a replica of the Colosseum; the finca-like El
Andaluz; and the imposing Castillo Alcazar.

A one-night package in a four-bed room, including character breakfasts with
Euromaus and friends, and two days' admission to the park, plus evening
entertainment and use of swimming pools, costs from £69 per adult and £55 per
child in El Andaluz and Castillo Alcazar; £72/£55 in the Colosseo.

There is also a simpler guesthouse, Circus Rolando (£61/ £53), plus a Tipi
Village of Native American-style tents with wooden floors (and heating) sleeping
four, six or 12 (it's popular with school parties). This costs Pounds
45pp/£41pp.

Fly from Stansted to Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden (about 45 minutes' drive away) with
Ryanair (0871 246 0000, www.ryan air.com), from £25. Or fly to Basle (90
minutes' drive away) with EasyJet (0905 821 0905, 65p per minute;
www.easyjet.com) from Liverpool, Luton and Stansted, from £42.

You will need to hire a car: Hertz (0870 848 4848, www.hertz.co.uk) has rates
from £47 for a two-day rental from

Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport, £61 from Basle.

*DISNEYLAND RESORT, PARIS

Tested by Katie and Nigel Ford, plus Rory, 11, and Noa, 6

IT WAS EuroDisney, then Disneyland Paris. Now Europe's top attraction is
Disneyland Resort Paris. We did the Studios in half a day, leaving two full days
for Disneyland. There are four themed lands: Frontierland, with sharpshooting
cowboys and spouting geysers; Adventureland, with cataracts and Caribbean
islands; Fantasyland, with

movie-themed rides from Snow White to Pinocchio; and Discoveryland, where the
newly revamped Space Mountain rubs shoulders with less ambitious attractions
such as Honey, I Shrunk the Audience.

The park shows, parades and general razzmatazz in the park are included in the
admission price - and the Wonderful World of Disney Parade, all fire-breathing
dragons and

glittering coaches, was sheer glitz and glamour - for our six-year-old, reason
enough on its own to visit Disney.

But beware the relentless merchandising. Back home, the magic faded fast when I
realised what a pasting my plastic had taken. Rory's Manchester United Soccer
School (£18, two and a half hours), ride photos (£6.75 each) and Mickey sneakers
(£18.75) all took their toll.

The big ride: Space Mountain was once the park's showpiece scream ride, but had
been looking more Wallace and Gromit than Nasa in recent years. Not any more,
though. It's had a radical face-lift, and reopened on April 9. But be warned:
popular rides like this suffer long queues in high season. We beat them using
FastPasses - well worth doing, though it requires you to order your day with
military precision. Just turn up at the ride you most want to go on, stick your
ticket in the machine and it will give you a slot later, then you can skip the
queue.

The best thing: Rory loved the new Manchester United Soccer School: "Can I go
again tomorrow?" For Noa it was the Princess Parade: "Snow White blew me a
kiss." Mum rode the Casey Junior train two nights in a row: "Fab views over the
illuminated park." And Dad liked the Rock and Roller Coaster: "So good, I nearly
puked."

The worst thing: the food. "It looked edible," said Dad. "How could I have been
so wrong?" And the endless piped music.

The final reckoning: 7/10. Queues and the highly assertive crowd left us with a
lot undone.

We want to go: the original park is open 9am8pm; the

Studios 9am6pm. Book on 0870 606 6800 or at www.

disneylandparis.com. If you're travelling independently, an adult combined park
pass is £28 a day, £76 for three days; children (ages 3-11) pay £21/£56.

The seven themed hotels on site have a total of 5,800 rooms. Two nights' B&B at
the budget Hotel Cheyenne, bookable through the resort, start at £400 for a
family of four, including unlimited park admission.

A two-night weekend in May at the four-star Hotel New York with Paris Travel
Service (0870 191 7283, www.paristravel.co. uk) costs £1,212 for two adults and
two children under-12 sharing, including B&B, Eurostar travel and park tickets.

Off-site, you'll find plenty of "hotels near the Magic". Like many, the
Chanteloup Hotel (00 33 1 64 30 00 00) offers a shuttle bus to Disney, and its
restaurant is a welcome reminder that you're in France, not Florida. Family
rooms from £60 in summer, breakfast £6.50 adult, £4 child.

A direct Eurostar train (0870 518 6186, www.eurostar.com) from Waterloo or
Ashford costs from £59 per adult and £50 per child. A Eurotunnel shuttle
crossing (0870 535 3535, www.eurotunnel.com) costs from £98 for a car and
passengers.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

Battle of the Guildford gals

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: Home news; News; 15

LENGTH: 1167 words


Rod Liddle thrills to the catfight for a plum southern seat in which naked
emotion is for once on display

Listen, we need more women MPs. Never mind all this stuff about their
genetically determined consensual approach to politics, how they're all able to
put ego and point-scoring to one side for the greater good -those wearying
things the feminists will tell you.

That's all baloney. We need more women MPs because, by and large, they're more
fun, more human, than male MPs. Scratch a woman MP and generally you'll find a
personality underneath. Scratch a woman MP and she might well throw caution to
the wind and scratch you back.

"Go on, tell me please ... what did she say about me?" The Conservative
candidate for Guildford, Anne Milton, is leaning across the pub table, hand on
my arm, imploring. She wants to know what her Liberal Democrat rival, Sue
Doughty, said to me an hour or so earlier. She really, really wants to know.

"She said you were a bit of a minger, mutton dressed as lamb frankly, and not up
to the job."

There's a squeal of outrage and then a guffaw. "He's joking," she laughs to her
two Tory boy henchmen, watching uncomfortably across unsipped cups of coffee.

"Isn't he?" she adds, uncertainly, to me.

"Yes, I'm joking," I admit, "except about the last bit. She really did say
that."

She shakes her head in disbelief. Earlier Milton had confessed that some people
thought she dressed a bit like Doughty. "But I don't," she insisted quickly.
"She's rather ... dowdy, don't you think?"

In Guildford, where the three main parties are represented by women, there's not
much in the way of consensual politics going on. Instead, there's a hell of a
lot of scratching. It's a Tory-Lib Dem marginal and the top two candidates don't
get along. Believe me, these babes hate each other.

"Have you seen the website?" Doughty, who is defending the seat, had asked me
gleefully over a plate of pate in the bland corporate dining area of the nearby
Holiday Inn.

Yes, I've seen it. Doughty is referring to a local blogger's site entitled Anne
Milton: Nurse, Mother, Dipstick. An entire website dedicated to trashing -with
spite, nastiness and some acuity -Milton's campaign to return Guildford to the
Tory embrace which, these past four years apart, has held it tight for most of a
century.

Not the most cruel allegation on the site is that Milton resembles the popular
entertainer Julian Clary. Worse, it is revealed that almost all of the local
people photographed in Tory leaflets praising Milton are, actually, Conservative
activists.

"The picture of 'Andrew from Christchurch', for example, is in fact Andrew from
Christchurch, the Tory deputy leader of the council," says Doughty, smothering a
snigger.

And the blogger has reproduced fairly risible leaflet pictures of Milton "taking
action on the environment" (picking up some litter), "taking action on families"
(talking to a lady with a pushchair), "taking action on immigration" (hitting a
black person with a claw hammer).

Actually, I made the last one up. There are no black people in Guildford, or
almost none.

To her credit, Milton takes it all in good heart, even if she suspects the
Liberal Democrats of having some clandestine involvement (which they deny).
"It's nasty, but never mind," she says.

Guildford shouldn't be a marginal at all, of course. The Liberal Democrats have
made inroads to the Tory vote in the south and southwest but, Guildford apart,
Surrey seems immune. Of the 11 constituencies within the county, 10 are still
true blue.

The county almost stinks of affluence, and the town of Guildford more than most.

It contains Britain's most expensive housing, its highest rate of employment,
its largest average take-home wage, its highest percentage of owner-occupiers.

The mystery really is why Milton is required to overturn a Lib Dem majority of
538. Milton really should not be aye-less in Guildford.

Her rival believes that the climate has changed partly because the Tories are in
retreat throughout the south, no matter how bourgeois and faux rural the
enclave, no matter how many spotless 4x4s are parked down the high street
outside shops selling chintzy things and horsey things.

But she hazards, too, that it may be something to do with the expanding
university: Guildford has the highest proportion of students of any town in the
country.

It'll be a close call and there are two interesting variables. Both UKIP and the
Greens have put up candidates: one will draw votes from Doughty, the other from
Milton. These votes will be in the middle hundreds, perhaps, but crucial
nonetheless.

The suspicion is that UKIP is campaigning with far less energy than the Greens,
so the overall loser will be the Lib Dems. This seems rather unfair on Doughty,
who is a shadow environment spokesman and about as green as a mainstream
politician is ever likely to get. But then she, too, has her secret weapon -the
Labour party.

Milton suspects that the Labour candidate, Karen Landles, has an altogether too
cosy relationship with her supposed Lib Dem rival. "And I saw a member of the
Labour team kissing a member of the Lib Dem team," she adds, significantly.

Certainly Landles is not evidently busting a gut on the doorsteps: she was not
in the constituency when I swung by, nor expected to be. The Labour vote is
reportedly "soft".

Truth is, as far as the electorate seems to be concerned, the only hard element
of the vote resides among that tranche of opinion which asserts that it either
doesn't know or couldn't give a monkey's; a tranche of opinion which seems to be
growing with every day that passes, with every boring or fatuous leaflet dropped
through the letter box.

I suppose if any town in Britain should be allowed a degree of complacency, it's
well-heeled Guildford, but it's a shame for the leading candidates. In their own
ways, they both deserve rather better.

Because they are very good indeed. Doughty is a fine and principled politician
with a pretty impressive CV from within the public and private sector. It may
well be that she cites her hobbies on one website as "pensions and water" -but
hey, you want her as an MP, not a dinner guest.

And Milton is something the Conservative party needs rather more of: personable,
sharp, vigorous, full of humour and palpably from the same walk of life as most
of the rest of us. You can imagine her constituency chairman wincing slightly as
the selection is made, but the Conservative party's problems reside more with
the local associations than with feisty candidates such as Milton.

Make sure you pay attention on May 5 when one of the Dimblebys puts a hand to
his ear and announces, with solemnity, that we're about to get the result from
Guildford.

Fix your gaze, as the returning officer announces the result, on the defeated
candidate. Because I suspect that in a most unprofessional and unwomanly manner,
she may well spit.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus; Election 2005

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 1, 2005

CROSS BENCHER; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 66 words


A WEBSITE is providing good news for the smaller parties by helping floating
voters make up their minds. More than half a million people have logged on to
www. whoshouldyouvotefor. com to answer questions to help decide where their
loyalties really lie.

Despite opinion polls, the Liberal Democrats win more than a third of votes
while the Greens and UKIP are also up on official ratings.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              147 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 1, 2005

CROSS BENCHER; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 82 words


THE distinctive style of Sir Teddy Taylor may be lost to the country after his
decision to stand down at this election but we may be treated to the even more
distinctive mutton-chop whiskers of Ukip's John Croft as his replacement in his
Rochford and Southend East seat. Croft, 71, says: "They call me the last of the
bulldog breed. I'm up against a 27-year-old and a 33-year-old in this election.

When I go to public meetings with them, I look like a headmaster with two unruly
boys!"

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              148 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 01, 2005, Sunday

Mummy most mawkish

BYLINE: BY JEMIMA LEWIS

SECTION: Features; Rhyme & Reason; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 860 words

Is it unnatural of me not to shed a tear over Helen Harcombe's "mummy manual"?
Mrs Harcombe, a trading standards officer, died of breast cancer last year, aged
28. She left behind a list of instructions for her husband on how to bring up
their seven-year-old daughter. These included checking for nits, making her eat
plenty of fruit and veg, and reminding her to put flowers on her mother's grave.

For reasons best known to Mrs Harcombe's family, this highly personal document
was published in the Daily Mail last week. I read it through squinted eyes,
feeling faintly ashamed of myself for looking. Not only did I fail to be moved
by her "poignant words" - I actually experienced a pedantic spasm of irritation
that she had used the American "Mom" instead of "Mum".

My journalistic colleagues, it would appear, are not so hard-hearted. The
following day's newspapers were full of treacly tributes from female columnists,
praising Mrs Harcombe's "luminous beauty", her "selflessness driven by the power
of a mother's boundless love for her child". The Evening Standard threw itself
into a veritable mudbath of mawkishness, commissioning four women writers to
produce their own "mummy manuals".

Like 21st century Marie Antoinettes, they played at being cancer-stricken tragic
heroines. "Don't let me fade from their minds," choked one. "Don't put me on a
pedestal," counselled another.

I do understand the appeal of this kind of exercise. I have often woken from
dreams of my own (heavily attended) funeral, sobbing with self-love. That, in
essence, is what the ladies of the Standard were up to. There is a thin line
between the virtue of empathy and the vice of self-indulgence - but not so thin
that we shouldn't try to observe it.  "Sentimentality," wrote Norman Mailer, "is
the emotional promiscuity of those who have no sentiment." A truly empathetic
person should not need to be told that the death of a young mother is a sad
event. Neither should they need to see photographs of poor Abigail Witchalls in
her hospital bed to appreciate the awfulness of her predicament. The most
powerful emotions - namely, grief and love - are familiar in some degree to
almost everyone. That is why it is impossible to describe them except in
clichIs.

When we fixate on other people's personal tragedies, as the press has done with
both Mrs Witchalls and Mrs Harcombe, it is often for the pleasure of tapping
into those banal but dangerous sensations from a safe distance. The emotional
voyeur doesn't just sympathise with the victim; she recasts their story with
herself in the leading role. She fantasises about how sad it would be for her
family, her friends - above all, herself - if she were to meet with some grisly
end.

We all succumb to mawkishness from time to time, but it is nothing to be proud
of. We hacks, especially, would do well to remember that other people's pain is
not there for our pleasure - and that in matters of human sympathy, less is
sometimes more.

For those of us who are still baffled as to which party to support, the
whoyoushouldvotefor.com website sounds like a godsend. All you have to do is
answer 25 simple questions about policy, press a button and - presto! - it will
work out where your political affiliations lie. The only trouble is, everyone
comes out Green.

I was instructed to vote Green despite disagreeing with two of the party's
favourite policies: the ban on fox-hunting and the introduction of ID cards. My
suspicions aroused, I persuaded the rest of my office to try it.

Almost everyone - young and old, reactionary or liberal - was declared Green,
except for our gentle, mild-mannered editorial assistant, who was advised to
vote Ukip.

The website insists it has no political agenda and is not funded by any of the
parties. Perhaps, then, it is just a glitch in the software; or perhaps it is
our own fault for answering the questions too piously (it has often been
observed that when people fill in questionnaires - even anonymous ones - they
always try to sound brainier and nicer than they really are). Either way, Green
Party strategists must be prancing with glee.

Still unconvinced about my political leanings, I decided it might help to get a
closer look at the party leaders. So on Thursday night I went to Stratford for
the filming of Question Time.

All three men look strikingly different in the flesh. Charles Kennedy is leaner
and more charismatic than he appears on television (he wandered into the studio
before filming began and started bantering with the audience, until he was
shooed out by David Dimbleby). Michael Howard's body language is disastrous; he
sat knock-kneed in his chair, his ruby lips pursed into an approximate smile,
his hands bobbing nervously before him like a Thunderbirds puppet.

As for Tony Blair - why did nobody tell me that our leader is a giant? As he
strode onto the stage, the ground beneath us seemed to quake; when he sat down,
his colossal thighs strained against the confines of his trousers. His huge,
capable hands would not have disgraced a Mills and Boon hero.

I couldn't possibly vote for him, but at least now I can see why Cherie does.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              149 of 149 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 01, 2005, Sunday

MY ELECTION CHOICE Vote for the candidates who think for themselves

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: News; Christopher Booker'; s Notebook; Pg. 023

LENGTH: 283 words

So remote from the concerns of this election campaign have been the issues I
regularly cover in this column that I have viewed it with some detachment.

During the past two elections I was delighted to take part in many serious
election meetings, of the kind which have generally vanished from British
politics, often speaking to audiences of several hundred (even, at one
Referendum Party rally, 10,000). This time I had agreed to address only one
meeting, for a friend who is a Tory front-bench spokesman. But after Howard
Flight's deselection, we agreed my presence was a risk not worth taking with the
leadership, and it was cancelled.

I am fortunate to be in that small minority of voters who can vote personally
for a candidate rather than a party: in my case David Heathcoat-Amory, Tory
candidate for Wells, who, as a delegate to the convention drafting the
"Constitution for Europe", has become a powerful champion of our democracy in
the battle I see as overriding all others. Equally fortunate is anyone who can
vote for one of the few MPs and candidates who have shown conviction and courage
in thinking for themselves, such as Labour's Ann Clwyd and Kate Hoey, or those
Tories who have defied party managers by putting Europe high on their agenda.

As one of the 2.6million who last summer voted for the UK Independence Party, I
would still vote selectively for some of their candidates this time: not least,
in Falmouth and Camborne, the bearded fisherman Mick Mahon who, 16 years ago in
a letter to The Times, first alerted me to the scandal of the Common Fisheries
Policy. Considering how long I have since had to spend reporting on that
disaster, Mick has a lot to answer for.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited
