
                               1 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 28, 2005, Monday

LIFE ON EARTH: THE SHOLTO BYRNES INTERVIEW: PATRICK MOORE;
 PATRICK MOORE HAS THRILLED GENERATIONS OF VIEWERS WITH THE WONDERS OF

BYLINE: SHOLTO BYRNES

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1573 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Patrick Moore: Don't put in that I'm extremely right wing. It's just that I want
the country back' David Sandison


"Are you a smoker?" asks Sir Patrick Moore, from across the study of his home in
Selsey, West Sussex, as I search out the book that inspired him, aged six, to
become an astronomer. I locate an ancient edition of GF Chambers's The Story of
the Solar System just along the shelf from Crap Towns II. "I am," says Moore. "I
smoke a pipe. I've smoked four cigarettes in my life, all of which I bit in
half." Why did he do that? "I don't know, I just did, hur hur hur." He adds a
typical non sequitur. "I knocked all my teeth out when I was 18."

Patrick Moore, 81, is known and loved by generations. His face, pinched around
the monocle in his right eye, has been on our television screens for 48 years,
during which time he has only missed one edition of The Sky At Night, his
endearingly low-budget series about the heavens. "It's an all-time record," he
says. "I had a second entry into The Guinness Book of Records for the slowest
telegram in history - it took four months from here to Sidmouth. Then another
chap had one that took eight years. I won't beat that."

There is another side to Moore, however, one that's not evident to those who
only associate his brisk, Pathe-News-type diction with discussions of supernovae
and asteroid belts. Moore's views are those of a brazen patriot and xenophobe,
who thinks that "abroad" is a beastly place and, in the words of Flanders and
Swann, "the English, the English, the English are best". In his newly published
autobiography, he writes: "I have been to Borneo (no cannibals)", while Egypt is
"all in all, a fascinating place, even if it is rather a pity about the
Egyptians". And, when challenged, Moore remains staunchly unapologetic about his
judgments. "Don't forget," he chortles, "I belong to the generation that was in
the war, and therefore I know what they're like."

Ah, the war. Although he gives it barely a mention in his autobiography, the
Second World War changed Moore's life in several key ways. Laid low as a child
by a heart complaint, Moore was tutored at home rather than going to Eton, as
planned. At 16, when he was due to take up a place at Cambridge, war intervened
(afterwards, his Cambridge place was still open, but it would have meant taking
a Government grant, and Moore wanted to stand on his "own two feet". By the time
he had sufficient funds to pay his own way, he was too busy. Consequently, he
has no formal academic qualifications, although he has many honorary degrees.
Moore spent the war in the RAF, rising to the rank of Squadron Leader. It was
while he was serving that his sweetheart was killed in the Blitz. No one could
ever take her place, and from then on he remained single, living with his mother
until her death in 1981.

His traumatic wartime experiences have coloured his views on Europe ever since
and he's now an enthusiastic member of UKIP, So, does his Euroscepticism stem
from a desire that Britain should rule itself or from a dislike for foreigners?
"Don't they go together?" Moore chuckles.

His Euroscepticism seems to be one of the few remaining things in Moore's life
that gives him pleasures. He admits that a lack of enjoyment is one of the banes
of growing old. Four years ago he began to be affected by a spine problem, which
has deprived him of much of the use of his hands. He can no longer play his
beloved Chopin on the piano, nor swing the sticks above his xylophone, which
lies propped on its side near the front door. Writing with a pen is near
impossible, and bashing away on his 1908 typewriter is difficult. Even the two
observatories in his garden have to be operated by others. He seems to have a
growing sense that his own passing may not be that far off.

"When I was in hospital with salmonella," he says of the incident that made him
miss The Sky At Night for the first time last year, "they'd given up on me. It
wasn't very nice. But it was just the wrong moment. Although I can't go on for
much longer, obviously."

Moore describes himself in his book as being "on the last lap". He has made
plans for a party after his funeral, at which he wants a candle to be lit. A
tape recording will then be played, on which Moore's voice will announce that if
he is still around in some shape or form, he will attempt to extinguish the
flame. "I shall blow that candle out if it kills me," he jokes.

Does he believe in an afterlife? "Ask me again in 10 years and I'll tell you. Ha
ha ha." But as an astronomer, does he feel he has any special insights into
what, if anything, happens after death? "Well if life began and ended here it
would be rather pointless, wouldn't it?" So does he think he will meet people he
has known on Earth again? "I'm sure of that, sure that I will. The thing I don't
want to do is to meet my uncle George again." Not his favourite uncle, then?
"No, not at all, ha ha ha."

I ask him if there was anything he wishes that he'd done differently. "One thing
I do regret," he says, "and this may be the conceit of an old coot, but I do
wish I'd taken my composition a bit more seriously. I think I might have got
somewhere. I wish I had." He gets up to put on a recording of his music he made
with the Royal Scottish National Orchestra. This is a slow process, as Moore has
to use walking sticks to move his enormous frame from behind his desk, past his
many trophies and commendations, which include a Bafta and something called a
Golden Egg award, over to his CD player. Setting the machine to the right track
involves him banging it vigorously.

Eventually he gets the CD going, and a series of "light music" compositions of
the type favoured by army concert bands emanate from the speakers. They're
obviously derivative but entirely respectable efforts, as is his Nocturne in D
flat for solo piano. "The kind of music I write belongs roughly to the 1880
vintage," says Moore. "That's why I love Schubert and Greig, and am slightly
lukewarm about Bach and Beethoven. I'm a tunesmith."

We talk for a while about astronomy; about what a shame it is that Pluto is
being downgraded from a planet to a "Kuiper Belt object"; about the book on
cosmology Moore is working on with Brian May (the Queen guitarist has a first
from Cambridge in astrophysics - "he's Dr Brian May," says Moore); and about the
book on asteroids Moore has written with another old friend, Arthur C Clarke.

But Europe is the issue Moore keeps returning to. Even a conversation about his
time setting up the Armagh Planetarium in the 1960s ends up on the subject. "My
first job in Armagh was to join the local cricket club," recalls Moore, who was
a useful leg-spinner for the Selsey side until well into his seventies. "They
asked me what kind of bowler I was, and I told them. Then they asked if I was a
Catholic or a Protestant. What did that matter? They said it mattered very much.
So I told them I was a druid and walked out." It's as soon as I mention another
cricket enthusiast of Moore's acquaintance, John Major, that we are back onto
Europe. "He made one great mistake," says Moore. "If he'd offered a referendum
on Europe, he'd still be Prime Minister. They all want to throw it away. That's
why I'm in UKIP. But thanks to Robert Kilroy-Silk I don't know how we'll do."
Moore is not a fan. "Was he a plant?" he asks. "The Tories are very worried
about us. I can't comment, no proof, but I've heard it suggested. He was a
Labour MP, why join a right-wing party?"

Although Moore says he would stand in the election if he was 10 years younger,
his opinion of politicians is low. George Bush is "power-mad". "I think," he
says, "we should take all the world's leading politicians, put them in a large
spacecraft, and send them on a one-way journey to Alpha Centauri."

"I was offered a seat once," he continues. For the Tories? He replies with a
"hmm" that I take to be a yes. "I wouldn't have lasted 10 minutes because I
always say what I think. Don't put in that I'm extremely right- wing, it's just
that I want the country back. I don't want to be handed over to Brussels, that's
why I'm a member of UKIP.

"Law and order," he persists, "that's another thing. I was getting out of my car
by Shepherd's Bush underground 10 years ago, and I was attacked by two thugs.
About 18, both with knives. I broke their arms. Didn't dare call the police
though. You know why?" He leans over in triumph to make his point. "They were
black. Hur hur hur." On top of this, when the United Nations general secretary
Kofi Annan comes up in our conversation (he "won't stop the Americans doing
anything they like"), Moore guffawingly refers to him as "coffee-potter".

If only Moore would stick to his telescopes, his xylophone, his love of cricket,
his cats, his irritation with the phone ("damn that machine," he shouts every
time it rings), he could be a perfect, spotless English eccentric.

We've been talking for a couple of hours, and I have to leave, but Moore would
evidently like to keep chatting. I think my host, increasingly frustrated by his
infirmities, is growing tired of life on this planet. Maybe he's looking forward
to seeing his old friends. As he says at the end of his autobiography, he
expects new arrivals at the pearly gates will be greeted with "a stiff nectar
and soda, and probably an ambrosia sandwich". There's probably room for a
seasoned leg-spinner in the local side as well.

Patrick Moore: The Autobiography' is published by Sutton at £7.99

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               2 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 27, 2005

Escape: GONZO CITIES 2005: Fear and loathing in... Cardiff: The king of gonzo
travel is dead. But where would Hunter S go today? Britain's edgiest travellers
give their verdict, while Euan Ferguson , below, files late and 'tired'

BYLINE: Euan Ferguson

SECTION: Observer Escape Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1514 words


For British adventurists chasing the more exuberantly frayed seams of life -
guns, stench, manacles, corruption, necromancy, vomit, sex and death - there is
now, of course, an exciting new option. To join the UK Independence Party,
telephone 0800 587 6587. For a long while, however, there was just Hunter
Stockton Thompson, and now he's gone and shot himself.

Any gutsy UK travellers minded over the last quarter-century to seek out not
golden beaches and cocktailed sunsets but instead the kind of thrills which
generally involve underage Mayan masseuses and bottles of unfiltered
trimethoxyphenethylamine - they adored the fake doctor, and his celebrations of
Bad Times, in Bad Places. With his passing, we wondered innocently, here at
Escape, is there still, today, anywhere left?

Observer contributors came up worryingly quickly with their nominations of
thrillingly bad places on earth: places in which Thompson would surely have had
fun, places whose criteria for inclusion is vari ous but united by the fact that
they are richly unlikely to be visited, ever, by Gloria Hunniford. The kind of
place you feel drunk even thinking about. It's not just about inhospitability. I
have had respectively a warmer welcome and more courteous service at the Hotel
Palestine in Baghdad and while being robbed at gunpoint on the Kosovan border
than at a snottily over-hyped gastropub in London which we will call the
Engineer, because that's its name. Nor is it just about violence. I have only
ever seriously wanted to pull out a gun once: at Henley during Braying Day for
special-needs aristocrats. Instead, it's about those places which still exude a
heady mix of beauty and filth, companionship and trepidation: all the places
which make you feel, on having got out of them alive, more alive.

And, having read them now, I feel sure that Hunter should have got out more, and
gone to these disastrous places, and stayed his arthritic trigger-finger for
another few years, and had a little more joy.

Tracey Emin artist Bangkok

I'm just not into debauchery these days, but for wildness go to Bangkok. It's
where I bought boy number 54, in a pair of Calvin Klein white underpants in a
very hard-core gay bar. The idea is that you buy a boy to have sex with him. I
didn't, but we took him out for the night and he became our guide to the Bangkok
where tourists never normally go.

We went to a place where men stand on the bar and masturbate in front of you.
Then there are the lady-boys who expel nuts from their anuses (or maybe it's
their vaginas?). The nuts are attached to pins, and they fly out across the room
and burst balloons. The clubs with women are mad, too. You're sitting there with
80 Thai women around your feet.

DBC Pierre novelist Port of Spain, Trinidad

Sticky and dangerous, Port of Spain might only exist to correct anyone who
thinks ecstasy comes in a tablet. I went there for a cricket match and didn't
get away for two years. It's a tropical disease, the kind that tempts you to
piss away everything you thought you wanted. Kind of infection that melts your
veneers. A place to die, but die wasted and shrugging.

No turquoise waters, no powder beaches. Instead, manatee-infested swamps slide
into the Gulf of Paria, giving brochure-spotters the finger. The place lives for
itself. And somewhere in its hot, wet air, in the stench of sex, in the
relentless rhythms, in the low-low-down dirty dancing, in the traffic of
Venezuelans, of substances, of violence, beauty, and humour, lie the keys to
utter abandon - as it says on every bar and rum-shop licence - 'any time, any
day'.

DBC Pierre's new novel Ludmila's Broken English will be published by Faber next
January .

Jason Burke Chief Reporter The Observer Baghdad

Sometimes you couldn't make it up: 40C, tracer fire spattering green and red
across the night sky, blacked-out helicopters overhead, distant explosions and
two dozen sunburned journalists working their way through several crates of bad
beer and dodgy whisky. A film from a bad movie surely? No: even Baghdad has its
moments. Good wine - at $ 30 a bottle - could be sourced from a Christian family
in the city, at least until the Islamic hardliners shut them down. Johnny
Walker, the alternative currency to the dollar in most of the Middle East, was
cheaper. Around the pool at the al-Hamra hotel the drink of choice was Amstel.
My birthday cake comprised two cans topped by a cigarette lighter taped so it
maintained an unknown soldier-like flame.

The biggest problem was getting home. Bizarrely, going out on the street at 1am
and hailing a cab was about the safest way. Ordering one from a hotel meant
alerting dozes of people to your movements. You'd have to be pretty unlucky to
hail a militant.

Orla Guerin BBC correspondent Nablus

Deep in the heart of the occupied West Bank is one of the most dangerous places
on earth. The Israelis have kept the city virtually closed and ringed with a
security cordon. But inside it is an incredibly chaotic, anarchic city over
which no Palestinian authority effectively has control. There's an atmosphere of
complete lawlessness, Palestinians killing Palestinians. This is where you go to
meet a gunman down a dark back alley, all the while listening for Israeli
helicopters overhead.

But it's also beautiful, ringed by extraordinary mountains with a wonderful
kasbah. But even here, in the middle of town, at any moment anything can happen.
Bullets can start flying out of nowhere.

Yet there is this incredible energy. It's a vibrant, frenzied, place that just
feels intensely alive.

Geoff Dyer author Riyadh

For an experience that pushes the edge of the taste and decency envelope, I'd
opt for Riyadh , a city where you've got a good chance of getting into serious
trou ble. You're wandering round in your shorts, it's 50C, the sun is frying
your eyeballs, your breath is ripe with the smell of alcohol, and you think you
could use something to mellow out.

You tell a taxi driver you need to get stoned, and he directs you to where
someone is getting seriously stoned - to death. But this is just a warm-up for
the major entertainment: a public beheading. Then you really need a drink.

Howard Marks author and ex-drug smuggler Cardiff

If Hunter S Thompson was around in 2005, he'd choose Cardiff. There are
better-tasting chips, more drugs - the green, green grass of home and magic
mushrooms - more alcohol consumption. The women are prettier (you wouldn't even
notice Catherine Zeta-Jones), there's better music (Stereophonics, Super Furry
Animals, and Goldie Looking Chain), less neon and fewer Americans.

Life continues all night (in the streets rather than air-conditioned casinos).
And you can watch the world's best sports events.

Robert Young Pelton author Yaviza

The Pan American highway stops dead in the small town of Yaviza, Panama. It's an
ugly early morning bus ride from Panama City for me. Dropped off in the
dust-blown anus of North America I find myself in a cinder-block town with
stretch-marked hookers, toothless drunks and cold-eyed borderguards.

I need to avoid the police so I hole up in one of the two hotels in town. With
dusk comes salsa music blasting upstairs into my sweaty $ 5 a day hotel room.
Daylight brings heat. The denizens of Yaviza sprawl on their porches glaring at
intruders. The drug business here doesn't need visitors. A day later I am
captured by paramilitaries. And five Kuna Indians are hacked to death with
machetes.

Robert Young Pelton is the author of The World's Most Dangerous Places,
published by HarperCollins.

Victoria Coren columnist and gambler St Petersburg

Every gambler knows that Las Vegas is no longer Sin City. You take the wife and
kids to Vegas. You take the mistress to France. But if you're going alone, for
drugs and hookers and hang-the-consequences activity, it has to be St
Petersburg. The chicks are cheap, the vodka doesn't stop and the Mob still
decides who walks safely around the town. Gamblers talk of nothing but
Kalashnikovs and five girls a night for 100 bucks.

But 'gonzo' doesn't have to mean macho drugs and guns. Gonzo is just Method. You
just have to mean it. Maybe Thompson will be reborn as a woman dancing topless
in a Thai bar. Girl gonzo is the future.

William Sutcliffe novelist Peshawar

Peshawar has an astonish ing market (selling enough dubious leaves and nuts to
keep Thompson pilgrims amply stimulated), where you will be invited in for green
tea by every other stallholder in an unceasing barrage of hospitality.

I shared my compartment on the 36-hour train ride from Karachi with a Nigerian,
Mohammed, who was heading for a terrorist training camp in Afghanistan.

In nearby Darra, artisans work on a local speciality, gun-making. Half the shops
on the high street sell guns, and customers are often on the street, testing the
produce. Tourists are asked if they want to pop into the desert to fire off a
Kalashnikov. Hunter S would be in his element in this crazy, scary, friendly
town.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           February 27, 2005, Sunday

How British and American conservatives united to stop Bush endorsing the EU
constitution as favour to Blair Minister furious over trans-Atlantic pressure to
cut crucial passage from President's fence-mending speech in Brussels

BYLINE: BY DAVID WASTELL AND JUSTIN STARES i n Brussels

SECTION: News; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 665 words

PRESIDENT BUSH'S speech to European leaders last week was toned down at the last
moment to avoid giving his support to the proposed EU constitution, after a
strenuous lobbying campaign by conservative activists in Washington.

Leading British Euro-sceptics were enlisted to help win a battle within the
White House over how far Mr Bush should go in endorsing a more unified EU, after
reports began to circulate in Washington that his planned speech would express
backing for the constitution.

Members of the staff of Dick Cheney, the vice-president, are also said to have
intervened with Mr Bush's speechwriters to ensure the removal of language which,
conservatives say, would have given a powerful and explicit boost to campaigners
for the EU constitution.  "The speech was being drawn up along State Department
lines, with a view to backing the draft constitution," said one Washington
official with close White House links.  "It was not until last weekend that we
were given assurances at the highest level that this would not, after all, be
happening."

According to one European Parliament official, who says he was shown an advance
draft of Mr Bush's remarks by a "well-connected" American contact, the President
was originally going to say: "I know Europe is creating a constitution. We in
America value our constitution and so should you."

In the event, at his meeting with EU heads of government in Brussels on Monday,
Mr Bush merely declared his backing for what he called Europe's "democratic
unity".

He said America supported "a strong Europe", but fell short of an explicit
endorsement of the constitution, which cannot take effect until referenda have
been held in EU states. His repeated reference to "Europe" rather than the EU
was also seen as a victory by Eurosceptics.

Alarm bells rang among conservatives after Condoleezza Rice, the Secretary of
State, spoke warmly during her recent trip across the Atlantic of the "growing
unity of Europe", including plans for a shared foreign policy and powerful EU
foreign minister, and said America had "everything to gain from having a
stronger Europe as a partner".

One conservative American policy adviser said: "If a common foreign and security
policy had applied during Iraq, it would have meant we had no allies at all in
Europe."

Peter Mandelson, the EU's trade commissioner, was said to have been boasting
that Mr Bush would endorse the draft constitution -- a move likely to strengthen
Tony Blair's position in campaigning for a "Yes" vote in Britain's referendum
next year.

A posse of think-tanks, led by the influential Heritage Foundation -- whose
president, Edwin Feulner, has close links to the Bush administration -- and
other conservative groups began an urgent lobbying of the White House to prevent
this.

The organisations sought the views of British Euro-sceptics, including UK
Independence Party officials. Daniel Hannan, Conservative MEP for South-East
England, was asked to provide a draft article for the Wall Street Journal,
outlining the case against the constitution.

Although his article was not in the end published, his arguments found their way
into briefing documents sent to Mr Bush's senior staff. According to influential
conservatives in Washington, an article by Charles Moore, the former editor of
The Daily Telegraph, published in that paper last weekend, was immediately
circulated within the White House.

The intervention by Eurosceptics was condemned by senior Labour ministers last
night.

Denis MacShane, the minister for Europe, said: "It is bizarre that, in a week
when President Bush reached out the hand of friendship to Europe, isolated
Tories should be seeking to bite it off.  "I welcome the language from Mr Bush
and Ms Rice and I will encourage fellow Europe minister to respond positively.
My advice to Mr Hannan is to stop wasting money on phone calls to Washington and
start making calls to Michael Howard to drop his isolationist anti-European
policies."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               4 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 25, 2005, Friday

Analysis Tories have wind taken out of their sails by Blair and Brown

BYLINE: by Anthony King

SECTION: News Pg. 012

LENGTH: 1055 words

THE good ship Conservative Party, its captain and crew are again becalmed,
according to YouGov's regular tracking survey for The Daily Telegraph.

With the general election probably only weeks away, the Conservatives still
appear incapable of making sustained headway against a Labour Government with
both Tony Blair and Gordon Brown on the bridge.

The Prime Minister's personal lead over Michael Howard is now larger than ever
and Labour's lead over the Conservatives on the economy is growing. Messrs Blair
and Brown may be personal rivals but all of YouGov's surveys suggest that
electorally they remain a formidable combination.

To deprive Labour of its overall majority the Conservatives need a swing of more
than six per cent. To win outright they need a swing of more than 10 per cent.
YouGov currently gives them a swing of less than two per cent -- enough to
secure a few extra seats but not nearly enough to take power.

There is only one issue on which the Tories enjoy a commanding lead over Labour
-- immigration and asylum -- and the media's intense focus on immigration last
month probably accounts for the Conservatives' success in narrowing the gap
between the two parties at that time. However, elections are seldom won on a
single issue and from the Tories' point of view immigration has the disadvantage
that voters tend to see it as a problem facing the whole country, not one that
affects them personally.

The findings, set out in the chart, underline the point that the replacement of
Iain Duncan Smith by Michael Howard in November 2003 turns out to have been
mostly a waste of time. The personalities have changed but the Tory party's
underlying problems evidently have not.

According to YouGov, Labour's lead over the Conservatives has increased from a
single point in late January to six points now, with Labour currently on 38 per
cent (down four points since the last election) and the Conservatives on 32 per
cent (down one point since 2001). Almost one voter in three backs either the
Liberal Democrats (21 per cent) or one of the minor parties, including the UK
Independence Party (nine per cent).

Two other opinion polls published this week suggest that, on the contrary,
Labour's lead over the Tories is narrowing. However, those polls consistently
suffer from greater sampling fluctuations than YouGov and because of an accident
of timing almost certainly failed to catch last month's Tory surge.

The full range of YouGov's latest findings supports the view that Mr Howard has
failed to make a significant personal impact and that Labour's economic record
remains its greatest asset.

Although the Prime Minister's personal ratings have plummeted since 2001, 35 per
cent of voters still think Mr Blair would "make the best prime minister"
compared with only 20 per cent who think the same of Mr Howard. Not since the
era of Mr Duncan Smith has the gap between Labour and Conservative leaders been
so wide.

Asked which of the two major parties they would prefer to see in power if they
were forced to choose, no fewer than 46 per cent in the latest survey say they
would opt for Labour. Only 36 per cent would opt for the Tories. As the figures
in the chart show, the gap between the two parties is far greater now than it
was during the last months of Mr Duncan Smith's leadership.

Similarly, when voters were asked this week how they would feel if the
Conservatives won next time, they responded with no greater enthusiasm than in
the days of Mr Duncan Smith. The proportion saying they would be "dismayed" by
the prospect of a Conservative victory is almost exactly the same as before the
2001 election. The proportion saying that, on the contrary, they would be
"delighted" if the Tories won -- now 16 per cent -- was small then and is again
small.

The findings in the sections of the chart headed "Economic competence" and "Best
party to handle" show how important the economy is from Labour's point of view.
YouGov regularly asks: "If the country were in economic difficulties, which
party do you think would handle the problem best?" Labour's lead over the Tories
at the time of the last election was 26 points. Since then it has fallen to 10
points. Nevertheless, it has grown over the past two years and is now greater
than at any time since The Daily Telegraph first commissioned YouGov surveys.

When respondents were asked which party they thought could best handle a range
of issues, including the economy, a similar pattern emerged. Labour has a
12-point advantage over the Conservatives on the crucial issue of the economy,
with more people favouring Labour on this one issue than on any other.
Predictably, Labour also leads on health and education.

The Conservatives are furthest ahead on the twin issues of law and order and
immigration and are backed more strongly on immigration than is any of the
parties on any other issue.

However, their smaller but still substantial lead on law and order is probably a
greater electoral asset. Crime and anti-social behaviour affect the lives of far
more people than immigration.

Most politicians typically think of politics in two- or three-party terms but
one striking feature of all YouGov's recent surveys is the large proportions of
people who are dubious about all the parties' promises and claims. For instance,
nearly one third of voters say they don't know who would make the best prime
minister and more than a third profess to having no views about which party
could best handle the economy.

The "None/Don't know" column in the section of the chart headed "Best party to
handle" -- covering nearly a dozen problems facing the country -- is worth
perusing from this point of view. In connection with only one issue, education,
is the proportion of those replying either "None of them" or "Don't know" less
than 25 per cent. In four cases it numbers more than 30 per cent.

YouGov's latest findings thus add to the weight of evidence suggesting that
voter turnout in 2005 could well be even lower than it was in 2001. The ban on
foxhunting will probably not make any difference to either turnout or the
outcome. Before the ban took effect a two-to-one majority thought foxhunting
should be a crime. The proportions now are almost exactly the same.  -Anthony
King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               5 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 23, 2005

Lord Crony hands over another Pounds 1m to Labour

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 564 words


A DRUGS company tycoon who picked up a lucrative government contract and a
peerage after donating cash to Labour has given another Pounds 1million to the
party in the past year.

Lord Drayson, whose Powder-Ject firm secured a Pounds 20million contract for
smallpox vaccines after the September 11 attacks on the U.S. in 2001, gave
Pounds 500,000 in December, figures from the Electoral Commission revealed
yesterday.

That followed a Pounds 500,000 donation last June just weeks after he was made a
life peer by Tony Blair.

Lord Drayson is rapidly becoming one of the party's leading donors. There are
rumours at Westminster that he could be appointed Science Minister if Labour
wins a third term.

The post is currently held by the party's biggest donor, Lord Sainsbury, the
supermarket billionaire who has so far given Pounds 8.5million.

There was a political row when Lord Drayson's company secured the smallpox
contract because he had already given Labour two Pounds 50,000 donations.

Just before landing the deal, he had met the Prime Minister at a business
breakfast at Number Ten. He has since sold PowderJect and is said to be worth
Pounds 60million.

Lord Drayson's gift just before Christmas helped push Labour donations for the
final quarter of 2004 to more than Pounds 5.1million Pounds 500,000 more than
the Tories.

The fourth-quarter totals were well up on the same period in 2003 as the parties
built up their war chests for the election campaign.

Labour's Pounds 5,162,731 in donations was dominated, as ever, by support from
the unions.

Significant individual gifts included Pounds 500,000 from philanthropist Sir
Christopher Ondaatje, Pounds 330,000 from refrigerator magnate William Haughey
and Pounds 101,384 from businessman Sir Sigmund Sternberg.

Sir Sigmund, a prominent member of the Jewish community, made the payment before
Alastair Campbell authorised the notorious flying pig posters featuring Michael
Howard and Oliver Letwin. They were withdrawn after Sir Sigmund personally
protested to party bosses.

Among gifts to the Tories were 24 donations totalling Pounds 161,840 from
Bearwood Corporate Services, a company controlled by the party's former
treasurer Lord Ashcroft which has directed almost Pounds 300,000 to specific
marginal constituencies over the past two years.

The party received a total of Pounds 4,610,849, including Pounds 200,000 from
anti-euro betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler, who bankrolled the Conservatives to the
tune of Pounds 5million before the 2001 election.

Banker George Magan gave Pounds 325,417 and Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover
Pounds 100,000.

Author Frederick Forsyth handed the party Pounds 10,000, as did Dixons chief and
former party treasurer Lord Kalms.

Nightclub host Peter Stringfellow gave Pounds 2,750, and the party's co-chairman
and advertising guru Lord Saatchi Pounds 11,000.

Other large gifts included Pounds 50,000 from wine millionaire Roger Gabb,
Pounds 150,000 from Frederick Catlin and Pounds 396,409 from the will of Ruth
Beardmore. The Lib-Dems received Pounds 1,149,844 in donations over the quarter,
with Pounds 250,000 coming from the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust.

The UK Independence Party, which lost its main donor Paul Sykes amid the row
over Robert Kilroy-Silk's bid for the leadership last autumn, took in only
Pounds 63,081.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LORD DRAYSON: SAID TO BE WORTH 60MILLION AFTER SELLING COMPANY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 23, 2005, Wednesday

Tory peer pours cash into fight for seats

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News Pg. 010

LENGTH: 312 words

HUNDREDS of thousands of pounds is being poured into Tory fighting funds in key
marginal seats by Lord Ashcroft, the party donor, figures revealed yesterday.

Conservative campaigns in about 30 seats, including two where Tory MPs are
defending wafer-thin majorities, have so far received more than pounds 200,000
in total, according to the Electoral Commission.

The Tory peer's cash will have gone to at least 60 Conservative associations by
the time of the General Election, sources close to him said.

Both he and Conservative Campaign Headquarters have denied that he is building
up a power base by directly supporting particular candidates rather than giving
the cash to the party centrally.  "There are no strings attached," a spokesman
for Lord Ashcroft said, denying that only eurosceptic candidates were being
backed.

The latest party donation figures, for the last three months of 2004, show
Labour netted pounds 5.1 million, compared with the Tories' pounds 4.6 million.
About pounds 1 million of the Tory donations was public money paid out to allow
the party to function as the official Opposition.

The Liberal Democrats received pounds 1.1 million, including pounds 250,000 from
the Joseph Rowntree Trust Ltd. The UK Independence Party netted just pounds
63,081.

Just over half of Labour's income (about pounds 2.6 million) came from the trade
unions.

Among individual gifts, pounds 500,000 came from Lord Drayson, whose company
PowerJect made millions of pounds providing smallpox vaccine to the Government
after the September 11 attacks. He was ennobled by Tony Blair last year.

Sir Christopher Ondaatje, the philanthropist, also gave pounds 500,000, while
William Haughey, the refrigerator magnate, gave pounds 330,000.

The Tories' biggest individual donation, of pounds 396,000, came in the form of
a bequest from Ruth Beardmore.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 23, 2005, Wednesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 747 words


Colonel Tim spurns politics for life on the small screen

Stand by for Gulf War: The Movie. Colonel Tim Collins, the soldier famed for his
rousing eve-of-battle speech in Iraq, is launching a new career in showbusiness.

Less than a year after he quit the Army, Collins - who told troops in the Royal
Irish regiment to be "ferocious in battle" but "magnaminous in victory" - has
hired the agent Mark Lucas to find him a job in television.

Friends of the cigar-chomping Ulsterman say that he is in "advanced
negotiations" to star in a series of history programmes about post-war
conflicts. They will draw on both his Army career, and his knowledge of military
history.

"We are currently in conversation with terrestrial channels," says Lucas. "Tim's
a complete natural on screen, and there are many things he can do. In the
forthcoming programmes, he'll be guiding viewers through a number of interesting
landscapes that have seen conflicts."

"Tim's obviously had experience in the Gulf and Northern Ireland, as well as the
special forces, while his family's involvement in the army can be traced back
generations."

The move will be greeted with disappointment in Westminster. Collins had been
considering a career in politics, and was courted by both the Ulster Unionist
and Conservative parties.

"I certainly wouldn't expect to see him at the hustings in the foreseeable
future," Lucas adds.

Wozza fuming at celebrity' heckler

THE CHEF Antony Worrall Thompson, left, found himself in the political front
line at the pro-smoking group Forest's annual awards on Monday.

Wozza, as patron of the organisation, was asked to speak alongside another
celebrity supporter, the musician Joe Jackson. Bizarrely, their speeches were
both interrupted by Caroline O'Shea, a former Big Brother contestant who was
being followed by a film crew.

"This minor celebrity started shouting anti-smoking mumbo-jumbo during the
speeches," says one guest. "She had clearly been drinking, and had to be asked
to leave the room and shut up. Later, she started trying to seduce one of the
elderly guests. He wasn't complaining, but it was all a bit embarrassing for
everyone else."

Conspiracy theorists reckon O'Shea was sent to disrupt the event by the
anti-smoking lobby. But Jackson wasn't bothered "I eat hecklers for breakfast,"
he says.

Up the creek

A COUPLE of weeks back, Patrick Stewart - rather surprisingly - told me he'd
never bothered to watch Dawson's Creek, the TV show in which his West End
co-star Joshua Jackson, left, achieved fame. But Jackson isn't one to take
offence.

"I wasn't really surprised that Patrick hadn't seen Dawson's Creek," he tells
me. "There was no reason why he should. Of course, I knew about him: I was a
fan, though not really of Star Trek but of X-men.

"I know young actors say this all the time, but I've learned a lot from Patrick.
The past weeks have been the best professional experience of my life."

Benefit of the doubt

ROBERT KILROY-SILK might be long gone, but the UK Independence Party still has
the odd undesirable in its ranks. Their prospective candidate in Manchester
Central is a former Labour councillor called Damien O'Connor.

Pressingly - given his new party's tough line on standards in public life - Mr
O'Connor is a convicted criminal. Back in 2000, he narrowly escaped a prison
sentence after being found guilty of a £9,000 housing benefit fraud.

That doesn't seem to worry the UKIP, though. "Mr O'Connor has been perfectly
frank about his criminal record," the party said yesterday. "He's almost
completed paid off the money relating to the offence, so we are happy to support
his candidacy."

The Master of the Rolls, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, has struck up an
intriguing friendship with Cleo Rocos, the actress who played Miss Whiplash on
The Kenny Everett Show.

The couple met at a recent dinner hosted by the Lord and Lady Mayoress at
Mansion House. "They got on like a house on fire," I'm told. "Cleo has a
magnificent cleavage, and Phillips spent most of the evening talking to it."

Rocos yesterday stressed that her new chum - one of the three most senior judges
in England - was accompanied by his wife.

"There was no buttock-squenching," she tells me. "We had a slightly eccentric
conversation, and he's a really adventurous, witty man. He's now invited me to
dine at the Garrick Club."

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 23, 2005, Wednesday

TORY LEADERSHIP UPSET BY ASHCROFT'S DONATIONS TO SELECTED CANDIDATES

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 504 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Lord Ashcroft denies creating his own Tory fiefdom' with his cash Andy Paradise


TWENTY FOUR Tory candidates were paid a total of £161,840 by the Conservative
benefactor Lord Ashcroft in a snub to Michael Howard's campaign headquarters.

Allies of Lord Ashcroft said he was not funding a "party within a party" but his
decision to offer donations directly to Conservative candidates has rattled the
Tory leadership.

The cash donations, which have been channelled through one of his companies,
Bearwood Corporate Services, were revealed yesterday in a report on political
donations by the Electoral Commission.

A source close to Lord Ashcroft, who was nominated for his peerage by the former
Tory leader William Hague, denied claims that he was creating his own "Tory
fiefdom" and insisted he was giving donations to candidates with business plans
that had impressed him.

Beneficiaries of Lord Ashcroft, a former Tory party treasurer, include a number
of prominent Eurosceptic candidates, among them Peter Bone, in Wellingborough.
Other constituencies that have received donations from him include Stafford,
Edinburgh Pentlands, Hastings and Rye, Gillingham, and Enfield North.

Lord Ashcroft ruffled feathers in the party when he asked for the repayment of
£500,000 of a £2m loan. He has since been asked for a further loan of £2m, and
the loan of his private jet for Mr Howard's election campaign. He has not yet
given a definitive answer.

Other prominent Tory donors in the final quarter of last year were Peter
Stringfellow, the nightclub owner, who gave £2,750 individually and £8,000 as a
company donation; Frederick Forsyth, the writer, who donated £10,000; Sir Tim
Rice who gave £7,750 and Southend Football Club, which donated £6,500.

Donors to the Tories include Stuart Wheeler, the former chairman of the
spread-betting company IG Group, who gave £200,000 in the final quarter of last
year, George Magan, the banker, who gave £325,417, and Lord Sainsbury of Preston
Candover who gave £100,000.

Tory donations totalled £4.6m, but Labour gained £5m, largely from the trade
unions. The figures show that the Labour Party was paid £10.8m during the year
by the unions out of a total £15m.

Individual donors to Labour include Lord Drayson, whose company PowderJect
Pharmaceuticals won contracts worth millions of pounds to provide smallpox
vaccine to the NHS, donated £500,000, matching the sum he gave Labour earlier in
2004, and Sir Christopher Ondaatje, the philanthropist, who also donated
£500,000.

An unexpected donor was the Great North Eastern Railways, which is recorded
donating £220 in cash or kind to Labour Party funds.

The Liberal Democrats received £1.1m in donations for the final quarter of last
year including a £250,000 gift from the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust. Tesco
stores donated £6,286 to the party.

The UK Independence Party, which lost its main donor Paul Sykes after a row over
Robert Kilroy-Silk's bid for the leadership last year, took in £63,081, of which
just £8,170 was cash.

Letters, page 32

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 22, 2005, Tuesday

Letwin tries to head off challenge from UKIP Spy

BYLINE: by Celia Waldenby Celia Waldenby Celia Waldenby Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 23

LENGTH: 647 words

I have previously noted that, as well as his Liberal Democrat challenger at the
election, Oliver Letwin is expecting - unlike last time - to contend with an
onslaught from the UK Independence Party in his marginal Dorset West
constituency.

However, with a UKIP candidate yet to be selected, I am intrigued to learn of an
attempt by Letwin to burnish his Euro-sceptic credentials.

"He's making a speech about Europe next month at a meeting in Dorchester, in his
constituency," I'm told.

"It's being organised by the ultra-sceptical Bruges Group and the Democracy
Movement, which was born out of the Referendum Party. He's hoping he can
persuade UKIP not to stand against him after all."

If so, Letwin had better think again. "We are definitely putting up a
candidate," says Margaret Stringfellow, secretary of UKIP's Dorset West branch,
when I call.

"Our selection meeting will take place two days beforehand and I imagine that
whoever we select will be attending."

The agony of DiCaprio

SpyIf Leonardo DiCaprio picks up the Oscar for Best Actor this Sunday, it will
give The Aviator star some much-craved credibility - and propel him even further
into the limelight he shuns.

"I wish I'd known, before starting my career, just what happens to actors," he
sighs.

For DiCaprio retains more than a few bad memories of the post-Titanic hysteria.
"I'll always remember one night, in a French airport, when a girl attached
herself to my leg," he explains.

"I tried to look her in the eyes. I had to say to her: 'All the illusions of
grandeur that you have about me are wrong. We're going to sit here and talk, but
first of all you'll have to disengage your fingernails from my thighs.'"

Former Cabinet minister Jonathan Aitken famously defected to the UK Independence
Party last year - for a while even considering standing as its candidate in his
old seat of Thanet South.

However, I now hear that he is going to be voting Conservative after all. "I am
giving moral support to UKIP because I am extremely sceptical about the European
project," he tells the Irish current affairs magazine Magill.

So how does he explain the volte-face? "I will vote Conservative at the general
election because my local candidate, Malcolm Rifkind, is a friend."

Beckett set for comeback

SpyMargaret Beckett's finest hour was undoubtedly her time as acting Labour
leader in 1994 after the death of John Smith.

Indeed, since Labour's 1997 election victory, she has held a series of
middle-ranking Cabinet posts, all too often eclipsed by other female colleagues,
such as Patricia Hewitt, Tessa Jowell and Ruth Kelly.

However, with the election fast approaching, Spy hears she may be on the verge
of a return to prominence.

"Alastair Campbell rates her as a performer on television," says one in the
know.

"Since Hewitt and Jowell are reckoned to come across as too 'posh' to appeal to
traditional Labour voters, he wants to give Beckett a higher media profile
during the election campaign."

Naomi late again

SpyIt seems Naomi Campbell is quite content to continue burning her bridges
within the fashion world.

The British supermodel fuelled criticisms last Tuesday by turning up more than
an hour late for Gharani Strok's catwalk show in London, provoking co-designer
Nargess Gharani to declare: "By the time her agent had talked her in to coming,
everyone had been waiting for ages... she just wasn't worth the hassle."

Despite Campbell's apologies, Gharani isn't alone in her views. Amanda Wakeley -
the once-favoured dressmaker of Diana, Princess of Wales - is also
unenthusiastic. "I'm not sure I would book Naomi for one of my shows," she tells
me.

"There are plenty of beautiful girls out there. Her behaviour appears to
demonstrate a total lack of respect. The thinking seems to be: 'I'm better than
you.'"

E-mail: spy§telegraph.co.uku2003www.telegraph.co.uk/spy

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               10 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 22, 2005

Tories gain ground on Labour: Poll puts parties just 3 points apart, as Blair
fails to regain confidence

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words


Labour's opinion poll lead has been cut to only three points in the last month
as the Tory pre-election campaign gains momentum, according to the results of
this month's Guardian/ ICM opinion poll published today.

With the expected date of the general election only 72 days away the poll
results will alarm Labour election strategists who fear Conservatives could use
the intensive "phoney war" campaigning to close the gap between the parties.

Tony Blair effectively launched Labour's campaign a fortnight ago with his
helicopter tour, the six pledges and the party's spring conference. He even
attempted to bypass the Westminster media with a special meet-the-voters day
courtesy of Channel Five.

But despite all this effort the ICM survey, which puts Labour on 37%, shows the
government's lead over the Conservatives is down four points in the last month
and has fallen from nine to only three points since December.

For all the frenzied activity in advance of a likely May 5 poll, it looks as
though Labour's pre-election strategy - being masterminded by Alan Milburn and
former director of communications Alastair Campbell - is in danger of proving a
flop.

The ICM poll also shows that Gordon Brown has replaced Tony Blair as Labour's
biggest electoral asset with the chancellor enjoying the same kind of
cross-party respect that the prime minister had before his 1997 and 2001 general
election victories.

The survey shows that Mr Blair's political appeal is confined to Labour's core
voters who still see him as likeable and caring. But among the wider electorate
the prime minister is regarded as arrogant, out of touch and untrustworthy and
it appears that his hopes of rekindling his "marriage" with voters generally may
prove shortlived.

While Mr Brown gets posi tive ratings from Liberal Democrat and Conservative
voters they now see Mr Blair as a positive liability.

The apparent Conservative revival - they are on 34% compared with 30% in
December - follows a spate of policy initiatives on immigration, pensions,
health and crime upon which the Tories hope to build with new promises of tax
cuts.

Their resurgence underlines Mr Blair's recent warnings to his party not to
underestimate the Tories and that they remain as dangerous as ever.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, is the only other politician,
along with Gordon Brown, who is regarded as an asset to their party by a
majority of voters in all three mainstream parties.

His party remains unchanged for the third month running on 21% and may benefit
from Labour's relative decline from the 2001 election when 18% of the vote
delivered Mr Kennedy's party 52 seats.

The Guardian/ICM poll also shows that Ken Livingstone, John Prescott and even
Labour's campaign manager himself, Mr Milburn, are regarded generally by the
voters as, on balance, election campaign liabilities. Mr Livingstone's ratings
are so bad - even among Labour voters - that it would be wise for the party's
managers to advise him to take a holiday during the campaign.

The ICM poll shows that the names of only four cabinet ministers are really
recognised by the public - Gordon Brown, Tony Blair, John Prescott and Jack
Straw.

Labour's leading women politicians - Patricia Hewitt, Tessa Jowell and Ruth
Kelly -also suffer from a lack of public recognition with around 50% saying they
do not know whether they were any good or not. But among those who have heard of
them, Ms Hewitt and Ms Jowell both appeal almost as strongly to Liberal Democrat
as to Labour voters.

Among the other parties, Michael Howard, appears to be quite well placed. His
support among Conservative voters is as strong as Mr Blair's and Mr Brown's is
among Labour voters and wins the respect of a significant minority of Labour and
Liberal Democrats.

As for the minor parties, the nationalists of the SNP and Plaid Cymru take half
the 8% share of the vote which goes to "other parties". The Greens secure 2% and
the UK Independence party is becalmed on 1%.

* ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,013 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
between 18-20 February, 2005. Interviews were conducted across the country and
the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of
the British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

Poll details, page 11

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 21, 2005, Monday

Anger over increase in election spending

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 09

LENGTH: 329 words

MINISTERS were accused of promoting "big money politics" yesterday after it
emerged that spending limits for election candidates have increased by more than
20 per cent.

For the first time, would-be MPs will be allowed to spend an average of more
than pounds 10,000 per constituency after the Government changed the rules
following advice from the Electoral Commission.

The decision has infuriated smaller parties such as the United Kingdom
Independence Party and the Greens, whose candidates cannot raise as much money
as their Labour and Conservative counterparts.

The minor parties are also angry because they were not consulted about the new
limits, which were outlined this month in an unpublicised parliamentary order.

Under election law there are national limits on what a party can spend at a
general election and local limits on what each candidate can spend in his or her
constituency.

The Government has not changed the national limit, which is just over pounds
19-million for a party fighting every seat in Britain.

But Chris Leslie, the constitutional affairs minister, has proposed changing the
amount a candidate could spend in an average 67,000-voter borough constituency
from pounds 8,565 to pounds 10,500. The average limit in a county constituency
would go up from pounds 9,637 to pounds 11,840.

According to the Electoral Commission, Labour and Tory candidates were more
likely to spend close to the legal maximum than the Liberal Democrats or Ukip.

Nigel Farage, a Ukip MEP, said: "The bias towards big money in politics is
getting considerably worse. This is building up to being a big money election."

Alan Francis, a Green Party spokesman, said: "By increasing the spending limits
above inflation, the Government is giving a big advantage to the richer
parties."

The Electoral Commission recommended an above-average increase in the spending
limits partly because office rental costs have risen by more than inflation
since 2001.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               12 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               February 21, 2005

MEPS IN PENSION SCANDAL

BYLINE: Michael Lea

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 363 words


They use handouts to get lavish top-up FREE

HUNDREDS of Euro MPs are getting "free" second pensions -funded by their
generous perks package.

They use the allowances to make an EU pension contribution of Pounds 687 per
month -which the Parliament then DOUBLES.

The fund, known as the Additional (Voluntary) Pension, means that they could
quit as an MEP with an extra £44,000 a year retirement income.

All MEPs, apart from the French and Italians, already have generous pensions
paid for by their national governments.

But many make the EU pension payments to the additional fund from their perks
package -meaning it effectively costs them nothing.

The scandal is revealed in a leaked report handed to The Sun. It states:
"Members' contributions to the fund should be deducted from a personal source
rather than the parliamentary allowance system."

Austrian MEP Hans-Peter Martin, right, said: "The gravy train has gone mad,
that's the problem with Europe. This is a luxury pension scheme the likes of
which is beyond most workers -and it's basically free." On top of their salaries
-the same as their national counterparts -MEPs benefit from a package of
handouts worth an extra £178,000 a year. Among the payouts is a £190 daily
allowance for simply being at work and £2,743 a month for office costs.

It is from these two perks that some MEPs make their pensions contributions,
according to fraudbuster Mr Martin.

Scandal

UKIP leader Roger Knapman said: "Using allowances to harvest a second pension is
an absolute scandal.

"This should not be seen as a harmless perk of the job but a cynical ploy to
fleece the taxpayer.

"Pensioners are left to struggle along on a fraction of an MEP's pension after
paying taxes for 40 years.

"Reform of the system must be undertaken."

But alarmingly the leaked EU report, written by Lithuanian MEP Ona Jukneviciene,
also reveals a £28million blackhole in the additional fund.

It states that as of December 31, 2003, the fund's future liabilities exceeded
its current assets by £28million.

European Parliament officials will discuss the pensions crisis this week in
Strasbourg.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               13 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           February 20, 2005, Sunday

MEDIA: DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 448 words


Adrian the persuader

One-time political editor of The Mail on Sunday Adrian Lithgow (pictured) joined
the ranks of would-be MPs last week when he was chosen to fight Bognor and
Little Hampton for Ukip. Don't rule him out. Lithgow's persuasiveness was
evident on the extraordinary occasion when, in the dying days of John Major's
premiership, a disgruntled Norman Lamont suddenly decided to vote against the
government. Observers noted that Lamont had just enjoyed a long, convivial lunch
with Lithgow.

Brum steer

With IOC officials in town last week to check out the ability of London's
transport system to cope with the Olympics, it was sporting of The Guardian to
tub-thump by devoting the front of Wednesday's G2 to a montage of a taxi and a
red double-decker bus in front of a London scene, with the headline: "Paris
better than this? You must be kidding." Well, someone was certainly kidding,
since the bus was not a London Routemaster but one designed for the streets of
Birmingham in the 1950s and which never operated in the capital. The irony is
that the last of the proper Routemasters still operate only a short stroll from
the Guardian offices in Farringdon Road. Back to the "ABC of Bus and Coach
Recognition", chaps!

Small earthquake ...

Puff of the week: "It's no good pretending accountancy is exciting" - as
featured in the FT's skyline on Friday. That's the way to sell 'em!

When Ernest met Fred

Sprinkling some historic stardust last week on the launch of Shepperton Babylon,
Matthew Sweet's book about the British film industry, was the 96-year-old,
one-time actor, journalist and man of many other parts, Ernest Dudley. From a
lifetime of anecdotes, the one that Ernest took particular delight in concerned
the occasion when, as the dance writer for the Daily Mail in the 1930s, he
bumped into Fred Astaire, devised a new dance with him, and published the steps
in the paper. Lovers of the newspaper pseudonym will appreciate the one that
Ernest went under: Charles Ton.

Irving's poison pen

Meanwhile, veteran drama critic Irving Wardle has a confession to make: half a
century ago one of his reviews killed a director. Wardle - once of The Times,
later of The Independent on Sunday - recalls in The Oldie how he savaged a
school play that The Times had sent him to review. The play had been directed by
the headmaster, who repeatedly called the paper to demand the head of his
anonymous assassin. "Then the calls stopped," Wardle writes. "The man had
suffered a heart attack. To this day I am torn between personal guilt and modest
professional satisfaction; either way it's good to have got it off my chest
after all this time."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               14 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 20, 2005

Cash: Feedback: An enrichment to our country

BYLINE: John Coker

SECTION: Observer Cash Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 255 words


THANK you for the excellent article on migrant workers, now safely on my hard
disc in preparation for a visit from Ukip or Howard's mob in May.

Our own experience of immigrants is that they are knowledgeable, intelligent,
articulate, hardworking, courteous and friendly.

We are both nearing 80, but the only time we are offered seats on a bus or tube
is by young Muslim or Indian women. All the nurses in a London hospital (not
NHS) where I had an operation last year were from the Caribbean, Pakistan, the
Philippines, India or Malaysia. Nearly all the shop assistants in major London
stores are immigrants; the best village shops are mostly owned by Indians;
waiters and waitresses in restaurants are charming foreigners and my present
dentist, the best I have ever had, is an Indian trained in Sweden. Thank you
Sweden for training him for me!

A few years ago, a large American firm was looking for employees in a microchip
factory near us. A friend of ours in a personnel company interviewed some 2,000
local British applicants. She told us that the vast majority were virtually
illiterate and completely unemployable.

So my policy would be let them come, as many as want to. They are not spongers
but young vigorous people who want a job in what they see as a fair society.

The widespread xenophobia, particularly where we live, in (Shadow Foreign
Secretary) Michael Ancram's constituency (Devizes, Wiltshire), dismays me.
Immigrants enrich our country, economically and culturally.

John Coker


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 18, 2005, Friday

Hunt supporters should rally to the Tory cause

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 29

LENGTH: 178 words

SIR -- So the hunts will be out in force this weekend defying the ban, will
they? The map of their distribution (Feb 17) has one striking feature: the
density is in inverse proportion to the number of Tory MPs in their area.

Hunts are concentrated in Devon, Cornwall and Somerset, where Conservative MPs
are outnumbered two to one by the opponents of hunting. In South Wales, they'll
be out tallyho-ing, but Tories in the valleys are as rare as exotic parrots. In
Yorkshire and Humberside, the beagles will be baying, but north country
Conservatives are heavily outnumbered by Labour once they get to Westminster.

Among those hunt supporters are many who couldn't be bothered to vote in 1997
and 2001, or who are toying with the idea of voting UKIP or Veritas this time
around. If, tomorrow, they ride into their local Tory office, offer their help
and their money, start canvassing and help win back seats in May, there might be
some chance in future of overturning the hated ban.

Edwina Currie

MP (Cons) for S Derbyshire 1983-97

South Nutfield, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               16 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 16, 2005, Wednesday

LETTER: THREAT TO THE TORIES

BYLINE: SIR DAVID WILLIAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 81 words


Sir: UKIP may be seen as irrelevant now, but it is still costing the Tories
seats. In a North Somerset council by-election this month, the votes were: Lib
Dem 476, Con 434, UKIP 118, Lab 59, giving the Liberal Democrats a gain. In the
town council election on the same day with the same voters, the result was: Con
505, Lib Dem 500, Lab 80. Liam Fox will have noticed this result in his
constituency, even if Michael Howard hasn't.

Sir DAVID WILLIAMS

Richmond, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               17 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 15, 2005, Tuesday

Senior Tory faces a David versus David battle for his seat

BYLINE: David Charter and Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 604 words


The challenge facing David Davis, the Shadow Home Secretary, to retain his seat
at the election became a little more complicated yesterday when Veritas lined up
its candidate -David Davies.

Mr Davies, a defector from the UK Independence Party, is set to appear above Mr
Davis on the ballot paper in the Yorkshire seat of Haltemprice and Howden.

If a few votes were to go Mr Davies's way by mistake it might not matter in
other circumstances but Mr Davis is defending a slender majority of 1,903 from a
confident Liberal Democrat challenge.

That majority tumbled from 7,514 in 1997 and it would be seen as a calamity by
the Tories were they to lose the services of a potential future party leader.

With his wideranging home affairs responsibilities, there are concerns that Mr
Davis has left himself vulnerable to a Chris Patten-style defeat. In 1992, the
then Conservative party chairman found himself the target of an aggressive
Liberal Democrat campaign and lost his seat in Bath while jetting around the
country helping to ensure a victory for John Major nationally.

Add to that the impending launch of a website called tacticalvoter.net aimed at
"decapitating" the Tory leadership through vote-swapping online -with Mr Davis
its No 1 one target -and his task gets even trickier. Mr Davis is already aiming
to avoid "Patten syndrome" by spending some time every day in his constituency,
which he has represented since 1997.

Mr Davies had been lined up by UKIP to fight the seat, but has followed a number
of defectors in the region to the new party set up by Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Veritas is determined to stand candidates across the Humber region and said last
night that it had not yet approved Mr Davies' candidature.

Jon Neal, the Liberal Democrat candidate, said yesterday that the contest would
be extremely close, with or without the help of Veritas.

Mr Neal said: "We are in second place at the moment, 1,900 votes behind, after
campaigning to win the seat for five years, so we are on track for a good
result.

"Veritas putting up a David Davies candidate is an amusing side issue from our
point of view; we think we can win without that. Whether or not he will have an
effect on the result, we will have to wait and see." There are some notable
precedents for voter confusion leading to sound-alike candidates polling well.
In 1994, Richard Huggett, a West Country businessman, stood as "Literal
Democrat" for Devon and Plymouth East in the 1994 European election.

In polling 10,000 votes there was speculation that he ruined the chances of the
Liberal Democrat nominee, who lost the seat by 800 votes to the Conservatives.

In order to combat abuse, the Registration of Political Parties Act 1998 was
introduced. Jack Straw, as Home Secretary, announced that the intention was to
protect "the integrity of the political process".

For a fee of £100 political parties can be registered unless their name "would
be likely to result in the party's being confused by voters with a party which
has already been registered".

There is, however, nothing to stop candidates with the same or similar names
standing against each other, such as the Frank Dobson, a retired publisher, who
threatened to stand against Frank Dobson, the Labour candidate, in the London
mayoral elections in 2000.

Mr Davis said yesterday: "We live in a democracy and any party is free to field
any candidate they choose.

"There is, however, a certain irony in the fact that a person who is planning to
stand for Parliament on the basis of a subterfuge is representing the 'Truth'
party."


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 14, 2005

kilroy pledges a total asylum ban

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk will today promise a total ban on asylum seekers if his party
wins the election.

The former TV host will attempt to trump the main political parties by arguing
that no asylum claim is valid in Britain.

Mr Kilroy- Silk, who has launched a new party called Veritas, says refugees have
inevitably travelled through safe countries on the Continent to get to Britain,
and should claim asylum there.

His explosive remarks will appal refugee organisations and seem certain to
attract charges of racism.

Last night a Veritas source said Mr Kilroy-Silk was prepared for a 'lot of flak'
over the policy.

'But that's not going to stop him from addressing issues that concern the
British people,' said the source.

Mr Kilroy-Silk will attempt to appease his critics by proposing an amnesty for
all those already in Britain illegally who have children.

He will insist it is 'inhumane' for the Government to deport families who are
already here and will pledge to 'regularise' their status.

However, he will vow to remove all those in Britain illegally who do not have
children and refuse to consider any future claims.

Such a move would require Britain to withdraw from the 1951 UN Refugee
Convention, as the Tories have already proposed, and legislate its own asylum
laws.

Tory leader Michael Howard has thrust asylum and immigration to the top of the
election agenda.

He is vowing that under a Tory government, all asylum claims will be processed
offshore to deter people from coming to Britain. His proposals also include an
annual cap on new immigrants and the reintroduction of embarkation controls
which would mean physically checking people in and out of the country.

The system of work permits would be reformed to root out abuse.

Labour has adopted the Tory proposal for a new 'points system' to decide who is
entitled to a UK work permit visa, although unlike Tory proposals it is not
designed to limit numbers.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, was elected MEP for the East Midlands last year after
joining the anti-EU UK Independence Party. Last month he quit UKIP to create
Veritas, which plans to field dozens of candidates at the General Election.

The turmoil in UKIP has delighted the Conservatives, who fear the party could
cost them marginal constituencies.

But both the main parties will be concerned that Mr Kilroy-Silk could capture
valuable votes in key marginals.

A recent survey suggested up to half of all voters will decide which party to
support based on its immigration policy.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: KILROY-SILK: EXPECTS 'FLAK'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               19 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 13, 2005

Comment: Why Eurosceptics won't win: People will vote yes in a referendum as
they understand that the EU is not the enemy of liberty

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1225 words


EVER SINCE Tony Blair conceded the case for a referendum on the European Union's
constitutional treaty last spring, the received wisdom is that he has become a
political corpse. The antis outweighed the pros by two to one in poll after
poll. Not only would the referendum be lost, triggering an eventual British exit
from the EU, but his resignation as Prime Minister would become inevitable.

But what if he won? This possibility has seemed so absurd, given the opinion
polls, the press and the well-financed and efficiently organised anti campaign,
that it has hardly seemed worth raising. Yet a recent opinion poll, putting the
question the way it will be asked - ie, do you approve of the treaty to create a
constitution for the European Union? - showed the pros only 2 per cent behind
the antis (39 to 41 per cent with 20 per cent of don't knows). A Eurobarometer
poll last December showed the pros actually ahead. In short, the referendum is
much more open than the consensus has accepted.

We, the commentariat, have an instinctive proclivity to predict disaster (as a
practitioner of the art, I acknowledge the temptations). Whether the Iraqi
election (it should be deferred because it will be a debacle), the housing
market (heading for a bust) or Gordon Brown's chances of hitting his borrowing
targets (tax rises are inevitable), the commenting classes prefer calamity. It
is dramatic and it feeds the popular scepticism that the government's plans are
necessarily misconceived. But, wrong on all the above, the consensus could
equally be wrong on the referendum.

Here are nine reasons why.

1. New Labour, a coalition of the centre and moderate liberal left, represents
the new majority in British politics. Robert Jackson, the former Conservative MP
gone over to Labour, makes an impressive case that his new party is the heir to
the One Nation tradition and that from this British parliamentary majorities are
assembled. Labour, nine points ahead in recent opinion polls and rising, with an
economy set fair and improving public services, proves the point admirably. It
is set to win, with another significant majority.

2. The Conservatives, on the receiving end of a thumping loss for the third
consecutive general election, will wonder if it is brilliant politics to
solidify the party image at the outer margins of opinion by aligning with Ukip,
the BNP, the left of the Labour movement, right-wing businessmen and zealots in
the conservative press in opposing the treaty.

The party predicted the break-up of the United Kingdom in 1997 at the prospect
of devolution. The UK is still here, as it will be very recognisably after the
treaty. Despite the rabid opposition, it essentially codifies existing
procedures, entrenches the power of the UK, France and Germany and tries to
bring about more efficient decision-making. Predict ing Armageddon which then
doesn't happen establishes the party as lunatic. The Tory opposition may be more
cautious than many now anticipate.

3. The politics of the EU are changing. Turkey and Ukraine passionately want in.
The US, having been hesitant, now strongly supports integration and even the EU
constitution, as Condoleezza Rice announced on her recent European trip. It is
going to become very much harder to portray the EU as the enemy of liberty, the
US and capitalism, and very much easier to argue that it is a growing and
influential club of which we must remain a full member.

4. Economically, the EU Commission, under President Barroso, is unashamedly
pro-growth, pro-employment and wants to shed its reputation for regulations
which inhibit both. France, by abandoning the 35-hour week, shows that European
policy-makers are moving firmly in the direction of policies championed by New
Labour, attempting to marry economic dynamism with social cohesion.

This is the essence of the Lisbon process, largely devised by the British in
2000, with the aim of building a fair society and a dynamic, knowledge-based
economy. Britain, holding the presidency of the EU in the last six months of
this year, can show that the policy framework endorsed in three general
elections - advancing skills, building up science expenditure, promoting labour-
market flexibility and competition while sustaining a more responsive welfare
state - is the framework the EU wants to follow as well. Britain and the EU are
on congruent rather than divergent paths.

5. Facts will out. A large part of British Eurosceptic opinion is only
semi-convinced, largely persuaded by a barrage of unchallenged
misrepresentation. Television and radio, under much more pressure to portray
reality accurately, will be forced to hold the wilder claims (the constitution
spells the end of the monarchy, loss of control of our borders, our seat on the
UN Security Council, secret control of our oil etc etc) up to much more forensic
inspection.

The One Nation majority will begin to wonder if they are not the victims of
scaremongering by a press with an obvious political agenda. Even Rupert Murdoch,
given Bush's support for the constitution, may hesitate to throw all his papers
behind the no campaign.

6. Ideas matter. Influential intellectuals of the right and left are
reconceptualising the European case. Mark Leonard's provocative new book, Why
Europe Will Run the 21st Century , argues that the European Union is a network
in permanent onward flux rather than a conventional state - and that networks
are the organisational form of the future.

Conservative historian Niall Ferguson urges his ideological colleagues actually
to read the treaty. Far from threatening the nation state, it offers it a new
framework that guarantees its longevity. The Ukip bowler hat and Union Jack
brigade, like Ulster Unionists, will just seem of yesterday.

7. Pro-Europeans have not yet constituted an effective campaigning coalition.
After the general election, that situation will change. For CBI director-general
Digby Jones, 2006 is his last year in office; with nothing to lose, he is
pledged to deliver a powerful pro-European case from business. TUC leader
Brendan Barber will speak equally strongly for organised labour.

The Labour and Liberal Democratic leadership, together with prominent
Conservatives (Chris Patten, Kenneth Clarke and some younger bloods) will weigh
in. It will feel like the majority of level-headed One Nation Britain will be
for it. Even though the press will split, with up to two-thirds against, it will
need to be cautious if it doesn't want to get on the wrong side of its readers.

8. The referendum will be held as late as possible next year. The probability is
that the other 24 states will have voted yes. The argument that we can vote no
and renegotiate the treaty, given that the rest of the EU has given the treaty a
democratic mandate, is for the birds. A no vote will be a vote to have a more
semi-detached relationship or even leave the EU. This is not what the majority
wants.

9. With all of the above yet to come, the pros start today only 2 per cent
behind. This referendum can be won. If so, it will be one of the sweetest
moments in British politics for years, cementing a progressive consensus and
Britain's membership of the European Union alike. Tony Blair, famously a lucky
politician, may be about to get lucky again.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               20 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           February 13, 2005, Sunday

The in-crowd get out of Blair's tent

BYLINE: Stuart Wavell

SECTION: Features; News Review 11

LENGTH: 1364 words


The latest Chequers guest list shows how far the glitterati so sought by Blair
have deserted him, writes Stuart Wavell.

In the summer of 1996, the satirist Rory Bremner had a curious encounter with
Tony Blair that showed the youthful premier-in-waiting was already lining up a
circle of celebrity courtiers to cast a reflected glow of glory onto his
government.

Bremner, holidaying in the south of France, had learnt that the Blairs were
staying in the next village. To his astonishment he received a telephone call
from Cherie Blair. "She asked me whether I wanted to play tennis," he recalls.
"To this day I don't know how that came about."

After a pleasant game with Blair and making a few jokes at the expense of John
Major, then prime minister, Bremner raised a serious point. "I said, 'We're
laughing at John Major now, but if you get into power the boot will be on the
other foot and you'll be on the receiving end.'

"Blair laughed rather nervously and said, 'Uh, um, how does Lord Bremner sound
to you?'" It was a joke, Bremner emphasises, "but he was aware of patronage and
bringing people within the circle".

Bremner believes the joke became more ironic over the years as he went from
"believer to agnostic". Indeed, his television series with John Bird and John
Fortune looked like a more trenchant opposition to Blair than the Conservatives
when they were preoccupied with internecine strife. His loss of faith parallels
the collapse of Blair's network of patronage.

The extent to which the prime minister strove to fill his "big tent" with the
great, the good and the vacuous was revealed last week in a list of dinner
guests at Chequers, his official country residence. Between 1997 and 2001, the
Blairs hosted grand affairs for an eclectic mix of media folk, celebrities and
pop stars, lawyers and novelists.

The 300-strong list, reading like a roll call of the new Labour establishment,
included journalists Andrew Marr, James Naughtie, Polly Toynbee and Will Hutton
and entertainers Elton John, David Bowie, Mick Hucknall, Sting and Bono. From
the film world came Lords Attenborough and Puttnam, while actors Judi Dench,
Helen Mirren, Emma Thompson, Sinead Cusack and Jeremy Irons were keen to oblige.

These gatherings of up to 20 guests marked new Labour's golden age, when Blair
seldom put a foot wrong. Robert Harris, the novelist, who attended one of the
Blairs' first Chequers dinners in 1997, recalls: "Few prime ministers have come
to power with such a great wave of enthusiasm." Blair was at his most charming,
not belabouring his guests with politics but keen to discuss sport or a movie.
The only odd note was struck when Derry Irvine, the lord chancellor and Blair's
former legal mentor, bellowed: "Where's young Blair? It's time for young Blair
to bring us some whisky!"

The significance of these private dinners was in part Blair's choice of guests,
but something more subtle was also at work, believes Michael Cockerell, whose
television documentaries have chronicled new Labour.

"From 1994, Blair was keen to identify the new Labour brand with the coming
millennium -which was his way of lasering out the negatives from old Labour. He
wanted to bring in role models who were young, trendy, black, gay, modern or
beautiful -and sometimes all of the above."

The flattery of an invitation to Chequers was a powerful piece of persuasion.

Peter Kellner, the pollster and commentator, remembers his evening at Chequers
six years ago with pleasure.

"Physically, it's a very striking place," he says. "Security is very tight and
you're met by armed guards at the entrance. Cherie was dressed in a black
evening gown and Tony was in smart denims, which I deduced was to make everybody
feel at ease.

"After dinner we went on a little tour of the house. In the main bedroom there
were some paintings by old masters, one of which Churchill had painted a little
mouse on during the war. You end up in the library for coffee, around an
octagonal table on which sits a battered leather bag that was Napoleon's
briefcase."

A pall seems to have been cast over such evenings in Blair's second term. A
guest list for 2001-3 suggests he was trawling the B-list of celebrities. The
names of Des O'Connor, Geri Halliwell, Esther Rantzen and Michael Ball stirred
sharp comment when they were released by the Cabinet Office last year. "Why
should we pay for Des O'Connor's dinner?" a newspaper headline demanded.

Norman Lamb, the Liberal Democrat MP who secured the release of the lists, says:
"It looks like a sad decline in the people with whom Blair shared his time after
the 2001 election. Was it because people were declining the invitations?"

By then, whole sections of the glitterati had begun to sheer off. For some the
Bernie Ecclestone affair -when the government apparently favoured Formula One
retaining tobacco advertising in exchange for a £1m donation -was the first
moment of truth. Others recoiled at the Millennium Dome fiasco.

Blair's stance on the Iraq war was the final straw for many. "His fatal flaw was
one of hubris," said Richard Eyre, the theatre director, who once believed Blair
was "somebody one could take at face value". The prime minister "believed he
could marry his particular brand of moral purpose with another brand of
fundamental fervour -that of George Bush -and I think it has proved to be a
hopeless misjudgment". Harry Enfield, the comedian, who had paid £1,000 to
belong to new Labour's celebrity supporters club, said recently: "I wish he'd
go."

The novelist Ken Follett, who ran the 1,000 Club, claimed his credibility was
"destroyed" one night when Blair's media advisers decided that he and other
so-called "luvvie" supporters were wrong for the Blair image.

Greg Dyke and Gavyn Davies, then respectively director-general and chairman of
the BBC, also came to feel betrayed by Labour over Andrew Gilligan's report on
the "sexed-up" dossier on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. Even Irvine was
given his cards.

High-profile insiders, too, found they could no longer resolve the
contradictions Blair wanted them to straddle. Chris Woodhead, who was
entertained at Chequers as chief inspector of schools, resigned in 2000 after
growing disillusionment with new Labour.

Among prominent novelists, only Melvyn Bragg and Harris remain friends of the
Blairs. Harris believes the evaporation of celebrity support was inevitable.

"There doesn't seem to be the same sort of loyalty there used to be. I feel
this; my natural tendency is to rebel against authority. That's why I joined the
left in the first place."

It follows, he believes, that the concept of a Labour establishment is "a kind
of oxymoron" for people of the left. So Blair's big tent looks increasingly bare
and celebrity dinners seem to be a thing of the past.

In Bremner's opinion, this reflects the path the prime minister has chosen. "His
journey has been from being an inclusive person, all things to all men, to the
Blair of Iraq, when he is aware of his place in history. He feels his time is
running out and he's almost impatient with the party and the country."

CHEQUERS MATES: THE GREAT AND THE GOOD AT TONY'S TABLE

George Carey, former Archbishop of Canterbury and wife

Cilla Black, Blind Date presenter

David Blunkett, former home secretary

Bono, singer

David Bowie and Iman, singer and his wife

Joan Collins, actress who supported the UK Independence party in last summer's
Euro elections

Robin Cook, former foreign secretary and his wife

Richard Curtis, the man behind Four Weddings and a Funeral

Judy Dench, actress

Greg Dyke, former BBC director-general

Dawn French, comedian

Matthew Freud, PR fixer

Stephen Fry, actor

Bob Geldof, rock star and campaigner

Susan Greenfield, leading academic

Mick Hucknall, lead singer of Simply Red

Elton John, singer-songwriter

Neil Kinnock, former leader of Labour party

Helen Mirren, actress

James Naughtie, Today programme presenter

Salman Rushdie, author and his wife

Delia Smith, TV chef

Sting and Trudie Styler, singer and environmentalist and his wife


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               21 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           February 13, 2005, Sunday

The parties are too hard to tell apart

SECTION: Features; News; 20

LENGTH: 155 words


THE only two policies that matter for the next election are asylum/immigration
and getting out of, or seriously modifying, European Union federalist policy
(Populist policies fail to move a blue brand off the shelves, Comment, last
week). And as modifying is synonymous with getting out under EU rules they
amount to the same thing. UKIP may be a bunch of no-hopers but they do have the
right policy.

Michael Howard's recent asylum/immigration policy is just about acceptable but
when he talks about a controlled number of immigrants, does he mean hundreds,
thousands or hundreds of thousands?

Public services, overseas aid and socially liberal positions will not enthuse
anyone. The differences between Conservative and Labour are not sufficient to
persuade the electorate to change government. In Thatcher's time the battle
lines were clear; that is not the case today.

Cliff Hassall Welwyn, Hertfordshire


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Letter

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               22 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 12, 2005

Kilroy Silk finds political caravan no easy ride: Veritas founder meets mixed
response as he strives to uncover truth about travellers

BYLINE: Mark Honigsbaum

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1059 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, late of the BBC and the UK Independence party, is something
of a media and political gadfly, but even his harshest critics could not have
anticipated this week's series of vote-grabbing manoeuvres.

Fresh from launching Veritas, a party he promised on Monday would speak the
"truth" about immigration and asylum, Mr Kilroy-Silk took his political caravan
to the home counties to learn the truth about Gypsy encampments and their impact
on local communities.

First stop was an illegal caravan site near the A1 at Hatch, Bedfordshire, to
meet Cliff Codona, who is facing eviction this weekend after an eight-year legal
battle with mid-Bedfordshire district council. Then it was off to East Anglia
for a tour of other encampments and meetings with local homeowners angered by
the growth of illegal sites and the failure of the planning system to tackle the
problem.

Unfortunately, precisely what truths Mr Kilroy-Silk gleaned on his tour and how
they squared with past public statements on the Gypsy issue seem destined to
remain a mystery, at least for now.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is on record as saying that "what Gypsies are getting away with
in certain parts of the country is totally wrong and must be stopped
immediately".

But closely guarded by a television crew from Channel 4, who have been filming
his meetings with travellers for a documentary, Kilroy and the Gypsies, to be
screened next month, Mr Kilroy-Silk spent most of the week incommunicado.

Even his political assistant couldn't reach him. "He's switched off his phone.
It's a complete media blackout," Ashley Merry of Veritas said on Wednesday.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's intervention comes at a delicate moment. On Tuesday villagers
living near an illegal encampment at Brookthorpe, Gloucestershire, learned that
Stroud district council had abandoned legal proceedings against the travellers
after being advised they would almost certainly win their appeal for
retrospective planning permission on human rights grounds.

Meanwhile, at Cottenham, Cambridgeshire, where the local authority has spent
nearly £1m trying to evict 400 travellers from three sites bordering the
village, residents gave notice this week that they intended to report the
council to the district auditor for wasting ratepayers' money.

At another illegal encampment in Crays Hill, near Billericay, Essex, local
residents fear travellers are poised to file a new planning application to
further delay an eviction order granted by the deputy prime minister, John
Prescott, two years ago.

Fearing the worst, a local campaigner against Gypsies, Len Gridley, whose garden
backs on to the Crays Hill site, has bought options on vacant plots in
Sedgefield and Hull, near the homes of the prime minister and deputy prime
minister.

"I'm waiting to see what happens in May. But if Prescott doesn't enforce the
eviction order I'm perfectly willing to sell the land to travellers," Mr Gridley
said. "Let's see how he likes an illegal encampment behind his home."

In the past two years the number of illegal sites in Britain has grown by 60% as
travellers, encouraged by the arcane planning system and European human rights
legislation, have been buying vacant farmland, clearing it for caravans and,
when they are served with notices, filing for retrospective permissions.

Although the government has urged local authorities to make more land available
to travellers for regulated sites, there is no requirement for them to do so.
Instead, many councils have been fighting the travellers through the courts,
running up huge legal bills at taxpayers' expense.

But while some residents want stronger powers to evict travellers, others say
councils should be doing more to help them and that the best-regulated sites are
those run by Gypsies themselves.

According to Veritas, Mr Kilroy-Silk's decision to take part in the Channel 4
programme was taken many months ago. But, in the light of his remarks last week
that Britain was being "stolen" by mass immigration, his intervention on the
Gypsy issue is bound to cause controversy.

Channel 4 originally planned to have Mr Kilroy-Silk spend a week in a Gypsy
encampment so that he could gain "first-hand experience of their way of life".

"Will spending time with the Gypsies enhance or change his opinions on the
subject, or just confirm his worst expectations?" the channel postured last
week. But to the dismay of the production company, Mentorn, and presumably to Mr
Kilroy-Silk's relief, when Mid-Bedfordshire district council learned of his
plans to move into a caravan beside Mr Codona the local planning officers
objected, and he spent the night at a Holiday Inn.

Mr Kilroy-Silk did not fare much better in Cottenham, where Mentorn had hoped to
film him chairing a meeting between local residents and travellers living on a
20-hectare (50-acre) site.

Although some villagers welcomed the chance to thrash out the issues on camera,
others called it a "publicity stunt" for Veritas that would undo the hard work
they had put into building better ties with the travellers, and refused to
cooperate.

"Politicians who pass through and move on are of limited value to us," said Tony
Brownbill, spokesman for Cottenham Residents' Association and Middle England in
Revolt, a group that wants to see equal rights for travellers and settled
communities. "We are perfectly capable of rattling cages without Kilroy's help."

Although Mr Brownbill declined to meet Mr Kilroy-Silk, Mr Gridley took up the
offer and on Thursday was whisked by Channel 4 to a secret location near London,
along with residents campaigning against other encampments and representatives
of the Gypsy Council.

According to Mr Gridley, Mr Kilroy-Silk listened to the arguments on both sides
"attentively" and kept the meeting "in order". But he could not tell what
effect, if any, the talks had had on his views.

Mr Codona, who spent most of Monday showing Mr Kilroy-Silk around his caravan in
Hatch and was out filming with Mr Kilroy-Silk again yesterday, found the Veritas
chief similarly enigmatic.

"I showed him the way we live but that doesn't mean he's changed his mind," said
Mr Codona, who has been told his family has until Monday to vacate the site.
"For all I know he might have gone away with a worse opinion of us."


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               23 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 11, 2005

UK: will Blair have the last laugh?

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 352 words


A joke among European diplomats in London is that French critics of the new EU
constitution should be forced to campaign for a no vote in Britain on the
grounds that it is "too British" and not federalist enough.

At the same time, British Eurosceptics should be shipped to France to campaign
for a no vote in its referendum because the constitution goes too far in the
French integrationist direction. That way, the sceptics would neutralise each
other.

It is a good joke, but one which is likely to wear thin between now and November
2006, the last date when Tony Blair can risk the no vote that could destroy the
rules making the 25-nation union work more effectively - and finish off his
premiership at the same time.

The foreign secretary, Jack Straw, suggests it will probably happen next March.
MPs know that - unlike the two to one vote in 1975 to stay in Europe, when the
entire political and media establishment was in the yes camp - the parties and
the press are deeply divided.

The no camp is upbeat and well-funded. It can count on the Tories, the Murdoch
and Rothermere press and - more embarrassingly - on Ukip and the BNP. Ukip beat
the Lib Dems into third place in June's Euro-elections, albeit with the help of
Robert Kilroy-Silk, now running another party.

What a contrast to the yes team, which has been telling Mr Blair to put his
mouth and his money where his "heart of Europe" policy lies for more years than
it can remember. The yes team hopes for the support of the Guardian,
Independent, Financial Times and Mirror, plus neutral - that is, helpful -
coverage from the broadcasters. Big global companies such as Ford and ICI will
stump up as usual, but the normally pro CBI may be more like the Thatcherish
Institute of Directors - neutral to hostile.

Mr Blair faces a struggle to persuade voters that the constitution is not the
final loss of sovereignty. Assuming he is still at No 10 next March, he - and
his heir in waiting, Gordon Brown - will have to neutralise voters' desire to
give him and Europe a good kicking. Tricky stuff, with much at stake.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               24 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 10, 2005

Comment & Analysis: An electoral curse yet to be lifted: Liberation from the ERM
was a blessing that fell into Labour's lap

BYLINE: Norman Tebbit

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 785 words


For me Black Wednesday was Bright Wednesday when "with one bound we were free".
Six years earlier, as Conservative party chairman, I was agnostic, telling
Margaret Thatcher that I could sell going in or staying out, whichever she,
Nigel Lawson and Geoffrey Howe decided; but experience hardened me into a bitter
opponent of the exchange rate mechanism - or what I called the eternal recession
mechanism.

Soaring interest rates led to mortgage arrears, forced sales and falling house
prices; house owners became homeless with debts they could not repay. Small
businesses collapsed in their thousands. The economy soon recovered after Black
Wednesday, but Tory voters had paid a heavy price for John Major's obstinate
refusal to make a managed withdrawal from the European trap of the ERM.

His insistence that withdrawal would be a humiliation, leading to inflation and
higher interest rates, proved wildly wrong. Thatcher, Alan Walters and Patrick
Minford were proved right. The currency market could not be bucked, as they had
argued when she was ambushed by Michael Heseltine, Howe and the European
commission and frogmarched into the ERM just before they brought her down.

To say John Major decided to leave the system is like saying General Galtieri
decided to leave the Falklands. It was a humiliation for Major, but a lifesaver
for the economy and for millions of mortgage holders. Free from the ERM trap,
the economy grew, inflation and interest rates fell and the long run of economic
success that has lasted unbroken through the dying days of Major's government
and Labour's two terms began. How the Germans, whose mighty mark powered their
great economy, must wish they could be liberated from economic stagnation and
the highest unemployment since Hitler's day by an escape from the euro, as we
escaped from the ERM.

For Britain, liberation from the ERM has been an unqualified blessing, but a
blessing that has fallen upon Labour. The whole wretched experiment in giving
control of our currency to an organisation not under British control was a
woeful self-inflicted wound on the Conservatives. It is an electoral curse that,
even 12 years later, has not been lifted.

For some 30 years prior to Bright Wednesday, Gallup's monthly tracking polls had
asked respondents which party they saw as the more competent to manage the
economy. Only once in all those years was the answer Labour. In the 12 years
since Black Wednesday, only once has the answer been the Conservatives.

I think entry into the ERM - enthusiastically supported by Labour, the Liberals,
the TUC, the CBI and the whole woolly, wet, bien pensant Europhile consensus -
might have been forgiven, but the purblind refusal to admit the mistake and get
out earlier was too much for electors, especially Conservative voters.

That the Tories should have thrown away their strongest electoral card was bad
enough. Worse by far for them was the cruel luck that it should have fallen into
the hands of Gordon Brown. Britain's exit from the ERM came at an economic
turning point. Across the world, monetarism was liberating us all from
inflation. Thatcherism had re-energised Britain. The US economy was growing and
China's neo-capitalist great leap forward was bringing down the price of
manufactured goods. Oil prices and interest rates were falling. This beautiful
economic legacy fell straight into the lap of New Labour.

The conundrum for the Tories is how to regain their reputation for economic
competence while the memory of the ERM fiasco remains so strong, unless they can
win an election and prove themselves competent. And how can they win an election
without regaining their reputation?

Since Black Wednesday we have "never had it so good", but nor has any government
been so despised and disliked. Asked to choose in a general election, half the
electors will say none of the above. Many will opt for Ukip, the BNP or the Lib
Dems. The Tories and Labour will split the rest. The Campbell-Blair ploy of
reawakening memories of the ERM crisis is shrewd, but dirty, politics. They
calculate that, as in Clinton's re-election, a world-weary electorate will
examine its wallet, think back to negative equity, mutter "It's the economy,
stupid", forget the deceptions over Iraq, hold its nose, and put Blair back in
No 10. With the world economy on the turn and a black hole in government
finances, will it be Brown or Michael Howard who finds the economic climate
becoming glacial, not warmer, while Blair enjoys retirement in the sun?

Lord Tebbit is a former chairman of the Conservative party and was a cabinet
minister in the Thatcher government from 1981 to 1987

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               25 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 10, 2005, Thursday

Napoleon and the sweet scandal

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 916 words


EU sugar dumping hurts African farmers, and Peter Mandelson's reforms will not
help

IF NOT for the careful watch of his security men, Gordon Brown might have been
squashed to death by dozens of pairs of heaving, angry bosoms.

The Chancellor encountered the women in a thicket of sugar cane in Mozambique
during his trip to Africa last month, and asked them: "How much do you get
paid?"

They had just received their wages, and surged upon him, waving in the air their
weekly pay slips worth £8. "Not enough!" they shouted. The reason why it is not
enough is the same reason why the sugar in your tea is many times more expensive
than it should be: the European Union.

As you breakfast on your Frosties or jam and toast, remember that our
involvement in this EU sugar scandal is causing the children of a man such as
Luke Simbine to go hungry.

I chatted to him as we watched Mr Brown almost entirely disappear under the
revolutionary throng. Mr Simbine was not the worst off, he was the women's field
manager, and so earned about £40 a month to provide for ten children.

Although people in Britain may not realise the damage that the EU causes to the
poorest people in the world, Mr Simbine was all too familiar with the smug
brutality of Brussels.

"We are the least developed country, but Europe closes its gates to us, it won't
let us sell our sugar, it dumps its sugar on us. All we want is what is fair,"
he told me. "Otherwise we are doomed, and what then can I do for my children?"

Every year a bureaucrat in Brussels sets the price of sugar for European farmers
- at four times the market price. No wonder they produce five million tonnes too
much of it, preventing other sugar-growing countries from competing.

Put this another way: for every £3 the EU gives to Mozambique in aid, it takes
back £1 in the damage it does to its sugar industry. The women whom Mr Brown met
do not want aid. They want their business to thrive.

So I had Mr Simbine in mind as Peter Mandelson, the EU Trade Commissioner, spoke
on the issue in London this week. But the EU reforms on sugar that he is
ushering through in the next few months will end up hurting Mozambique far more
than a fat cat farmer in Norfolk.

You see, while Mr Brown was in Africa, Mr Mandelson was on a trip to the
Caribbean. This is where, nearly 200 years ago, the problem started. And where
do most EU problems start? That's right -with the French.

During the Napoleonic Wars, Nelson blockaded sugar exports from the West Indies.

This was a disaster for Napoleon -the French literally could not eat cake, as
sugar cane does not grow in cold European climes. So Napoleon offered a cash
prize to anyone who could crystallize sugar from beets, which was then used as
animal feed. It was won by a German chemist, but the process is still laborious
and costly compared to sugar cane, which is why Napoleon had to subsidise his
farmers.

To this day the EU has to spend Euro3.30 in subsidies to export sugar worth Euro
1. If trade barriers were lifted tomorrow, European sugar farmers would go out
of business.

Does this sound crazy to you? That you as a British consumer pay extra (in taxes
and the high price of sugar) to prop up a crop that Europe does not grow very
well, but is so oversubsidised it is destroying the industries in countries
where it grows so abundantly? And all because a short Frenchman's ambitions got
out of control?

Well, it does not seem to sound that crazy to Mr Mandelson. He seems to be more
concerned about that quirk of sugar history, the Caribbean. Because of Britain's
colonial past, it gets preferential access to EU markets, and Mr Mandelson is
worried that if the Common Agricultural Policy is reformed, withdrawal of
subsidies will devastate the islands in an "economic tsunami".

It is very laudable to worry about Caribbean farmers, but he fails to mention
many of the poorest countries in the world. All the EU offers these 49, mainly
African countries, at the moment is a bitter little taste of its exclusive
prices.

As Oxfam says, what they, as a group, are allowed to sell to the EU, adds up to
the equivalent of the sugar beet grown in 15 farms in Norfolk every year, while
of course being priced out of the market in their own country by dumped EU
sugar.

Surely the EU would want its reforms to help these countries? Well, no. The
current plan is to reduce the Brussels-set price of sugar within the EU, while
not doing enough about the subsidisies and quotas that encourage
over-production. The big European farmers will still be OK, but this will hurt
Mr Simbine.

That is a shame because if Mozambique, with Ethiopia, Zambia and many other
countries, were given a chance, sugar would give them the decent living that
they are entitled to, and we could all stop feeling guilty about them over the
breakfast news.

And if the United Kingdom Independence Party or Robert Kilroy-Silk were really
smart, this is where their anti-EU campaign would focus. EU trade barriers are
not just about absurd bendy bananas, they are about the death of African
children.

Napoleon's sugar-beet technology may have led to harrowing injustice for African
nations, but something good did come out of it. When colonial plantation owners
abandoned the sugar trade, their African slaves were freed. Can Mr Mandelson now
free African nations from a slavery of an economic kind?

*Helen Rumbelow is political correspondent of The Times


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               26 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 9, 2005

BLAIR AND THE CHEQUERS CRONIES

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES; GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2996 words


TONY BLAIR threw a taxpayer-funded dinner party for the Italian nobleman who
loaned him his Tuscan villa.

Prince Girolamo Strozzi Guicciardini and his wife and two daughters were wined
and dined at Chequers, the Prime Minister's country retreat.

The Blairs enjoyed two free holidays at the Strozzis' Tuscan palace, in 1998 and
2000. Their names feature on a list of more than 300 guests officially
entertained by the Blairs during Labour's first term in power between 1997 and
2001.

The list, made public last night against the wishes of Downing Street, seems
certain to reignite the row over cronyism. It features wealthy Labour Party
donors, prominent media figures, showbiz stars and former Cabinet Minister Peter
Mandelson and his Brazilian boyfriend Reinaldo Avila da Silva.

Publication of the list is the result of a dogged 18-month campaign by LibDem MP
Norman Lamb.

Officials argued the names should remain confidential because they could be
involved in 'the process of policy development and analysis' even though guests
included Bono, Elton John and Sting.

In the end Mr Blair was forced to give way under orders from Parliamentary
Ombudsman Ann Abraham. In a damning 11-page judgment, she said there was
'undoubtedly a strong public interest' in how public money was being spent.

The invitation to the Strozzis the Prince, his wife and their girls Irina and
Natalia will provoke fresh criticism over the Blair family's freebie holidays.

There is no date for the Chequers rendezvous, so it remains unclear if it was
payback for their Tuscan trips or paved the way for them.

Mr Lamb had already extracted from Number 10 the fact that French tobacco tycoon
Alain-Dominique Perrin has been entertained at Chequers since 2001 he too has
hosted the Blairs on a freebie holiday.

The list will also raise fresh questions about the ethics of entertaining at
taxpayers' expense the people who bankroll the party.

Guests include figures from the superleague of Labour benefactors publisher Lord
Hamlyn, who gave Pounds 2million, Planet Hollywood founder Robert Earl (Pounds
1million), record company boss Alan McGee and electronics tycoon Maurice Hatter
(Pounds 1million).

The biggest donor of all Science Minister Lord Sainsbury was also entertained.

Since 1999 he has given the party a staggering Pounds 8.5million.

The man who shakes out the money from them, the party's chief fundraiser Lord
Levy, was also invited.

The 300-strong list reads like a roll-call of the New Labour establishment.

From the media world there is BBC political editor Andrew Marr, his wife, the
Guardian columnist Jackie Ashley, and Channel 5 news presenter Kirsty Young.

Among other invitees was the Radio 4 Today programme presenter James Naughtie,
much mocked for perceived Labour sympathies though there was no mention of his
notably more pungent Today colleague John Humphrys.

Polly Toynbee, the Guardian columnist was entertained to dinner, as was her
partner David Walker, another Guardian journalist.

Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger also dined with the Blairs, as did former
Express editor Rosie Boycott and Observer columnist Will Hutton.

Rupert Murdoch's News International was well represented Les Hinton, his UK
chief, was a guest. So was Irwin Steltzer, Mr Murdoch's top economics adviser.

Millionaire novelist Robert Harris is on the list, with his wife Gill Hornby,
and so is Salman Rushdie.

From showbiz there is Elton John and his boyfriend David Furnish; Cilla Black;
David Bowie and his wife Iman; Mick Hucknall of Simply Red, another Labour
donor; Sting; Bono; and DJ Simon Mayo Film directors Michael Winner, Lord
Attenborough and Lord Puttnam were also invited and from the acting world, Dame
Judi Dench, Helen Mirren, Emma Thompson, Imogen Stubbs, Sinead Cusack and Jeremy
Irons.

Leading industrialists also feature. They include BP's Sir John Browne, now Lord
Browne, Sir Richard Branson, Sir Alan Sugar, and former British Airways boss Sir
Robert Ayling.

One of the more bizarre invitations was to Karin Pena, wife of Mr Blair's
Flamenco guitar teacher, Paco Pena.

FROM WEALTHY DONORS TO SHOWBIZ STARS, TONY'S CHEQUERS CHUMS

PROF M.W. ADLER and MISS KARINE ADLER: Leading academic advises the Department
of Health

BERTIE AHERN: Irish Prime Minister

WAHEED ALLI: Media tycoon and Labour peer Dr ERIC ANDERSON: The Prime Minister's
former headteacher

CLIVE ANDERSON AND MRS ANDERSON: Former barrister turned chat-show host and
comedian

THE ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY AND MRS CAREY: Former head of the Church of England

HILARY ARMSTRONG: Labour veteran who is currently Mr Blair's chief whip

JACKIE ASHLEY: Left-leaning journalist and wife of BBC political editor Andrew
Marr

CATHY ASHTON: Now Baroness Ashton and Labour minister

PROF PETER ATKINS: Millionaire scientist and husband of Britain's leading female
academic Prof Susan Greenfield

JANE ATKINSON: Former press officer for Princess Diana

LORD AND LADY ATTENBOROUGH: One of the British film industry's leading lights
and director of Gandhi

REINALDO AVILA DA SILVA: Brazilian boyfriend of former Cabinet minister and
European Commissioner Peter Mandelson

ROBERT AYLING AND MRS AYLING: Former boss of British Airways and supporter of
Labour

PROFESSOR MICHAEL BARBER, MRS BARBER AND MS JANE BARBER: The Prime Minister's
chief adviser on delivery

PHILLIP BARTON AND MRS BARTON: Diplomat and Deputy High Commissioner in Cyprus

MARGARET AND LEO BECKETT: Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Secretary and her
husband

MICHAEL BELOFF QC AND MRS BELOFF: Close friend of the Blairs and president of
Trinity College, Oxford

RODNEY BICKERSTAFFE AND MRS BICKERSTAFFE: Former leader of Britain's biggest
union, Unison, he now heads the National Pensioners Convention

DICKIE BIRD: The country's most famous cricket umpire

JOHN BIRT AND MRS BIRT: Former director general of the BBC who has now become Mr
Blair's personal 'blue skies' thinker on a whole range of issues including
transport

CILLA BLACK: Blind Date presenter

SIR VICTOR BLANK AND LADY SYLVIA BLANK: City heavyweight who heads up GUS, which
owns Argos and Burberry

DAVID BLUNKETT: Former Home Secretary and close ally

BONO (left): Irish rock singer, a campaigner for debt relief

GALE BOOTH and MS LYNDSEY BOOTH: Cherie's mother and sister

BETTY BOOTHROYD: Former Commons speaker

DAVID BOWIE AND WIFE IMAN : Rock star idolised by Mr Blair

ADMIRAL SIR MICHAEL BOYCE: Former Chief of Defence Staff

ROSIE BOYCOTT: Former editor of the Express and Independent and cheerleader for
New Labour.

LORD AND LADY BRAGG: Southbank show presenter and leading Labour luvvie who was
rewarded with a peerage

RICHARD AND MRS BRANSON: Boss of Virgin Airways and the highly criticised Virgin
rail services

ROZ BROWN GORDON BROWN: Chancellor and Blair's greatest rival

SIR JOHN BROWNE: Chief executive of BP

DEBORAH BULL: BBC governor and former ballet dancer

MR AND MRS JOHN BURTON: Mr Blair's agent in Sedgefield

STEPHEN BYERS: Disgraced former Cabinet minister

LORD AND LADY CALLAGHAN: Former Labour premier

ALASTAIR CAMPBELL: Chief spin-doctor and closest aide

PROF DAVID CANNADINE: Academic who caused uproar by claiming Britain was no
longer a 'great power'

JULIAN CHICHESTER: Fashionable furniture designer

PROF LINDA COLLEY: Academic and historian

JOAN COLLINS (above): One of Britain's most famous actresses who supported the
UK Independence Party in last summer's Euro elections

ROBIN COOK AND MRS COOK: Former foreign secretary

JAN COOKSON: Stephen Byers' partner

PAUL CORRIGAN: Husband of Labour chief whip Hilary Armstrong

BARRY COX: Media mogul and deputy chairman of Channel Four

JILL CRAIGIE: Late wife of Michael Foot

RICHARD CURTIS: The man behind box-office hits Four Weddings and a Funeral and
Notting Hill

SINEAD CUSACK: Actress

JAN DALLEY: Wife of Poet Laureate Andrew Motion

ALISTAIR DARLING AND MRS DARLING MP: Transport Secretary

HOWARD DAVIES: Then head of the Financial Services Authority

MRS DAVIES MRS VAL DAVIES BARONESS DEAN OF THORNTON-LE-FYLDE: Labour peer,
former print union boss

DAME JUDI DENCH (left): Actress

JOHN DENHAM: Former Minister

DONALD DEWAR AND MARION DEWAR: Late Scottish Secretary and his daughter

RUTH DIXON

FRANK DOBSON AND MRS DOBSON: Former Health Secretary

GREG DYKE: Former BBC Director General

ROBERT EARL: Founder of Planet Hollywood restaurant chain and major Labour donor

MRS EARL JOHN EDMONDS: Union boss

RS LIN EDMONDS LORD AND LADY FALCONER: Lord Chancellor and his wife

JOHN FARRELL: Comic writer

MRS FARRELL DICK FERGUSON: Leading barrister and friend of Cherie Blair

MRS FERGUSON RICHARD FIELD QC: Leading barrister

MRS FIELD MICHAEL FOOT: Former Labour Leader

ANNA FORD: Broadcaster

DAWN FRENCH: Comedienne

MATTHEW FREUD: PR guru

EMMA FREUD: Broadcaster

STEPHEN FRY: Actor

DAVID FURNISH: Elton John's boyfriend

SIGNORA GALLI: Wife of Italian ambassador

KATE GARVEY: Labour special adviser

BOB GELDOF: Rock star and campaigner

EDDIE GEORGE: Former Bank of England Governor

MRS GEORGE RICHARD GIST: Late partner of Ruth Harding

PHILIP GOULD: Labour pollster

LORD GRABINER QC AND LADY GRABINER

PROFESSOR SUSAN GREENFIELD: Leading academic

BRUCE GROCOTT MP: Mr Blair's former parliamentary aide

PRINCE GIROLAMO STROZZI GUICCIARDINI AND FAMILY: Blair's Tuscan host

JOHN GUINERY GENERAL SIR CHARLES GUTHRIE: Former chief of the defence staffs

LADY GUTHRIE LORD HAMLYN AND LADY HAMLYN: Labour donor and wife

RUTH HARDING: Widow of Chelsea tycoon

ROBERT HARRIS: Novelist and journalist

GARY HART MAURICE HATTER AND MRS HATTER: Labour donor and wife

ALAN HAWARTH MR AND MRS MICHAEL HAY LORD AND LADY HEALEY: Former Labour
Chancellor and wife

LENNY HENRY (above): Comedian

ALI HEWSON: Bono's wife

JEREMY HEYWOOD: Blair's former private secretary

MRS HEYWOOD

JOHN HIGHAM AND MRS HIGHAM: Leading barrister and wife

MRS HIGHAM

FIONA HILLARY: Partner to Barry Cox and PA to former BBC director general Greg
Dyke

LES HINTON and MRS HINTON: News International boss

JOHN HOLMES AND MRS HOLMES: Former Downing Street foreign affairs expert

GEOFF HOON: Defence Secretary

GILL HORNBY: Robert Harris's wife

SUE HOWES

MICK HUCKNALL: Lead singer of pop group Simply Red

HUGH HUDSON: Film maker

WILL HUTTON: Former editor of the Observer

ROBIN HURLSTONE: Art dealer, former partner of actress Joan Collins

JEREMY IRONS (left): Actor

THE RT HON LORD IRVINE OF LAIRG AND LADY IRVINE: Then Lord Chancellor and wife

DORIAN JABRI: Long-term partner of former Culture Minister Chris Smith

SIR MICHAEL JAY: The permanent undersecretary, Foreign and Commonwealth Office
and head of diplomatic service

RT HON BARONESS JAY OF PADDINGTON: Former leader of the House of Lords

THE RT HON LORD JENKINS OF HILLHEAD AND LADY JENKINS: The late former Labour
Chancellor and SDP cofounder

ELTON JOHN CBE: Singer/songwriter

NICK JONES: Owner of Soho House and husband of Five news reader Kirsty Young

MR AND MRS MICHAEL KAPLAN KATIE KAY: Ex-wife to Barry Cox

KEVIN KEEGAN: Manager of Manchester City football team

MRS JEAN KEEGAN: Mr Keegan's wife

PETER KELLNER: Political journalist Model guest: David Bowie's wife Iman

THE RT HON NEIL KINNOCK: Former leader of the Labour Party

GLENYS KINNOCK: MEP and Mr Kinnock's wife

PHILIP LADER: US Ambassador

MRS LINDA LADER MS CELIA LARKIN: Partner of Irish Premier Bertie Ahern

MICHAEL LE POER TRENCH: Photographer

IAN LESLIE LORD AND LADY LEVY: Mr Blair's envoy in the Middle East and wife

LUKE LUCAS JOHN LYONS: Veteran

MP KITTY LYONS SARAH MACAULAY: Chancellor Gordon Brown's wife

MS LINDSAY MACKIE: Writer and wife of Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger

SIR CAMERON MACKINTOSH: Theatre producer

RT HON PETER MANDELSON MP: EU Commissioner, former Labour cabinet minister

JEANNE MARINE: Partner of Sir Bob Geldof

ANDREW MARR (above): BBC political editor

SIMON MAYO AND MRS MAYO: BBC Radio Five presenter and his wife

RT HON IAN MCCARTNEY MP AND MRS MCCARTNEY: Labour Party chairman and his wife

MS SIOBHAN MCDONAGH MP: Labour MP and member of the Commons All-Party Health
Select Committee

MS MARGARET MCDONAGH: Former Labour Party general secretary

KEITH MCDOWALL CBE: Husband of former union leader and Labour peer Brenda Dean
and former CBI deputy director general

ALAN MCGEE AND MRS MCGEE: Record label owner and his wife

RT HON MICHAEL MEACHER MP and MRS LUCIANNE MEACHER: Former Labour environment
minister

RT HON ALUN MICHAEL MP: Rural Affairs minister and his wife

DAVID MILIBAND AND MRS LOUISE MILIBAND: Cabinet minister and his wife

MS FIONA MILLAR: Alastair Campbell's partner, former aide to Cherie Blair

MS HELEN MIRREN (right): Actress

MS RUTH MISKIN: Former partner of Chris Woodhead

MR AND MRS JOHN MONKS: Former TUC general secretary and his wife

DAVID MONTGOMERY: Former Mirror Group boss

MS PETRINA MONTROSE: Friend of Heather McCartney

MRS MARY MOORE: Daughter of sculptor Henry Moore

SALLY MORGAN: No 10 aide

BILL MORRIS: Former leader of the Transport and General Workers Union

SIR JOHN MORTIMER CBE QC AND LADY MORTIMER: Author and his wife

PROFESSOR ANDREW MOTION: Poet laureate

RT HON MO MOWLAM: Former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland

MS ELISABETH MURDOCH: Daughter of newspaper owner Rupert Murdoch, wife of PR
guru Matthew Freud

JAMES NAUGHTIE: BBC Radio Four Today programme presenter

JON NORTON: Mo Mowlam's husband

TREVOR NUNN, CBE: Theatre director

LADY OTTON: Wife of the Rt Hon Sir Philip Otton

THE RT HON SIR PHILIP OTTON: Former Lord Justice of Appeal

CHARLIE PARSONS: Television entrepreneur

MRS KARIN PENA MS VANESSA PERRY: Actress and former girlfriend of Michael Winner

MR TREVOR PHILIPSON QC: Barrister

DR DAVID POTTER: Founder and Chairman of Psion Plc

MR JONATHAN POWELL: Prime Minister's Chief of Staff

SIR CHARLES POWELL KCMG: Former advisor to Margaret Thatcher

MRS PRESCOTT: Wife of the Deputy Prime Minister

THE RT HON JOHN PRESCOTT MP: Deputy Prime Minister

MR AND MRS JOHN PRESTON

LADY PUTTNAM: Wife of Lord Puttnam

LORD PUTTNAM CBE: Film maker and educationalist

MS MAGGIE RAE: Divorce lawyer

LADY RATTLE: Wife of Sir Simon Rattle

SIR SIMON RATTLE (left): Chief conductor and artistic director of the Berlin
Philharmonic

THE LORD RAYNE: President of investment bank

MS GAIL REBUCK: Publishing executive

MRS ALEXIS REDMOND: Wife of Phil Redmond

PROFESSOR PHIL REDMOND: TV writer and producer

JOHN REID THE RT HON DR JOHN REID MP: Secretary of State for Health

WLADIMIR REINE

NICK RIBBECK AND WIFE

MR AND MRS GERRY ROBINSON: Chairman of Granada group and wife

GORDON RODDICK AND MRS ANITA RODDICK OBE: Joint founders of The Body Shop

MR ROGER THE LORD AND LADY ROGERS OF RIVERSIDE: British architect involved with
Lloyds of London and the Millennium Dome and wife

LORD ROTHSCHILD AND LADY ROTHSCHILD: Banker and wife

ALAN RUSBRIDGER: Editor of the Guardian

MR AND MRS SALMAN RUSHDIE: Author and his wife

LORD SAINSBURY OF TURVILLE: Part of the Sainsbury family and minister in the
Department of Trade and Industry and wife

SIR JIMMY SAVILE: Radio DJ and charity fundraiser

MR AND MRS JOHN SAWERS: British ambassador to Egypt and his wife

PRUNELLA SCALES: Actress, wife of actor Timothy West

DAVID SCOTT

CLARE SHORT MP: Former Labour minister for Overseas Development

MRS JANE SIM ANDREW SMITH MP: Former Labour secretary for Work and Pensions and
wife Val

DELIA SMITH: TV chef

BARONESS SMITH: Wife of former Labour party leader the late John Smith

SARAH SMITH: Newsreader and daughter of the late John Smith

CHRIS SMITH MP: Former Labour minister for Arts and Culture

CLIVE SOLEY MP: Labour veteran

LADY SOLTI: Wife of late conductor Sir Georg Solti

DR IRWIN SELTZER: American economics guru and his wife

SIR JOHN STEVENS: Former commissioner of the Metropolitan Police and his wife

LORD STEPHENSON OF CODDENHAM CBE: Former chairman of the Halifax bank

MR JACKIE STEWART and MRS STEWART: Former motor racing champion and wife

STING (left) AND TRUDIE STYLER: Singer and environmentalist and his wife

JACK STRAW MP: Foreign secretary and wife

IMOGEN STUBBS: Actress, wife of theatre director Trevor Nunn

SIR ALAN SUGAR AND MRS SUGAR: Entrepreneur and his wife

CHRIS TAVENER: Lawyer and Labour donor

DAVID TAYLOR ANN TAYLOR MP: Former leader of the House

DR JAMES THOMPSON EMMA THOMPSON: Actress partner of Greg Wise

POLLY TOYNBEE: Journalist writes books with David Walker

ELLIE UPDALE: Writer for the Literary Review

SIR IAIN VALLANCE: Former chairman of BT and his wife

GENERAL SIR MIKE WALKER GCB CMG CBE ADC: Gen Chief of the Defence Staff and his
wife

DAVID WALKER: Journalist, writes books with Polly Toynbee

EILEEN WARE: Youth director of Shelter

TIMOTHY WEST CBE: Actor, husband of actress Prunella Scales

MICHAEL WILLIAMS: Actor, late husband of actress Dame Judi Dench

RJ WILLIS LADY WILSON OF RIEVAULX: Wife of former PM Harold Wilson

SIR RICHARD WILSON KCB: Former Cabinet Secretary and his wife

THE HON GILES WILSON: Son of former PM Harold Wilson

MICHAEL WINNER: Film director

GREG WISE: Actor, partner of Emma Thompson

THAI PING WONG: On the development board of the London Academy of Music and
Dramatic Arts

CHRIS WOODHEAD: Ex chief inspector of schools and Times columnist

MICHAEL WYNN-JONES: Husband of Delia Smith, magazine publisher and majority
Norwich City football club shareholder

KIRSTY YOUNG (left): Channel Five newsreader and Talk Radio presenter END

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MODEL GUEST: DAVID BOWIE'S WIFE IMAN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               27 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 8, 2005

Why should we believe them now?

BYLINE: SIR ANDREW GREEN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1200 words


THE Government is at panic stations. Its spin machine is in overdrive.

What is going on?

Quite simply, the British people have found their voice.

After years, even decades, of being bludgeoned into silence by false
insinuations of racism, people are saying what they really think about present
levels of immigration.

Sneering at 'the tabloids' by the usual suspects will no longer wash.

The opinion polls say it all: 77 per cent disagree that the Government has
immigration under control; 75 per cent are concerned about extra pressure on
public services and a similar number believe that there are too many immigrants
in Britain.

These are astonishing numbers. And it gets worse for the Government.

Threequarters of the public do not believe it is being open and honest about
immigration and 45 per cent say it will influence their vote at the forthcoming
General Election.

This explains the hints, nudges, winks and leaks that emerged over the weekend
in the lead-up to yesterday's announcement of a 'five-year plan' for asylum and
immigration.

It also explains an extraordinarily defensive article by the Prime Minister in
yesterday's Press. He claims that the reason immigration is a difficult subject
is nothing to do with political correctness, nor the risk of being accused of
racism.

Really? He could have fooled me. His spin doctors have been smearing my
organisation, Migrationwatch, for years.

Even some of the facts in his article were misleading. He said 90 million people
pass through our airports every year. He omitted to mention that 60 million of
these are British citizens returning home - hardly an immigration problem!

Another 13 million are EU citizens who have freedom of movement to Britain, and
millions more are North Americans.

Those posing a potential immigration problem are therefore about one-tenth of
the figure he mentioned.

As for a five-year plan? Where has the Government been for the past eight years
as our border controls were allowed to crumble? The sheer length of the list of
measures proposed by the Government is a damning indictment of its own record on
immigration.

A major loophole has been abolition of any effective border controls. Every
year, well over a million visas have been issued to visitors and students, but
no one bothered to check on their departure.

Now the Government has announced plans for e-borders - electronic borders.

An improvement on o-borders (open borders), but terribly late in the day.

Then there are the thousands of sham marriages and tens of thousands of bogus
students, not to speak of one-legged roofers. The list goes on.

For years the Government has turned a blind eye to these blatant frauds.

Only as an election approached did they begin to stir, but none of these frauds
is yet under control.

Another sudden discovery by the Government is the thousands of unaccompanied
children dumped on the British taxpayer every year. The cost, for example, to
Kent County Council, of a 16-year- old is a massive Pounds 300 a week. And a
recent court judgment means they may also have to provide support during further
education beyond the age of 18.

The millions of pounds the council spends will be reimbursed by central
government - that is, the taxpayer - although councillors claim the full amount
has not yet been repaid.

In 2003, 3,000 unaccompanied children arrived here claiming asylum. The year
before, there were 6,200. This scandal has been going on for years, but the
Government has done nothing about it. It has just hushed it up and charged it to
the taxpayer.

Now we are promised action.

We shall see. The collapse of our border controls has had wider consequences,
leading to a substantial number of illegal immigrants. This has led to
exploitation of foreign workers that is shameful in the 21st century.

If border controls are a shambles, Government policy is not much better. In
fact, there isn't one. Former Home Secretary David Blunkett famously said:
'There is no obvious upper limit to legal immigration.' Yesterday's announcement
did nothing to reverse this absurd statement.

Work permits have been increased by 350 per cent under the present Government to
145,000 a year. Dependents are additional to this total. After four years they
can all, at present, apply for permanent settlement, and 95 per cent are granted
it virtually automatically, including a famous nanny.

No thought has been given as to whether we need such workers permanently, with
the full citizenship rights to which they become entitled. As Migrationwatch
pointed out long ago, this will give a huge boost to immigration.

tem for the allocation of work permits, and no virtually automatic right to stay
permanently.

Not before time. But a crucial element is missing. Will there be an upper limit
to economic migration? It seems not.

What does all this amount to?

Well, it would be churlish to deny there are some steps forward - if they are
taken. But they do not amount to the radical overhaul of the system which the
public wishes to see.

Tinkering with the asylum system will not do. Six asylum and immigration acts in
11 years have failed to fix the problems stemming from a Refugee Convention
drafted 50 years ago for an entirely different situation.

In any case, asylum is less than one-fifth of foreign immigration, which is
approaching a quarter of a million a year. The other major immigration streams
are work permits and dependents. These two also have to be gripped.

These latest measures are a start, but they are not enough.

Many people are concerned, and rightly so, that we are losing our own culture.

These concerns are dismissed, with typical arrogance, by Trevor Phillips,
Chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality.

He said recently: 'People whingeing about how their communities are being
changed are afraid of a shadow, but these people (illegal immigrants) are the
real victims of the failure of immigration policy.

'The public worry about immigration and asylum being out of control, but the
real crime is the effective enslavement of large numbers of people.' Somehow, I
don't think the public agree with his sense of priorities.

Meanwhile, The Observer chimes in, accusing 'Labour no less than UKIP and the
BNP of contributing to a hysterical climate. . .' They have not realised that
the whole scene has been transformed in recent weeks and months. The majority
will no longer allow their concerns to be brushed aside.

The truth is that immigration and asylum are indeed out of control. The
protection of our borders is a prime responsibility of government, and it has
been ducked for years.

The acid test is whether any party will undertake to place a cap on total
immigration and manage it sharply downwards.

If they do, public opinion will be reassured, and community relations will
greatly benefit.

If they will not commit to a clear limit, and the measures required to enforce
it, you can be sure that the rest is preelectoral spin.

SIR Andrew Green is chairman of MigrationWatch UK and a former British
Ambassador to Saudi Arabia and Syria.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: OPEN BORDERS: ILLEGAL ASYLUM-SEEKERS HAVE MADE A MOCKERY OF IMMIGRATION
POLICY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               28 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 8, 2005

Is the ridicule of Robert Kilroy-Silk justified?

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 367 words


Is the ridicule of Robert Kilroy-Silk justified?

YES

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk says that if he's elected an MP, he will condescend to stand
down as an MEP. He should remember that, due to the method of voting in the
European election, he wasn't actually elected to the European Parliament.

He was selected by UKIP to represent the people who voted for that party.

Now that he has left UKIP, he can surely no longer claim to represent those
people and should, therefore, stand down immediately and allow UKIP to select
someone else.

I don't suppose an MEP's fat salary plus enormous expenses has any bearing on
this. Veritas? What about integritas?

CLIVE WILLMORE, Highcliffe on Sea, Dorset.

MR KILROY-SILK'S decision to name his party Veritas is slightly puzzling for
such a proclaimed anti-EU preacher of superstate proportions.

Surely Mr Kilroy-Silk is aware that use of the Latin language originated in this
country as a result of the most successful political and economic union that
Europe, even the world, has ever known - the Roman Empire.

DAVID HARTLEY, Wolverhampton.

NO

BOTH Tories and Labour have caught up with the justifiable concerns of the
electorate over immigration.

So why paint Robert Kilroy-Silk as some sort of 'racist' for making the same
point?

Let those who scream 'racist' give us a figure for the number of people we
should allow into this country and then they'll realise that there must be a
limit.

The electorate desperately want something that will give them hope for the
future.

None of the main parties are likely to provide it.

G. LOVER, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffs.

WE HAVE been needing a voice and now have a politician who speaks for the true
people of Britain. I hope Robert Kilroy-Silk does very well with his party,
Veritas.

If he can live up to the party's name - Truth - then he will speak for those who
have become conditioned by the mealy-mouthed liars and spin doctors.

Don't forget this is election year. In 2005, the PC brigade will get their just
deserts.

Kilroy-Silk could start by putting up a candidate in Southend East constituency.

FREDERICK SCHOFIELD, Southend-on-Sea, Essex.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               29 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 08, 2005, Tuesday

Ukip shuns Kilroy as it talks tough on migrants

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; International Pg. 10

LENGTH: 154 words

THE UK Independence Party brushed aside the threat from Robert Kilroy-Silk
yesterday as it unveiled its policies on immigration and asylum.

In its campaign titled We Want Our Country Back, Ukip claimed that only
withdrawal from the European Union could restore Britain's control over its
borders.

Ukip leaders indicated that though the campaign echoed the launch of Mr
Kilroy-Silk's Veritas party, it was the former Ukip member who was stealing
their policies.

Boosted by a pounds 400,000 donation from Alan Bown, a retired bookmaker, the
party yesterday came to Westminster to unveil a new campaign poster to
demonstrate that Brussels had the whip hand on British immigration policy. The
cartoon poster, one of five to be used during the coming general election
campaign, showed a threatening EU giant standing over a quaking trio of all
three main party leaders, Tony Blair, Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               30 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 8, 2005

Immigration debate: Where the parties stand

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words


Labour

The number of migrants is "about right", but a points system will divide
entrants into four tiers on the basis of factors such as qualifications, work
experience and income. Only the most skilled will be able to enter without a job
offer. Unlike others, they will be able to settle permanently if they speak
English and pass a "Britishness test" - but after five years rather than four as
at present. Other skilled staff may be allowed entry if sponsored by an
employer, while low skilled workers may fill specific vacancies for fixed
periods. Employers who use illegal workers will be fined. Asylum seekers whose
claims are upheld will have to return home when it is safe for them to do so.
Family migration will be limited.

Conservatives

An "Australian-style" points system would give priority to more highly skilled
entrants. The Tories would also end the assumption that a work permit leads to
long-term settlement and crack down on companies employing illegal immigrants.
They would introduce 24-hour security at all ports of entry and would prevent
visitors on holiday and those with student visas from switching to long-stay
visas. Parliament would set quotas for asylum, settlement work permits and
family reunion, and asylum seekers would be processed in offshore centres. The
party would withdraw from the 1951 UN convention which obliges signatories to
accept those fleeing persecution, and derogate from sections of the European
convention on human rights.

Liberal Democrats

Immigration is, in general, of "substantial benefit" to the UK and should be
seen as an opportunity rather than a crisis. Quotas would be set for workers -
but not refugees or those joining family members in the UK - based on an
independent assessment of the number of migrant workers needed by industry. Exit
monitoring would identify those overstaying on tourist or other short-term
visas, helping to prevent abuses. A new independent agency would process asylum
claims to try to cut delays and improve the quality of decisions. Asylum seekers
would be allowed to work rather than claim benefits.

Others

Ukip has pledged to reduce net immigration to zero, introducing a points system,
restricting family reunion rights and imposing health checks. Withdrawal from
the EU would allow it to tighten border controls.

Veritas, the party formed by Ukip defector Robert Kilroy-Silk, has promised
"quite startlingly different" policies, but has yet to give details.

The Green party would reduce migration controls. It would tackle arms sales to
oppressive regimes to cut the number of asylum seekers and get to grips with the
economic causes of migration.

Similarly, Respect believes that refugees and migrants have been scapegoated and
their rights should be better defended.


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               31 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 8, 2005, Tuesday

Labour rises to post-Iraq war high as Lib Dems slip

BYLINE: Peter Riddell, Philip Webster and Richard Ford

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 716 words


LABOUR'S confidence about its election prospects was strengthened last night as
it recorded its highest rating since the fall of Baghdad in the latest Populus
poll for The Times.

The party has risen above 40 per cent for the first time since April 2003, after
a month in which Iraq took its first steps towards democracy.

The poll gives Labour 41 per cent, three percentage points higher than a month
ago. Conservative support remains flat, with a one-point fall to 32 per cent.
The Liberal Democrats are down two at 18 per cent.

On a day when stringent curbs to stop immigrants and asylum-seekers "abusing
British hospitality" were promised, the poll showed immigration to be the area
where Labour is most vulnerable to the Tories.

As Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, announced restrictions on low-skilled
overseas workers and failed asylum-seekers, the poll showed that immigration is
the only one of 12 key policy issues where the Tories are well ahead of Labour.

The findings, understood to be matched by Labour and Tory private polling,
illustrate the urgency behind yesterday's measures and the Tory decision to play
the issue so hard.

It is certain to fuel fierce political debate up to and during the general
election campaign. Mr Clarke denounced Conservative plans for a fixed quota of
refugees and withdrawing from the Geneva Convention as "unworkable, unjust,
counter-

productive and immoral".

David Davis, the Shadow Home Secretary, accused the Government of creating a
"confused, weak and chaotic" system, calling the plans "the latest headline
initiative from a panic-stricken Government."

As the polls show increasing voter concern over immigration, Tony Blair has
become more closely involved in drawing up the five-year plan. In its
introduction, he said that Britain would be poorer in every way without
centuries of immigration.

But he added: "This traditional tolerance is under threat. It is under threat
from those who come and live here illegally by breaking our rules and abusing
our hospitality. Unless we act to tackle abuses, it could be increasingly
exploited by extremists to promote their perverted view of race."

In an unexpected move, Mr Clarke announced that low-skilled workers not from EU
or Western European countries will be prevented from settling permanently in
Britain. Only skilled workers will be allowed to settle, with the unskilled
allowed to remain only for short periods of time. Skilled workers will have to
pass tests in the English language and their knowledge of British life.

The waiting period for skilled workers wishing to remain permanently will be
extended from four to five years. Employers caught using illegal immigrants will
face an on-the-spot fine of £2,000 per person.

For the first time this month, Populus included RobertKilroy-Silk's new Veritas
party in the list of other parties. It attracted 0.35 per cent support, compared
with 1 per cent for the UK Independence Party.

The poll confirms an upward trend for Labour. In the first nine months of last
year, it averaged 34 per cent but that has risen to 37 per cent since.

Tory support has slipped from an average of 34 per cent during the early months
of Michael Howard's leadership to 31 per cent - less than the Tories achieved at
the last election and only just above its average rating during Iain Duncan
Smith's two years as leader.

Charles Kennedy's Liberal Democrats are on a slight downward trend, from an
average of 23 per cent in 2003. The latest 18 per cent rating is well below the
party's recent range.

However, the poll shows that a third of the public who are likely to vote are
swing voters, either completely undecided or possibly going to change party
before the election. The poll implies a turnout of 57 per cent, down from the
previous low of 59 per cent in 2001.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,518 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between February 4 and 6. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to be representative of all adults. Populus is a
member of the British Polling Council and abides by its rules. More details are
on the Populus website: www.populuslimited.com.

Immigration, pages 8, 9

Leading article, page 17


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               32 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 7, 2005

Comment & Analysis: With friends like Anna Zaborska: Women who think Europe is a
big yawn had better wake up before it's too late

BYLINE: Mary-Ann Stephenson

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 799 words


It's always surprised me that British women are not more pro-European. In the
run-up to European elections, women's organisations run campaigns listing all
the rights that have originated in the EU: equal pay for work of equal value,
part-time workers' rights, changes in parental leave and so on. But British
women remain resolutely unengaged.

We may now be in danger of realising what we've got only when it's gone. Female
MEPs are warning of a backlash in the European parliament that they fear may
stall, or even reverse, the progress on equality. Sadly, the Ukip MEP Godfrey
"they don't clean behind the fridge" Bloom is not the only member of the
parliamentary women's committee whose ideas about gender roles come straight
from the 50s. Even more worryingly, one of the others is the committee
chairwoman, Anna Zaborska.

Zaborska's appointment was met with dismay by women's organisations in her home
country of Slovakia. The Slovak Alliance of Women said she was not suitable to
lead the committee for the simple reason that "she does not promote women's
rights". Olga Pietruchova, the executive director of the Slovak Family Planning
Association said that the news was "a total shock and a big disappointment",
given Zaborska's strong opposition to abortion and gay rights, and her failure
to support anti-discrimination legislation in Slovakia.

Zaborska opposes abortion even in rape cases, arguing that when "(the victim)
ends her child's life - the jolt from killing her own child is often bigger than
the one suffered by rape". The Slovak Spectator quoted her as saying that "Aids
is God's vengeance for homosexuality".

There was also opposition to her appointment within the women's committee. The
London MEP Mary Honey ball described Zaborska as "clearly unsympathetic to the
views of our committee". Lissy Groner, a German MEP, said her attitude was
"against the spirit of the committee".

So how did such a person come to chair a committee responsible for women's
equality?

Zaborska's appointment was the result of a deal between the European People's
party and the Socialists, under which a Socialist MEP, Pervenche Beres, would
chair the economic and monetary affairs committee while a centre-right MEP would
chair the women's committee. There was a brief row at the time of her
appointment and Socialist members of the committee refused to back her, but
after a week the deal prevailed and she was elected.

Backroom deals over who gets to chair what committee may be exactly the sort of
internal wrangling that puts so many women off European politics. But in the
current climate, there is a pressing need for an active women's committee. And
since Zaborska's appointment, several members have complained that it has gone
very quiet.

"She's adopted a low profile," says Veronique de Keyser, a Belgian MEP. "She is
complying with what has been agreed - but no more". Lissy Groner goes further,
claiming that Zaborska has weakened the position of the committee and that she
"makes it more difficult . . . to be at the energetic heart of women's rights in
Europe".

EU policies on women's rights, and more recently on outlawing discrimination at
work on grounds of sexuality, didn't happen because male bureaucrats and
decision-makers suddenly saw the light. They happened because people inside and
outside EU institutions campaigned for them.

Of course, the parliament has limited powers, but the women's committee has
worried at the heels of the commission and the council on maternity and
workplace rights, domestic violence and sexual harassment. Previous chairwomen
have been champions of equality. The current one is anything but.

The move to the right in the parliament at the last European elections means
that on some issues active campaigning is needed just to stand still. We may
laugh at Godfrey Bloom, but for millions of women across Europe this is no joke.

Feminist MEPs claim that anti-women's rights voices and homophobia are on the
increase. There are certainly some nasty attitudes floating round the
parliament. Even the debate to mark the anniversary of the liberation of
Auschwitz saw a concerted attempt (thankfully defeated) to remove references to
the gay victims of the Holocaust from the final statement.

The need for an active and influential women's committee is stronger than ever.
As Mary Honeyball says: "If we are not moving the agenda forward, it will slip
back. This is more serious than anyone thinks. I don't think it has really sunk
in."

British women are not in the habit of paying much attention to the goings on in
any of the European institutions. It is time we started.

Mary-Ann Stephenson is a trainer and consultant on women's leadership

maryann@ maryannstephenson.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               33 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 7, 2005, Monday

Election rivals join battle to talk tough on immigration

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 720 words


How the parties differ on 'difficult' issue

LABOUR

Managed migration is essential to the economic wellbeing of Britain and its
public services. Labour intends to continue the expansion of work permits and
other schemes supported by the CBI and employers.

It wants to offer a safe haven to those genuinely fleeing persecution, but will
continue to tackle abuses such as suspect marriages, colleges and illegal
working operations.

It aims to continue to ensure that those who settle in Britain can play a full
part by helping them to speak English and learn about British life.

New policy initiatives will include restrictions on "chain migration" when
immigrants who enter legally are followed by their extended family; a points
system to prove that immigrants will benefit the economy; fingerprinting to stop
people destroying visas and disappearing into the black economy; and scrapping
some residency rights.

CONSERVATIVES

The party wants to clamp down on illegal immigration and bogus asylum-seekers,
as well as introducing an Australian-style points-based system of work permits.

Plans include a "no-switching" visa rule, so that holiday and student visas
cannot be moved to long-stay visas once people have arrived in Britain. Work
permits will not automatically lead to long-term settlement.

They will also introduce 24-hour surveillance at all ports of entry. Embarkation
controls will be reintroduced and companies that employ people illegally will be
heavily penalised.

Michael Howard is calling for quotas to cap the number of asylum-seekers.

Britain will also pull out of the 1951 Refugee Convention and enter reservations
against the relevant parts of the European Convention on Human Rights.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Levels of immigration should be set according to the needs of industry. While we
have to be tough on those who abuse the system, setting arbitrary quotas on
refugee numbers would jeopardise our international obligations. Asylum-seekers
would be able to work rather than claim benefits.

The party intends to defend the principle of asylum and says that we need an
asylum system that quickly and fairly sorts the genuine refugees from the
economic migrants

UKIP

Believes that Britain is "full up", but intends to maintain asylum for genuine
refugees.

Withdrawal from the EU will tighten control of borders. Investment will enable
checks on everyone at point of entry.

Asylum will be tightened up with the following: no request for asylum will be
entertained from refugees for whom Britain is not the first safe port of call;
from citizens of other multi- party democracies, since these will be deemed to
be politically tolerant of varying points of view; from the citizens of
countries hosting peacekeepers from the UN, Britain or other countries. Part of
the job of such forces is to protect people from persecution in their own
countries.

Immigrants claiming asylum at point of entry will be held in humane but secure
accommodation, and their cases processed within a fortnight.

No asylum claims will be countenanced if submitted later, or away from the point
of entry.

At the end of the two week period successful asylum- seekers will be released
into the community and given whatever help is deemed appropriate.

Unsuccessful applicants will be returned to their countries of origin.

GREEN PARTY

It believes that politicians have fuelled a culture of racism against the
persecuted and that it is a total myth that England is a "soft touch".

It believes that most asylum-seekers are fleeing persecution and says that if
the Government were really serious about reducing asylum figures, it would take
action to stop creating refugees -such as arm sales of £4 billion a year to
oppressive regimes through the Exports Credit Guarantee Department.

SCOTTISH NATIONALISTS

The party says that the Scottish economy is reliant on regular influxes of new
workers. With Scotland projected to lose half a million people over the next 40
years, it is vital that the country seeks to attract skilled workers in
increasing numbers.

Scotland should be a welcoming and tolerant place, geared to attracting vital
skilled workers. It should also be a country that protects those fleeing for
their lives from elsewhere.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               34 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 7, 2005, Monday

Mandelson attacks Humphrys over 'anti-Europe bias' at BBC

BYLINE: Anthony Browne Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 26

LENGTH: 731 words


Peter Mandelson, the European Trade Commissioner, has mounted an attack on John
Humphrys, the Today programme journalist, complaining to the BBC of his
"virulently anti-European" views and claiming that the "antiEuropean bias" of
some BBC presenters is a "problem".

In a stinging letter, obtained by The Times, to Michael Grade, the BBC Chairman,
Mr Mandelson accused the BBC of failing in its charter obligation to promote
"understanding" of European affairs and declared: "I do not think the present
BBC coverage is good enough."

He said the BBC gave too much coverage to moderate Eurosceptics and should give
more coverage to extreme Eurosceptics such as UKIP, who wanted to take Britain
out of the EU altogether.

Mr Humphrys last night dismissed the criticism as political opportunism. "It's
delightful for once to be accused of being Eurosceptic when we're usually
accused at the Today programme of being Europhiles," he said. "It's interesting
that Peter Mandelson has any idea of what my views on the subject are.

"I'm sure we'll have more of this kind of thing from him in the run-up to the
election."

The intervention of one of Tony Blair's closest political allies in the BBC's
European coverage is the first evidence of the active role Mr Mandelson is
expected to play in the Government's battle to win the referendum on the
European constitution, expected next year.

Mr Mandelson is linked with Britain in Europe, the pro-constitution campaign
group, and is on the European Commission's communications committee, where he
has been drawing up a communication strategy to win over the British public.

The BBC's European coverage has already become an early battleground for the
referendum, with both pro-constitution and anticonstitution campaigners seeing
it as critical.

An inquiry commissioned by the BBC into accusations of pro-European bias,
published last month, found that BBC News suffers from an "institutional
mindset" that leads to a "reluctance to question pro-EU assumptions".

Mr Mandelson wrote the letter to Mr Grade on European Commission paper to give
his views on the review, but asked the BBC to keep it confidential.

Mr Mandelson suggested the Today programme, presented by Mr Humphrys, used to be
"biased in a marked Eurosceptic direction", but was now generally less
Eurosceptic under its new editor Kevin Marsh. But he insisted: "There is still,
however, a specific problem with the anti-European bias of some presenters,
objective presenters to the public but who have many times committed themselves
in print to virulently anti-European positions."

Singling out Mr Humphrys, who used to write a column in The Sunday Times, Mr
Mandelson wrote that: "I have much less objection to Mr Humphrys as an in depth
interviewer -and none at all to the admirable way he conducts himself on
programmes like Mastermind!"

He dismissed complaints from Eurosceptics that the BBC was institutionally
pro-EU, saying: "From a pro-European perspective, I have never discerned any BBC
tendency to over-represent our viewpoint or present our views as the consensus
that all men and women of goodwill support. If there ever was such a tendency in
the 1970s, it is long gone."

His comments that "UKIP views are, if anything, under-represented" was seen by
one leading moderate Eurosceptic yesterday as a cynical ploy. "It just shows how
cynical the Government is, wanting to make all Eurosceptics seem like loonies,"
he said.

The BBC confirmed Mr Grade had received the letter but had no comment to make.

SPATS WITH THE CORPORATION

* March 1995: Mandelson accused Jonathan Aitken -who had described the BBC as
the Blair Broadcasting Corportation -of trying to soften up the organisation
before a general election

* April 2002: The Labour Party attacked Today, accusing it of treating
politicians like consummate liars. Mandelson said reporters needed to be more
responsible

* July 2003: On Today Mandelson criticised the BBC for backing Andrew Gilligan:
"It was a crass error by the governors"

* February 2004: After the Hutton report Mandelson said: "Humphrys is mired in
the subject"

* July 2004: On becoming an EU commissioner Mandelson said: "BBC and ITN
reporters claiming to know what was going on, well, it's all just fanciful, it
makes you worry what correspondents are really trying to do"


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               35 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                February 6, 2005

A free and fair Iraq? Don't you believe it

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 879 words


THERE has been a lot of simpering about the elections in Iraq.

Why? Voting is not a sacred act, and by itself proves nothing.

Lots of tyrannies have elections. What is more, I really cannot see how those
who pronounced the business a success could possibly have known what they were
talking about.

The claims of high turnout in Sunni zones were guesses made by biased officials
and could not be checked because the places involved are too dangerous to visit.

As for the Shia and Kurdish areas, those who voted there were doing so at the
bidding of local Mr Bigs, who have a harsh way with nonconformists. In some
places there was more pressure on citizens to vote than there was to stay at
home.

This doesn't seem specially virtuous to me. Voting is a dubious, overrated act
everywhere in the world. Have you ever actually thought about it?

Even here in Britain, millions of us live in 'safe' seats where our choice can
make no possible difference. In most places I DON'T believe anybody, asked for
directions to their home, would use kilometres rather than miles.

As far as I know, there are no plans to replace our measures with this foreign
one. Yet the BBC and now Foreign Secretary Jack Straw constantly use them. One
of the most interesting unanswered questions of our time is why certain people
are so keen to get rid of the known, familiar and English.

two or perhaps three parties utterly dominate the Election. If you don't belong
to the party that owns the seat, you have precisely no say in who is your MP.

It isn't voting that makes us free. It's a real chance of being able to sling
out the Government if we want to. It's jury trial and habeas corpus, the right
to silence and the rule against being tried twice on the same charge, that
prevent the authorities from locking us up whenever they like.

It's a free Press that restrains authority and holds it to account. It's the
rule of law, where the Government has to do what the courts say.

It's private life, where we are free to form our own opinions. It's freedom of
speech.

Few if any of these things exist in Iraq.

Only days before the vaunted 'elections', the organisation Human Rights Watch
revealed that the new 'democratic' Iraqi regime is already using the standard
methods of the region against those it dislikes electric shocks to the genitals,
beatings with heavy cables, hanging prisoners up by their wrists.

ANEW secret police, the Iraqi National Intelligence Service, is accused of
arresting members of some of the parties that stood in the election. The Iraqi
government refused to comment. I think this was far more significant than this
bogus election. It tells us a lot more about the future of Iraq than queues of
'voters' who didn't even know the names of the candidates.

Ten years hence, a new Saddam will sit in Baghdad atop a new pyramid of torture
chambers and rape rooms, but he will be 'democratic' because he is our friend.

And if we accept this falsehood, as we accepted the drivel about WMD and the
'war against terror', then we too will be on the way to a dictatorship of our
own, complete with house arrest, identity cards and trial without jury.

And we may live to gnash our teeth as gullible, deluded foreign observers arrive
and pronounce that our meaningless elections are free and fair.

So how hard can the men at No10 hit a policeman?

SIR IAN BLAIR, the new Scotland Yard chief, was deliberately humiliated by
Downing Street last week when he said the 'wrong' thing about how hard you can
hit a burglar. Did the Government use reasonable force on him? Or was it totally
disproportionate?

This column supports totally disproportionate force, as deterrent and
punishment. It's interesting that the Government guidelines say that we
shouldn't try to take revenge on the arrogant, callous savages who smash our
security, rape our privacy and steal our goods.

But if they won't catch and punish them, why shouldn't we?

Don't vote for ludicrous Kilroy or anyone else I AM besieged by letters, emails
and phone calls asking me who to vote for if the Tories are so useless. My
answer is nobody. The right not to vote is as precious a freedom as the right to
vote and sometimes needs to be exercised. If the political class offer us no
real choice, why should we play their game?

The ludicrous Kilroy-Silk and the self-destructing UKIP have no future, while
the BNP is actively evil.

What's important is that the Tories, who cannot be saved or reformed, are
finally unplugged from the life-support provided by the voters they have
repeatedly betrayed. They cannot possibly win the next General Election and a
recovery would only lengthen their long, slow-death agony.

If the Tories are still the main Opposition four years hence, then Labour will
win that Election too. They are dream opponents for Labour and Princess Tony
would be terrified if they collapsed. All the more reason why they should.

Only once the Tory Party is obviously finished will the forces come together
that can create a new and realistic pro-British party.

At the Election you cannot get rid of this worse-thanuseless Government. But you
can get rid of the useless Opposition by not wasting your vote on it.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               36 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                February 6, 2005

Observer Sport Monthly: SECOND THOUGHTS: CAMPBELL IN A SPIN

SECTION: Observer Sports Magazine, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 335 words


BURNLEY'S MOST HIGH- PROFILE supporter, Tony Blair's former spin doctor Alastair
Campbell, was understandably thrilled after his team dumped Liverpool out of the
FA Cup. Since leaving Downing Street, Campbell (below) has carved a new niche
for himself as a sports columnist. But, thanks to his past political career, the
path of sports journalism has not always been smooth. Mike Atherton told me
that, last summer, Campbell came into the Channel 4 commentary box seeking
background information for a profile of Ian Botham. On seeing Campbell, Geoff
Boycott, a supporter of the UK Independence Party, waded in. 'Boycs's politics
are to the right of Genghis Khan,' says Atherton. 'It was quite funny because he
kept going at Campbell about Europe and the Labour Party. Campbell was all right
at the start, but after 20 minutes of being pinned to the wall by Boycs, he
wanted to hoist the white flag.' Even Gordon Brown never achieved that.

IT MIGHT BE sacrilege, but I prefer TalkSport's England coverage to BBC's Test
Match Special . I know the latter is meant to be an institution, adored by all
cricket fans, but I have always found it a turn-off: smug, self-reverential,
full of irrelevancies and lacking in technical insights. Test Match Special ,
like the MCC, Lord's and the late, ghastly, EW Swanton, represents the 'jolly
good chap' view of cricket, one that squeals with delight over a batsman's
public-school pedigree and still takes a dim view of wearing shades on the
field. Let us not forget that current TMS star Jonathan Agnew, like some pompous
prep schoolmaster, called for the resignation of Mike Atherton over the
dirt-in-the-pocket episode in 1994.

Thankfully, since 2000, TalkSport has won the rights to overseas tours. Now we
can listen to proper, hard-edged analysis from commentators who tell us what is
happening on the field instead of what icing Mrs Wellbeloved used in her
wretched cake. I only wish that the domestic broadcast rights would go the same
way.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               37 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                February 6, 2005

Comment: A political debate that shames us: There's no need to fear immigration

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 442 words


THERE IS an ugly auction under way between Britain's two principal political
parties over who can be tougher on foreigners. Behind it stands an
unacknowledged obeisance to racism. Naturally, everyone denies this. But if it
walks and talks like a duck, it is a duck - and be sure that party strategists
on both sides know this.

Michael Howard opened the Tory bidding with a call for a quota on asylum seekers
(which would involve abandoning both the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees and the
European Convention on Human Rights). International treaties could not be
allowed to stand in the way of appeasing 'legitimate concerns of the native
British about their jobs, homes and way of life' being threatened by immigrants,
refugees and asylum seekers. Tomorrow, New Labour will place its bid and
announce its intention to abandon the current right of immigrants to apply for
indefinite leave to remain after four years. Instead, they will have to prove
they have the skills Britain needs and pass a basic English test. The message is
clear. Immigrants are here on sufferance and should return home.

The new Labour line will also speak of 'legitimate concerns' about immigration
and asylum seeker abuses. But are these concerns so 'legitimate' that we must
develop policy which is frankly racist and denies basic human rights to some
sections of society? Labour, no less than Ukip and the British National Party,
is contributing to a hysterical climate in which swing voters report that their
greatest fear is of immigrants and asylum seekers. Yet the UN reports that low
birth rates mean Europe needs 1.6 million migrants a year to 2050 simply to keep
its working-age population stable.

We are inflicting a great wound on ourselves. The British are more tolerant and
less racist than many other states - a great source of economic, social and
moral strength. Immigrants come to work because there is work - not to live on
poverty-line benefits. They are here because we need them. If the economic
demand fell away, so would the inward flow of immigrants. Far from being a
burden on UK taxpayers, migrants make a net tax contribution - approximately
£2.5 billion a year.

Turning immigrants into second-class citizens will inflame racial tension; the
proposed rules do not target white immigrants, from the US or the EU for
example. Labour should be exposing those who call for tighter rules for what
they are - racists. Leadership could change the climate of opinion, and lead us
away from what we know are our worst instincts. Instead, in a state of funk,
Labour's leaders try to outbid the Opposition. They should be ashamed.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               38 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                February 6, 2005

Comment: WITHOUT PREJUDICE: No truth behind Veritas: Like so many media stars,
Robert Kilroy-Silk is beginning to believe in his own narcissistic image

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1418 words


IF YOU TYPE 'swivel-eyed loons' into Google and hit return, the search engine
will tell you that that the most eye-swivellingly loony site on the world wide
web is www.ukip.org, the home-page of the UK Independence Party.

It's a good call by Google. The fringe of the British right has been torn apart
by a fratricidal mania ever since Robert Kilroy-Silk decided to leave Ukip and
create his own cult of personality with the Veritas party. But then it is always
being torn apart. Schism is as much a disease of the far-right as the far-left.
Incessant hissy fits, libel action threats and furious exits have made it hard
to credit Ukip's claim that it was a party capable of running a parish council
let alone a Britain freed from the shackles of Europe.

Dr Alan Sked, its founder, left in a huff, and said of his fellow party members
'they are racist and have been infected by the far right'. He backed-up his
claim by telling the Mail on Sunday that Nigel Farage, the co-founder and leader
of the Ukip group of members of the European Parliament, had once told him that
'we will never win the nigger vote. The nig-nogs will never vote for us.'

Accusations of collusion with the BNP or infiltration by BNP members pop-up
continually, and the racial hatred of outsiders is matched by the personal
hatred of each other. One leading party figure accused Michael Holmes, a former
party leader, of organising a 'bizarre kangaroo court' to try him. A second
accused Farage of 'double-dealing, backstabbing, disloyalty and treachery'. A
third provoked a strike by the campaign workers who were meant to get him
elected when he confessed to wanting a 'buttock implant'.

With one thing and another, Ukip members must have thought that they had learned
to cope with whatever life could throw at them. But they were still stunned when
John Houston, a candidate in Scotland, announced that the criminally insane
should be shot and that people 'who share the same language' or have 'facial
disfigurements' should live apart in 'special' settlements. For good measure
Houston added that brothels should be legalised and society should agree that
'people who work for the community, such as civil servants, would be entitled to
a number of free visits every year'.

You might think Kilroy's decision to denounce his former friends as 'right wing
fascist nutters' was a rare outburst of good sense from the bronzed braggart,
but that in the wider scheme of things his split with Ukip was of no great
significance: just another tantrum in the madhouse.

But on the first count Kilroy isn't as clean as his denunciation of fascism made
him sound. The Guardian found a key member of Veritas had co-founded a
Eurosceptic campaign group with a former chairman of the National Front. It
seems impossible for a party to appear to the right of the Tories which isn't
tainted by neo-Nazism.

On the second, Kilroy may not be the obscure figure he appears. He may just be a
guide to the future.

ACROSS THE WORLD media-populists are winning political power. One film star was
president of the Philippines until his corrupt ways brought him down, and a
second nearly won the last election. There's Arnold Schwarzenegger and Michael
Moore in America, the Bollywood stars who have stood as candidates for both
Congress and the BJP in India and, of course, Silvio Berlusconi in Italy, whose
influence is based on his near-monopoly of Italian television. All of them can
pose as the people's friends because they are far-better known to the people
than most elected politicians. All of them represent the hypocrisies of their
countries' various media.

Kilroy embodies in extreme form the power and vices of British television, and
shows how they can be transferred to politics. His apparently mystifying
decision to join Ukip and then storm out when he wasn't made leader at once was
politically ludicrous. In politics you have to work your way up. But it was a
reasonable way to behave for a man from television. For Ukip to take Kilroy and
not make him leader would have been as incomprehensible as Channel 4 News taking
Jeremy Paxman and not making him lead presenter.

Television is a medium which turns balanced men and women into narcissists. The
off-screen staff's job is to do everything possible to make the presenters
better than they are: to coach them so they will sound good, cover them with
cosmetics so they will look good and flatter them so they will feel good. After
a while they can begin to believe that this best possible version of themselves
is the true version of themselves.

The egotism television fosters in its political journalism is the belief that
celebrity interviewers are better than everyone they interview. It's an
occupational hazard. Presenters are meant to treat guests with suspicion and ask
the hardest questions imaginable. And rightly so. But it's easy for the celeb to
fall from necessary scepticism into the delusion that they are they are the last
honest men in England and the true representatives of the people. Kilroy shows
what happens when they do. He is what Paxman would become if he let his grip on
reality relax for an instant.

The very name of his Veritas party is an announcement that he believes he is a
lone voice of truth. At its launch, he declared that Veritas would be the
'straight-talking' party. By contrast, Tony Blair and Michael Howard were
'liars'. The British people 'are fed up of being lied to, talked down to and
patronised', he continued, by the 'supercilious metropolitan elite'. With
Veritas there would be 'no more lies, evasion, spin'. The denunciatory style
matters more than substance in celebrity politics and the target of the
celebrity politician is almost an irrelevance.

None the less Kilroy's obsession is immigration and it's no surprise to find him
hanging out with dubious characters. Race, far more than the European Union, is
what drives him. Anyone who watched his show could see he had managed to
convince himself that his obsession was democratic and he represented his
largely poor and sexually prurient audience far more effectively than their
actual elected representatives. When after a fortnight of dithering he was fired
by the BBC after a racial outburst too far, Kilroy came out with a revealing and
self-aggrandising statement. He told our own Lynn Barber the BBC had disregarded
protests from some viewers and therefore 'all those people, all those nice
people - my mum, your mum, my aunts, all the people I've been meeting for the
last two weeks or so: good, decent people - have been disenfranchised by the
BBC.'

Disenfranchised? To disenfranchise someone is to take away their right to vote
not to ignore their vague preferences on which loudmouth should present a
daytime show. But Kilroy clearly believed the media were more democratic than
democratic parliaments and media stars were better representatives of the public
than democratic politicians. Attacks on him were attacks on the rights of
everyone who watched him - 'all those nice people' - and an unforgivable assault
on the public by the elite.

It sounds mad. Actually, it is mad. From the mother of his illegitimate child to
the careworn and under-paid researchers on the Kilroy show, there are dozens of
stories about him treating nice little people with contempt when the cameras
weren't running. But it is a very convincing madness, which is sweeping the
world. The celebrity rather than the politician is the man the viewers know (or
think they know). He's the man who has shown in thousands of interviews that he
is on their side. His half-angry, half-understood questions prove he is 'one of
us'.

Could Kilroy bring celebrity power to British politics? Probably not. He can't
work with other people and, in any case, the British 'first-past-the-post'
system might have been designed to stop charismatic outsiders breaking in.

But when I spoke to Ukip's officers last week, I caught a wistful note in their
voices. They admitted privately that if Kilroy had only managed to accept basic
discipline, the combination of a party machine and a celeb's pulling power might
have got somewhere.

In the past far-right populists wore uniforms and screamed from radios. That
world is dead, in Europe at least. Today a toothy smile and ingratiating manner
might just work instead. There's a post vacant on the right of British politics,
and if Kilroy can't fill it, it doesn't mean that someone else won't.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            February 6, 2005, Sunday

A classy lesson in turning a corner

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; Culture; 12

LENGTH: 1183 words


Brave Sir Tony Robinson set off last week in search of the Holy Grail. "It's
going to be a hell of a journey," he said, although the impact of these words
was dulled by the accompanying footage of Sir Tony pulling away in a Vauxhall
Astra saloon.

His quest as presenter of The Real Da Vinci Code (C4, Thursday) was to discover
whether there is any truth in Dan Brown's controversial bestselling novel. Did
Leonardo da Vinci know secrets of a faith- shattering nature, or is it all just
a clever way to sell an intriguing thriller? The plot of The Da Vinci Code is a
little complicated, but it centres on a conspiracy within the Catholic church to
cover up the fact that Christ and Mary Magdalene were not only married, but had
a child, who later assassinated President Kennedy to cover up the fact that the
moon landings were being faked by the freemasons.

The trouble with modern television is that it can be complicated or it can be
entertaining, but it can't usually be both. The Real Da Vinci Code managed to
pull off this rare trick. It looked at the elements that are central to The Da
Vinci Code -the Grail, the descendants of Christ, the Knights Templar, the
Priory of Sion secret society -and demolished them one by one. The Grail legend,
according to the experts consulted, was created by the French poet Chretien de
Troyes in 1180. The Knights Templar did not grow rich because they had
discovered the grail secrets; they grew rich because they invented an
international banking service.

Best of all, the shady Priory of Sion secret society - supposedly the guardians
of the knowledge that the French kings were descended from Christ -was
apparently created as a practical joke by a journalist, a minor French
aristocrat and an eccentric, in 1967.

The most remarkable revelation to emerge from this was Robinson's skill as an
interviewer. The main source for The Da Vinci Code appears to be the 1982 book
Holy Blood, Holy Grail, which first suggested God might have had grandchildren.

Robinson politely but firmly suggested to the book's co-author that this was a
bit on the unlikely side, and that perhaps the evidence for the secret societies
might also be sketchy. He then allowed the author to put his case without
interruption, leaving the long pauses and uncomfortable smile to speak for
themselves.

Of course, the fact that Baldrick has compiled a strong case against The Da
Vinci Code will make absolutely no difference to the success or influence of the
book. These myths are like God, Santa and Queens Park Rangers winning the
European Cup: either you believe, or you don't.

Which was the dilemma faced by viewers of Ahead of the Class (ITV1, Sunday), a
heart-warming example of what is glibly referred to in the newspaper world as a
triumph over tragedy. It was a dramatised account of the way the headteacher
Marie Stubbs turned around St George's school, the inner-city comprehensive
notorious for the murder of a previous headmaster, Philip Lawrence. As drama, it
was excellent in every way.

What I had expected was this: opening shot of rioting children and Julie Walters
marching down corridor with determined expression. She meets initial resistance,
but everything ends tearfully as grateful children chorus "Thanks, Miss". There
was all that - plenty of corridor-marching, certainly -but the bits in the
middle were more subtle and complicated, built around Walters's fine
performance.

Still, it is impossible to watch a drama based on real life without doubts.
Surely it can't have been this easy? Did thuggish, surly teenagers, dragged
reluctantly to school, suddenly become eager young students after a few wise
words from Lady Stubbs? Almost as soon as you are moved to admiration by a
scene, you wonder whether it really was like that, or whether it has simply been
dropped in for dramatic effect. I notice that former teachers at St George's
have already objected to the way they have been portrayed, and cast doubt on at
least one incident.

By the way, it was good to see Tony Slattery back in a decent role on mainstream
television, as a dis- illusioned teacher. About 10 years ago, he was in
everything. Then, suddenly, he was gone. Let's hope he paces his career a little
more carefully this time round.

Slattery's successor as the man you can't seem to switch off, no matter how hard
you try, is Lord Winston, who last week presented How to Sleep Better (BBC1,
Wednesday). Ironically, there was absolutely no chance of dozing off in front of
this. It was breathless in its quest for the secrets of sleep. We've got
surveys, it yelled. We've got experts! And people in white coats! And people
with clipboards! Quick, over here! We've got some people doing stuff on
computers! Look, look! Hurry, hurry! Busy, busy! I've never seen a programme
that was so frightened of letting the viewer's attention wander.

Eventually, it settled down to examine the sleeping problems of five volunteers,
which proved unexpectedly cheering. A lady from Middlesbrough who snored like an
elephant with adenoids was given a mouth brace, and so slept in the same bed as
her husband for the first time in nine years. There was similar relief for a
stiff-upper-lipped retired RAF officer who had suffered from insomnia for a
quarter of a century. It struck me that the encounter between this sceptical old
man and the attractive young psychologist who treated him -was she Spanish? -
could be turned into a good film. It even had a happy ending: now that he is
getting a decent night's sleep, he feels fits enough to travel to Canada to see
his son and grandchildren.

If all else fails to get you to sleep, I normally find a documentary about the
European parliament does the trick. In Kilroy -Behind the Tan (BBC3, Monday;
BBC2, Saturday), we followed Robert Kilroy-Silk as he tried to take over the UK
Independence Party (UKIP). The producer, Emeka Onono, spent six months with the
former chat-show host, but what did we learn for his efforts? We learnt that
Roger Knapman, the leader of UKIP, would probably look unconvincing as chairman
of Lilliput District Council, and that his party has a lot to learn about
politics. We learnt that Kilroy-Silk is sometimes charming, sometimes rather
less so. And we learnt that he seems very fond of Mrs Kilroy-Silk.

The whole point of spending so much time with a public figure is to win their
trust and encourage them to lower their guard. But Kilroy's guard seems to be
operated by a 24-hour Securicor service, and Onono never really managed to find
his way through to the real man, if such a thing exists. Neither did Onono have
Louis Theroux's knack of asking a cheeky question at precisely the right moment.

Kilroy always seemed to be hiding his irritation when the cameras were present.

That is not to say there was not the odd amusing moment. "I could not be less
interested," Neil Kinnock said when asked if he was looking forward to working
with the new MEP. Moments later, the two men were sharing a lift together,
shuffling from foot to foot and looking embarrassed.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Television

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               40 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                February 6, 2005

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 57 words


YOUR correspondent John Croft (Sunday Express, January 30) should not feel too
sorry for the disillusioned members of Ukip and Robert Kilroy-Silk. I recommend
them to join the new Senior Citizens Party where they can stand for Parliament
if they are 50 and over. Veritas is our watchword, if not our name.

Terry Pattinson, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               41 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                February 6, 2005

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 76 words


IT'S rich of Robert Kilroy-Silk to criticise Michael Howard for not knowing that
Tony Blair had handed control of immigration to Europe.

Kilroy-Silk was a member of Ukip, a party concerned solely with Europe.

If anyone should have been watching the Government's every move and holding it
to account, it should have been Kilroy-Silk. Yet attendance records show that
Ukip members were often absent from meetings.

Jane Percival, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               42 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           February 06, 2005, Sunday

A for arrogance Television

BYLINE: By John Preston

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1111 words

Today I am delighted to announce the formation of my new political party, The
Flatus Party. Flatus, as you will doubtless be aware, is Latin for arrogance,
but also has - to me at least - pleasing as well as apt associations with
uncontrollable wind. By coincidence, Robert Kilroy-Silk launched his own
Latinate party, Veritas, last week, but after watching Kilroy: Behind the Tan
(Monday, BBC3 and last night, BBC2), I don't see it as much of a threat.

Emeka Onono's bitty but vastly entertaining documentary followed Kilroy's
disastrous affair with the UK Independence Party - from initial schmoozing to
all-too-predictable schism. First, we saw Kilroy and his wife, Jan, bemoaning
our national decline as they sat outside their holiday home roasting beneath a
high Spanish sun. Apparently Jan was "dead against" this documentary being made
- which, given the way it turned out, suggested that her political acumen was in
considerably better shape than his.

One of Kilroy's more prominent bloomers came when he wrote an article in the
Daily Express describing Arabs as "limb-amputators". But when Jan started
banging on about "decent people" and "my country" in a proprietorial sort of
way, she sounded as if she was raring to do some amputating of her own. As far
as one could tell, their relationship seemed to be characterised by thickly
varnished devotion on his part - "you can see why I stick with Jan, can't you?"
- and nut-cracking froideur on hers.

Perhaps the most offputting thing about Kilroy - narrowly beating his un-charm -
is his wolfish self-regard, his all-too-evident belief that he's the most
beguiling creature ever to have sprung from "this great country of ours". Both
qualities, though, were firmly to the fore as he arrived in Strasbourg to take
his seat as an MEP. First, he refused to wear his name tag, presumably on the
grounds that everyone should have known who he was. Then he kept repeating the
word "truth" in that way people do when they believe themselves to be possessed
of bottomless reserves of integrity.

Neil Kinnock was asked if he found it "interesting" that Kilroy had come to
Strasbourg. "It's about the least interesting thing I've ever heard," he
muttered. As for Kilroy's UKIP colleagues, they proved to be an astoundingly
clottish lot, a triumverate of the imbecilic, the ineffectual and the
incorrigibly pin-striped.

It didn't take long before UKIP's Kilroy honeymoon shuddered to a halt. For a
party that prides itself on openness, UKIP held a great many meetings behind
closed doors - from which Kilroy emerged in a succession of ever-filthier moods.

Onono is, of course, a brilliant name for someone who makes intrusive political
documentaries - and is therefore bound to have people shouting "Oh no, no," at
him on regular occasions. Although not beyond a touch of self-admiration himself
- "my persistence paid off in the end," he noted smugly at one point - Onono did
an excellent job of showing up Kilroy's cavalier disregard for the actual truth.
He was no less effective at subjecting the MEP's oft-repeated insistence that
"it's not about me" to the toasting of ridicule it richly deserves.

Throughout the programme there were references to various myths - to the
Euromyths pedalled by both sides of the EU fence, and to what Kilroy called "the
myths about me" that silly people choose to believe. In Search of Myths and
Heroes (Friday, BBC2), saw Michael Wood going off on the trail of an even more
gorgeous deity in human form - namely the Queen of Sheba.

With his jug ears, his heroically unfashionable leather jacket and his
breathlessly intense manner, it's easy to poke fun at Michael Wood. However,
there can be no doubting his doggedness, or his enthusiasm - even if at times
here he appeared to be chasing the last ghostly strands of a sock that had
unravelled long ago.

Although evidence of the Queen of Sheba proved to be extremely scarce, that
didn't stop Wood from embarking on a quest that took him to Israel, Egypt,
Ethiopia and the Yemen, stopping off at numerous picturesque dead ends along the
way. At times the trail threatened to vanish altogether, but Wood just about
managed to keep the whole thing on track - this despite constant interruptions
from a woman who read out accounts of the Queen of Sheba in a fruity voice,
while waving her hands about and showing a fair amount of cleavage.

From the Sacred Hills of Yaha, Wood negotiated his way through a thicket of
"mights" and "coulds" to the Ancient Kingdom of Saba, passing by the Wobbly
Hummock of Hypothesis en route. Finally he ended up in a ruined building in the
middle of the Yemeni desert, which he at least seemed convinced was the remains
of Sheba's kingdom.  "Eternal female!" Wood declared, quite overcome with
emotion now. "Fantasy mother and lover! She has passed beyond history...but
lives on in the hearts of the people." And not only in their hearts but in
rather more prosaic ways, too - such as Sheba catfood, which according to its
website, provides an "unsurpassed source of feline nutrition".

On a similarly mythic - or hogwashy - theme, we come to The Real Da Vinci Code
(Thursday, Channel 4), in which Tony Robinson went on a big quest of his own to
see if there was a grain of truth behind Dan Brown's bestseller The Da Vinci
Code.

When I was on holiday recently, I counted eight people out of 22 round the
swimming pool reading The Da Vinci Code. This, of course, is the sort of thing
that gives the herd instinct a bad name, not least because the book is so
appallingly written.

For all sort of reasons - possibly including envy - the idea of sitting through
a two-hour film on the subject filled me with foreboding. But as it transpired,
Robinson managed to strike a very effective balance throughout, with one nostril
flared disdainfully while the other remained reasonably close to the grindstone.

Not surprisingly Dan Brown turned to have about as much regard for
verisimilitude as Kilroy. Various grail enthusiasts were paraded before the lens
- some harmlessly dotty, others foaming uncontrollably - before having their
theories shot down in flames. One man in Derbyshire claimed to have the grail in
his possession, and then with great ceremony brought forth a small,
moss-coloured egg-cup.

According to legend, King Arthur, one-time custodian of the grail, lies
sleeping, ready to rise from the earth in time of national emergency. We in the
Flatus Party believe that this moment has arrived. The Shield of Transparency is
in my hand. Jan the Amputator stands loyally by my side. Show that you care
about your country - and see right through us to a brighter tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               43 of 73 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            February 6, 2005, Sunday

IAN HYLAND: HOT SNOOZE FROM KILROY

BYLINE: IAN HYLAND

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 138 words


A FAMILY Halloween bash at Kilroy: Behind The Tan (BBC2, last night) and time to
meet the star of the party.

Huge jagged teeth. Wild glowing eyes set deep in a huge wrinkly bright orange
face...oh, and one of the kids had made a pumpkin head as well.

Not much to be gleaned from this behind the scenes look at Kilroy's days with
UKIP. Although it soon became clear that UKIP was less a political party's name,
more a piece of practical advice for anyone wondering what to do if Kilroy
starts giving a speech.

At home, Kilroy acted like a poor man's John McCririck. And if McCririck's
missus is The Booby then Kilroy's is surely The Booby Prize.

Strangest quote of the night from Kilroy? "There probably isn't a less racist
person in this country than me."

Yes, Robert. Apart from perhaps Ron Atkinson.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               44 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 05, 2005, Saturday

Is football now a religion?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN PILE

SECTION: Arts & Books Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1041 words

Between 8pm and 9pm on Sunday evening Mark Dowd tried to convince us that
football is now a religion. For women in my household, it was a worrying
development: "Oh, there won't be football in heaven too, will there?"

In Hallowed Be Thy Game (C4, Sun), Dowd, a Manchester United fan and former
Dominican friar, was a likeable presenter who pointed to the deification of
footballers and the sheer faith needed to support a team like Sheffield
Wednesday, not to mention the fundamentalism of hooligans, the chants and
rituals, the ashes scattered in the goal, the moments of transcendence and the
tribal hatred.

It was fascinating how very little is required to qualify as a religion in the
first place. An Anglican expert said a religion did not need a god or to answer
the large questions of human existence or even to favour good over evil. It just
has to "re-join" (from the Latin), although what was never entirely clear.

Dowd raised a lot of relevant questions, but nothing in this whole 60 minutes
explained why football is anything more than a passionate, communal obsession.
It is closer to art than religion, the balletic interplay between beauty and
war, a contrapuntal meeting of Mars and... oh, now I'm off. Don't encourage me.
There is no telling where this could end. Stop. Stop it now.

"Stop it, Joe," said Wacko Jacko's mother at regular intervals during Our Son
Michael Jackson (Five, Sun), a confessional interview giving Joe and Katherine
Jackson a chance for spin in the face of sniping from two women called Daphne
and Diane.

This weird programme was all hints and insinuations. Mr and Mrs Jackson knew the
evil people who had ensnared their innocent son for reasons of racism and money,
but they could not tell us. "Shall I let the cat out of the bag?" asked Joe.
"Don't say everything you're thinking," advised Katherine.

In the name of balance, an American court reporter called Diane Dimond came on
periodically to make the unforgivable assumption that Michael is guilty. "A
terrible childhood might explain what he did here," she alleged. "The reality
was, he had a brutal father and a mother who could not stop him."

On screen, the Jacksons were buttoned up. Once Joe wagged his finger crossly,
whereupon an anxious Katherine grabbed it and put it back on his lap.

Playing the Martin Bashir role was an interviewer called Daphne Barak, who only
once prised open the carefully controlled Jackson performance when she asked
about Michael's girlfriends. "Who was your favourite?" she asked sweetly. "None
of them," snapped Mrs Jackson, her gentle, mumsy mask slipping for an instant.

Otherwise, the interview was so manicured that it cast no light either on the
case or the real person behind the legend. Ditto the Queen of Sheba in Michael
Wood's In Search of Myths and Heroes (BBC2, Fri).

This week he travelled through Israel, Ethiopia and the Yemen, across the
Arabian desert, turning left at the Empty Quarter, in hope of finding the real
hair-washing Sheba, who would have launched a thousand ships if she had not been
landlocked. It is fair to say that Michael did not find her, but it was a
successful show nonetheless.

He did find the crumbling ruin of what may have been her palace, but he also
gave us an exotically enjoyable travelogue to a little visited corner of the
globe following the Sheba myth's creation. Centuries after her death the Bible's
first account did not mention her beauty or her relationship with King Solomon.
This came years later in the Ethiopian Book of Kings, which suddenly mentioned a
son who became the first king of Ethiopia. Less impressed, Muslim writers said
she had cloven hooves.

Mr Wood may not have found the historical person, but he found something more
interesting - the myth-making process and alchemy by which ancient spin, the
self-serving needs of religion and politics, gave birth to such timelessly
beautiful stories.

By contrast, Kilroy: Behind the Tan (BBC3, Mon) brought a definitive portrait of
its subject, Robert Kilroy-Silk. It was also a minor scoop in that it had a
ringside seat at his whole stormy involvement with the UK Independence Party.

This was an observational documentary with no interest in how exactly Kilroy
became this supremely over-confident, even bumptious, but roguishly charming man
who falls out with everyone eventually, except his wife Jan. The list is
impressive: Neil Kinnock, Arabs everywhere, and now the UKIP, which he has left
amidst much shouting.

The filming felt sneaky. The camera was always running and peering through half
open doors, but it did its job. Kilroy dealt in provocative schoolboy
confrontation that was almost as worrying as the Brussels parliament he opposes.

"This is so France can prance around the world and sit at the top table and
influence policy-making in a way it could not as France," he said, reaching
exactly the opposite conclusion to the journalist Stuart Jeffries in the
altogether more thoughtful Mindset (BBC4, Mon).

Exploring the French cast of mind and its love of grandiose statements in a
concise 30-minute tour, Jeffries found the new concept of le declinism, an
unhappy French realisation that its lofty ideals of equality and fraternity have
hit the buffers. They are no longer wanted in a world entranced with the less
lovely demands of fundamentalists and global capitalism. According to Jeffries,
the French are facing up to this with attractive humility.

Finally, How to Sleep... Better (BBC1, Wed) was an overlong, soporific programme
that said the completely obvious for 90 minutes. We learned that some people are
owls and others are larks, that tiredness causes road accidents and that a
relaxing bedroom is a good idea.

It was presented by Professor the Lord Dr Robert Winston, who maintained his air
of doctor-knows-best superiority, even though on this occasion he did not know
any more than the rest of us.

The only new information here was that snoring can be reduced by wearing a
Silence of the Lambs dental brace and a bra backwards stuffed with tennis balls
(to stop you sleeping on your back). Your partner's sleep will not be disturbed,
which is marvellous obviously, but they will get a hell of a fright if they wake
up.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               45 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 05, 2005, Saturday

What makes you think I'm sinister?

BYLINE: By CRAIG BROWN

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1009 words

In June 1987, on the day after Margaret Thatcher won her third and final general
election, I was at a rooftop party given for journalists who had been covering
the election.

I was chatting away quite merrily, when I felt a claw-like grip on my left
shoulder. I turned round, and there was Robert Kilroy-Silk. "So, Craig Brown,"
he said in that flat, faintly menacing voice of his, "What makes you think I'm
sinister?" Oddly enough, I had called him sinister not in a national newspaper,
but in a fairly obscure women's glossy magazine called Over 21, for which I used
to write a column. It said something for Kilroy-Silk's vanity that he had ever
seen it, let alone that he could still remember it.

I had written the offending adjective after a friend who had been given tickets
to be in the audience for his daily Kilroy show had asked me along.

Television always seems much more peculiar when you see it being made, but the
Kilroy show had struck me as extremely creepy, with this bronzed millionaire
paid to spend an hour a day slithering from one underdog to another with his
microphone outstretched, ready to vacuum up tales of grief and woe.

So why was he sinister? In those circumstances there is no going back, so I
simply repeated to him a half-hearted version of what I had written in the
original article, albeit with a slightly pained smile on my face. But I remember
thinking, as I embarked on this odd conversation, that Kilroy-Silk was
thoroughly enjoying being told why he was sinister, because at least it meant
that he was still the main topic.

He was to continue with his job of soliciting grievances from total strangers,
week in, week out, for another 17 years. In the space of those 17 years, Mrs
Thatcher resigned, the Berlin Wall was pulled down, Nelson Mandela was released
and Bill Clinton came and went, but every day Kilroy-Silk continued to nip up
and down those little staircases with his microphone.

For some reason, television is a medium that tends to bypass the memory. Though
I must have watched him at least two or three times a year, the only Kilroy-Silk
interview I can remember from those 17 years is the one he did with Marina
Mowatt, the daughter of Princess Alexandra and Angus Ogilvy. At that time, she
had gone off the rails, so much so that she had plumped for the Kilroy show as
the most suitable conduit for her various gripes against her parents. Sure
enough, she burst into tears during the interview. Ever the professional,
Kilroy-Silk made soothing sounds like, "Don't worry, Marina, we've got all the
time in the world", while keeping his microphone firmly trained on her.

He has a very noticeable -- yet rarely remarked-upon -- nervous twitch, which
really gets going when he is excited by something. It involves his forehead
going back and forth, and is what happens when people try to make their ears
move independently of their head. Anyway, when Marina Mowatt was at her most
tearful, I noticed that Kilroy-Silk's twitch really got going.

But most of the people he interviewed on his programme lacked any sort of
glamour, and so did their myriad grumbles. By and large, they looked as though
they'd just been ejected from the Question Time audience for being too bitter.
But they yakked on none the less, with Kilroy nodding away, the willing
receptacle for their sores.

All those years of presenting Kilroy must have made him very, very rich and
very, very bored. For an opinionated former MP, that grotty studio would have
had the quality of an Orwellian nightmare, or a medieval morality tale.

For 17 years, he was forced to listen as every last nutter and bore in the land
spouted opinions, and all he was permitted to do in return was to nod
sympathetically.

Since he gave up his day job, something has obviously snapped. He can no longer
nod sympathetically. In fact, quite the opposite: he seems unable to listen to
anyone else talk without signalling his impatience. A sharp fly-on-the-wall
documentary about Kilroy-Silk on BBC3 this week showed him in close-up at a
press conference some time ago with his UKIP colleagues. While his party leader
was talking, Kilroy-Silk could be seen rolling his eyes and grimacing, looking,
I thought, eerily like the older Steptoe from Steptoe and Son in a fit of pique.

Whom God wishes to destroy, he first makes a TV presenter. Earlier this week, at
the launch of his new party, Veritas, he kicked off with the words: "Are you all
happy? Let's see some smiling faces!" I seem to remember he used much the same
words in the five-minute warm-up to his television programme. As kick-offs go,
it reminds me of that bit in GoodFellas where Joe Pesci makes a joke and no one
laughs, so he threatens them with a gun until they do.  "Lies! Lies! Lies!
Evasion! Spin! Lies!" he continued, unspooling a scroll of A4 sheets, on which
he claimed were "100 examples of lies, evasion and spin". Nearly two decades of
enforced blandness, of having to earn his living from listening to other
people's dreary and inchoate opinions, resulted in all this bottled-up anger
spouting into the air.

What will become of Robert Kilroy-Silk? I suppose we all, in our own little
ways, belong to parties of one. But having split first from the Labour Party,
and then from the UK Independence Party, the only option left open to him is to
split from himself.

He reminds me a little of that other bronzed and wealthy Labour MP from the
Midlands, John Stonehouse, who ended up as the only English National Party MP in
the House of Commons. "I will speak up for the British people, for British
customs, for British traditions," said Kilroy-Silk. "The renewal of England
begins today," declared the party chairman, Dr Frank Hansford Miller, at his
press conference to welcome Stonehouse in 1976.

From that moment on, Stonehouse was in sole charge of pushing through a whole
raft of policies through the Commons, including the abolition of income tax and
a 16-lane tunnel under the Thames. One can only hope that Kilroy-Silk will meet
with rather more success.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               46 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 5, 2005

The Guide: Television: 5 February: Watch this

BYLINE: Will Hodgkinson, Joss Hutton, Richard Vine

SECTION: The Guide, Pg. 57

LENGTH: 290 words


Kilroy: Behind The Tan

8.05pm, BBC2

On the strength of this film (first shown on BBC3) it isn't surprising that
Robert Kilroy-Silk left the UK Independence party: he comes across as far too
vain and self-centred to throw his allegiance behind a party, even if it is a
party that exploits the fears and prejudices of its potential voters.
Fascinating, but it won't do Kilroy much good in the polls. WH

Arena

9.05pm, BBC2

It's impossible to imagine a more viscerally thrilling music doc than Morgan
Neville's kinetic bio of Hank Williams, the country hero who brought blues to
the masses, got his lyrics from comic books, and crossed over way before Elvis.
Potent footage of "Old Hank" himself, all cheekbones and black-eyed heartbreak,
is skilfully woven into a raft of interviews that even includes testimony from
the driver who found the whiskey and morphine-filled 29-year-old dead in the
back of his Cadillac on New Year's Eve 1952. JH

CSI: NY

9.05pm, Five

The latest spin-off from the ever-expanding CSI stable finds Gary "what's
sleep?" Sinise leading the New York team we met on last week's CSI: Miami. As
you'd expect, it's quality stuff, with a nasty serial killer for the solid cast
to track in this first episode. But the New York setting doesn't feel quite as
fresh as Las Vegas or Miami - aren't NYPD Blue and all the Law And Orders
already keeping these mean streets safe? RV

Film choice

* White Heat 1pm, BBC2

* The Greatest Show On Earth 3.30pm, Five

* Jurassic Park III 5.35pm, ITV1

* Splash! 7.10pm, Five

* Shallow Hal 9.05pm, C4

* Dead Letter Office 12.25am, BBC2

* Heaven's Gate 12.40am, ITV1

* Any Given Sunday 12.40am, Five The week's best films, page 53


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               47 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 4, 2005, Friday

Veritas: the unsilky truth

BYLINE: Robert Richardson

SECTION: Features; Times2; 24

LENGTH: 510 words


As Robert Kilroy-Silk launches his own political party, he invites us to attend
the first day in the office "Good morning and welcome to the launch meeting of
Veritas, the political party that tells nothing but the truth. Sorry there are
seats for only half of you, but the other six can stand. This is Damian Hockney,
who's my deputy. I realise that nobody recognises him, but everyone knows what I
look like, so we're OK.

"Let's start with the oath of allegiance. Raise your right hand and repeat after
me: 'One, I will not, under pain of excommunication, mount, promote or support a
challenge against the Dear Leader.

"'Two, I will not buy a gite in France. If I already own one, I will sell it and
give the money to the party. Three, I will not drive a German car, wear Italian
suits or eat Belgian chocolates.

"'Four, I will not, in any circumstances, attend a dinner party in Islington.

"'Five, I will throw away my video of Notting Hill'."

"Thank you. I'll tell you -sorry, we'll democratically decide -our policies at
the next meeting. Meanwhile, we need 600 or so candidates for when that
Chianti-swilling traitor Blair condescends to let the people of Britain tell him
what they really want from government. And we all know what that is, don't we?
Veritas! Who muttered 'in vino'? Get out.

"Publicity will be vital, so Tony, our media liaison officer, will tell us what
he's lined up. Er, I promise to keep my mouth shut for 30 seconds.

"Thanks, Dear Leader. Well Tanning International wants to do a picture spread
and Psychology Magazine is after an in-depth interview. They're doing a special
on megalomania. And Weston-super-Mare Hospital radio's on board. Maybe."

"What about the poster campaign?"

"Limited because of budget, but we can blanket Ashfield and wind up Geoff Hoon."

"Great. At this rate we'll be unstoppable. Yes, Daphne?"

"This has just arrived for you. It's from the UKIP."

"Those fascist bastards? Losers, no-hopers, has-beens, wasters, fantasists. What
did I see in them? We had nothing in common. What is it?"

"A get-well-soon card. Brussels postmark. Oh, and Euro 30. They all seem to be
silver."

"I suppose they think that's funny. They'll be laughing on the other side of
both their faces at the next election. Let's see if they can defend 12 MEP seats
without me wiping their noses for them. They can kiss the votes of my Muslims
goodbye for starters...which brings us to the central plank of our manifesto.

"Our aim is to defend Britain from people sneaking in here, bleating about their
lives being in danger, waving around their professional qualifications, prepared
to do crap jobs no self-respecting Englishman will do, staffing our hospitals.

Before long, they'll be demanding daytime television chat shows. It's
threatening our entire existence. And remember our slogan -Europe sucks. Now get
out there and change the course of my, I mean our, history.

"Now, I have to dash. Hairdresser's appointment and I'm meeting my spin doctor
in a couple of hours."


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               48 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 3, 2005

Not-so-silky Kilroy

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


Political Correspondent

ROBERT Kilroy- Silk claimed Britain was being 'stolen' by mass immigration as he
launched his new political party yesterday.

The former daytime television presenter unleashed a ferocious attack on the UK's
immigration and asylum systems as he unveiled Veritas which means truth in
Latin.

He also fired a blistering broadside at multi- culturalism. He dismissed it as
'nonsense' and claimed it had left people feeling ashamed to be British.

Less than a month after quitting the UK Independence Party, the 62-year-old
claimed Veritas offered a distinct alternative to voters who had been sickened
by the 'lies, evasion and spin' of both Labour and the Conservatives.

And he put tough policies to control immigration at the heart of his party's
message. 'Mass immigration to this country is a very serious problem, as is the
out-of-control asylum policy,' he said at the launch in London.

'Our country is being stolen from us and we have never been asked our
permission, never been consulted. We have already ceded powers on immigration to
Brussels and we no longer control our own borders.' The MEP also attacked the
multicultural ethos he claimed had been imposed on the country by the political
elite. He said that British people were 'very angry that they are being made to
pay obedience to the nonsense of something call multiculturalism'.

They were sick of being told that 'other cultures were more important than their
own and made to feel ashamed of being British'.

He promised his party's immigration policy to be unveiled in the next few weeks
would be 'startlingly different'.

But he rejected suggestions that he was being racist. 'Is it racist to say I
want to control our borders?

'This is not a matter of race or colour or creed. It's a matter of numbers,' he
declared. Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, also fuelled speculation that he
will challenge Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon at the next election.

Asked if he would stand against Mr Hoon in Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, he said he
would announce his decision today.

Veritas says it hopes to contest more than 100 constituencies.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who was elected as a UKIP MEP last year, quit the party last
month after a failed leadership bid. If elected as an MP, he will stand down as
an MEP.

Yesterday he focused his attack on Labour and the Tories. 'The British people
are sick and tired of being lied to and they are fed up with being taken for
granted, talked down to, patronised,' he said.

Last year he agreed to leave the BBC after he described Arabs as 'suicide
bombers, limb amputators and women repressors' in a newspaper column.

Last night he echoed those comments when arguing that Britain's culture was
superior to some Muslim countries'.

Asked if all cultures were equal, he told the BBC: 'No, absolutely not. Do you
think that a culture that genitally mutilates women, that represses them, that
keeps them at home, that won't let them work, that won't let them drive cars, do
you think that culture is equal to our culture?' Comment Page 12 END

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               49 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 3, 2005

Pow! He was up, face muscles all taut, right hand extended into a JCB digger
grab

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 665 words



NOT every day is one summoned to the launch of a political party. Having missed
Keir Hardie's first 'presser' for Labour and having been otherwise engaged when
Earl Peel was unveiling the first attack-ad posters for his all-new Tories, I
jumped at an invitation from Robert Kilroy-Silk to watch him launch his Veritas
party.

'The event', as a flunkey called it in an awed tone, was held at a room near the
Commons yesterday.

It attracted a slightly overeager throng of Kilroy fanatics who proceeded to
clap hard, hear-hear and harrumph through their permatanned leader's unscripted
oration. They could not quite decide if they were wildly happy or, like their
leader, terribly, terribly cross.

The great television presenter ( currently resting from the burger grill glare
of the studio arc lights) left the warm-up to a chunky, public-schoolish bloke
called Richard who said he was chairman of the new party. Richard lost his way
during his remarks and, being a well brought-up chap, said how frightfully sorry
he was before licking a finger and thumbing through his notes.

He introduced us to the new outfit's 'chief of staff' and 'chief executive' and
various policy spokesmen. Mostly middle-aged men, they were sitting on a
platform and all looked jolly pleased with their shiny titles. Wearing
mixedcoloured clothes and crinkly hairdos they resembled the studio audience in
a daytime TV show.

Then, pow!, Kilroy was up, face muscles all taut, sun-browned right hand
extended into a JCB digger grab. For the next few minutes he seemed to say only
one word: 'Lies!' 'Lies! Lies! Lies!' he erupted as he unrolled a scroll of A4
sheets which had been gaffer-taped together. 'Lies!

Evasion! Spin! Lies!' This was what he thought of British politics. The more he
said the word 'lies' the more aggrieved he sounded and the more his knot of
feverish supporters bristled.

AT one point he became so overexcited that he thwacked the microphone which gave
a huge 'clop!' Several of us jumped out of our pelts. Kilroy seemed barely to
notice the noise.

He slagged off rival parties. Then he said Britain was 'sick of the ya-booing'
in British politics. He paused to take a swipe at 'something called
multiculturalism', indicated that he was mustard hot on immigration, and to
prove he was not racist pointed to a black man called Winston who was sitting on
the top table.

Several reporters asked about racism.

In short, was Kilroy an arm-lifter, an Enoch de nos jours, il nuovo Silvio
Berlusconi? Winston, hearing yet another suggestion that Kilroy was racist,
suddenly barked out: 'Objection, your honour!' It took everyone a second or two
to understand that this was a joke. The mood in the room danced either side of a
delicate thread. On one side was humour (and, from the journalists, disbelief).
On the other side was a furious defiance which at times felt almost violent.

Kilroy's deputy was Damian Hockney, a former UKIP star who has no mean sun tan
himself, along with a pair of jeans, an inky-tinged fringe and a string of
leather straps on his right wrist. Brother Hockney tried to honey the mood with
some spaced- out charm.

But Kilroy was in no mood for being soft. Any reporter who asked a sceptical
question was abused, Kilroy often grappling them into an argument before they
had finished speaking. If there was a left-right political direction to his
rambles I'd say he realises he made a mistake in trying to 'kill' the Tories and
is now tacking towards traditional Labour voters.

'Yes!' snarled a supporter at the back as Kilroy let rip another vexed volley.

The target of his bile was a man from The Times who had merely enquired: 'Is
your tan veritas?' Kilroy cried back: 'I can't hide my tan or my looks!

I'm not ashamed of either!' Cream puffs used to be advertised under the slogan
'naughty but nice'.

Let's borrow the alliteration idea and conclude that Kilroy's outfit is farcical
but faintly frightening.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: KILROY-SILK YESTERDAY: 'I CAN'T HIDE MY TAN OR MY LOOKS'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               50 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 3, 2005

COMMENT

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 604 words


Cranking out the same old tune

THE move comes straight from New Labour's little book of pre-election stunts:
always talk tough on welfare, but never do anything about it. So bang on cue and
as predictable as the sunrise, this Government proclaims the biggest shakeup in
benefits in half a century.

How often we have been here before. Ten years ago, Mr Blair was insisting 'it is
wrong to spend billions of pounds keeping able-bodied people idle'. He promised
to 'think the unthinkable' on welfarism. He was going to be bold, brave and
resolute.

He told us so, again and again.

So what's happened? Nothing. Zero. Zilch.

Indeed, at a time of high employment and unprecedented growth, this Prime
Minister has presided over a welfare explosion that now costs Pounds 142billion
a year, compared with less than Pounds 95billion when he came to power.

Nothing is more scandalous in this huge surge in state dependency than the
growth in incapacity benefit, currently paid to 2.7million claimants. And while
some are certainly in genuine need, the Government knows full well that many if
not most are perfectly capable of working.

With a black hole in the public finances and taxes going through the roof, the
case for real reform is unanswerable. Yet these proposals don't tackle the
present problem. They apply only to new claimants and will take another 20 years
to achieve.

The promises made so long ago by Mr Blair will have taken a third of a century
to fulfil. How many extra tax billions will be wasted before his 'toughness'
begins to bite (if ever it does) is anybody's guess.

This isn't serious policy. This is an attempt to lull and gull the voters by a
dilatory and incompetent Government that can't be believed, can't be trusted and
knows only how to squeeze taxpayers till the pips squeak.

Good security?

IN the face of an unprecedented terrorist threat, our defences are visibly
crumbling.

Today we report that an Algerian suspect 'G', who is under house arrest, stands
accused of breaching his bail conditions after two men apparently visited his
home without permission.

The incident raises disturbing questions.

If this supposedly very dangerous man can so easily have visitors, what does it
say about Government plans to hold other alleged terrorists under house arrest?

Meanwhile, the judge who heads the Immigration Appeals Commission has written to
Home Secretary Charles Clarke asking why another suspect, 'C', has suddenly been
freed without explanation.

The public expects answers too. Only six months ago, judges ruled that 'C', who
was held without trial, had 'the will, commitment and ability' to support
terrorist plots, were he to be released.

But if 'C' is a danger, why is he out? If he isn't, why was he jailed in the
first place?

The deepening shambles over these suspects does nothing to restore confidence in
a Government that so grossly misused intelligence to mislead Britain into war.
The public is entitled to wonder what on earth is going on.

Vanity, vanity

SO now he has a train-set of his very own.

Having abandoned Labour and stamped out of UKIP, Robert Kilroy-Silk has finally
achieved his dream of leadership by founding the Look At Me Party, otherwise
known as Veritas.

Who can fail to marvel at his permatanned dedication to self?

Why, if he plays his cards right, he might yet become as much an adornment to
politics as the late-lamented Screaming Lord Sutch, of the Monster Raving
Loonies.

Unless. . . heaven preserve us! Could it possibly be that Mr Kilroy-Silk expects
to be taken seriously?

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               51 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                February 3, 2005

KILROY GOES IT ALONE

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 119 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk launched his own political party yesterday, claiming
immigrants had "stolen our country".

The ex-chat show host is to lead Veritas - Latin for truth - in a fight for more
than 70 seats at the next general election.

But critics dubbed his new party "Vanitas", ridiculing the group as a one-man
publicity drive.

Kilroy-Silk, 62, a former Labour MP, will campaign with tough policies on
immigration, asylum, drugs and crime - as well as pulling Britain out of Europe.

He promised his party would "tell the truth", accusing Labour and the Tories of
"lies, spin and evasion".

Kilroy-Silk recently quit the UK Independence Party, dubbing his ex-colleagues
"fascist nutters".

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               52 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 03, 2005, Thursday

Commons sketch The circus has come to town... but the acts all look the same

BYLINE: By Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 558 words

THE Kilroy circus arrived in Westminster yesterday. It offered a number of
superlative acts, including a ringmaster called Kilroy, a strong man called
Kilroy, a clown called Kilroy, a lion-tamer called Kilroy, a juggler called
Kilroy, a trapeze artist called Kilroy and a man capable of riding three horses
at the same time, who also happens to be called Kilroy.

Some of us wondered what had become of the sparkly young lady in sequins who
climbs a rope and whirls round faster and faster until she is a blur but Kilroy
has assured us that he is buying the necessary costume. There is a market for
cheap entertainment, and also for cheap politics, and Kilroy intends to meet it.

He treated the competition with contempt: "They lie all the time and they have
corrupted our political culture." But asked whether he had always told the
truth, Kilroy declined to pretend that he had, and instanced his time as a
Labour MP when he defended all sorts of things in which he did not believe.

At the start of the launch of his new party, Kilroy said: "Are you all happy?
Let's see some smiling faces." The wheedling voice, the sentimentality and the
resentful, bullying undertone were worthy of a retired daytime television
presenter who feels he has not had the critical acclaim that is his due. Kilroy
makes extraordinary claims for himself: "Welcome to Veritas, the
straight-talking party. Quite an innovation, isn't it, the truth in politics."

This dismissal of everyone else in politics, including many people with whom
Kilroy was previously willing to work, suggests an egotism that has lost all
contact with the outside world.

That is part of Kilroy's oddity and also of his entertainment value.

He lives in a world of his own, where nobody else is allowed to intrude, not
even his former comrades in the upper ranks of the UK Independence Party. When
asked his opinion of Enoch Powell - a reasonable question, given Kilroy's
hostility to immigration - he replied: "What are you going to ask me about next?
Genghis Khan? I don't have a view."

So Kilroy is a lonely soul but he hopes to succeed in politics by appealing to
millions of other lonely souls who feel shut out of the present political system
and have given up voting in disgust.

"There is a magical mood out there for change, for a new style of politics," he
said. One may question whether "magical" is the right word to describe the angry
disillusionment with politicians that can be found in any public bar in the land
but our political system needs people who will try to take this lost
constituency seriously, and will force the established parties to take it
seriously instead of just assuming that it will keep quiet forever.

Kilroy boasted that he was "actually a very effective backbench MP" when he sat
for the Labour Party.

And he claimed that a few MPs would have the power to change things. "Just a few
of us there, a proper, motivated awkward squad, we will nail the lying
so-and-sos," he insisted.

This column is temperamentally in favour of the awkward squad.

One of the things that turns people off politics is the way in which it appears
to have become a career for conformists rather than a form of public service for
free men and women.

But in an ideal world one would hope the conformists were not replaced by a new
contingent of the palpably bogus.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               53 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 03, 2005, Thursday

Kilroy-Silk puts immigration at the top of new party's agenda

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin and Nick Britten

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 528 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk launched his new anti-European Union party yesterday with the
claim that only it could stem "uncontrolled" immigration and restore the
country's sovereignty.

The millionaire former television presenter pitched his new party, called
Veritas, as the true defender of both Britain's borders and the British way of
life in contrast to the "lies" of mainstream politicians such as Tony Blair and
Michael Howard.

"Our country is being stolen from us and we have never been asked for our
permission," said Mr Kilroy-Silk, who set up Veritas after walking out on the UK
Independence Party when he failed to become its leader.

Immigration was "changing the nature of our society" but while Britain remained
in the EU, it could not control its own borders or combat immigration from the
new Eastern European member states or Turkey if it eventually joined. Withdrawal
from Europe will therefore be at the heart of the policies of Veritas, which is
Latin for truth.

He also hit out at the concept of multi-culturalism as something that told the
British people "that every culture has value but their own", and made Britons
ashamed of their nationality. "I will speak up for the British people, for
British customs, for British traditions," he said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who once described Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators,
women repressors", denied that his language could be construed as racist and
insisted that ethnic minority voters would back Veritas.

Disowning the the British National Party, he said: "It's not about race or
colour or creed - it's about numbers."

Labour responded by belittling Veritas as not that different from the Tories and
Ukip, while the Liberal Democrats simply billed it as another threat to the Tory
vote. The Tories said the party was a "pointless distraction".

Mr Kilroy-Silk sought to counter the charge that Veritas was a one-man band by
promising a broader range of policies than Ukip, with worked-up plans for
defence, health and crime. But none of them, including on immigration, was
released yesterday.

Mr Kilroy-Silk also made great play of his now familiar theme that many voters
outside the "metropolitan" world beyond Westminster were completely
disillusioned with the lies and evasion of mainstream politicians.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP who became a household name through his
Kilroy television programme, will announce tonight where he and the first batch
of Veritas candidates will stand in the general election.

One source said that instead of taking on Geoff Hoon, the Defence Secretary, in
Ashfield, Notts, Mr Kilroy-Silk will fight the much lower-profile seat of
Erewash in Derbyshire, held by the Labour MP Liz Blackman.

The party, which claimed yesterday to have received pledges of funding worth
"hundreds of thousands of pounds", says it will field candidates across the
country - enough to qualify for at least one party political broadcast on
television. Mr Kilroy-Silk fended off questions as to who was funding Veritas.
But he said the pounds 2,000 launch event at Westminster had been paid for by
Patrick Eston, a conservatories manufacturer from the West Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               54 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 03, 2005, Thursday

Who's paying for your party, Robert?

BYLINE: by Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 25

LENGTH: 179 words

After months of prevaricating, Robert Kilroy-Silk finally launched his new
political party, Veritas, yesterday morning.

But with the perma-tanned MEP claiming that the party is intending to fight "a
majority of seats" at the forthcoming general election, a crucial question
remains: who is going to fund its ambitious election campaign?

Spy put the question to party treasurer John de Roeck, who cited one possible
financier as Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire businessman who funded UKIP's European
election campaign to the tune of pounds 1.4 million before withdrawing his
backing last autumn.

"Robert and Paul are still on good terms," he told me, "and I know he believes
in the ideas we're espousing, so I'm sure an approach will be made."

However, in what must be the fastest volte-face in political history, Kilroy
immediately denied the suggestion. When I asked if he would be contacting Sykes
for financial support, he replied with an unequivocal: "No." Which leaves us
with one last question: how on earth will the millionaire MEP keep the show on
the road?

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               55 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 3, 2005

NEW PARTY FOR KILROY

SECTION: Highlands Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 134 words


FORMER TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday claimed Britain had been
"stolen" by immigrants as he launched his new political party Veritas.

The ex-chat show host promised to stand against the nonsense of
"multiculturalism".

Mr Kilroy-Silk set up Veritas - Latin for "truth" - after failing to win
leadership of the right-wing UK Independence Party.

Meanwhile, the Scots Ukip General Election candidate suspended after his
Nazi-style policies were exposed by the Sunday Express has been kicked out of
the party.

John Houston, who was to fight the East Kilbride seat, had voiced support for
killing mental patients and making people with learning difficulties work.

Yesterday he was expelled from Ukip, which has been fighting off allegations of
links with the far-right BNP.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               56 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 3, 2005

BRITAIN 'STOLEN' BY IMMIGRANTS SAYS KILROY-SILK AT PARTY LAUNCH

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words


FORMER TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday claimed Britain was being
"stolen" by immigrants as he launched his new political party Veritas.

The outspoken former chat show host risked a further race row after promising to
stand against the "nonsense" of multi-culturalism.

Mr Kilroy-Silk set up Veritas - the Latin for truth - after failing to win
leadership of the right-wing UK Independence Party.

He promised a broader prospectus than UKIP, with policies on defence, crime,
drugs and immigration.

He said: "Our country is being stolen from us and we have never been asked for
our permission."

He claimed his new party would be made up of "straight-talking" people who would
not lie, deceive or evade the British people.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk, a columnist for the Sunday Express, was later forced to
admit that he had misled the public during his own career.

When asked if he had told the whole truth in his previous career on television
or as a Labour MP, he asked: "Has any of us? I would be very surprised if I
had."

The East Midlands MEP also refused to give any details of Veritas's policies or
say which Westminster seat he would contest in the election. He is expected to
confirm today he will stand against Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "There is a magic mood out there for change, for a new
style of politics, for a totally different approach."

The MEP has been branded an "ego out of control" by critics after quitting UKIP.
He was sacked from his BBC show after being accused of racism following remarks
in his column. Yesterday he admitted there had been no election for the
leadership of Veritas. But he said:

"I can't hide my tan or my looks.

I'm not ashamed of either."

UKIP leader Roger Knapman has said he was glad to see the back of Mr
Kilroy-Silk.

He said: "He has remarkable ability to influence people but, sadly, after the
European election it became clear that he was more interested in the Robert
Kilroy-Silk Party than the UK Independence Party."

Labour campaign spokesman Fraser Kemp said Veritas joined an already crowded
field on the right of British politics.

"The difference between the policy of the Tories, UKIP and Veritas is primarily
one of degree, " he said.

"In terms of personalities, the choice between Michael 'Poll Tax' Howard,
Kilroy-Silk and Knapman is not likely to excite anybody."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               57 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 3, 2005

Comment & Analysis: The third way's dirtiest secret: Ministers have tried to
cover up their dependence on forced labour

BYLINE: Felicity Lawrence

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 822 words


A year ago this Saturday, 23 Chinese cocklepickers died at Morecambe Bay. A
major new report that uncovers the scale of forced labour in Britain and makes
recommendations on curbing this new form of slavery might be thought a fitting
memorial to those who died. Instead, the government has tried to block its
publication until after the election, as our front-page story reveals.

Interviews with migrants record the violence, threats, debt-bondage, dangerous
conditions and enforced long hours to which they are exposed. They also lead to
the inescapable conclusion that the deregulated economy has created the
conditions for this exploitation to flourish under Labour.

The report* was commissioned at the beginning of last year by the International
Labour Organisation - the UN body that works with government, unions and
industry - and the TUC, and was completed last summer by academics at Oxford and
Sussex universities. Yet it is only now seeing the light of day. It will finally
be published this week by the TUC, but minus its ILO and Department for Work and
Pensions backers. What is a Labour government that champions social justice so
frightened of? And why has it taken the unions so long to defy its efforts at
censorship?

The original title of the report was Free Market and Forced Labour. For it looks
not just at the extent to which coercive employment takes place - and the answer
is far more than anyone has acknowledged - but also at the nature of economic
demand that drives migration and forced labour. And herein lies the real horror.

It is not just the sex industry that traffics and exploits migrants, but our key
sectors - food and agriculture, contract cleaning, hotels and catering,
construction and care homes. Moreover, the state uses migrants' forced labour in
many cases - when it outsources local authority care to the private sector, when
it uses agencies to recruit NHS nurses who end up living on £5 a week, when it
uses contract cleaners provided by the cheapest bidder for its offices, or when
subcontracted migrant labour is used on private finance initiative construction.

The UK has Europe's most flexible labour force; it lives in fear and squalor, is
paid a pittance and is bussed round the country to work in the shadows of the
night shift.

If exploitation of migrant labour turns out to be at the core of our
competitiveness, as this report suggests, then tackling the problem requires
Labour to address the structure of big business and its regulation - to rethink
the philosophies inherited from the Tories that advocate subcontracting,
outsourcing, competitive tendering, low piece rates, short-term contracts,
workforce mobility and a light touch on red tape. But that undermines New
Labour's whole narrative - the third way in which economic growth, based on
global competitiveness, can be combined with tackling poverty and inequality.

The lives of migrant workers described in this report make a mockery of the
government's programme of social justice. Social justice for our own population
turns out to depend on the importation of an underclass of foreigners to create
our wealth. We compete with countries that have no labour rights by importing
their conditions.

There is ammunition for both the anti-immigration far right and pro-regulation
old left here, and small wonder Labour would rather postpone the discussion
until after an election. The unions have been alarmed about the scale of forced
labour for some time as the realisation grows that unless they protect migrants,
their own members' conditions cannot be protected. The intense talks between
union leaders and ministers to thrash out Labour policy commitments before the
election included a discussion of "superexploitation" among migrants. (The word
exploitation is no longer thought adequate to describe what is going on.)
Reportedly there were even suggestions that a crusade to protect our twilight
migrant workforce might restore the government's moral authority lost in Iraq.
But unions and ministers alike are afraid to rock the boat on migration for fear
of losing votes. So a deal has been done to wait.

But super-exploitation cannot wait. Talk to residents in the agricultural town
of Boston, Lincolnshire, where some 50% of the vote in the borough elections was
for Ukip or the BNP, and they will tell you that the reason they are drawn to
the far right is that no one else is talking about what they see, the violence
and crime that organise migrants.

Conspiracies of silence always play into the hands of the far right. If the
government really wants a new moral authority, it should come clean on forced
labour and its causes now.

*Forced Labour and Migration to the UK, by Bridget Anderson and Ben Rogaly;

Felicity Lawrence is the Guardian's consumer affairs correspondent and author of
Not on the Label (Penguin)

felicity.lawrence@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               58 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 3, 2005

Kilroy-Silk colleague linked to ex-National Front leader

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 435 words


A key member of Robert Kilroy-Silk's new political party co-founded an
organisation with a former chairman of the National Front, the Guardian has
learned.

Anthony Bennett, whose name appears in the Electoral Commission's database as
the official leader of Mr Kilroy-Silk's party Veritas, was also fired from the
UK Independence party last year after publishing a pamphlet describing the
prophet Muhammad as a paedophile.

The revelations, coming the day after the official launch of Veritas, will call
into question Mr Kilroy-Silk's insistence that his party's anti-immigration
stance has nothing to do with racism or Islamophobia.

Yesterday Mr Bennett said he had not known that Ian Anderson was a former
chairman of the National Front at the time that the two men helped to form the
People's Campaign to Keep the Pound. "Had I known that, I probably wouldn't have
joined it," he said.

But Mr Bennett called Mr Anderson "an English patriot" and said they were both
still members of a local land-preservation organisation in Epping in Essex that
organises an annual May fair.

"He's a well-respected committee member of that organisation . . . I don't know
that one could dignify that with the word 'link'," he said.

Mr Bennet himself had "always stood for social justice," he said. The Electoral
Commission's records, he added, were being updated to show Mr Kilroy-Silk as the
official leader of Veritas.

"Robert Kilroy-Silk's not going to be pleased about this," Mr Anderson said. He
confirmed that he had been a chairman of the National Front but said he had now
left politics.

Mr Bennett has been working as a researcher for Mr Kilroy-Silk after being
banned, last year, from holding any Ukip office for two years because of his
writings on Islam. Mr Kilroy-Silk said at the time that Mr Bennett's remarks
about Muhammad had been part of a "reasoned, academic exposition" aimed at
explaining the reasons behind the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, elected as a member of the European parliament under the
Ukip banner, was sacked from his BBC talk show after writing a newspaper column
disparaging Arabs as "limb-amputators".

After failing in his bid to lead Ukip, he left the party last month, accusing
its members of being "rightwing fascist nutters". He could not be reached for
comment last night.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the European parliament, said: "Tony Bennett is
an energetic campaigner, with some extremely eccentric and individualistic
views."

Kilroy was there, page 5

Leader comment, page 25

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               59 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 3, 2005

Kilroy-Silk's new colleague linked to former NF leader

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words


A key member of Robert Kilroy-Silk's new political party co-founded an
organisation with a former chairman of the National Front, the Guardian has
learned.

Anthony Bennett, whose name appears in the Electoral Commission's database as
the official leader of Mr Kilroy-Silk's party Veritas, was also fired from the
UK Independence party last year after publishing a pamphlet which described the
prophet Muhammad as a paedophile.

The revelations, coming the day after the official launch of Veritas, will call
into question Mr Kilroy-Silk's insistence that his party's anti-immigration
stance has nothing to do with racism or Islamophobia.

Yesterday Mr Bennett said he had not known that Ian Anderson was a former
chairman of the National Front at the time that the two men helped to form the
People's Campaign to Keep the Pound. "Had I known that, I probably wouldn't have
joined it," he said.

But Mr Bennett called Mr Anderson "an English patriot" and said they were both
still members of a local land-preservation organisation in Epping in Essex that
organises an annual May fair.

"He's a well-respected committee member of that organisation . . . I don't know
that one could dignify that with the word 'link'," he said.

Mr Bennett had "always stood for social justice," he said. The Electoral
Commission's records, he added, were being updated to show Mr Kilroy-Silk as the
official leader of Veritas.

"Robert Kilroy-Silk's not going to be pleased about this," Mr Anderson said. He
confirmed that he had been a chairman of the National Front but said he had now
left politics.

Mr Bennett has been working as a researcher for Mr Kilroy-Silk after being
banned, last year, from holding any Ukip office for two years because of his
writings on Islam. Mr Kilroy-Silk said at the time that Mr Bennett's remarks
about Muhammad had been part of a "reasoned, academic exposition" aimed at
explaining the reasons behind the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, elected as a member of the European parliament under the
Ukip banner, was sacked from his BBC talk show after writing a newspaper column
disparaging Arabs as "limb-amputators".

After failing in his attempt to lead Ukip, he left the party last month,
accusing its members of being "rightwing fascist nutters". He could not be
reached for comment last night.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the European parliament, said: "Tony Bennett is
an energetic campaigner, with some extremely eccentric and individualistic
views."

Kilroy was there, page 5

Leader comment, page 25

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               60 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 3, 2005
                              Correction Appended

Kilroy was there But policies weren't at launch of the straight-talking party

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 652 words


"Let's see some smiling faces," barked Robert Kilroy-Silk, in the tones of a man
accustomed to being obeyed. But he wasn't smiling.

The British people were angry, he said, glowering at the audience of
journalists. Resentful. Sick of being lied to and sick of the evasiveness of
mainstream politicians. It was, he announced, time to replace all the
evasiveness with - well, with some policies he wasn't going to tell us about
just yet, actually.

In launching a new political party and calling it Veritas - the Latin for truth
- Mr Kilroy-Silk was sending out an unmistakable message. Here was a man who was
going to give us the facts. In Latin. And yet, strangely, yesterday's press
conference at the Institute of Civil Engineers in Westminster didn't seem to
contain much of either.

"Our country is being stolen from us, and we have never been asked for our
permission," said Mr Kilroy-Silk, speaking in front of a banner bearing the
slogan 'The straight talking party'. He blamed mass immigration, the European
Union, and the "nonsense" of "something called multiculturalism".

Veritas, it was announced, had 128 candidates at the ready to fight against
undesirables entering the country, although a number of them were still awaiting
the results of criminal checks.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's hushed speaking style may have seemed soothing if you were a
guest on his chatshow, nervous about discussing how your husband had a
sex-change and ran off with your dentist. But applied to political rhetoric,
there is something downright sinister about it.

Britons, he said, were "angry that they are being made to pay obedience to the
norms of something called multiculturalism. They are made to feel ashamed of
being British, of our culture, our history and our values . . . we are going to
put a stop to that nonsense".

Occasionally, he muddled his words. Caught between promising to "engage with"
and "listen to" the people of Britain, he promised to "englisten" them.

He unravelled a long roll of paper listing what he said were "100 examples of
lies, evasion and spin". No other party could be relied on to tell the truth, he
said - and that included the UK Independence party, which he stormed out of last
month after failing to become its leader. He has since labelled its members
"bloody rightwing fascist nutters", which may put you in mind of a proverb or
two.

His former allies immediately labelled the new party Vanitas, but Mr Kilroy-Silk
denied it was a one-man show. He had assembled a list of spokesmen - and a bevy
of followers. "They've not been bussed in," he said, indicating his supporters
at the back of the room.

"Look at these two men," he said, pointing at two men. "Are they patsies? Are
these people at the back yes-men and women?"

"No!" some of them shouted, and they all cheered, thereby proving his point, or
not, depending on your perspective.

He dripped contempt for the media. "I know very well the agenda you have," he
said. "I've been around a long time . . . I know how you work. But what you
don't understand is that we reach beyond you."

The "supercilious metropolitan elite" were hopelessly out of touch, he warned.
And who better to set them right than a former TV talkshow host, Labour MP and
newspaper commentator?

"Essentially, he's a one-trick pony," said Mark Croucher, Ukip's spokesman. "The
notion that screaming 'Me, me, me' with a party logo behind you is going to
assist you in putting forward serious policies . . . well, we remain to be
convinced."

There was, of course, plenty of entertainment in watching the tanned Mr
Kilroy-Silk seek to convince the nation that the future's orange. And he cracked
jokes. On the subjects of immigration and asylum, though, his brow darkened and
his piercing gaze intensified. One journalist asked him if he saw parallels
between himself and Enoch Powell, but he refused to answer.


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2005



CORRECTION:  It is the policy of the Guardian to correct significant errors as
soon as possible. Please quote the date and page number. Readers may contact the
office of the readers' editor by telephoning 0845 451 9589 (UK only, calls
charged at local rate) or +44 (0)20 7713 4736 between 11am and 5pm UK time
Monday to Friday excluding UK bank holidays. Mail to Readers' editor, The
Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, UK. Fax +44 (0)20 7239 9997.
Email: reader@guardian.co.uk
It is the Institution of Civil Engineers, not the Institute, page 5, February 3.

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               61 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 3, 2005, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: OLIVER MARRE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 747 words


In truth, Kilroy-Silk is not the leader of his new party either

VWill Robert Kilroy-Silk ever achieve his long-cherished ambition and become the
leader of a political party?

Having left UKIP after a very public falling-out when they refused to appoint
him leader, the former daytime TV presenter yesterday launched a new party - the
pompously named Veritas - as this column first reported he would. But bizarrely,
according to the Electoral Commission, he in fact holds no official office
within it.

The fearsome orange politician promises that his new party will be "straight-
talking" but has yet to make any comment on why he is not leader. "The fact that
Kilroy quit UKIP so very acrimoniously because they refused to make him leader
means this is very peculiar," says one observer. "It's not even as though there
are any serious legal implications to calling yourself leader of a party. It's
just a case of a bit of paperwork."

Veritas is instead headed by one Anthony Bennett, Kilroy's researcher, whose
other claim to fame is a pamphlet expounding the view that the Prophet Mohammed
was a paedophile. According to details published on the Electoral Commission's
website, Mr Bennett holds three of the party's four official offices. The
fourth, that of treasurer, is entrusted to Alex Stevenson, who gave £10,000 to
help Veritas get off the ground, having branded UKIP "undemocratic" for refusing
to make Kilroy its leader.

Not grumpy now

V THE COMEDIENNE, Jenny Eclair, is not one to practise what she preaches, it
seems. Currently performing in a one-woman satire about the cult of celebrity,
Jenny, below, is set to leap a couple of rungs on the fame ladder, when she
starts shooting a new BBC1 comedy series in March.

"I've never established myself as a television personality, so it's bizarre that
the opportunity has come along when I'm in my mid 40s," she tells me at the
opening night of her new show, The Andy Warhol Syndrome. "I did a series called
Grumpy Old Women for BBC2 a little while ago, but the rest of my television work
has pretty much gone unrecognised."

We love Lucy. Not

V THE MAGNIFICENT Sir Peter Hall can do no wrong in the eyes of the theatre
world. Things are not looking so rosy, however, for his daughter, Lucy, who
acted as the designer for her father's production of Whose Life is it Anyway?,
currently playing at the Comedy Theatre in London.

She is the target of some rather unkind sniping from the wings.

"Sir Peter is a lovely person to work with, but his daughter has been a real
piece of work," says one member of the crew. "She gives off this vibe that she
can act how she wants, just because she's Sir Peter's daughter."

The show's producers tell me that they're delighted with Lucy's work and quite
"unaware of any such feeling".

Fuller chagrin at Peruvian idolatry

VTHEY SAY that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, but the music mogul
Simon Fuller would appear to disagree. Fuller, left, devised the phenomenally
successful television show Pop Idol, and last year pocketed some £4m as a
result.

Pandora hears he has now launched proceedings against another company
threatening to "steal" his concept, and export it to Peru.

"The case is being brought in Florida against a company called Panamericana
Television," I am told. "The suit alleges that Panamericana's show, called
Superstars, infringes their copyright and accuses one of the Peruvian judges of
imitating Simon Cowell's caustic style."

This is not the first time Fuller has resorted to the law to protect his show.
Last year, he reached an out of court settlement with Cowell, whom he also
accused of copying elements of the show. Yesterday, he declined to comment on
the latest action.

V Andrew Neil is not the only magazine executive to be messing around with this
summer's party plans. I reported recently that Mr Neil has asked for The
Spectator's summer bash to be moved to accommodate his diary. Now I hear that
Graydon Carter - the editor of Vanity Fair - has cancelled his magazine's annual
celebration at the Cannes Film Festival in May so that he can get married to an
English lass called Anna Scott. The Vanity Fair party is usually the "hottest
ticket" at Cannes and its cancellation will leave all the stars with an evening
to kill. Unless Carter, who is notoriously fond of famous company, invites them
all to the wedding.

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               62 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 3, 2005, Thursday

IN A ONE-MAN CRUSADE FOR THE TRUTH, KILROY CAN GET RID OF THE FACTS DON'T
MATTER;
 THE MEP SHOWS WHO'S BOSS AFTER FALLING OUT WITH UKIP BY LAUNCHING A

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 691 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Kilroy-Silk: A rhythmic self-righteous speech oozed from him' David Sandison


I AM sitting, semi-conscious, listening to Robert Kilroy-Silk. He stands before
a braying pack, all desperate to make their point. It is like being a student
again. Except this time, he is not hosting a "discussion" about a depressed
single mum who is pregnant by her father's boyfriend's cat, and I am not in bed
retching. No; I am at the birth of Veritas, the party founded to accommodate
Kilroy's self-regard. I am at the press conference that will "change Britain
forever".

It is time to "end the corrupt, lying politics that dominate this country",
Kilroy says with the faintly angry expression I know so well from adolescent
years spent rotting in front of Z-list daytime TV. "I am here to speak the
truth. It's quite an innovation in politics, isn't it? The truth. But that's why
I am running." The People have demanded that He - and only He - can save us now.
"When I go to northern market-towns, they come up to me - ordinary people - and
they say, We won't vote. Not unless you stand. Then we'll vote'." He pauses
carefully and adds: "And Muslims come up to me. They say, Why do they ban
Christmas carols? We want to sing Christmas carols'." Ah yes, the persecution of
the carol-singing Muslims. Yes, only Kilroy will bring us the Truth, I begin to
chant slowly.

A rhythmic, self-righteous speech began to ooze from him, full of pledges to
"speak the truth, the truth, the truth". The late Roy Jenkins once proposed a
test for politicians' speeches. He said that you know a speech is meaningless
when saying the opposite would be absurd. Here is the opposite of what Kilroy
said yesterday: "The British people want politicians who lie. We are going to
ignore the British people and lie to them. We will ignore our compatriots at
every single opportunity, in markets and towns across the country. We will not
address the needs and aspirations of the British people, ever. They do not want
change."

But then Kilroy slithered up to a statement that really does deserve to be
reversed. "Mass immigration into this country is a very serious problem. We are
the only country to have a mass immigration policy, except for open countries
like Australia and the United States." I sat upright, broken from my hypnotic
trance. What? Australia has more restrictive immigration laws than us, I
thought, and we take fewer immigrants than France or Germany. "This policy is
changing the nature of our society and our communities. Lives are being
destroyed by the pressures of immigration. Our country is being stolen from us."

Stolen? By immigrants? But if you do the sums, if you add up how much immigrants
and asylum seekers cost us, and how much they put back into the economy, you'll
find they make a net contribution of £2.5bn. This country is richer and happier
because of immigration. But facts have no place here; rivers of blood are
flowing from Kilroy. "This is not an independent country. Our politicians have
betrayed us," he is saying, his fists tightening around an imaginary neck.

I can't stand much more of this, so I decide to talk to some of the people
Kilroy is attracting. The first person I meet milling outside is Paul Becque, a
smartly dressed, slightly shiny man who explains he is from Dover. "I've been
working on cruise ships for the past 20 years, and I just came back to Dover and
I was amazed. The town is a disgrace. The country is a disgrace. There's only
one cinema in Dover and it's only got 50 seats." I look a bit puzzled, but he
continues. "There are lots of asylum-seekers. They congregated in certain parts
of the town and took them over. They stabbed a kid and he had to have 280
stitches. They rape girls. We have to sort Dover out."

Shaken though I am, I must admit: Veritas has converted me. I used to dismiss
one particular far-right belief, but now I see it is true. David Icke has long
argued that many of our politicians are, in fact, seven- foot lizards with human
masks. As I gaze on Kilroy, his skin stretched tight across his face, his eyes
bulging as he spits out the word "asylum- seekers" to the cameras one last time,
it's time we all admitted it. Icke is right.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               63 of 73 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 3, 2005, Thursday

TV KILROY PARTY BID

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 116 words

HIGHLIGHT: LAUNCH: Robert


EX-BBC chatshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday launched a new party called
Veritas - the Latin word for truth.

He pledged "quite startingly different" policies on immigration and asylum and
vowed to stand up against the "nonsense" of multi-culturalism.

But the former Labour MP refused to reveal details about policies at the party's
London launch.

He also refused to say if he will stand against Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in
his Notts seat at the General Election.

Labour campaign spokesman Fraser Kemp said: "Veritas joins an already crowded
field on the right of politics."

MEP Kilroy quit the UK Independence Party last week after he failed to become
its leader.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               64 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 3, 2005, Thursday

Kilroy-Silk claims monopoly on the politics of truth

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 28

LENGTH: 677 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK has admitted to lying in the past, but at the launch of his
new party yesterday said that he would not lie again.

Veritas is the third party the former television chat show host has joined. He
was a Labour MP in the 1970s and enjoyed a short-lived period as an MEP for the
UK Independence Party last year.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that he would campaign on "similar" lines as the UKIP, the
Eurosceptic party he left last month after a failed campaign to become its
leader.

His new party would distinguish itself from the others, he said, in that he
would tell the truth -Veritas means truth in Latin -in particular on
immigration. He promised a "quite startlingly" different approach on immigration
in the party manifesto to be published next month.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that "our country" was being "stolen from us" by
immigration, and that British people resented the extent of multiculturalism -an
idea he called a nonsense.

"There is a magical mood out there for change, for a totally different
approach," he said. "The British people are sick and tired of being lied to.
We're not going to tell lies, we will not be party to a deceit."

When asked if he had always told the truth, Mr Kilroy-Silk replied: "Has any one
of us? I would be very surprised if I had. I'm talking about political truth
here."

He admitted that when he was a Labour MP he often had to dissemble "when I had
to defend policies I didn't believe in, such as unilateral disarmament", he
said. He repeatedly rebutted the idea that he was a racist, an accusation that
has dogged him since he was sacked from the BBC for writing a newspaper article
describing Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women-repressors".

"Is it racist to say I want to control my borders, which is not about colour or
creed, but about numbers?" he said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk will announce at a meeting in Pride Park, in Derby, tonight,
which Westminster seat he will contest at the general election.

He would not respond to speculation that he plans to challenge Geoff Hoon, the
Defence Secretary, in Ashfield. Another seat that he is interested in is Erewash
in Derbyshire, also Labour-held, where UKIP came fourth at the last general
election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's celebrity and power to generate publicity mean he has an
outside possibility of winning a seat in Westminster, which would be highly
embarrassing for Labour -especially if he took Mr Hoon's seat.

But although Mr Kilroy-Silk has stated his intention to "kill" the
Conservatives, Veritas is likely to be good news for Michael Howard. The
squabbling between the UKIP and Veritas will lessen the impact of both, a
situation the Conservatives would far prefer than a united UKIP with Mr
Kilroy-Silk's backing.

Veritas said it had more than 120 candidates for the general election, but the
problem may be in funding. No major donors have been signed so far, although Mr
Kilroy-Silk is wooing the Yorkshire millionaire Paul Sykes, who last year
withdrew his support for the UKIP. Mr Kilroy-Silk said he was confident funding
would come.

"We're going to make a major impact on the next general election, and you can
draw your conclusions from that."

The £2,000 cost of yesterday's launch was funded by Paul Eston, a businessman
from the East Midlands, who said he had approached Mr Kilroy-Silk, and is now
the party's crime spokesman.

Although Mr Eston said he would give what he could to the campaign, he is not a
millionaire and does not have the kind of funds at his disposal as the UKIP did
at the European elections in June.

Then, with the help of Mr Sykes, the UKIP spent more than £2.3 million on
campaign costs -over a third more than Labour's total spending.

Fraser Kemp, the Labour campaign spokesman, said Veritas was joining "an already
crowded field on the right of British politics".

Petrina Holdsworth, the UKIP's chairwoman, said that Veritas would be a parody
of the party its leader has left.

Peter Riddell, page 21 T2, Image of the Day, page 3


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               65 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                February 2, 2005

IT'S MY PARTY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


ROBERT Kilroy Silk is promising surprises at the launch of his new party Veritas
today.

The former chat-show host, 62, quit the UK Independence Party after a failed
leadership bid.

He promises his own party will be "straighttalking".

London Assembly member Damian Hockney has already quit UKIP for Veritas, the
Latin for "truth". The launch will take place in London.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               66 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 2, 2005

Kilroy-Silk promises surprises with his new party

BYLINE: Tania Branigan Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 407 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk will today unveil his second attempt to capture the heart of
Eurosceptic Britain as he launches his "straight-talking" new party Veritas.

The politician turned daytime TV star, who returned to politics after the BBC
sacked him for anti-Arab remarks, helped the UK Independence party to third
place in the European elections last year, becoming one of its 12 MEPs.

But he quit after a failed leadership bid and has long been expected to form a
rival party. Yesterday he promised "surprises" for those attending its launch in
central London.

He is likely to announce that more Ukip candidates are to join his venture.
Damian Hockney, a member of the London assembly, has defected to become the
deputy leader of Veritas and two Ukip staff members have followed.

The disintegration of the Eurosceptic fringe has been good news for the Tories,
who had watched anxiously as support for Ukip soared following Mr Kilroy-Silk's
involvement.

But yesterday the MEP insisted that Veritas could "change the face of British
politics" and promised: "There will be people there from all parties and no
parties. I think you will be surprised."

"We are the straight-talking party. People are fed up with the old parties and
lies and deception. They are fed up with being ignored. They want politicians
who will tell them the truth, talk straight and listen to what they say."

Less than a year ago he said voters were attracted to Ukip because they were
"fed up with being lied to . . . fed up with being patronised by the
metropolitan elite".

The former chatshow host said he had left the party because its leaders "went
awol" instead of capitalising on their success in the elections and, in a
television documentary screened on Monday, described some of its members as
"bloody rightwing fascist nutters".

His new party will advocate withdrawal from the EU, but will also campaign on
issues such as law and order, asylum and tax. It is not yet clear whether he has
obtained substantial funding for it.

Ukip members have dubbed the project Vanitas and warned that, "the future's
bright, the future's orange" under the well-tanned Mr Kilroy-Silk.

A spokesman for Ukip said: "Vanitas clearly does not have anything different to
offer the public other than an opportunity to swoon at Kilroy-Silk's feet.

"We apologise to the voters who elected a Ukip MEP and ended up with a
personality cult."


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               67 of 73 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                February 2, 2005

Kilroy goes solo with Veritas launch

LENGTH: 509 words



HIGHLIGHT: Britain's newest political party, Veritas, was launched today on a
populist platform of "straight-talking" and defending the country against
asylum, immigration and multiculturalism under former chatshow host Robert
Kilroy-Silk.


Britain's newest political party, Veritas, was launched today on a populist
platform of "straight-talking" and defending the country against asylum,
immigration and multiculturalism under former chatshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk.

In a 15-minute debut speech to reporters at Westminster, Mr Kilroy-Silk
lambasted Tony Blair and Michael Howard as "liars" and said his new party would
be looking for the votes of those who had "been made to feel ashamed of their
culture and being British".

Mentioning only "mass immigration and uncontrolled asylum" as policy areas, the
former TV star and MEP - now on his third political party after Labour and Ukip
- bordered on ranting as he dismissed the entire British political establishment
repeatedly as liars, before saying the British public were "tired of yah-boo
politics".

With only Mr Kilroy-Silk and ex-Ukip London assembly member Damian Hockney so
far signed up as the public face of the party - which hopes to replace the
Eurosceptic party as the home of the anti-EU vote - the new leader did not
explain who would fund his "straight-talking" party, or how many candidates it
would stand at the next election.

Unrolling a scroll of paper symbolising the "lies and broken promises" of the
mainstream parties, Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "The British people are fed up of being
lied to, talked down to and patronised.

"They are tired of yah-boo politics. They are tired of paying obedience to the
norms of 'multiculturalism', tired of being ashamed of their culture and being
British."

"We are different. We will listen and engage in a conversation with our
compatriots. There is a magical mood out there for change."

"No more lies, evasion, spin."

Despite speculation that the new party would try to reach out beyond what Mr
Kilroy-Silk himself described as the "rightwing fascist nutter", there was no
mention of any policy platform beyond asylum and immigration at today's launch -
although the leader promised there would be "detailed policies" laid out over
the "next few days and weeks".

In the meantime, Mr Kilroy-Silk accused the PM of "still lying" over asylum,
saying: "We have now lost control of our own borders. A country without control
of its own borders is no longer a sovereign state.

"Mass immigration is a very serious problem, as is uncontrolled asylum. Have you
ever been asked about that? I know I haven't."

"It's another deception - don't they know they've been rumbled?"

Mr Kilroy-Silk left the BBC last year after an Express column penned by him
described Arabs as "limb amputators and women-oppressors" who had contributed
nothing to world culture.

He then joined Ukip, standing for and winning a West Midlands seat as an MEP,
and helping the party to its highest profile and most successful campaign ever,
where it won 12 seats in Brussels and two on the London assembly, before
acrimoniously leaving the party at the end of last year after a failed bid to
launch a leadership coup.

Disillusioned members of Ukip have nicknamed his new party "Vanitas" in sly
tribute to Mr Kilroy-Silk's permanent suntan.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                               68 of 73 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                February 2, 2005

A straight talking tan

LENGTH: 406 words



HIGHLIGHT: Robert Kilroy-Silk has more than good looks and policies to offer
people, writes .Ros Taylor. He has the truth


It's wrong to judge a man by the colour of his skin. On the other hand, when
we're talking about Robert Kilroy-Silk, there's very little else to go on.

You'll probably read in the papers tomorrow that Veritas is opposed to
immigration. You may even see Robert compared with Silvio Berlusconi or Enoch
Powell - comparisons he rejects utterly.

But remember who is writing these reports.

Did you elect them? No. Do they tell you the truth? No. Did they lie to you
about WMD? Yes they did. Do these people have their own agenda? Of course they
do. Are they "supercilious metropolitan political journalists" who are more
interested in Robert's tan than his policies? You know they are.

"I can't help my tan or my looks, and I don't intend to, and I'm not ashamed,"
he said.

And do the liberal media elite want to put him in a box?

Good God, no. What use would Kilroy be in a box? We want him on the box, not in
it. But since he's off the box, and an MEP, we were curious to find out how
Veritas differs from Ukip and the Conservatives - and perhaps even what its
election manifesto is going to be.

No joy there. Robert was more coy than a magpie guarding a stolen nest. It's a
tough job to launch a party without divulging any of your policies, but Veritas
is not interested in the sort of biased political analysis you read in
newspapers. TV is Kilroy's preferred medium. Pictures first, questions
afterwards. Policies next week, or "when it is appropriate".

Enquiries about Veritas's plans were brushed off like flies. "This is not about
race or colour or creed. It's about immigration. Why do we have this thing
whereby as soon as we talk about controlling our borders we're accused of being
racist?" he said with hammed-up weariness, adding: "I think Michael Howard's
policy that he will not take a single asylum seeker over the quota is cruel." We
would just have to wait for the rest.

Someone asked if he had always told the truth in the past. "Have any one of us?"
Get it? Veritas is such a straight talking party that Kilroy can now admit he
used to lie.

"There is a magical mood out there for change and for a new style of politics,"
Kilroy said menacingly. "I know you come here with agendas. We reach beyond you
to the people."

Don't believe what you read. Destroy this message. Turn your TV on. Feel the
magic. And if anyone tells you that Veritas is the nearest thing Britain has to
a political cult, you'll know that they're lying to you.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                               69 of 73 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                February 2, 2005

LIVE: prime minister's questions

LENGTH: 447 words



HIGHLIGHT: Follow this week's Commons clash with our minute-by-minute
commentary.


11.45am:

After the excitement of the launch of Britain's newest political party this
morning - Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritals (or "Vanitas" as his former friends at
Ukip call it) - we turn to the two men the former chatshow host dubbed "liars",
Tony Blair and Michael Howard, for today's clash across the dispatch box.

Some joking at the new party might be expected, but the serious issue of the day
is the government's five-year plan - supposing they win the next election - on
overhauling incapacity benefit.

There is also likely to be reflection on Iraq's elections, and the deaths of 10
British servicemen in the Hercules crash. Other topics on the radar include
burglars, Africa and home detention.

Midday:

Tory Julian Brazer get the first question - once the PM had paid tribute to the
crew of the crashed Hercules in Iraq. "It is doubly tragic that it happened on
day of such hope in Iraq" he tells MPs. Mr Brazer points out Mr Blair wrote to
Ozzy Osbourne when he fell off his quadbike, but has not written personally to
the 600+ injured British troops in Iraq.

"I'm sorry he asked that question in that way" says Mr Blair, before saying the
whole House grieves for fallen British service personnel.

Clive Solely queries the "Jeremiahs" who have questioned British economic
growth. Mr Blair joins him.

12.05pm:

Michael Howard's turn. He plugs the fact that the Tories have put forward
alternative proposals to the idea of home detention suggested by the home
secretary, Charles Clarke - will the PM "look at them carefully" he says, in a
rare, or possibly disingenuous, moment of cross-party magnanimity.

Mr Blair says he will look at them, but the sticking point may be allowing
secret service surveillance to be used as evidence in court.

There are difficulties with intercept evidence although they have been overcome
in other countries - "there are even greater difficulties with detention with
out trial", says the Tory leader "will he agree to meet me" to discuss the Tory
plan which will "protect life, but also our way of life"?

The PM says he'll meet either Mr Howard or his colleagues, but says only 17
foreign nationals have thus far been detained under the detention powers -
against a possible death toll from attacks such as the Madrid bombings which
killed 200 but could have killed at least 1,000.

Gisela Stuart recounts how proud an Iraqi constituent of hers was to vote on
Sunday - will the PM guarantee we will continue to support the Iraqi people?
"She's quite right, we've got to stay there, not quit the course," says Mr
Blair.

12.10pm:

Charles Kennedy stands up. It can never be proper for a politician not a judge
to imprison someone, can it, the Lib Dem leader asks.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                               70 of 73 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                February 2, 2005

Today at question time

LENGTH: 885 words



HIGHLIGHT: Review this week's Commons clash with our minute-by-minute
commentary.


11.45am:

After the excitement of the launch of Britain's newest political party this
morning - Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritals (or "Vanitas" as his former friends at
Ukip call it) - we turn to the two men the former chatshow host dubbed "liars",
Tony Blair and Michael Howard, for today's clash across the dispatch box.

Some joking at the new party might be expected, but the serious issue of the day
is the government's five-year plan - supposing they win the next election - on
overhauling incapacity benefit.

There is also likely to be reflection on Iraq's elections, and the deaths of 10
British servicemen in the Hercules crash. Other topics on the radar include
burglars, Africa and home detention.

Midday:

Tory Julian Brazer get the first question - once the PM had paid tribute to the
crew of the crashed Hercules in Iraq. "It is doubly tragic that it happened on
day of such hope in Iraq" he tells MPs. Mr Brazer points out Mr Blair wrote to
Ozzy Osbourne when he fell off his quadbike, but has not written personally to
the 600+ injured British troops in Iraq.

"I'm sorry he asked that question in that way" says Mr Blair, before saying the
whole House grieves for fallen British service personnel.

Clive Solely queries the "Jeremiahs" who have questioned British economic
growth. Mr Blair joins him.

12.05pm:

Michael Howard's turn. He plugs the fact that the Tories have put forward
alternative proposals to the idea of home detention suggested by the home
secretary, Charles Clarke - will the PM "look at them carefully" he says, in a
rare, or possibly disingenuous, moment of cross-party magnanimity.

Mr Blair says he will look at them, but the sticking point may be allowing
secret service surveillance to be used as evidence in court.

There are difficulties with intercept evidence although they have been overcome
in other countries - "there are even greater difficulties with detention with
out trial", says the Tory leader "will he agree to meet me" to discuss the Tory
plan which will "protect life, but also our way of life"?

The PM says he'll meet either Mr Howard or his colleagues, but says only 17
foreign nationals have thus far been detained under the detention powers -
against a possible death toll from attacks such as the Madrid bombings which
killed 200 but could have killed at least 1,000.

Gisela Stuart recounts how proud an Iraqi constituent of hers was to vote on
Sunday - will the PM guarantee we will continue to support the Iraqi people?
"She's quite right, we've got to stay there, not quit the course," says Mr
Blair.

12.10pm:

Charles Kennedy stands up. It can never be proper for a politician not a judge
to imprison someone, can it, the Lib Dem leader asks.

Mr Blair says the judiciary is able to review the decision. Mr Kennedy points
out the Lib Dems opposed the original anti-terror legislation, while the Tories
did not. Why not create a new offence of "acting towards acts of terrorism", he
wonders.

"It is only in extreme circumstances we should be curtailing the rights of our
citizens, but these are extreme circumstances," says Mr Blair.

Tory Andrew Robathan, who was in Iraq during Sunday's election, says that eight
out of 10 British soldiers were not registered to vote in the UK despite
guarding the Iraq elections - due to his government's policy of disenfranchising
service personnel. Mr Blair looks embarrassed, says he wasn't aware of the
problem and will look into it.

12.15pm:BR> Michael Howard returns - this time on killing burglars. "The law is
now absolutely crystal clear," says Mr Blair, after yesterday's leaflet launch.
Why not support the private members' bill on Friday, says the Tory leader, which
raises the defence bar to "grossly disproportionate force".

Unfortunately for Mr Howard, the PM quotes back Mr Howard at himself, who last
November said the existing law did not need changing.

"To be fair the media today have made it clear you can attack a burglar in your
own home," ripostes Mr Blair, after Mr Howard urged him to attend Friday's
private members bill reading. The PM accuses the Tory leader again of
"opportunism".

Mr Howard won't be put off - why do we need two different legal tests, he asks,
one for defending one's home. Mr Blair says the government and the police have
made it absolutely clear to what extent you can use force.

A Labour backbencher plants a friendly question about incapacity reform - the
subject of Alan Johnson's statement which follows immediately after PMQs.

12.25pm:

A Tory MP, Philip Hammond, complains that the central government grant to his
council has gone up only 0.4%, compared with 64% in Mr Blair's Sedgefield.

Desmond Swayne, for the Tories, asks a good question on home detention -
unfortunately, it is exactly the same one his leader asked 10 minutes ago.

Alan Beith asks about a closing mine in Northumberland. Labour's Ian Davidson
cheekily asks if the PM is aware that an election is approaching, and that
voters should reward the government by voting them back in, then punish them by
voting No in the EU referendum. Mr Davidson is chair of Labour Against the Euro.

Mr Blair, who clearly does not want to make Europe an election issue, says
merely that voters should reward the party who want to keep Britain at the
centre of Europe. Tessa Jowell flashes Mr Davidson a lethal stare.

That's it for another week.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                               71 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 1, 2005

G2: Television: TVreview: A dark horse

BYLINE: Nancy Banks-Smith

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 729 words


I expect nothing from ITV, much the safest thing, but Bloodlines (ITV1) is quite
something. I don't think the story need detain us long. Justine (Emma Pierson)
having been turned down by the murder squad, possibly because her father was
jailed for murder, perhaps because she has a face like a flower petal,
investigates a few murders of her own. Was her father really guilty? Why does he
accuse her boss? Who smothered her mother? And, while we're about it, who cut
the throat of that nasty piece of work in the vice squad?

What makes it all so evocative is that it is wrapped in a beautifully dark
production, like a black sable coat. It is filmed in long shot, so that you seem
to be straining to eavesdrop on something just beyond your reach, and set in
such lonely London locations as an abandoned lido. Lidos have the innocence of
piers and have shared much the same sad fate. This one was like an empty shell,
still echoing with the sound of long-gone laughter.

Bloodlines is a deep-pile production, well acted and directed. Be swathed in
sable for another 90 minutes tonight.

In Kilroy: Behind the Tan (BBC3) Emeka Onono followed Robert Kilroy-Silk for a
few months in the happy hope of something happening. It was like taking a noisy,
exuberant, badly behaved dog for a walk. You could become quite attached to it
in a desperate sort of way. Jan, for instance, has been Kilroy's inseparable
wife for 43 years. They live on a glorious Buckinghamshire estate once owned by
Ozzy Osborne.

The EEC at Strasbourg is a classier, glassier version of the BBC at Shepherd's
Bush and, there as here, you are liable to meet people plotting in lifts and
corridors. There was one particularly invigorating encounter, when the whole
Ukip party seemed to be having a row in a doorway. Mingled cries arose of "Are
you talking to me?" "I'm not talking to you." "Bloody cameras!" "Just close the
door." "Don't push it against me!" and, from Jan, "Like a load of old women."

The Sunday Programme, which is transmitted around 6am on ITV1, is probably not
widely watched being in direct competition with Bagpuss. Kilroy, then still a
member of Ukip, was invited on it. Onono, whose name seemed increasingly apt,
hung around for the predictable post-programme gaffe. "I didn't know what I had
joined. I've been defending some of these bloody, rightwing, fascist nutters."

He was filming when Kilroy ranted at the European Commission: "A gaggle of
rejects, failures, has-beens, no-marks, liars, dodgy characters and communists,
epitomised by the British commissioner, Mandelson." And still filming, a month
later, when the police arrived to inspect his slurry-soaked suit. "Not nice,"
said a copper in a refreshingly low-key turn of phrase.

The leader of Ukip, whose job Kilroy had tried to snaffle, said: "I am supremely
indifferent to him." Now that, I would think, would be quite difficult.

Dispatches (Channel 4) sent two undercover nurses to film the nursing care at
Ealing General hospital and the Royal United in Bath, both known to be
underperforming. It was a miserable catalogue of uncleaned lavatories, unchanged
patients, uneaten food ("Has she any teeth?" "I don't know").

Your spirits were bumping along the bottom until an old man's son arrived at
Ealing and found his father lying in his own faeces. He located what was
evidently the staff nurse and spoke his mind vigorously. Norma, our mole,
whirred away. "I understand that you are busy, but to minimise infection you
must keep him clean. It is a basic requirement. If he doesn't get nourishment,
he's going to get weak. I tried looking at the notes. There are no notes of what
he is eating. I am going to report that to the doctor." The moral is, if you
haven't got private health insurance, have loving children.

In EastEnders (BBC1), the female population is now largely incarcerated in the
loo. Zoe is checking if she is pregnant by her boyfriend's sadistic father (she
is) and Nana Moon is hiding from life in general. ("Is Nana still in the loo?
She hardly comes out.") It's all right Nana, it's safe to come out now. You're
just in nice time for Paul's funeral.

It emerged at the end of Tribe (BBC2) that the nomads of Outer Mongolia don't
have a word for stress. The interpreter, uncertainly, offered the word worry
instead. They do have worries. They have wolves.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               72 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 1, 2005, Tuesday

LAST NIGHT'S TELEVISION: A WAKE-UP CALL FOR THE BIGOTS;
 BODYSHOCK: THE MAN WHO SLEPT FOR 19 YEARS C4 KILROY: BEHIND THE TAN

BYLINE: THOMAS SUTCLIFFE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 637 words


"I'M A hillbilly and proud of it," said Terry in BodyShock: the Man Who Slept
for 19 Years. You'll get no argument from me, Terry, or Julia Harrington,
either, the director of Channel 4's account of patients recovering from deep
coma. She opened her film with a visual celebration of rural squalor. There was
the bass boat, half-sunk in a local pond; there was a rusting car bogged in the
woods; there was the battered trailer and the pick- up truck. And there, just to
cap it all, was a picture of Terry and his 15-year-old bride, Sandy. The
snapshot was 20 years old, but for Terry it literally could have been yesterday.
After a serious car accident, he had been left in a coma for 19 years and still
thought of himself as a 20-year-old. The young woman who helped to look after
him was his daughter, Amber. Unable to process the fact, Terry kept trying to
talk her into bed, a hillbilly tradition that Amber patiently resisted.

Curiously, there is a family just like Terry's in Clint Eastwood's new film,
Million Dollar Baby. Eastwood presents them, with politically correct bigotry,
as venal and stupid, reacting to the serious injury of a family member as an
opportunity for a lawsuit lottery win. Angilee and Tammy, Terry's mother and
sister, offered a very different picture of redneck priorities: stubbornly
resistant to the doctors' insistence that Terry would never have any kind of
life, and finally vindicated when he came round (and, to the experts'
astonishment, started talking). Part of Harrington's film followed the family on
a trip to a New York neurological hospital where doctors hoped to find out how
Terry had pulled off this unprecedented reboot.

Despite its National Enquirer title, the programme was about more than Terry's
story, including several other case histories of neurological damage. Easily the
most poignant of these was Roy, who had been left emotionally numb by a car
crash, unable to feel any strong emotion for his young son or his wife. He
wasn't distressed by this, because he wasn't really distressed by anything
anymore, even his own violent outbursts. His wife, in deep mourning for a man
who was still alive and sitting next to her on the sofa, was insistent that her
marriage vows held. "We'll just have to tackle it head-on," she said. They were
perhaps not the happiest choice of words for a situation that had actually been
brought about by violent frontal impact. The emotional revelation of the film
was that love can do astounding things; the scientific revelation was that human
anatomy is not well-adapted to sudden deceleration, since the frontal lobe tends
to slide forward over a series of sharp bony ridges on the inside of the skull
that rasp away the fine detail of personality. Evolution simply didn't see the
car coming.

Watching Kilroy: Behind the Tan, I couldn't help wondering occasionally whether
Robert Kilroy-Silk had suffered frontal-lobe damage at some time in the past.
Certainly he seems to have impaired inhibitions and defective powers of empathy.
Emeka Onono's delicious film followed the Orange Ego to Strasbourg, as he took
up his post as an MEP for the UK Independence Party - and proceeded to destroy
its chances of capitalising on electoral success in the European elections. What
an appalling shower of saloon-bar bigots and petty jingoists they are - and yet,
Kilroy-Silk managed to stand out as something special. His wife, Jan - a kind of
Lady Macbeth of Ladywood - muttered and sulked in the background, rightly aware
that her husband was not going to look good in the end result. But she could
hardly accuse Onono of leaning on the scales. All he did was stick close to his
subject and take advantage of a political operation so incompetent that it
couldn't even do its backstabbing behind closed doors. Fantastic.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               73 of 73 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 1, 2005, Tuesday

The day of the anoraks

BYLINE: Bruce Anderson

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 395 words


IN STAGNANT pools, scum thrives. Recently, British politics has been stagnating.

There are no big ideas. Fewer and fewer people join political parties. Turnout
is in decline; the Iraqis are keener on voting than we are.

This is partly because many people see no alternative to a discredited
government.

Not that Tony Blair will mind. The voters are feeling cynical, disillusioned,
cheerful and prosperous -just what he would like them to feel.

But even if the Tories seem incapable of exploiting the discontents of
stagnation, other groups can. These days anyone with an anorak, an obsession and
a sense-of-humour bypass can have a political career. As the Liberal Democrats
cannot accommodate all such characters, some of them have found other outlets,
such as the UK Independence Party (UKIP).

The UKIP claims that it is the only party that will stand up to Europe. A lot of
people give it credence. At the last European Parliament elections the UKIP came
top of the anoraks division, winning more seats than the Liberal Democrats.

It is unlikely that this caused dismay in Brussels any more than in Downing
Street. In both those capitals of anti-Britishness, they know that a settled
majority of UK opinion is sceptical about Europe. That cannot be eroded, but if
the UKIP could create a civil war within the Eurosceptic camp, it might be
divided and confounded.

Lenin found the phrase to describe UKIP supporters: "Useful idiots." In the case
of several of its MEPs, "useful" would be an overstatement. But there was one
exception to the general run of messianic mediocrity.

Robert Kilroy-Silk had been a Labour MP and a chat-show host. He is the
perpetual president of the British Association of Sunlamp Manufacturers. With
such a distinguished CV, he assumed he was joining the UKIP in order to lead it.
To his outrage, the others did not agree. Dowdy birds resent plumage. His
colleagues accused him of overweening vanity. They have a point. This is the man
who put the "nit" into vanity.

In response, Kilroy overweened off and set up his own party. Chairman, Mr Toad;
entertainment by Mr Toad; politics Mr Toad's. It is to be launched tomorrow. For
the title, he has chosen a Latin word, Vanitas -no, sorry, Veritas, meaning
truth. If he wanted Latin, he could have picked a shorter word: ego meaning
Robert Kilroy-Silk.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
