
                               1 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 31, 2005 Saturday

Don't mention the war, you might be arrested Simon Heffer on Saturday

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 629 words


Just to ensure this becomes an ever-happier country to live in, the Government
is strengthening our police state even more from tomorrow. After that, you will
be able to be arrested for anything - and I mean anything - if the policeman you
are unlucky enough to encounter is in one of those increasingly familiar
over-zealous moods.

I don't for a moment condone dropping litter. But should someone who engages in
this ignorant act actually be arrested for it? And if you are going to be hauled
off for improperly disposing of your crisp packet, what else might you be locked
up for? And, finally, while the police are rounding up people who park on double
yellow lines or who forget to put their seat-belts on, what is happening to
real, serious criminals?

Our morality in this country has become ludicrously inverted. At the Labour
Party conference, an 82-year-old man was dragged out of the hall for heckling.
Recently, a woman was arrested for reading out a list of war dead within earshot
of Parliament. Yet, every day, innocent people are mugged, burgled and
assaulted, crimes which the forces of law and order show far less zeal in
pursuing.

We used to have something in this country called "live and let live''. It was an
understanding, implicit in a peculiarly British way, that many things that did
offend, or were not quite one's own personal cup of tea, were none the less not
actually criminal, and should be tolerated or simply condemned. Now, all we seem
to be expected to tolerate is intolerance, and condemnation is allowed only in
government-approved contexts. After all, it was not long ago that a man was
arrested in Liverpool for putting up posters urging support of the UK
Independence Party, because hysterical local police were under the impression
that this anti-EU outfit was an evil, racist organisation. Similarly, anyone
voicing remarks that promote fundamental Christian beliefs - such as opposition
to homosexuality - can expect a visit from Plod and, who knows, after tomorrow,
a trip to the cells.

And what will become, in this new, intolerant age, of people such as 55-year-old
hospital worker Stephen Marsham? In what I can only conclude was an act of
self-righteous insanity, Mr Marsham was sacked from his job as a driver for
doing an impersonation of Adolf Hitler at an office party and giving a Nazi
salute. Apparently, his demented and obsessively politically correct employers
thought the gesture was "racist''. Against whom, I wonder. Was it racist in the
sense that the original salute was, as signifying the complicity of the saluter
in hatred of the Jews and other "Untermenschen''? Or racist because it was
horrible to the Germans? I doubt very, very much that Mr Marsham is a Nazi or
has any Nazi sympathies. I also think there is a pretty good chance, as an
Englishman, that he could prove he is largely of the same race as the Germans he
might have been insulting. Yet for enacting a harmless joke at an office party,
he has lost his job and his livelihood.

No doubt his employers would, had this happened next week rather than last
month, have had him arrested too, and have delighted in doing so. We seem
constantly, in this country, to have to prove our boot-faced commitment to the
tenets of political correctness, to have to go on the search for yet more things
to be offended by, and then, best of all, to criminalise them. Are we really so
sick and sad? Are there really no worse evils for our Government and its lackeys
to be fighting?

I hope Mr Marsham will teach his ex-employers a lesson by suing them for denying
him his human right to have a sense of humour. Meanwhile, expect arrests at the
BBC the next time Basil Fawlty is screened doing his legendary goosestep. And,
even in your own homes, laugh at him at your peril.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          December 31, 2005, Saturday

Please allow us to get away Scot-free

BYLINE: Michael Sissons

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 885 words


A YOUNG Englishman whom I know joined a Scottish arts organisation last year. He
was the only Englishman there. He found the atmosphere of hostility poisonous.

Worse, his wife, a doctor, took a job nearby at a large NHS hospital. On her
first day at work, she was met by a large white card on her desk with the
greeting: "F*** off, English bitch." Outraged letters to the Leader of the
Scottish Assembly and to NHS management produced no reply. The couple packed it
in and returned to England.

Recently in The Spectator Alan Cochrane commented on the dismal reality of
Scottish politics: "So alien does Scotland now appear to the rest of the United
Kingdom since devolution." Too right, and we should address an issue that goes
far beyond the West Lothian question.

Britishness was a 19th-century invention, designed to enable the British Empire
to function. The contribution of the Scots to the Empire, in terms of talent and
manpower, was indispensable. Yet both the Act of Union of 1707 and the Union
with Ireland of 1801 were the product of bitter history, and they were never
more than marriages of convenience. One marriage foundered with the creation of
the Irish Free State in 1922, and I have come to believe that in due course the
other may result in divorce.

I was educated to believe in serving an Empire that my generation could see no
longer existed. My Yorkshire grandmother, a pillar of the Conservative Party in
the East Riding, insisted to me: "Never forget that we are Conservatives first,
but always Unionists second." Until Suez we never questioned the notions of duty
and service. Nor until now did I ever question the validity of the Union.

Then, on holiday, I heard an Ulster Protestant couple describe coming to terms
with the inevitability of a united Ireland. They just didn't believe that the
cause of the United Kingdom was worth shedding one more drop of blood for.

Has the issue of the Union, thus shorn of the Union Jack, become our emperor's
new clothes? If we hold Britishness to the light, what do we see? July 7 showed
with grim clarity how partial a view of British nationality some of our fellow
citizens take. Historically we erred in failing to integrate our immigrant
population into a British identity as America has done. Insistence on speaking
English might have seemed a good start. Now Government strains to deal with this
urgent problem. But what sort of Britishness do we want? Do we defuse racial
problems by selling the concept of Britain or of England? Are Wayne Rooney and
Freddie Flintoff more potent symbols than the Union Jack? The ambivalent
resurgence of the Cross of St George suggests that perhaps they are.

A private Bill is to be introduced into the House of Lords by Lord Baker of
Dorking proposing a federal Parliament in Westminster to rule the UK, with an
English assembly established to determine English matters. The aim of detaching
non-English MPs from English business hardly needs spelling out. But this is not
just evidence of the frustration that is building in England over the obtrusive
influence of Scottish MPs in Westminster. It is also clear that, given the
powers that are being devolved to Scotland and Wales, what was unthinkable 20
years ago is now seen to be inevitable.

There are more Tory voters in England than Labour voters. Labour's majority is
propped up by the combination of an unjust distribution of seats and the
Strathclyde Labour phalanx. The Scottish mafia within new and old Labour is, I
believe, cordially disliked south of the Border. How popular will the prospect
of another Scottish prime minister be when this becomes imminent?

To hell with it. I think I'm an English Nationalist. It's all right to be a
Scottish, Welsh, or Irish Nationalist, so why not? Do I face the putative charge
of extremism? Yes I'm a paid-up member of the England Fan Club, so that I can
get to the World Cup next year. Yes, I love the England cricket team. Yes,
Yorkshire is of course God's Own Country. But neither the UKIP, the BNP nor
Little England attract me. I'm moderately pro-European, in favour of an
Anglophone pro American Europe and a reformed United Nations. I want all my
fellow citizens to live harmoniously together. Nothing too extreme or yobbish in
that, I hope.

So what now ? Europe is full of independent nations of the same size as Scotland
and Wales. I would begrudge neither their independence. The dislike and
chippiness displayed by the Scots towards the English is deep- seated, no doubt
with good reason. It's palpable, stronger than ever, and deeply tiresome. The
seething resentment in Scotland towards non-Scottish land ownership, at the
heart of Scottish nationalism, is an odd phenomenon in 21st-century Europe.

Scottish football fans would support Outer Mongolia, certainly Trinidad and
Tobago, rather than support England against anyone. I hold nothing against
Wales, which seems to have little appetite for independence. A Welsh referendum
perhaps? But I'd love to see Scotland choose independence.

The new sovereign nation north of Hadrian's Wall could join the EU. It would be
welcome to its oil. England would save itself an awful lot of money. We should
empower the Scots to take matters into their own hands, and in doing so empower
England and the English. Wishful thinking?

The author is a literary agent

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday
                                 First Edition

GET THE PICTURE DAILY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 73 words


Quiz answers 1. David Davis 2. Kenneth Clarke 3. Ukip 4.

The Official Monster Raving Loony Party 5. Blenau Gwent 6. Greenpeace
demonstrators who invaded John Prescott's home 7. She was the pensioner who
became the focus of a political row over the NHS after her shoulder operation
was repeatedly cancelled 8. A political party led by Robert Kilroy-Silk 9. Robin
Cook 10. David Mundell MP, shadow Scotland secretary and sole Scottish Tory MP

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Link the photographs to find the name of someone in the news
(Yesterday: Christopher Ofili)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 26, 2005 Monday

Can you name the Pope, remember the director with a Twist, or recall where
Flintoff was on fire?

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher Howse

SECTION: NEWS; Quiz of the year; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2483 words


People and places

1 In which British city did a tornado tear off dozens of roofs?

2 The new Archbishop of York, Dr John Sentamu, had formerly been a high court
judge in which African country?

3 Name two former British prime ministers who died this year.

4 By what name was Pope Benedict XVI known before his election on April 19?

5 After which London suburb was a crater on Mars named?

6 Bez was the winner of Celebrity Big Brother. With which band, responsible for
a single called Freaky Dancin', did he once freakily dance?

7 In which country did 15,450,279 people vote No, and 12,806,394 Yes, to the
question: "Approuvez-vous le projet de loi qui autorise la ratification du
traité établissant une Constitution pour l'Europe?''

8 "You are surrounded from floor to ceiling with colour-drenched images of the
pair howling with rage or shrinking with fear, and with the parallel imagery of
hooded black and Asian street youths, who often seem to function as doubles for
the artists, at once threatening and comical,'' wrote Richard Dorment of a
British exhibit at the Venice Biennale. By whom?

9 After the bombs in London on July 7, the BBC cancelled a planned radio
dramatisation of the novel Greenmantle. Who was its author?

10 Chad and Bangladesh were found by the Berlin-based Transparency International
to be the most corrupt countries. Which was the least?

Hello and goodbye

1 Who met Tom Cruise this year, is to have their baby next spring and plans to
marry him in July?

2 Victoria Beckham gave birth to a 7lb 2oz son in Madrid. What name was he
given?

3 Robert Kilroy Silk, who had resigned from the UK Independence Party, formed a
new party. What was it called?

4 Who became Secretary of State for Work and Pensions after the election last
May and resigned on Nov 2?

5 Name the American businessman who took over Manchester United.

6 At Longbridge, 5,000 car workers lost their jobs after which company went
bust?

7 A city mayor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, was elected president of which country?

8 Which playwright and former husband of Marilyn Monroe died, aged 89?

9 Mrs Adriana Iliescu, aged 67, gave birth to a baby girl in January. In which
country?

10 Which country decided to wrap some of its glaciers in foil to stop them
melting so fast?

Pithy

In 2005 who said:

1 "You can't trust people who cook as badly as that.''

2 "It is time to give ourselves a reality check - to receive the wake-up call.
The people are blowing the trumpets around the city walls. Are we listening?''

3 "My Government is committed to creating safe and secure communities, and
fostering a culture of respect.''

4 "I am not now nor have I ever been an oil trader and neither has anyone on my
behalf.''

5 "The two unholy men of our millennium, who in the same way as Hitler and
Mussolini formed an unholy alliance, form an alliance to attack an innocent
country.''

6 "We have declared a fierce war on this evil principle of democracy.''

7 "This is a beautiful land, with huge skies and vast horizon - kind of like
Texas.''

8 "Occasionally one does feel that an individual politician is trying to
browbeat the judiciary.''

9 "Bloody people. I can't bear that man. I mean he's so awful, he really is.''

10 "The prime minister does not have to go on television daily to defend
himself. The people are getting fed up. They want to see soap dramas instead. It
is enough. It is a waste of electricity.''

Lively

Name the subjects of some of this year's biographies:

1 Leo McKinstry wrote about a man who by his mid-forties had achieved his three
ambitions of marrying an heiress, winning the Derby and becoming prime minister.

2 Richard Ingrams published the biography of the author of The Life and
Adventures of Peter Porcupine.

3 She was the eldest of 21 children, lived in the Grandstand at Epsom, died aged
28, and was written about by Kathryn Hughes.

4 His biographers, Jung Chang and Jon Halliday, called him "the biggest mass
murderer in the history of the world''.

5 A painter dismissed by Virginia Woolf as "so vain, so respectable, so slow I'm
told in his wits, that the entertainment is a horrid burden'', the second volume
of his life was published by Hilary Spurling.

6 His last volume of diaries, from 1993, was published as The Milk of Paradise.

7 He was rescued by the First World War from writing "Melodious ramblings,
published at a loss, / But gracefully reviewed by Edmund Gosse'', and was the
subject of a life by Max Egremont.

8 In the words of his biographer Alan Jacobs, in his last years "he had become
an American divorcee's sugar-daddy''.

9 Douglas M. Parker published a life of the man who wrote, "I sit in an office
at 244 Madison Avenue/ And say to myself You have a responsible job, havenue?''

10 Rob Jovanovic wrote about the woman who sang, "You had a temper like my
jealousy:/ Too hot, too greedy./ How could you leave me,/ When I needed to
possess you? I hated you. I loved you, too.''

Celluloid

1 Who directed Ben Kingsley and Barney Clark in Oliver Twist?

2 Hayao Miyazaki directed the animated Spirited Away in 2003. What two-hour
feature succeeded it this year?

3 What H.G. Wells story was directed by Steven Spielberg?

4 Don Cheadle played Paul Rusesabagina at the Milles Livres hotel in Kigali. In
which film?

5 Who did Tilda Swinton play in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe?

6 Dame Judi Dench was Mrs Henderson in a film about which theatre?

7 Who play Harry, Hermione and Ron?

8 In 1971 Gene Wilder was Willy Wonka. Who was it this year?

9 Imelda Staunton played the title role in which Mike Leigh film?

10 Gael García Bernal played Che Guevara on his gap year in which film?

Tabloid

1 Who overcame a televised nocturnal call of nature to win the jungle crown in
I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here?

2 Which angelic voice declined to grace the wedding of Katie Price and Peter
Andre?

3 Nicholas Cage and his wife Alice Kim, a former sushi waitress, called their
new baby son Kal-el. Which comic-book hero first bore the name?

4 After her pet kinkajou, Baby Luv, scratched her at Agent Provocateur, an
underwear shop, Paris Hilton resumed her habitual accessory Tinkerbelle. What
kind of dog is she?

5 She is 5ft 1in and is said to have lost 11 stone in weight. She won Pop Idol
and is bringing out a single called Breaking Free. But what's her name?

6 Britney Spears's husband Kevin Federline has a tattoo of blue dice. What has
Britney got tattooed on her forearm?

7 What middle name did Elton John give on the official Notice of Civil
Partnership with David Furnish?

8 In November, Christina Aguilera married in the Napa Valley, California, then
went for a honeymoon in Bali. What is her husband's name?

9 Ryan Amoo, who plays football for Northampton, enjoyed a romance with a
reality television celebrity who opened a salon in Hertford called Ugly. What is
her name?

10 "He seemed to hit rock bottom with Swept Away, a vapid, silly if harmless
vanity project for his wife Madonna, which went straight to video,'' wrote the
Telegraph film critic in September. "But his latest film plumbs new depths of
awfulness.'' Who is he, and what was the film called?

Sweaty

1 Andy Murray lost at Bangkok to number-one-ranking who?

2 Best Mate, triple winner of the Cheltenham Gold Cup, died at which racecourse?

3 Liverpool came back from 3-0 at half time to beat which team for the European
Cup?

4 Fit the matches to the results in the Ashes series this summer:

Lord's, Edgbaston, Old Trafford, Trent Bridge, Oval.

Match drawn; Australia win by 239 runs; Match drawn; England win by two runs;
England win by three wickets.

5 Lance Armstrong won the Tour de France, making it how many times?

6 A 24-year-old Spaniard from Oviedo ended Michael Schumacher's five years as
Formula 1 champion. What is his name?

7 Who achieved a new record time of 71 days 14 hours 18 minutes and 33 seconds?

8 "I think I need to apologise to the nation for having to stop like that but I
was losing 10 seconds every time my stomach cramped up,'' said who, after
winning the London Marathon?

9 If Ascot was at York in the summer where was Kempton to be on Boxing Day?

10 Oxford's victory in the Boat Race brought its total victories to 72. How many
have Cambridge won?

Beaty

1 Name the five-piece Leeds outfit who released a single with the refrain, "Oh
my god, I can't believe it, I've never been this far away from home!''

2 "Nobody gonna love me better/ I'm gunnah stick wit u,'' went the No 1 single
Stickwitu this month, for which girl band?

3 Which Sheffield band sang, "Well I bet that you look good on the dance floor/
Dancing to electro-pop like a robot from 1984''?

4 In Neighbourhood No1 (Tunnels), Arcade Fire sang "You change all the lead/
Sleepin' in my head to gold,/ As the day grows dim,/ I hear you sing a golden
hymn,/ The song I've been trying to sing.'' Name the album from which it came.

5 Raymond Ayala, from San Juan, Puerto Rico, sang "Pa' las que son mas zorras
que los cazadores/ Pa' las mujeres que no apagan

su motores,'' on his hit

Gasolina. What is his

stage name?

6 Who sang, "My life is brelliant.[sic] / My love is pure./ I saw an angel./ Of
that I'm sure,'' before jumping in the water?

7 Amadou and Mariam found success with Dimanche à Bamako. So from which country
do they come?

8 Which foursome walked out of Top of the Pops when Richard Bacon referred to
them as a "fat melting pot of talent''?

9 Which retiring rapper sang: "What happens when you become the main source of
pain?/ 'Daddy look what I made.' Dad's gotta go catch a plane''?

10 The best solo male artist in the 2005 Brit Awards rapped over Banquet by Bloc
Party about a stolen mike. He's Mike Skinner, also known as what?

Royal

1 Who said about her research for a book The Serpent and the Moon (on Henri II
of France and his wife, Catherine de' Medici), "I like to know how they cleaned
their teeth! That they wore no underwear!''

2 Where did the Duke and Duchess of Rothesay spend the first night of their
married life?

3 Prince William graduated from St Andrews with a 2:1 degree, in which subject?

4 Who said, "She's a wonderful woman and she's made our father very, very happy,
which is the most important thing. William and I love her to bits.''

5 Which Princess said, "I honestly can say she is the most amazing woman anyone
could ever meet. She is so fantastic. So wise, so kind and I just love her to
bits.''

6 Who wrote, "I took your news outdoors, and found the Spring had honoured all
its promises to start disclosing how the principles of earth can make a common
purpose with the heart''?

7 After having a sandwich named after her in New York, who said: "I didn't have
a disorder; I just ate too much. Food was my friend. What caused me to eat was
trying to get people to like me.''

8 Who almost bit into a hachiya persimmon at Point Reyes, California, until
warned it was unripe and astringent?

9 Who said: "Of course the Queen knows who Eric Clapton is.''

10 An unknown buyer was said to have spent pounds 1.5 million buying 14
preparatory sketches for a portrait of the Queen, the Queen Mother, the Duke of
Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales and Princes William and Harry painted for the
Queen Mother's 100th birthday. Who was the artist?

Stage and gallery

1 Which 68-year-old entertainer took up the role of Scrooge?

2 An installation of 14,000 white polyethylene boxes at Tate Modern was called
Embankment. Who was the artist?

3 An Indian runner duck played the title role in which play?

4 Which photographic exponent of images à la sauvette was featured at the
Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art this autumn?

5 Who wrote the music for the musical Billy Elliot?

6 The 18th-century English banker Joseph Smith bought in Venice works by which
Italian painter now on show in an exhibition at the Queen's Gallery, Buckingham
Palace?

7 Of which musical based on a story by Dumas did Charles Spencer write, "It's so
bad that it is merely unendurable. There's no insane flourish to its mediocrity,
no sublimity to its awfulness. It is just relentlessly, agonisingly
third-rate.''

8 The Tate bought the installation The Upper Room, by which artist?

9 The UN Inspector was the reworking of a play by which Russian author?

10 The Magic Apple Tree and In a Shoreham Garden are among the images of which
19th-century artist whose work is currently on show at the British Museum?

Quiz of the year answers

People and places

1 Birmingham; 2 Uganda; 3 Lord Callaghan, aged 92, and Sir Edward Heath, aged
89.; 4 Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger; 5 Tooting; 6 Happy Mondays; 7 France; 8
Gilbert and George; 9 John Buchan; 10 Iceland.

Hello and goodbye

1 Katie Holmes; 2 Cruz; 3 Veritas; 4 David Blunkett; 5 Malcolm Glazer; 6 MG
Rover; 7 Iran; 8 Arthur Miller; 9 Romania; 10 Switzerland.

Pithy

1 Jacques Chirac (to Gerhard Schröder and Vladimir Putin in Kaliningrad); 2 Tony
Blair (to the European Parliament in June); 3 The Queen (during the Queen's
Speech); 4 George Galloway (to the US Senate committee in May); 5 Robert Mugabe,
of Mr Blair and George Bush (during a UN meeting in Rome); 6 Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi, the reputed al-Qa'eda leader in Iraq (in a taped message); 7
President Bush (during a visit to Mongolia); 8 Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers,
the new Lord Chief Justice; 9 The Prince of Wales (of Nicholas Witchell, the TV
reporter, at Klosters); 10 King Bhumibol of Thailand.

Lively

1 The 5th Earl of Rosebery; 2 William Cobbett; 3 Isabella Beeton; 4 Mao
Tse-tung; 5 Matisse; 6 James Lees-Milne; 7 Siegfried Sassoon; 8 C.S. Lewis; 9
Ogden Nash; 10 Kate Bush.

Celluloid

1 Roman Polanski; 2 Howl's Moving Castle; 3 The War of the Worlds; 4 Hotel
Rwanda; 5 The White Witch (Jadis); 6 The Windmill; 7 Daniel Radcliffe, Emma
Watson and Rupert Grint; 8 Johnny Depp; 9 Vera Drake; 10 The Motorcycle Diaries.

Tabloid

1 Carol Thatcher; 2 Charlotte Church; 3 Superman on the planet Kypton; 4 A
chihuahua; 5 Michelle McManus; 6 Pink dice; 7 Hercules; 8 Jordan Bratman; 9 Jade
Goody; 10 Guy Ritchie, Revolver.

Sweaty

1 Roger Federer; 2 Exeter; 3 AC Milan; 4 Lord's - Australia win by 239 runs;
Edgbaston - England win by two runs; Old Trafford - match drawn; Trent Bridge -
England win by three wickets; Oval - match drawn; 5 Seven; 6 Fernando Alonso; 7
Ellen MacArthur, sailing single-handed 27,000 miles round the world; 8 Paula
Radcliffe; 9 Sandown; 10 78.

Beaty

1 Kaiser Chiefs; 2 Pussycat Dolls; 3 Arctic Monkeys; 4 Funeral; 5 Daddy Yankee;
6 James Blunt; 7 Mali; 8 The Magic Numbers; 9 Eminem; 10 The Streets.

Royal

1 Princess Michael of Kent ; 2 At Birkhall on the Balmoral estate. (The Prince
of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall use their Rothesay title in Scotland.); 3
Geography; 4 Prince Harry (of the Duchess of Cornwall); 5 Princess Beatrice (of
the Queen); 6 Andrew Motion, the Poet Laureate (in Spring Wedding); 7 The
Duchess of York; 8 The Duchess of Cornwall; 9 The Duke of Edinburgh; 10 John
Wonnacott

Stage and gallery

1 Tommy Steele; 2 Rachel Whiteread ; 3 Ducktastic; 4 Henri Cartier-Bresson; 5
Elton John; 6 Canaletto; 7 The Man in the Iron Mask; 8 Chris Ofili; 9 Nikolai
Gogol (The Government Inspector); 10 Samuel Palmer.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 24, 2005 Saturday

Two Flags;
Prescott gives the EU symbol equal status with the UK's banner Minister accused
of selling out to Brussels in move towards superstate

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN

SECTION: ED 2ND 04; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 783 words


JOHN Prescott was accused of plotting another sellout to Brussels yesterday by
granting the EU flag the same status as the Union Flag or the Cross of St
George.

The EU flag, with its 12 gold stars on a blue background, can be flown like any
other national flag.

Eurosceptics said the change is another step towards the creation of a
superstate.

The Deputy Prime Minister known as Two Jags because of his penchant for
limousines slipped out the news this week as MPs were leaving Westminster for
their Christmas break.

It was only days after Tony Blair surrendered Pounds 7billion of the British
rebate in order to secure a Brussels budget deal in his final act as President
of the EU.

Under existing law, the EU flag is classified as an advertisement and anyone
wanting to fly it has to obtain planning permission from the local authority.

The only flags exempt from these rules are national flags.

But Mr Prescott has decided to drop the restrictions and allow the EU banner to
be flown without special clearance.

He decided to act after the UK Independence Party launched a series of
complaints about European Commission buildings around London, which they say
have flown the EU flag illegally.

Graham Brady, the Tory spokesman on Europe, said the move is evidence that
Labour is determined to keep advancing a pro-European agenda despite widespread
opposition in Britain and growing disquiet among voters on the continent. He
added: 'The Government has obviously learned nothing from the rejection of the
European Constitution by voters in France and the Netherlands.

' Those referendum defeats showed people across Europe identify with their own
countries, not with the creation of a European state.' Timothy Kirkhope, leader
of the Tories in the European Parliament, suggested that Mr Prescott might as
well give permission for the white flag the flag of surrender to be flown as
well.

Neil Parish, Conservative MEP for the South-West, described the change as
ridiculous and provocative. He added: 'The EU flag is not a national flag
because the EU is not a nation, no matter how much people like John Prescott
might want it to be otherwise.

'I always get worried when Mr Prescott comes up with new ideas like this because
we know he is obsessed with breaking the country up into EU regions.

'This is the sort of symbolic gesture that gets up the noses of people who
signed up to the EU on the basis that it was a combination of nations coming
together to trade together, not some sort of state in its own right.' The Office
of the Deputy Prime Minister confirmed the change, but insisted this was not the
same as giving the flag national status.

A spokesman said: 'We have had requests for this from local authorities who have
had problems with members of the UK Independence Party demanding that they take
flags down because they do not have planning permission.

'Councils, in particular, often fly the EU flag, as do businesses, and we are
saying that they should be able to do that without the need for planning
permission.' Roger Knapman, leader of UKIP, said his party's habit of making
complaints was no reason to rip up the rules and give the EU special status.

'This is just another surrender,' he added. 'The EU already has its own anthem
and currency and will soon have its own foreign minister and armed forces. Now
Mr Prescott is saying the EU's flag can be flown in this country as if it were
our own.' The announcement was made in a Parliamentary answer by Yvette Cooper,
one of Mr Prescott's junior ministers.

She said a consultation will be launched in the New Year on the new advertising
rules 'which will include a provision that will allow the EU flag to be flown
without local authority approval'.

The minister added: 'National flags already benefit from this exemption.'

The rule change will not need a change in the law so MPs will be denied a
Commons vote on the issue, which would allow them to voice their opposition.

Mr Prescott will bring in a new regulation on outdoor advertising which will be
laid before Parliament as a statutory instrument, a procedure which allows
regulations to be passed into law directly by ministers.

It is not the first time that issues surrounding the EU flag have caused
controversy. Tory MPs fought to prevent rules sent down from Brussels ordering
that all new cars registered in Europe carry the EU flag on their number plates.

The flag, which was used by the Council of Europe in the 1950s, was formally
adopted by the European Union in 1986.

The number of stars on it has nothing to do with the number of member states.
The EU website proclaims: 'There are 12 stars because the number 12 is
traditionally the symbol of perfection, completeness and unity.'

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 24, 2005 Sunday

Simon Hoggart's Diary: The joy of a family Christmas

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1061 words


It's thought fashionable to be bored with Christmas, but as I get older I enjoy
it more. What I like is the way that extended family Christmases take on all the
traditions brought by each separate family and add them to the rest. So my
wife's family like a nice cold glass of Bailey's while opening presents, while
others we'll be with tomorrow will have their eye on something sparkling. Then
there will be mince pies, a couple of those mini- Toblerone things, like
chocolate shrapnel, and before lunch no doubt a spot of smoked salmon. By the
time we sit down to the actual turkey we'll be full, of course, but that won't
stop us eating all those other brown things, such as sausages, stuffing, bacon
rolls, roast potatoes and gravy, relieved by some bright green and orange
things.

We'll drink too much - well, some of us will - and watch the Queen's speech
which sounds as if it is going to be just as politically correct as it was last
year, and we'll pretend to go for a walk that will last for less time than it
takes to get our warm clothes and boots on, then we'll decide it's time for
another drink, to wash down the now cold brown stuff we're having for supper. In
the days when Charles Dickens invented Christmas, we all watched the Morecambe
and Wise show, as if the nation was one family gathered round the same set.

Now we fight over who gets to watch the DVDs everyone got as presents. Ricky
Gervais's Extras, or Little Britain? If we're lucky, it will be Curb Your
Enthusiasm with Larry David, but possibly someone will try to insist on Avid
Merrion's Christmas special, only to be shouted down by everyone else. Then
we'll all go to bed saying to ourselves: "Was that it?"

Christmas shopping gets more and more difficult, since in our new economy the
one thing that costs money is labour. So the goods in the shops are, in real
terms, cheaper than ever, but you can't find anyone to sell them to you.

I popped into Argos the other day because I needed a stopwatch. I punched the
buttons on the mini-computer which informed me that I could buy it at any till.
But there was only one till, where, three days before Christmas, a solitary
young woman coped with a long queue moving at an imperceptible pace.

After 20 minutes it was my turn. She keyed something into her larger computer,
and said in a bored way that it was not available at that branch, I needed a
bigger branch, a few miles away. I asked, politely I hope, why the computers
used by us, the public, didn't reveal that but encouraged us to waste our time
queue ing. She gave me a "customers, who needs them?" look - not rude, but
puzzled, as if I had suggested they should carry a wide range of 13th century
illuminated manuscripts, or accept payment in Venezuelan bolivars.

Outside, our new Ann Summers sex shop was drumming up trade by sending into the
traffic-jammed streets a gigantic truck hauling a vast hoarding, perhaps 15 feet
high, plastered with pictures of young women wearing almost nothing, the whole
topped with the legend "COME all ye faithful", which even I thought a shade
tasteless. Ten days ago I had been passing - yes, passing - the Ann Summers in
Oxford Street when my mobile phone rang.

I mentioned to the friend who was calling that all the customers going into the
shop seemed to be young women, and she explained that they were probably buying
saucy gifts for their girlfriends at work, or for Secret Santas. (The giant
dildo which featured in one episode of The Office, is, I suspect, partly to
blame.)

But at the end of this week our local Ann Summers seemed to be full of couples
who, having bought their gifts for everyone else, were planning something more
private, possibly involving nylon maid's outfits, or those peculiarly shaped
things which I cannot fully understand - you can guess where they're meant to
go, but can't work out why you would want to put them there.

Now and again I get asked to lend my name to some television documentary, to be
made by an independent company. "Channel 4 are very excited!" they say, or "The
top people at BBC 2 really want to get behind this." I get an Italian meal in
Soho, and nothing ever happens - well, perhaps one in 20 comes to something. I'm
long past caring, and the prosciutto e melone is nice. But the one I didn't get
to do this year brought real regret: it was to go in the footsteps of JB
Priestley, whose 1934 book English Journey was humane, funny, revealing and very
influential. BBC 2 were wildly interested, right up to the time that they
couldn't care less.

But there is consolation. My colleague David McKie, writer of Elsewhere and the
much-lamented Smallweed column, has written a wonderful and beguiling book
called Great British Bus Journeys, which is very Priestley-like - he goes to
"unfamous places", meets people, unearths extraordinary facts, and generally
fossicks around in a Britain that is not yet one great, homogeneous, tarmacked,
Dixons and Argos covered shopping mall. The book is out in spring, and you might
look for it then.

With the possibility of two party leadership elections in the next year, I was
fascinated to learn from Professor Steve Jones that the fairest possible way to
decide on one candidate in a field of any size is to give every voter as many
choices as he or she wants. So if there are, say, eight candidates, you can pick
one, three, six, or all eight if you wish, and they are not in order. Every vote
cast has equal value. It sounds ridiculous, but it's how the American
Mathematical Association chooses its president, and it works very well.

The effect is that whoever wins is the candidate who is most acceptable to most
people. If it seems unfair to have multiple votes, it isn't, because everyone
you don't pick is a negative vote, and the more people you support, the fewer
people you can help veto.

It would work ideally here. A Guardian reader, faced with, say, Tory, Labour,
Lib Dem, Green, Ukip and BNP candidates could plump for Labour, Lib Dem and
Green, not minding hugely which one won. His omission of the other three would
count as a positive vote against them.

If the Tories had done it this year I suspect David Cameron would have still
won, but it would have been a much saner process. If the Lib Dems do kick out
Charles Kennedy, it would be the ideal way for them to choose his successor. Not
that they will, because the idea sounds so peculiar.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 24, 2005 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Letter: Blair's abject EU 'compromise'

BYLINE: John Romer

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 69 words


Sir: It is sad that there has been no response to the antediluvian views of UKIP
MEP Nigel Farage (letter, 20 December).

However, Tony Blair's retort when addressing the European Parliament was
masterly. The EU offers us political and economic synergies essential for
survival in the era of relentless globalisation. Both CAP and our retaliatory
rebate are anomalies which must and will be corrected.

JOHN ROMER

LONDON W5

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 23, 2005 Friday

Prescott gives EU stars the same status as Union flag

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words


LABOUR was accused of its second surrender to Brussels in a week yesterday after
it emerged that the European Union's flag is effectively to be redesignated as a
national symbol.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, will unveil plans in the new year to
drop restrictions on flying the flag.

The symbol, a circle of stars on a blue background, is technically an
advertisement under current planning rules.

But a move to abolish the requirement for people flying the flag outdoors to
seek permission from their local council, will effectively put the EU symbol on
the same legal footing as any national flag, including the Union flag or the
Cross of St George.

It also appears designed to make life easier for councils, which have had to act
on complaints from the UK Independence Party that the EU flag is being flown
without proper permission.

A spokesman for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM) denied yesterday
that the proposed changes to the Town and Country Planning (Control of
Advertisements) Regulations 1992 amounted to giving national flag status to the
EU flag.

However, the Conservatives and Ukip accused the Government of its second
surrender to Brussels in a week following Tony Blair's decision to secure a new
EU budget by giving up billions of pounds of the British rebate. Tim Kirkhope,
leader of the Conservative group in the European Parliament, suggested that Mr
Prescott might as well give permission for the "white flag'' to be flown as
well.

"This is completely inappropriate,'' Mr Kirkhope said. "I have always said that
people should fly their national flag and be proud of it. But the EU flag is
more like a corporate flag. It is not a national flag.''

Roger Knapman, leader of Ukip, insisted that the fact that his party members had
reported breaches of planning law was no reason to scrap the rules themselves.

"This is another surrender. People may claim that it is of small practical
significance, but it is very significant for the future of this country.

"The EU already has its own anthem and its own currency. Soon, it will have its
own foreign minister and its own armed forces. Now John Prescott is saying that
the EU's flag can be flown in this country as if it were our own.''

In reply to a question from Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, Yvette
Cooper, an ODPM minister, confirmed that a consultation would soon be launched
on the new draft advertising rules "which will include a provision that will
allow the EU flag to be flown without local authority approval''.

"National flags already benefit from this exemption,'' she added.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 23, 2005 Friday

Leading article: History teaching: Mind the gaps

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 434 words


Francis Fukuyama's book, The End of History, had a catchy title but he was
mistaken to claim that the triumph of liberal democracy was the end of anything.
History is always with us, one way or another, and the latest complaint that
British secondary schools have got it wrong covers familiar ground. The
Qualifications and Curriculum Authority, the government's exam regulator, is
right to say that history for GCSE and A-level is too dominated by topics such
as the Tudors and the Nazis. Part of the reason is that past reforms tried,
correctly, to move away from the dreary rote learning that once saw bored
children reeling off lists of dates without knowing much, if anything, about the
Synod of Whitby (664), Magna Carta (1215) or the Spanish Armada (1588), let
alone anything that strayed beyond our island story. Moving to detailed analysis
of individual topics was a Good Thing, as the authors of 1066 and All That might
have said. But it was a Bad Thing to go so far towards specialisation too early,
leaving huge gaps in historical knowledge. Chronology and criticism are both
needed. And to complicate matters, exaggerated political correctness can distort
too: there is more to black history in Britain than slavery and the Windrush;
more to Jewish experience than the Holocaust.

Some of this is just intellectual fashion. Sweeping narratives and stirring
stories are back - witness the amazing TV success of Simon Schama and other
stars. English Heritage sites are popular and family history blooming. That all
suggests that Henry Tudor's marital arrangements need to be studied in the wider
context of Reformation Europe. Without clear signposts it is easy to get lost in
the past. Closer to our times, the relentless focus on Hitler's 12 dark years
has overshadowed six decades of postwar Germany. Unlike Fawlty Towers, history
isn't a joke. Part of the problem is technical: dividing A-level courses into
units has fragmented learning and reduced the time for wider study. The
Historical Association blames not teachers but examinations and assessment.

And not only schoolchildren need to study history properly: Tony Blair, who is
sometimes criticised for not being interested enough in the past (problems
subjugating Iraq in the 1920s, say), this week administered a magnificent rebuke
to the reactionaries of the UK Independence Party for protesting that British
taxpayers were financing sewers in Budapest and that he had betrayed our EU
budget rebate to treacherous continental enemies. "We are living in the year
2005, not 1945," he said. History should help us understand the difference.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday

Blair shows his true European colours

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 460 words


As a consummate actor, the Prime Minister knows the importance of measuring his
words. Therefore it was notable that he should have launched such a petulant
outburst two days ago in response to hostile questioning from British MEPs. In a
robust duel with UKIP's Nigel Farage and the Conservative Roger Helmer about
what they saw as his betrayal of Britain over the size of our EU rebate, Tony
Blair let fly. What he said, as much as how he said it, revealed something about
him. In his passionate defence of his surrender to the European consensus, the
Prime Minister showed for the first time in months what a convinced European he
is. Having been forced by circumstances and political reality to bury his
advocacy of a single currency and a European constitution, he was back on the
attack once more in championing a more federal design for Europe. "This is the
year 2005, not 1945. We are not fighting each other any more.''

Mr Blair should have directed his remarks not to politicians who have
consistently defended British sovereignty, but to his main European rival,
Jacques Chirac. Unlike Mr Blair, President Chirac does feel he is fighting his
so-called partners, and one so-called partner in particular. What is more, Mr
Chirac fights to win, having made it clear long in advance that France's devout
commitment to a high level of agricultural subsidy was not a matter for
negotiation. No wonder Mr Blair, whose aims (insofar as he professed any) were
always unachievable, threw in the towel with an air of studied inevitability.
Still worse, it now seems that the sacrifice of British taxpayers' money that he
has offered up, touted originally at pounds 7 billion, is likely to turn out at
something nearer pounds 14 billion. So no wonder, too, that Gordon Brown, who
would like to keep such money for his own profligate domestic schemes, is so
cross with him.

In an especially unpleasant soundbite, Mr Blair told his detractors on Tuesday
that they sat behind our country's flag, but did not represent our country's
interests. On one level, this is a classic case of a political leader deluded
into believing his own publicity. On another, though, it returns us to the sheer
dishonesty with which politicians on both sides of the divide have conducted
European business ever since the early 1970s. Objectively, there can be no doubt
that Euro-sceptic MEPs have stood up for the true interests of Britain far more
than has Mr Blair, with his approach wavering between that of the dilettante and
the turncoat. His "1945'' remark suggests he has forgotten that we were not
actually fighting the French at that time. He might serve himself, and us,
better by making a more accurate estimate of Chirac's strategy, and noting that
we are at war with them now.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday

CONGRATULATIONS MR PRESIDENT!;
After six months at the EU helm, Mr Blair's achieved nothing but humiliation,
French gratitude and a huge tax bill for Britain

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1091 words


WHEN Tony Blair steps down next week from the EU Presidency, he can look back on
what has arguably been the most abject failure of his eight years in Downing
Street.

On Tuesday, his weird ranting outburst in front of members of the European
Parliament in Brussels seemed to show he knew it.

What other British leader would have so recklessly insulted our own elected
politicians Tory and UKIP MEPs branding them 'reactionaries' stuck in a World
War II mentality, in front of a foreign audience?

Since July, Mr Blair has occupied the highest-profile position in the EU system
of government: a privilege which will not again be enjoyed by a British prime
minister for 12 years. During that time, he has achieved virtually nothing -
until last weekend, when he finally caved in over the EU's budget.

Not only was French president Jacques Chirac left crowing as Mr Blair broke his
solemn pledge that the UK's rebate was 'nonnegotiable', landing Britain with an
additional bill of Pounds 7billion to pay for such items as a new underground
rail network for Warsaw and a sewage system for Budapest.

Grotesque To the evident rage of Gordon Brown, Mr Blair also meekly agreed to an
overall increase in the EU's budget for many more years to come, which will
eventually raise Britain's contribution by tens of billions of pounds - money
which, as Mr Brown is aware, could otherwise be spent on schools, hospitals and
other benefits here at home.

For the full measure of how far Mr Blair has failed himself and our country in
the past six months, we must go back to those heady days in the summer when he
seemed to have the world at his feet.

He was not only succeeding to the EU presidency just when, following the
rejection of the constitution by the voters of France and Holland, the 'European
project' itself was plunged into what looked like the worst crisis of confidence
in its 50-year history.

Simultaneously, he was taking over the chair of G8, the club of the world's
richest nations, propelling him to centre stage as a world leader.

For several weeks, he revelled in the role. Live8, the 'biggest-ever pop
concert', was staged in cities across the world, promoting the Make Poverty
History campaign to coincide with the British Prime Minister's pledge that he
was going to solve the financial problems of the Third World.

Mr Blair told the European Parliament that the peoples of Europe had blown their
'trumpets round the city walls' and that it was time for the EU's leaders to
listen - if necessary, to rethink the 'project' from scratch.

In particular, he pointed to that mighty cuckoo in the nest of everything that
the EU does, the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). This vast, ramshackle support
system takes up 40 per cent of all the EU's spending, pouring Pounds 30billion a
year into the pockets of EU farmers and bureaucrats.

At the same time, it inflicts immense damage on the countries of the
underdeveloped world by barring the EU market to their goods while flooding
their own markets with Europe's subsidised surpluses.

In confronting this monster, Mr Blair had in his hand one key weapon - the
famous 'rebate', negotiated by Mrs Thatcher to make up for the grotesque
distortions built into the financing of the CAP.

Without it, as he pointed out, Britain's net contribution to the EU budget would
be a staggering 15 times larger than that of France - rather than merely
two-and-a-half times larger, as it became thanks to the rebate.

This extraordinary difference was precisely why Mrs Thatcher was so determined
to win that rebate - without which, by the mid-Eighties, Britain would have
become the largest single net contributor - and why it is perhaps the most
valuable prize we have ever won from the EU.

Unthinkable We will happily give up our rebate, said Mr Blair - but on one
condition. There must be a root-and-branch reform of that crazy CAP, to
eliminate the unfairness which made the rebate necessary.

This really was a trump card. It had become vital for ministers to agree the
EU's budget for seven years, from 2007 to 2013, and Britain held an absolute
veto on any agreement. Unless he got his way over CAP reform, Blair could use
that veto.

However, from that moment on, Blair's position began to crumble. The real
stumbling block, of course, was that the CAP had been designed by France 35
years ago specifically to benefit its countrymen in preference to any other
country - disadvantaging Britain most of all, because we import more of our food
than anyone else.

Chirac's own strongest card was that, in 2002, Blair had agreed to spending
commitments for the CAP, fixed in stone until 2013. Gradually, cleverly, Chirac
used this pledge to box in his opponent, insisting that any change to that
agreement was unthinkable.

Both players, Blair and Chirac, were equally adamant that their position was
'nonnegotiable'.

But it was Mr Blair whose nerve first began to crack, as he was manoeuvred into
the embarrassing situation where it looked as if he expected the poorer new EU
members in the east to hand back money to pay for rich Britain's rebate.

Sabotage Finally, last weekend, it was game, set and match. President Chirac got
all he had been playing for, while Mr Blair, for his six months in the EU
Presidency, got nothing but a howl of derision.

And for what? The real irony, which has gone unnoticed, is that the reason why
those former communist countries to the east are under such financial strain is
because it was ruled, not least on French insistence, that their own benefits
from the CAP should, initially, be much smaller than those enjoyed by the EU's
established members.

Yet again we come back to the economics of the madhouse, which demand that the
countries of the east must pay money to Brussels to help subsidise farmers in
the west.

But for this unfairness, they could use that money to pay for their subways and
sewage works themselves, without having to give so much to Brussels in the first
place. This would, in turn, remove the pressure on Britain to surrender her
rebate.

What makes it even worse is that, thanks to France's stranglehold over European
trade policy, the EU has also this week been able to sabotage any proper
agreement at the world trade talks in Hong Kong.

Its selfish protectionism is thus free to continue inflicting damage on the
Third World.

Whichever way we look at it, the weak, vain Mr Blair has been totally outplayed
and humiliated - and at our expense.

The Great Deception: Can The European Union Survive?

by Christopher Booker and Richard North, published by Continuum at Pounds 9.99.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: END OF TERM: TONY BLAIR'S REIGN AS EU PRESIDENT IS ENDING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Leading article: Once again, Mr Blair plays a different tune at home;
BRITAIN AND EUROPE

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 617 words


At his strangely low-key end-of-year press conference yesterday, the Prime
Minister seemed oddly reluctant to talk about Europe. The European Union was
nowhere to be found in his opening statement, and he had to be coaxed by
questioners to talk about either the British presidency, now coming to a close,
or the budget agreement he had brokered at the eleventh hour last weekend.
Britain's EU presidency over, it seems, the dangerous subject of Europe can be
consigned to the back burner, where this avowedly pro-European government
prefers to keep it.

What a difference the audience makes. Just the previous day, Mr Blair had
appeared before members of the European Parliament in Brussels. Confident,
combative, uninhibited, the Prime Minister seemed to be in his element. It was a
pleasure to hear a British politician speaking so unapologetically as a
European. His exchanges with Nigel Farage of UKIP were especially choice.
Although he sat 'with our country's flag', Mr Blair scolded him, 'you do not
represent our country's interests'. He followed up with the curt rebuke: 'This
is 2005, not 1945.'

This quality of repartee is a timely reminder of the rhetorical skills that
brought Tony Blair to the top of British politics. But it is a sad reminder,
too, of the enthusiasm for Europe that Mr Blair brought to Downing Street eight
years ago and has increasingly kept under wraps. It also poses the question: why
is it that Mr Blair can speak so eloquently about Europe on the other side of
the channel, but seems so diffident about defending a pro-European stance at
home?

The speech Mr Blair delivered to the European Parliament on the eve of the
British presidency was one of the most accomplished statements about Britain's
future in Europe to have come from a British politician. For Mr Blair, it may
have been the closest he will ever come to mastering 'the vision thing'. It drew
high praise even from some of his harshest critics on the continent. And perhaps
the Prime Minister might have carried on as he started had not the London
bombings yanked his attention back to security issues at home.

Regrettably, past performance suggests that this would not have been so. Earlier
promises of a national roadshow to 'sell' the benefits of the EU constitutional
treaty never really materialised. Once France and the Netherlands had rejected
the treaty, ministers made no effort to preserve even the most necessary
elements of it in another form. And the way Mr Blair scuppered a budget deal in
June by clinging to the British rebate suggested that his prime concern was to
play to the gallery of Eurosceptics at home rather than to try to win over the
British public to a compromise.

Six months on, that compromise was reached. Even if the cost to the Exchequer is
marginally lower than in June, however, the diplomatic cost could be higher.
Among the British proposals was for the new EU members to take a cut in the
funds they receive for development. This was no way for Mr Blair to treat
countries that shared many of his ideas about the future complexion of Europe
and had been among his few allies over Iraq. The proposals were instantly
rebuffed; the perceived slight may be less easily forgotten.

By being so timid about the EU on his home turf, however, Mr Blair sells
himself, and Britain, short. The deal finally struck in Brussels was a
reasonable compromise, and the decks are clear for Austria's presidency in the
new year. Not only the deal but Mr Blair's handling of it were praised in
countries, such as France and Germany, which are habitually sceptical of
Britain's European credentials. The balance of our EU presidency was positive.
Mr Blair should be less bashful about saying so.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tony Blair is entitled to be furious about the disloyalty of his Chancellor and
deputy

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1147 words


Clowns to the left of me, jokers to right. The Prime Minister took to quoting
Stealers Wheel at his news conference yesterday. It might have been impolitic to
describe his Chancellor and his deputy as clowns, so he adapted the words
slightly. 'Fighting on the right of me, a bit of questioning on the left of me,'
he said. But he is entitled to be furious about the disloyalty of Gordon Brown
and John Prescott.

The Chancellor of the Exchequer has instructed intermediaries to let journalists
know he does not approve of the European Union budget deal agreed by the Prime
Minister. We cannot be sure of that, of course, because that is how deniable
briefing works but, since the reports on Sunday, the Treasury has not
contradicted them. On the contrary, its refusal to comment has allowed the
Conservatives to make hay from the unsurprising fact that the value of the
rebate forgone " like the rebate itself " will rise over time.

The trouble started at the weekend, though, when it was reported that Brown was
not consulted over the terms of the final deal, but that he was available " in
the US " to be consulted, and that, if it had been up to him, he would have
insisted on more concrete promises of farm reform from the French.

He must take us for clowns if he thinks anyone will believe that. So flimsy is
the structure of the Chancellor's case that the Sunday Times report of his
doubts actually included the information required to collapse it. It said that
Jon Cunliffe, a senior Treasury official, had been in Brussels as part of the
British negotiations " which only draws attention to the broader absurdity of
Brown's claim that he did not know what was going on.

The British proposal to give up part of the EU rebate in return for a smaller
overall budget and a review of the Common Agricultural Policy was first tabled
on 1 December, when Tony Blair went to Budapest to talk to central European
leaders. If Brown thought the deal so unacceptable he could have said so then.
At the least, he could have said Blair must not give up more of the rebate than
the pounds 5bn then proposed. At the traditional late-night haggling last Friday
night, the British increased their offer by pounds 1.7bn " over a seven-year
period. Does the Chancellor seriously expect people to believe that pounds 250m
a year made the difference between a good deal and a bad deal? Or that he could,
in addition, have persuaded Jacques Chirac to smack his forehead and exclaim:
'Sacre bleu. You are quite right. We must get rid of these subsidies to
petanque-playing French peasants at once.'

Send in the clowns. By contrast, the jokers to the right of the Prime Minister "
namely Nigel Farage of UKIP and David Cameron's other putative allies in the
European Parliament " at least have a clear position. They want Britain out of
the EU and trading in a global market in which the rules are mostly decided by
others.

Then there is the other half of Labour's comedy duo. John 'John is John'
Prescott. He gave an interview at the weekend attacking Blair's schools White
Paper which would have been comical if its significance had not been so serious.
This is perhaps his most extraordinary sentence, talking about the middle
classes: 'If you set up a school and it becomes a good school, the great danger
is that's the place they want to go to.'

That is the Labour 'mainstream' case against the reforms stated, with unexpected
clarity, in all its absurdity. The 'great danger' of the reforms is that some
schools might 'become good schools' " and the problem with that is that some
middle-class parents might want to send their children there.

This is utterly baffling. For decades, the liberal education establishment has
wrung its hands at middle-class flight from urban schools. Yet when Labour
ministers come up with a policy that holds out the faintest prospect of turning
round some of the most challenging schools in some of the most challenging areas
" and the faintest prospect of reversing middle-class flight " it is fought
tooth and nail by the liberal education establishment and Labour backbenchers.

What is the alternative to which the deputy prime minister was so deliberately
lending his support? It is the 'alternative white paper' published by Estelle
Morris, a failed Education Secretary, and others. Its only practical proposal is
to increase the powers of local education authorities, especially over
admissions policy, to ensure 'community cohesion'. These are the same
authorities that have presided over the growing polarisation of state education
in recent decades.

If what Prescott said was bad enough " and we won't go into his patronising
assertion that 'middle-class parents are concerned about the quality of
education for their children, which sadly is not the same for working- class
parents' " his attempt to pretend he meant no harm was laughable. He suggested
that he had stumbled into making some disparaging remarks about the White Paper
because he was chatting to an old friend, Susan Crosland, widow of the patron
saint of comprehensive schools.

Imagine my surprise, Prescott must have explained to Blair, when my words
appeared in the form of an interview in The Sunday Telegraph. Tell you what, he
probably said, I'll do a bit of backtracking. So he put out a statement saying
the interview should not 'be taken as fundamental opposition' to the White Paper
and it was 'authoritatively stated' that Prescott had not 'finally declared war'
on Blair.

Both Prescott and Brown are making fools of themselves. Not only are they wrong
" people can take different views about that " but they are being irresponsible
and counter-productive. Presumably, they are trying to put pressure on Blair to
stand down earlier than he otherwise would. Just as Prescott tried
unsuccessfully to hold Blair to his intention to stand down before the election
by muttering that the tectonic 'plates appear to be moving'. Prescott came as
close as he dared then to saying that he thought it was in the Labour Party's
interest to have Brown take over. It didn't work then and it won't work now.
Blair has already made it clear in private that attempts to force him out will
only encourage him to stay on.

Yesterday, the Prime Minister tried to put on a 'fighting' performance, although
his heart hardly seemed in it. As he said, he has always had to see off
challenges from both left and right " he is stuck in the middle. He seemed
distracted, but that may be because he recognised that the threat came not from
the journalists in front of him but from his senior supposed colleagues. The
worst of it is that Brown and Prescott trying to push him out will only poison
Brown's inheritance. The more undisciplined and disunited Labour's titans are,
the happier and shinier David Cameron will seem.

j.rentoul@independent.co.uk

The writer is chief political commentator for 'The Independent on Sunday'

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Blair EU giveaway will cost taxpayer double

BYLINE: Toby Helm, David Rennie and George Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 708 words


TENSIONS between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown intensified last night as the
Treasury disclosed that within five years the deal to surrender part of the EU
rebate would cost the taxpayer almost double what the Prime Minister claimed.

Sources close to Mr Brown also refused to endorse Mr Blair's decision to forgo
some of the money-back arrangement negotiated by Margaret Thatcher 21 years ago.

The Treasury said that by 2010-11 the agreement struck by EU leaders last
weekend would be costing taxpayers pounds 1.9 billion a year.

Until now, Government officials have argued that the deal would mean forgoing
pounds 1 billion annually from that part of the rebate that would have applied
to spending on eastern European nations - an average figure over the seven years
from 2007 to 2013.

However, the pounds 1.9 billion figure payable from 2010 is likely to be locked
in as a minimum annual deduction from the rebate when a new budget is negotiated
for the period after 2013.

Last night, after Mr Blair had defended the agreement during a heated two-hour
interrogation by Euro MPs at the European Parliament in Brussels, the
Conservatives seized on the Treasury's calculations.

George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, said that Mr Brown had exposed what No 10
had been trying to hide.

"The cost is rising to almost pounds 2 billion a year, more than three times the
annual increase in Britain's international development budget,'' he said. "At a
time when Gordon Brown is already struggling to balance the books, the Prime
Minister has just landed another huge bill on his desk.''

A source close to Mr Brown said when asked whether the Chancellor supported the
overall EU budget agreement struck by Mr Blair in the early hours of Saturday:
"We are not giving a response.''

At No 10 Mr Brown's move was seen as an attempt to rile Mr Blair when he is
under mounting pressure from the Labour Party over education reforms and plans
for a partial ban on smoking.

It is understood that the Chancellor has been privately critical of Mr Blair for
failing to extract from France a firmer commitment to reform EU spending before
giving up part of the rebate.

Mr Brown is also concerned that the pounds 1.9 billion loss of rebate will have
a serious impact on calculations for the Treasury's next spending round from
2008-2009 to 2010-2011 when he hopes to be prime minister.

Mr Blair insists that the deal he negotiated as EU president is a "fair'' one in
which Britain will pay its rightful share to help advance the economies of eight
former communist nations that joined the EU last year.

His frustration at criticism of his leadership at home and in Europe boiled over
yesterday in front of Euro MPs as he described his six months as EU president as
"a fairly thankless task''.

Raising his voice in response to Tory MEPs and members of the UK Independence
Party who had accused him of surrender over the budget deal, he said: "This is
the year 2005, not 1945. We are not fighting each other any more.''

Roger Helmer, a British Conservative, accused him of giving away pounds 1
billion a year from the rebate with only a vague promise of a "review clause''
on farm subsidies.

"You will be remembered as the man who squandered Margaret Thatcher's legacy,''
he told him.

Leaders of the three largest factions in the parliament warned Mr Blair that
they would use their powers to unpick his budget deal when it came up for
approval early next year.

They demanded more money for cherished pro-European projects, especially those
relating to citizenship, and to a common foreign and security policy.

Mr Brown received a record pounds 379 billion in taxes, duties and other revenue
last year, HM Revenue & Customs figures showed yesterday.

The figures from the newly merged Inland Revenue and HM Customs & Excise,
revealed the extent to which his stealth taxes were raising Treasury revenues.

Net VAT receipts increased by pounds 3 billion to just over pounds 74 billion
and income tax receipts increased by pounds 9 billion to pounds 136 billion,
mainly from a growth in incomes.

Mr Osborne forecast further tax rises. He said that a report from the
International Monetary Fund showed that the public finances had deteriorated at
"a staggering rate'' and that tax increases were inevitable.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Blair loses cool as 'treachery' jibes hit home

BYLINE: David Rennie in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625 words


TONY Blair's frustration with critics at home and in Europe spilled into an
astonishing display of finger-jabbing anger yesterday during a gruelling,
two-hour session with the European Parliament.

Time and again, the Prime Minister allowed his exasperation to show. As
condemnation rained down from Left and Right on the European Union budget deal
he secured last weekend, he said winning the budget had been a "thankless''
task.

When asked to explain why Britons had become more hostile to the EU since he
took office eight years ago, he denounced the media for putting a "partial''
view of Europe.

Accused by a Conservative MEP of "treachery'' for giving up billions of pounds
from the budget rebate with no guarantee of reform, Mr Blair accused Right-wing
critics of thinking it was still the Second World War.

Gesturing at a line of small Union flags on the desks of UK Independence Party
members, Mr Blair snapped: "You sit there with our country's flag but you do not
represent our country's interests.''

From the start of the early-morning session in Brussels, a tired and irritable
Mr Blair could not conceal his hostility towards the media. As photographers and
cameramen crowded below the parliamentary dais to record his arrival, Mr Blair,
apparently unaware that microphones were on, complained: "Look at this. It's
just so ridiculous, the way the media do this.''

At several points he sounded weary or talked of his political career in the past
tense.

Asked to rule out European taxes, raised centrally in Brussels, he would say
only that Britain had never been in favour of the idea. "If you'll forgive me,
I've got enough on my plate without arguing for Europe-wide taxes,'' he said.

Asked what Britain's presidency of the EU had done to bring peace to various
African nations, Mr Blair cracked an exasperated joke. "Look, there are many,
many problems in the world. I am doing my best. Give me a break here.''

The visit to Brussels was almost certainly Mr Blair's last set-piece appearance
on the European stage. Britain has held the rotating presidency of the EU twice
during his premiership.

Britain will give up the post at the end of this month and will not hold it
again until 2017.

Mr Blair had to endure hearing his presidency dismissed as all spin and no
substance and compared to the Titanic. A German MEP said he was like a
brilliant, but crooked, second-hand car salesman.

Graham Watson, the leader of the Liberal Democrat group in the parliament, told
Mr Blair that he had failed to tackle the "poisonous obsession'' with Europe
shown by the British media. Mr Blair hit back, telling Mr Watson that he was
tired of members of the "commentator classes'' pretending to be on his side over
Europe, then criticising him when he showed "a little realism'' and defended
national interests.

"[Graham Watson] said that I had a hard time with the British media - well,
thanks for helping,'' the Prime Minister said.

"The trouble about the commentating classes is that when they say they are on
your side with a pro-European case, they prefer to make the criticisms than
actually get out there and take on the 'sceptic media themselves.''

Turning on Ukip MEPs, Mr Blair said: "Wanting Britain out of Europe in the early
21st century, for heaven's sake!

"The largest political union and economic union in the world and we should get
out of it? It's absurd.''

Mr Blair said Europe's interests were Britain's interests. "When I became Prime
Minister we had just had the beef war. Remember the beef war? Britain isolated
with no friends in Europe.

"In the last few years, in every major EU issue, we did not always agree with
our partners but we have been in the debate and I believe that on reform the
debate is going our way.''

david.rennie@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Bill for Blair's big giveaway could double

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN; JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED 3RD 04; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1006 words


GORDON Brown triggered a row with Downing Street last night by revealing the
full cost of Tony Blair's gamble on the EU rebate.

He released figures that confirmed the Prime Minister has landed the Treasury
with an annual bill that is set to climb to Pounds 2billion a year double the
initial projections.

On Saturday Mr Blair clinched an EU budget deal that his officials said would
cost Britain Pounds 7.5billion in giveaways over seven years an average of
Pounds 1billion a year.

But a Treasury parliamentary answer issued last night confirmed the ultimate
cost to the taxpayer would be far higher at about Pounds 14billion and
permanent.

Under the complex formula agreed by Mr Blair, he has locked Mr Brown into
surrendering Pounds 2billion a year from the rebate in every future EU budget.

Mr Brown is known to be infuriated by the Prime Minister's willingness to give
away huge amounts of money without getting anything in return.

On Monday Mr Blair was challenged in the Commons by Labour Treasury Select
Committee chairman John McFall about the cost implications of the deal.

The Prime Minister ducked the questions by telling him it would mean 'a maximum
cost' of Pounds 7.5billion for the next budget period from 2007 to 2013.

Mr McFall submitted his question again yesterday in writing to the Treasury, in
what Downing Street believes was a deliberately engineered stunt to allow Mr
Brown to make the information public.

The decision to release the figures was seen by Number 10 last night as a
deliberately provocative act. Mr Blair had pledged to give ground on the rebate
which gives Britain back about Pounds 3.5billion a year on its contributions to
the EU only if France agreed to scrap the Common Agricultural Policy.

But to the delight of Jacques Chirac, the Prime Minister agreed to slash what
Britain gets from the rebate in exchange for only a vague promise to review farm
subsidies.

Mr Chirac opened the negotiations by demanding that Britain unilaterally give up
Pounds 10.5billion from the rebate over seven years, while leaving the CAP
intact.

French officials had expected Mr Blair to give way on about Pounds 7.5billion
the figure published in the early hours of Saturday when the negotiations
concluded. The deal, orchestrated by Mr Blair and Jack Straw, left the
Chancellor facing a financial headache if, as expected, he succeeds Mr Blair.

For the next EU budget, from 2007 to 2013, Mr Blair won agreement to defer the
cut to the rebate to the final years of what is known as the EU's financial
perspective.

Mr Brown insisted on postponing implementation in order to avoid landing him
with extra costs during the next Treasury spending review, which runs from 2008
to 2011 and covers the next general election.

As a result, most of the money will be paid out between 2011 and 2013, at a rate
of about Pounds 1.9billion a year. But under the rules governing budget
negotiations, the amount Britain gives up on the rebate in that final year will
set the annual giveaway for every year of the following budget. So from 2014 to
2021, Britain will surrender nearly Pounds 14billion.

Last night Shadow Chancellor George Osborne seized on the revelation, saying:
'Now the true cost to taxpayers of the Prime Minister's-surrender of the rebate
has become clear. The cost is rising to almost Pounds 2billion per year. At a
time when Gordon Brown is already struggling to balance the books, the Prime
Minister has just landed another huge bill on his desk.' Only half the EU's
citizens think membership is good for their own country, according to the latest
Eurobarometer poll of nearly 30,000 voters in the 25 member nations.

While the average approval figure was 50 per cent, only 34 per cent of Britons
thought membership was good for the UK.

Comment Page 12

. . . and in Brussels, his anger finally boils over TONY BLAIR'S frustration
over the EU budget erupted in spectacular fashion yesterday.

In rowdy scenes in Brussels, the Prime Minister attacked his Eurosceptic critics
after being savaged over his rebate surrender. He accused Tory and UK
Independence Euro MPs of being stuck in a Second World War mentality.

The strain of fraught negotiations on EU financing and his stewardship of the EU
presidency had clearly taken its toll. His hair seemed noticeably greyer than in
recent appearances.

Mr Blair saw red after attacks from Tory Roger Helmer and UK Independence Party
MEP Nigel Farage.

Mr Farage said the Premier had been 'outclassed and outflanked' by French
president Jacques Chirac, who had successfully insisted that the lucrative farm
subsidies, of which France is the main beneficiary, be ring-fenced for 2007-13.

He told Mr Blair: 'This is game, set and match to President Chirac. No
cheese-eating surrender monkey, he.

'Unlike you, he stands up for the French national interest, not some bizarre
notion of Europe.

And he has outclassed and outplayed you at every turn.

'The reality is that Britain is isolated, alienated and completely alone in
Europe.' Mr Helmer, Tory MEP for the East Midlands, attacked the sacrifice of
Pounds 7.5billion of the British rebate won 21 years ago by Margaret Thatcher.

He said: 'This is treachery, treachery, Prime Minister.You are giving away a
huge sum of money simply as a fig leaf for your failure.

'You boasted that the British rebate was not on the table, period. Then you did
put it on the table and you are now selling it in salami slices, with nothing in
return but fool's gold and vacuous promises.

'Prime Minister, we hear that you are interested in your legacy well, you will
be remembered as the man who squandered Margaret Thatcher's legacy.' The
stinging remarks clearly struck a raw nerve. Mr Blair rose out of his seat and
waved his finger-at the MEPs, accusing them of being 'reactionaries'. To roars
of applause from socialist MEPs, he said: 'You sit there with our country's
flag, but you do not represent our country's interests.

'This is the year 2005, not 1945.

We are not fighting each other any more. These are our partners, our colleagues
and our future lies in Europe.'

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FINGER WAGGING: MR BLAIR ROUNDS ON HIS CRITICS YESTERDAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Politics: 'This is 2005 not 1945' - Blair attacks Ukip over budget deal

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 407 words


Tony Blair denounced "reactionary" British eurosceptics for living in the era of
Winston Churchill yesterday, as he mounted a passionate defence of the UK's
membership of the EU.

Enraged by a United Kingdom Independence party MEP, who attacked him for
building "new sewers in Budapest", the prime minister let rip during a speech to
the European parliament. "You sit there with our country's flag - but you do not
represent our country's interests," he told Ukip's Nigel Farage, who had
criticised a £183bn EU package for eastern Europe. "This is the year 2005, not
1945. We are not fighting each other any more."

To loud cheers, Mr Blair pointed to MEPs from 25 countries who had crowded in to
a large committee room to hear his last address as EU president. "These are our
partners, our colleagues, and our future lies in Europe. And when you and your
colleagues say, 'what do we get for what we contribute to enlargement', we get a
Europe that is unified after years of dictatorships in the east, and we get
economic development, and we get a budget which puts for once and for all an end
to the need for the rebate. That's what we get, if we have the vision to seize
it."

Mr Blair's assault came as he defended the euros 862bn (£586bn) EU budget
brokered by Britain at last week's summit in Brussels, which sees Britain give
up £7bn of its rebate during the 2007-13 period.

There had been speculation that Gordon Brown was unhappy with the deal, but
yesterday details emerged of how one of the Treasury's most senior officials was
at the heart of the talks. John Cunliffe, the head of macroeconomic policy and
international finance, endorsed the deal negotiated between Mr Blair and Jacques
Chirac. "That is within my mandate," Mr Cunliffe told senior British officials
in Brussels mid-morning on Friday.

Mr Cunliffe, who frequently stands in for the chancellor at EU finance
ministers' meetings, spoke with such confidence because the Treasury devised the
system that will cut the rebate. Under the deal, non-farming spending in the new
member states will be progressively excluded from the rebate calculations.

No cuts will be made to the rebate until 2009, the likely year of the next
general election, handing the chancellor a generous windfall over the next four
years.

One British official said: "There is no way the Treasury can be upset with the
budget. They were involved at every stage and promoted the stepped phasing out
of the rebate."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Politics: Simon Hoggart's sketch: Silliness quotient rises in eventful
Westminster year

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 586 words


Christmas, and time for my annual political awards, keenly awaited around
Westminster. It's been an eventful year, with a considerable increase in
silliness, and some magnificent, grade-A, lead-lined blather. The awards in
full:

Most blathering blather: David Cameron, the new Tory leader, for "I have got a
sense of direction, and I'm going to take that sense of direction all over the
country."

Best speech: David Davis, in the Commons, after the 7/7 bombings. He was calm,
measured, catching the mood of the moment while reminding us of the need to
cling jealously to our civil liberties. Worst speech: David Davis, at the Tory
party conference, when he gave a talk so mind-numbingly dull, so little better
than adequate, that in half an hour he turned an overwhelming lead into a
humiliating defeat.

Best example of political judo, by using your opponent's slurs to improve your
position: David Cameron, who more or less admitted using cocaine before he
became an MP, and thus appeared to be in touch with today's exciting, innovative
and drug-infested young persons.

Jargon of the year: New Labour buzz words included "disaggregation of our
problems," "disincentivisation," and "tackling disengagement." Special jargon
award to Tony Blair for his Labour conference speech, which included the lines:
"there is a strip of granite running through my being"; "our nation will rise
with the patient courage of the change-makers"; and "locking horns with
modernity". Nobody could work out what any of those meant. Stupidest New Labour
decision (always a keenly fought award) goes to its conference organisers who,
in one day, threw out an 82-year-old party activist, a former refugee from the
Nazis, for heckling Jack Straw, and banned delegates from taking sweets into the
hall on the grounds that they could be used as missiles.

Best TV insult: Jonathan Dimbleby, after David Davis and Alastair Campbell
bickered for 10 minutes on the sofa, remarked: "You're like two old queens in a
china shop." Least scary scare goes to Sandra Gidley, the Liberal Democrat, who
in January warned the house of the serious dangers of binge drinking among old
age pensioners.

Greatest failure (1): Ed Matts, Tory candidate for Dorset South, found a picture
of himself supporting the right of an immigrant family to remain in the
constituency, doctored it, and used it to illustrate his opposition to
immigration. So, facing the smallest of all government majorities, 153, he
turned it into a Labour majority of 1,812. Greatest failure (2): Robert
Kilroy-Silk, having split from Ukip, founded his own party Veritas, which lost
its deposit in every constituency where it stood, including his. Now he has
split from himself, a serious medical condition.

Losses of the year: Ted Heath, the Incredible Sulk. Asked if, on hearing of Mrs
Thatcher's resignation, he had rung his office to say "Rejoice! Rejoice!",
replied "No, I said it three times."

Jim Callaghan, Mo Mowlam and Robin Cook, who was one of the few Labour pols to
get on with the Queen because he talked to her about racing.

Most absurd manifesto: Labour offered no fewer than 279 pledges, including "High
St chiropody check-ups, promote biomass, and car pool lanes for cars", as
opposed, presumably, pool lanes for King Kong.

Greatest parliamentary orator: Sir Peter Tapsell, whose questions are short,
curt and majestic.

Comeback of the year: Ian Paisley, 80 next year; the old Galapagos turtle, a
national joke for 40 years is now likely to be next prime minister of Northern
Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 21, 2005

Murder, they wrote

LENGTH: 1577 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's roundup of the best of the
day's papers.


MURDER, THEY WROTE

"Today's horror headlines in the tabloid papers," says the Guardian leader,
"will explain why it has taken 50 years to review the law on murder." In fact,
the tabloids (in the old sense) aren't really interested in the Law Commission's
recommendations to review charges and sentencing for murder and related
offences, although the Mail did splash with it yesterday. Indeed, the Mirror's
leader says "the basic idea is a good one".

The Sun and the Express find fault, but without too much conviction. In the
Express, murder is trumped by an anti-European rant and a picture of dancing
celebrities on page one, more EU-bashing on page two, and performing monkeys on
page three. The paper runs an argument found in many of the others: that a deal
was made in 1965 that the death penalty would be abolished, but that in return
murder would always carry a life sentence. It's nowhere clear who the parties to
this deal were: "we" - the hang-em-highers - are always on one side, but "they"
are a shadowy lot.

The Sun finds the proposals guilty by omission, in that they do not make special
provision for people who kill police officers; the report is a "charter for cop
killers".

The Telegraph's coverage, as happens not infrequently, is rich and
thought-provoking. A clear graphic shows how offences committed under the
present system map onto the new system. Killing "with an intention to do serious
harm" drops from first degree murder to second degree murder, where it joins a
range of offences currently informally bunched under "involuntary manslaughter",
while manslaughter itself occupies a much narrower remit focussing on gross
negligence. Underneath, Joshua Rozenberg explains that some lawyers believe the
whole system to be based on an error by Lord Coke, who was chief justice between
1606 and 1616.

It's almost surprising, then, to find that the Telegraph is quite firmly opposed
to the proposals. Its leader, citing the shadowy 1965 compact with "the people",
objects to any suggestion that murderers should not receive an automatic life
sentence, and further argues that the decision on whether to charge someone with
first or second degree murder would be taken by the Crown Prosecution Service,
which "does not enjoy high public confidence".

Deborah Orr in the Independent believes that the Law Commission has been
"hamstrung" by a perceived need not to abandon mandatory life sentences, and
that this robs the law of subtlety. "In trying to look hard, the politicians
have forced the law to be softer than it wants to be."

The Guardian - citing as an aside the astonishing figure that British prisons
are holding more lifers than the rest of the EU15 combined - gets behind the
report. The review process, says the paper's leader, will be long and drawn out,
but it has begun with "a report that is both logical and judicious".

* Three tiers for reform

* Telegraph: Jury out over murder

* Telegraph: Murder without degree

* Mirror: Murder: end of life sentences

JUDGE DECLARES INTELLIGENT DESIGN 'INANE'

Speaking of logical and judicious, the Independent says "the campaign to try to
force schools in the United States to teach an alternative to Darwinism has
suffered a severe set-back after a judge ruled that to do so was a violation of
the constitution".

The judge in Pennsylvania overruled a decision by Dover school board to insist
that biology lessons feature a mention of "intelligent design" - the theory that
some organisms are so complicated they suggest a guiding, probably divine, hand
in their evolution. He said the policy represented "breathtaking inanity".

* Independent: Teaching of 'intelligent design' is outlawed

BLAIR ADMONISHES UKIP MEPS

The Independent and the Telegraph witnessed two very different displays from
Tony Blair addressing the European parliament yesterday. The Independent saw a
robust performance "sweeping aside" calls for higher EU budgets and "deriding
Eurosceptic critics".

In a "verbal assault", Mr Blair told Ukip MEPs: "You sit with our country's
flag, but you do not represent our interests. This is 2005, not 1945. We are not
fighting each other any more. They are our colleagues and partners and our
future lies in Europe."

The Telegraph's reporter was at a different event at the same time in the same
room. "An astonishing display of finger-jabbing anger ..... Time and again, the
prime minister allowed his exasperation to show. As condemnation rained down
from left and right ... "

* Independent: Defiant Blair takes on critics of his EU budget deal

* Telegraph: Blair loses his cool

PENSIONS: GOING DOWNHILL

The Mail, having got murder out of its system yesterday, is free to move on to
the more depressing subject of pensions. It reports Rentokil's decision to close
its final salary scheme. This is the first such move by a FTSE 100 company,
although many have barred new employees from joining the schemes.

"Is your pension next for the axe?" asks the Mail, kicking off an orgy of gloom
one would struggle to parody. The report lists the other companies - which YOU
may work for - who are probably going the same way, while Martin Vander Weyer
explains "why things can only get worse".

The gloom is then interrupted for a few pages by the usual diet of "killer bugs"
and "cocktails of food additives", before resuming with a leader blaming HM
government for the whole sorry mess. "In this bleak midwinter, the news from
Rentokil is an augury of worse to come." So deep is the dismay on the op-ed page
that a really rather chipper piece by John Mortimer about the true nature of
Christmas (nipping into your girlfriend's bed while staying at her parents'
house, that sort of thing) gets the unwelcoming headline: "Hurrah for the
Scrooge in all of us!"

* Rentokil scraps final pensions

C DIFFICILE KILLS 934

The "killer bug" story referred to above is also, it should be said, on page one
of the Guardian, which reports that 934 people died last year from the effects
of the Clostridium difficile bacterium, after hospitals failed to isolate
patients "struck by the virulent bug".

* Hospitals fail to comtrol killer bug

IRAQ 'DISINTEGRATING'

The Independent gets a jump - albeit a slightly shaky one - on the other papers
by reporting preliminary results of the Iraqi elections. In a necessarily vague,
and strongly angled, piece, the paper says the results show that "Iraq is
disintegrating", as the populace votes in ethnic and religious blocs: Shias in
the south, Sunnis in the centre and Kurds in the north.

* Independent: Iraq's election results: a divided nation

NEW YORKERS THRIVE IN ADVERSITY

It's marvellous how New York always manages to look glamorous in adversity. A
strike by the city's public transport workers, says the Herald Tribune, threw "a
frigid city ... into pandemonium, although it was often cheerful".

Pictures in the IHT and elsewhere show muffled New Yorkers queueing for yellow
cabs, walking across Brooklyn bridge (Guardian page 17 for a glorious shot) and
strolling down the middle of a traffic-free Fifth Avenue. Gary Younge in the
Guardian reports that tempers were high, and that the union responsible has been
fined USD1m a day for the strike, but the IHT is resolutely upbeat. A "festive"
mood saw strangers sharing cars to comply with a ruling that no vehicle would be
allowed into a downtown area without four people in it. The crosshead over that
section of the report is priceless: "Throngs carpool."

* IHT: New York burdened by transport strike

GOOGLE BUYS STAKE IN AOL

After the collapse of the off-licence chain Unwins yesterday, the Telegraph
reports that the business's owner, a private equity firm, intends to sue - inter
alia - its auditors, over a "GBP13.2m black hole" in Unwins' accounts.

On the same page, the paper says Google has payed USD1bn for a 5% stake in AOL.
The Telegraph says the deal will include a new online video service featuring
Time Warner content, and the integration of Google and AOL's "instant messaging
offerings".

* 1,800 jobs go as Unwins chain is shut

BRUCIE DISAPPOINTS

The Telegraph and Sun agree that Man United enjoyed a "stroll in the park" to
beat Birmingham 1 - 3 in the Carling Cup last night. Louis Saha scored two, and
Park Ji Sung one - hence the headlines. According to the Sun, the Birmingham
manager, Steve Bruce, angered his own fans by obliging United followers who had
called out: "Brucie, Brucie, give us a wave".

Will this lead to one of the sporting bust-ups of the year? If only we had a
handy guide to the others, for comparison's sake. But wait ... here's one, in
the Guardian's sport supplement, complete with bulldog ratings for the severity
of the ding-dong. Keane and Ferguson rate five snarling mugs, Mourinho and
Wenger only four.

* Top 10 bust-ups

* Sun: Saha is so bad for Bruce

P-P-PENGUIN STILL NOT P-P-PICKED UP

If your life is lacking p-p-pathos today, p-p-pick up the Times, in which there
are several pictures (no, I'm not going to do it all the way through) of the
pining penguin parents whose progeny was pilfered from an Isle of Wight zoo this
week. Mother and father are very sad. A doctor writes: "The behaviour of the
parents indicates that they are experiencing as much emotional trauma and grief
as a penguin is capable of feeling."

* Times: Anguish of the empty nesters

COMING UP ON GUARDIAN UNLIMITED TODAY

Sir Elton John and his partner David Furnish are among nearly 700 gay couples
expected to take part in civil partnership ceremonies in England and Wales.

Tony Blair holds his monthly press conference.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               20 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

'This is 2005, not 1945': Defiant Blair takes on critics of his EU budget deal

BYLINE: By Stephen Castle in Brussels and Andrew Grice

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 745 words


Tony Blair signed off Britain's six-month EU presidency by sweeping aside
demands from pro-European MEPs for higher European spending, and derided
Eurosceptic critics with the words: 'This is 2005, not 1945'.

Three days after striking a deal on a budget for the years 2007-13, Mr Blair
came under fire from pro- and anti-Europeans at the European Parliament, where
senior MEPs hope to increase the spending totals agreed by a further EUR2.5bn
(pounds 1.7bn).

In a rowdy session, Mr Blair launched a verbal assault on UK Independence Party
MEPs, accusing them of being stuck in the era of the Second World War.

'You sit with our country's flag. You do not represent our country's interests,'
Mr Blair said to a group of UKIP MEPs sitting behind Union flags. 'This is the
year 2005, not 1945. We are not fighting each other any more. They are our
colleagues and partners and our future lies in Europe.'.

The UKIP group leader, Nigel Farage, said Mr Blair was 'outplayed and
outclassed' by France's president, Jacques Chirac in budget negotiations,
arguing he had won 'game, set and match'. Mr Blair described his UKIP critics as
'reactionaries|'.

The UK presidency of the EU ends on 31 December, and Britain has scored several
successes apart from clinching the budget deal, including the opening of EU
membership talks with Turkey and Croatia, an anti-terror deal on data retention
and reform of the EU's sugar market.

But Mr Blair's appearance yesterday coincided with evidence that he had failed
to convince British voters of the value of EU membership. A Eurobarometer survey
showed that only one-third of voters " 34 per cent " believe the UK had
benefited from membership, a drop of 2 per cent.

Under the hard-fought deal on EU financing, struck in the early hours of
Saturday morning, Mr Blair agreed to forgo EUR10.5bn from the value of the UK
rebate over seven years to help fund enlargement. EU leaders agreed to a budget
worth EUR862.3bn (pounds 584.4bn) between 2007-13.

MEPs have the power to block the EU's budget and, for the current spending
plans, forced member states to increase their total spending by EUR2bn.

Yesterday the Austrian socialist, Hannes Swoboda, described the deal brokered by
Mr Blair as 'unacceptable to us in its present form'. He added: 'There is no
agriculture reform here. On research and development, this falls far short of
what we need to turn Europe into a properly competitive economy.' Hand Gert
Pzttering, leader of the dominant centre-right grouping in the Parliament, said
the deal would now enter 'a negotiation phase' with MEPs.

Senior MEPs have already discussed their tactics and are to push for an increase
of EUR2.5bn to fund programmes on culture and competitiveness, and for more
flexibility to shift resources between spending areas. In addition, MEPs will
campaign for a role in a review of all EU spending to be conducted by the
European Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, in 2008.

Mr Blair rejected calls for more EU spending saying that, until the budget
structure was reformed, his deal 'is the best we can achieve'. The Chancellor,
Gordon Brown, has failed to endorse the deal publicly. Although five Treasury
officials were part of the British negotiating team in Brussels, Mr Blair did
not discuss the proposed agreement directly with Mr Brown.

The Treasury has not commented on the EU budget deal, which will force it to
find at least EUR10.5bn over seven years that has not been included in the
Government's spending plans.

A Treasury source said yesterday: 'Downing Street and the Foreign Office were in
the lead for the Government in the negotiations. They are the ones who comment
on the deal. We are not offering an alternative Treasury or Gordon Brown view.'

The source denied Mr Brown was distancing himself from the deal. 'We are part of
the Government. It is a government deal.'

William Hague, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: 'Tony Blair's presidency has
ended as it began six months ago with a lively speech to the European
Parliament: the trouble is so little happened in between.

'Six months after he called for a new approach in Europe there is little sign of
it. Tony Blair's presidency will be remembered as the time Britain gave up
pounds 7bn without securing anything in return.'

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said: 'Mr Blair finalised a budget
from a position of weakness, a deal which will have to be unpicked before too
long. This is a short- term fix, not a long-term solution.'

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

KEVIN MAGUIRE: PM HITS BARMY EU ARMY FOR SIX

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words


T ONY Blair showed England's cricketers how to do it yesterday, by whacking his
opponents round the park.

Our batsmen might be struggling in Pakistan but not the Premier in Brussels.

He cut and hooked the bouncers all over the place. He showed up his opponents'
deliveries for what they were: stupid and an embarrassment to Britain.

With Tory nutters and blinkered Little Englander Ukip fanatics advocating an
exit from the European Union, the leader barely needed to put on his pads.

The put-down "this is the year 2005, not 1945" was vintage Blair as he reminded
this barmy army that Europe is a partnership now, not a war.

And Ukip madman-in-chief Nigel Farage will be long haunted by the taunt he might
sit with our country's flag but he doesn't represent our country's interest.

Great stuff when the Premier should've been back in the pavilion over a pounds
7billion giveaway to secure a dodgy EU budget deal.

Blair's desperation to reach agreement at such a high price has rekindled
speculation at Westminster that he is keeping open the door to the top European
job - the presidency of the European Commission - when he quits No 10.

We know from last week's interview with the Daily Mirror that he won't retire to
the red benches of the House of Lords.

Of course, well-paid directorships and the big dollars of the US lecture circuit
would prove more rewarding.

But you never know with Blair, who remains a touch enigmatic.

The PM heads into 2006 with polls putting the Tories ahead and storm clouds
gathering over health, education, benefits, smoking and much more.

But although Tory Boy David "Lord Charlie" Cameron's proved he can deliver
rehearsed lines, he's unable to think fast on his feet.

His lacklustre attack on Blair's budget deal was less effective than his
performance at last week's Prime Minister's Questions, which in turn was worse
than his over-hyped debut.

Cameron famously compared himself to Coca-Cola, ludicrously describing himself
as the Real Thing. But I'm beginning to wonder if "Coke" Cameron is really the
Pepsi of politics - a second ranker.

Under the Pepsi test, people like the first sip then go cold.

Coca-Cola made the error of changing its formula when Pepsi relaunched in the
mid-90s, regaining its dominance by launching Classic Coke.

Which brings us to Britain's most successful chancellor and Premier-in-waiting
under Blair.

You'll hear more about Gordon Brown next year. A lot more.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BAT FOR GOOD: Blair smashes Dave

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 2 Star Edition

BLAIR WANTS TO STAY UNTIL 2008;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 199 words


A DEFIANT Tony Blair plans to stay in No 10 until at least 2008, senior allies
insist.

The rise of David Cameron has "reinvigorated" him for one more major political
fight, they claim. And the Prime Minister is determined to leave office on a
high. "Opinion has spring 2008 as the time to go," said a source.

Mr Blair's stand comes as an ICM poll has the Tories on 37 per cent, Labour on
36 and Lib Dems on 21, the first Tory lead in five years.

The ally added: "People underestimate the PM. He'll not quit when it gets
difficult."

Gordon Brown backers also saw 2008 as the time to hand over.

They want the gloss to wear off Tory chief Cameron and believe a new Labour
leader then will have most impact. Ex minister Alan Milburn also denied Mr Blair
would go next year.

The pledges come after Mr Blair crushed opponents of his EU budget deal at the
European Parliament.

Furiously pointing at UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage and Tory Roger
Helmer, who attacked the loss of some UK rebate, Mr Blair said: "You sit there
with our flag - but you do not represent our country's interests."

The PM said aiding EU enlargement would lead to growth and a budget "which puts
an end to the need for the rebate."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

BLAIR WANTS TO STAY UNTIL 2008

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 230 words


A DEFIANT Tony Blair plans to stay in No 10 until at least 2008, senior allies
insist.

The rise of David Cameron has "reinvigorated" him for one more major political
fight, they claim. And the PM is determined to leave office on a high. "Opinion
has coalesced around spring 2008 as the time to go," said a source.

Mr Blair's stand comes as an ICM poll puts the Tories on 37 per cent, Labour on
36 and the Lib Dems on 21 - the first Tory lead in five years.

But the senior ally said: "People underestimate the PM. He will not quit when
things get difficult."

Gordon Brown backers also saw 2008 as the right time to hand over.

They want the gloss of new Tory chief Cameron to wear off and believe a new
Labour leader a year before a likely election will have most impact.

Ex minister Alan Milburn also denied Mr Blair would go next year, saying: "He is
best placed to see off Cameron."

The pledges come after Mr Blair spectacularly crushed opponents of his EU budget
deal at the European Parliament.

Furiously pointing at UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage and Tory Roger
Helmer, who attacked the loss of some of the British rebate, Mr Blair said: "You
sit there with our country's flag - but you do not represent our country's
interests."

The PM said that contributing to enlargement would lead to growth and a budget
"which puts, for once and for all, an end to the need for the rebate."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Scots Edition

BLAIR WANTS TO STAY UNTIL 2008;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 231 words


A DEFIANT Tony Blair plans to stay in No 10 until at least 2008, senior allies
insist.

The rise of David Cameron has "reinvigorated" him for one more major political
fight, they claim. And the PM is determined to leave

office on a high. "Opinion has coalesced around spring 2008 as the time to go,"
said a source.

His stand comes as an ICM poll puts the Tories on 37 per cent, Labour on 36 and
the Lib Dems on 21 - the first time in five years the Tories have been ahead.

But the senior ally said: "People underestimate the PM. He will not quit when
things get difficult." Gordon Brown backers also saw 2008 as the right time to
hand over.

They want the gloss of Tory chief Cameron to wear off and believe a new Labour
leader a year before a likely general election will have most impact.

Ex minister Alan Milburn also denied Mr Blair would go next year, saying: "Tony
Blair is best placed to see off Cameron."

The pledges come after Mr Blair's storming performance at the European
Parliament to crush opponents of his EU budget deal.

Furiously pointing at UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage and Tory Roger
Helmer, who attacked the loss of some of the British rebate, Mr Blair said: "You
sit there with our flag - but you do not represent our country's interests."

The PM said that contributing to enlargement would lead to growth and a budget
"which puts an end to the need for the rebate".

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 45 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               December 21, 2005

BLAIR'S RAGE AT EU SELLOUT JIBE

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 237 words


TONY Blair launched a furious tirade yesterday after he was accused of being
"outclassed and outflanked" by Jacques Chirac at last week's EU budget showdown.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage taunted: "Unlike you, Mr Chirac stood up for the French
national interest."

Then sacked Tory MEP Roger Helmer held up a copy of The Sun with the headline
"Surrender".

He said: "You will be remembered as the man who squandered Margaret Thatcher's
legacy."

Mr Blair -who was making his final speech in Brussels after six months as EU
president -hit back at the two eurosceptic Brits.

He said: "This is the year 2005 -not 1945. We're not fighting each other any
more. These are our partners, our colleagues and our future lies in Europe." The
PM's attack won cheers of support from other MEPs.

But his £593billion seven-year budget deal was widely savaged as "insufficient".
And he came under fresh pressure last night amid claims Chancellor Gordon Brown
deliberately slipped out new details of the rebate climbdown.

It was believed £1billion a year would be lost from the UK rebate, won in 1984
by Mrs Thatcher with a review of EU spending in 2008. But the Treasury confirmed
it will rise from £500million in 2007-08 to £1.9billion by 2012-13.

Shadow Chancellor George Osborne said: "The true cost to taxpayers of the Prime
Minister's surrender has now become clear."

£1million for EU mugs -Page Six


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               26 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          December 21, 2005, Wednesday

Blair deflects EU fire with attack on 'reactionaries'

BYLINE: Rory Watson in Brussels and Philip Webster Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1004 words


TONY BLAIR brought down the curtain on Britain's European Union presidency with
a ferocious attack on Eurosceptic "reactionaries" who, he said, were trapped in
the mentality of the Second World War.

In an arm-waving attack in the European Parliament on members of the UK
Independence Party, Mr Blair delighted German and French MEPs when he declared:
"This is 2005, not 1945. We are not fighting each other any more."

Visibly annoyed, he went on: "You sit there with our country's flag -but you do
not represent our country's interests. These are our partners and colleagues."

Mr Blair's choice of target -he included the suspended Tory MEP Roger Helmer in
his criticism -helped him to deflect assaults from all sides on the budget deal
he negotiated in Brussels last Friday night.

Most of the complaints directed at Mr Blair were from MEPs who felt that the
budget was too small. But he appeared enraged by claims from UKIP, whose members
sat with small Union Flags, that he had surrendered the British rebate for
nothing.

Earlier Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader in the European Parliament, complained
that Mr Blair had been outclassed by President Chirac of France and had been
forced to give away £ 7 billion without receiving anything in return.

He was roundly booed when he asked: "Why should our money go to new sewers in
Budapest and a new underground in Warsaw when public services in London are
crumbling?" Mr Farage, whose party wants Britain to quit the EU, said
negotiations had been "game, set and match to President Chirac", adding that Mr
Blair had "been outclassed and outplayed at every turn".

"We are isolated and alone in the European Union. We are completely alone," said
Mr Farage, whose party got 16.1 per cent of the vote in the last European
Parliament elections.

Last night Downing Street denied any new rift betwen Gordon Brown and Tony Blair
over the budget deal.

Some Blairite MPs had suggested that Mr Brown, in tabling a Commons written
answer setting out the full costs of Britain giving up part of the rebate, was
deliberately highlighting the additional cost in later years. The seven-year
deal is "back loaded" so that Britain is giving up £ 2 million at the end of the
period. But Downing Street said that the Treasury had been aware of the deal and
was happy with the details.

During a two-hour meeting with MEPs, Blair was frequently applauded when he
admitted that the budget agreement was far from perfect, but was essential to
make enlargement a success and to channel investment and funding to the new
member states.

Now that governments had put behind them the divisive dispute over the scale of
the EU's finances between 2007 to 2013, Mr Blair said the road was clear to
prepare for a root-and-branch reform of the budget in three years' time.

This, he suggested, could help to strengthen public support for Europe.

"If we can get a budget that represents a modern Europe, I am sure we can get
more people to spend more money," he said, maintaining that there was public
support for the EU to be more active on the international stage and in tackling
terrorism, illegal migration and globalisation.

Even though EU leaders agreed an Euro 862 billion (£ 586 billion) EU financial
package in the early hours of Saturday morning, the deal must still be formally
endorsed by the European Parliament and the Commission.

MEPs made it clear that they will press Austria to increase this amount when it
takes over the EU presidency from Britain on January 1.

Silvio Berlusconi, the Prime Minister of Italy, sent his Swedish counterpart,
Goran Persson, 24 bottles of Italian cabernet sauvignon yesterday, saying it was
to help him recover from having to drink English and Welsh wine at a European
Union summit hosted by Tony Blair in Brussels last week.

VERDICT BY MEPs

THERE is evident relief in Downing Street at the end of Britain's presidency of
the EU, and not much regret in Brussels (Rory Watson writes).

The Government started in June with a clarion call for reform, but delivered a
low-key presidency. It broke the budget deadlock, but agricultural reform, a
British priority, will have to wait at least five years and more likely double
that. The Government developed an especially close working relationship with the
European Parliament. Mr Blair put in more appearances -four -than any other
leader and there were almost 200 ministerial meetings. But what do MEPs make of
his presidency?

Alex Stubb, Finland, Centre Right: 9/10

"It's been a bloody brilliant presidency, one of the best by a big country. Two
major pluses have been Turkey and the budget, while a minus has been failure to
follow up the constitution."

Dariusz Rosati, Poland, Socialist: 4/10

"There is an overwhelming feeling of disappointment. If there had not been high
hopes at the beginning, reactions might have been different."

Jas Gawronski, Italy, Centre Right: 7/10

"It was easier for Britain to be successful as they had a Prime Minister like
Tony Blair who is very capable and charming, if not always convincing. To give
up something for something else, as he did, was very remarkable and
statesmanlike."

Hannes Swoboda, Austria, Socialist: 6/10

"If governments really implement a reform process in two to three years' time,
then, with hindsight, it will have been a successful presidency."

Elmar Brock, Germany, Centre Right: 4/10

"The British presidency has done its duty. We now have a budget, but it has not
made a major impact on the EU's development."

Jo Leinen, Germany, Socialist: 6/10

"It was not a failure, nor a splendid success. The deal on the budget reflects
more stagnation in Europe than a real vision for the continent."

Dirk Sterckx, Belgium, Liberal: 6/10

"This has been more a success of style than result. The UK is a good negotiator
and good administrator. But I will vote against the budget unless it is
improved."

Monica Frassoni. Italy, Green: 4/10

"This was not a successful presidency. It did nothing on things we asked for
such as better regulation and Cyprus and very little on the environment and
climate change."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          December 21, 2005, Wednesday

Modest progress but always on back foot

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 447 words


BRITAIN remains the perpetual awkward partner in the European Union, forever
fighting defensive battles. By this modest standard, Tony Blair has achieved
some important tactical gains during Britain's six-month presidency of the EU,
while failing to resolve the underlying strategic dilemmas.

An EU presidency is a largely bureaucratic exercise, with no meaning to most
people. But, given that the presidency was preceded by the earthquakes of the
defeat of the EU constitution in France and the Netherlands, Britain's record is
not bad.

Accession talks with Turkey and Croatia have begun, despite French and Austrian
doubts. There is a long way to go in view of Turkish ambiguities over freedom of
speech. But including Turkey is a significant British objective.

The budget deal covering 2007-13 is a messy, inglorious compromise, necessary to
adjust to the arrival of the ten new entrants. The spending plans are more
modest than the Commission's original proposals. They keep part of the British
rebate related to the CAP but do not address the basic contradictions in the
budget.

There was never going to be a big reform of the CAP, which reopened the October
2002 agreement.

By agreeing to this, Mr Blair had already weakened his bargaining position. So
the budget deal was bound to be unsatisfactory. But it is a price worth paying
to help the poorer countries.

There has been limited progress in taking forward the services directive
allowing cross-border activity in the EU. In addition, agreement has been
reached on the REACH regulation on chemicals and on the data retention directive
to assist in tackling terrorism.

On a wider view, the achievements look more modest. In late June Mr Blair gave a
widely praised speech urging greater reform of the EU to meet global challenges.

But, as a recent Chatham House report noted, Britain failed to capitalise on the
opportunity with a detailed plan. This is a familiar fault: a strong speech, but
no consistent follow-up.

Mr Blair raised expectations unrealistically, in view of French hostility to
further liberalisation and political uncertainty in Germany for most of the
presidency.

But to talk of failure, surrender and betrayal is nonsense. That is the language
of those who see EU membership in crude us versus them terms. As Mr Blair
rightly said in response to the europhobe outbursts yesterday of Nigel Farage,
of the UK Independence Party, and Roger Helmer, an independent Tory: "This is
the year 2005, not 1945. We are not fighting each other any more."

But British politics remains heavily sceptical. Mr Blair has failed to reconcile
voters to the inevitable compromises and costs of being part of a joint effort
of 25 nations.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

LETTER: Why Tories should leave the EPP

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE MEP

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 244 words


Sir: The current row between David Cameron and British Conservative MEPs over
continued membership of the federalist EPP Group in the European Parliament
overlooks an important issue: money.

In 2004 the Conservative MEPs negotiated a membership deal where almost half of
their information budget is given to the federalists.

This money has been used to campaign for the introduction of the euro and the EU
constitution; actions at odds with grassroots Tory opinion, and apparently the
new leader of the party.

These amounts are not inconsequential; in the current parliamentary term the 27
Conservative Members will hand over pounds 2m from their information budgets to
campaign for the EU superstate. If, as he claims, David Cameron really wants to
be 'consistent' he should leave the EPP before the end of the year, to halt a
further EUR700,000 being transferred to causes his party claims it opposes.

There are many better deals on offer. For example, Mr Cameron would be welcome
to talk to our own Independence/Democracy Group, which takes less than a fifth
of its members' money and campaigns against the EU constitution. While we can
offer no guarantees, Mr Cameron is welcome to apply. However, as a member of
Whites, he will of course appreciate strict entry criteria, and the danger of
blackballing.

We would, of course, welcome genuine Eurosceptics to our ranks.

NIGEL FARAGE MEP

CO-LEADER, INDEPENDENCE/DEMOCRACY GROUP IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, UKIP,
STRASBOURG

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

PM ROCKS CAMERON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 97 words


TONY Blair crushed David Cameron yesterday in their first Commons clash over
Europe.

Mr Blair warned the Tory leader was taking his party to the far right with its
split from a centre-right grouping of parties in Europe's Parliament.

It meant lining up with French racist Jean Marie Le Pen, Italian fascist
Allesandra Mussolini and, "worst of all", UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Mr Blair said: "Before you start criticising my leadership, start exercising
some of your own."

One political commentator said: "Cameron looks like a boy when he comes up
against Blair."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 45 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

BLAIR DEFENDS POUNDS 1BN EU CASH CLIMBDOWN

BYLINE: BY PAUL GILFEATHER POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 479 words


TONY Blair yesterday defended his "surrender" of pounds 1billion a year of
taxpayers' cash in a shake-up of Britain's EU budget rebate.

The Prime Minister insisted it was vital poorer Eastern states were given a
fairer share of Europe's cash pot.

He had hoped the huge gesture would force French President Jacques Chirac into a
compromise over the pounds 6billion his farmers get from the Common Agricultural
Policy. After months of wrangling all he got was a promise of a review of the
policy in 2008. The PM said: "I will get criticism from people who say I have
gone too far, people who say I have not gone far enough. But this is an
agreement that allows Europe to move forward. It allows us to demonstrate the
right solidarity with the new member states. It removes a major obstacle to
Europe moving forward in the right, modernising direction."

He had surrendered pounds 5.5bn ahead of the crunch Brussels summit then, during
intense talks, gave away another pounds 1.7bn of the rebate won by former
Premier Margaret Thatcher in 1984.

He said the cash would regenerate new EU states like Estonia, Romania and
Poland. But UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage called the deal "game, set
and match" to the French.

New shadow foreign secretary William Hague, echoing Sir Winston Churchill's
speech, said: "Seldom in the course of European negotiations has so much been
surrendered for so little.

"It is amazing how the Government have moved miles while the French have barely
yielded a centimetre."

Q&A

What it means to you

WHAT is the row over the European budget about? EU leaders have been fighting
over how much Europe should spend between 2007 and 2013. The battle was over
which countries get the most cash and who pays the most toward the pounds 584
billion bill.

HASN'T this been going on for years? Yes. Since Margaret Thatcher "handbagged"
the rest of Europe in 1984 to win a pounds 3.5 billion annual rebate for
Britain.

WHAT happened this time? Mr Blair agreed to a cut in the rebate of pounds 1
billion a year for seven years. In return, the French agreed to a review of
their lucrative farm subsidies in 2008.

DID we really have to give up so much cash? Most other EU countries insisted our
rebate was unfair. When Britain won the rebate in 1984 we were one of the
poorest EU countries. We are now one of the richest.

SHOULDN'T our taxes be spent in Britain? Mr Blair insists what is good for new
developing EU countries will be good for Britain eventually. As their economies
grow, they will be huge potential marketplaces for British businesses.

WHO won in the end? A score draw. The PM gets to bow out as EU president after
getting a deal on the budget with the promise of more reforms ahead. Other
nations are happy to have reduced our rebate.

What happens next? There will be more rows in three or four years - but Mr Blair
and Jacques Chirac probably won't be around.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CROSS BENCHER;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; 21

LENGTH: 96  words


TONY BLAIR will face a rough ride from MEPs when he addresses the European
Parliament on Tuesday in the wake of the EU budget negotiations and just days
before he hands on the EU presidency - yet UK Independence Party MEP Nigel
Farage plans to ask the PM to stay on. "The British presidency has been a total
failure and Britain has never been more isolated, " he says. "I will suggest to
Mr Blair that he offers to stay on as president for six months. If he does, the
rest of the EU will be so fed up with us that they will kick Britain out, and
there will be no need for UKIP!"

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

LOSER GBP 7bn surrender as Blair backs down on Europe

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 760  words


TONY Blair yesterday sought to defend his humiliating climbdown over an EU
budget deal that will see the British rebate slashed by GBP 1billion a year.

Britain will surrender a total of GBP 7billion of the rebate over seven years in
return for nothing but a promise that the EU will "review" controversial farming
subsidies in 2008.

Mr Blair had vowed not to give up any part of the rebate unless he won key
concessions from France over reform of the farming subsidies.

But in Brussels yesterday, the Prime Minister agreed to a deal in which he
offered to increase a proposed GBP 5.5billion cut in the annual British rebate
over seven years up to as much as GBP 7.2billion.

The embarrassing retreat came in the early hours as a budget package for 2007-14
was finally agreed after 17 hours of tense negotiations.

The deal includes an increase in the overall budget that was due to cost Britain
another GBP 1billion a year anyway.

Mr Blair insisted the result would enhance Britain's reputation in Europe and
failing to reach it would have caused "immense damage" to the UK's national
interest.

He said: "We have not given up the rebate - the rebate will increase in value.

"What we've said is that we can't ask the poorer countries of central and
eastern Europe to pay the rebate on British spending because that would
obviously be wrong."

The deal would ensure that member states in eastern and central Europe get the
development cash they need while putting Britain's contribution on a par with
nations like France for the first time, he said.

Mr Blair added that French President Jacques Chirac had accepted the need for a
"start from the very beginning" look at the entire system of EU funding that
could lead to a "fundamental restructuring".

The rest of the rebate - the parts relating to agriculture and older member
states - was not up for grabs until that happened, he pledged.

But the deal came under immediate fire from new Shadow Foreign Secretary William
Hague, who claimed the Government had "spectacularly failed" to get any
guarantees in return for its sacrifice.

He said: "We agree on the need to help the new member states and on the
fundamental need to reform the EU budget and the Common Agricultural Policy. We
agreed that Britain should have been ready to negotiate in exchange for
guarantees that those reforms would happen.

"But the Government have spectacularly failed to achieve any such guarantees -
merely vague promises of a process of reform in the future, in exchange for
which they have surrendered GBP 7billion in Britain's rebate alone. Those vague
promises have come with a very high price tag.

"Seldom in the course of European negotiations has so much been surrendered for
so little."

Liberal Democrat spokesman Sir Menzies Campbell said the deal marked a
"thoroughly disappointing" end to the the UK's six-month presidency.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said it was "game, set and match" to Mr
Chirac.

And Open Europe director Neil O'Brien said: "This proposal means we are going to
be paying even more billions into a totally unreformed EU budget. All they seem
to be discussing now is the size of Tony Blair's fig leaf."

The deal delighted EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, who complimented
Mr Blair on being "a tough negotiator". He added:

"Europe has avoided paralysis.

Europe is on the move again."

Mr Blair said: "If I had done what the Conservatives say I should have done and
simply walked away from this and said 'We're not prepared to pay', we would have
wrecked our entire relationship with these new European countries, also with the
new German government, and we would have done immense damage to our country's
national interest. What we have come out with is something that allows us to
facilitate the economic development of these new countries. We keep the rebate -
the rebate increases. We have, for the first time, parity with France.

"But we do so in a way that enhances Britain's reputation in Europe, and doesn't
damage it."

He said it was an agreement that "allows Europe to move forward" and that all
sides had had to make "difficult compromises".

Under the deal the EU contributions of all member states will rise
substantially, in Britain's case by 63 per cent to GBP 42billion. But French
contributions will rise by 116 per cent and those of Italy 130 per cent.

Britain's payment will be in line for the first time with those of similarsized
countries pay, said Mr Blair.

The deal was brokered with the help of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who
acted as a go-between in talks with Mr Blair and Mr Chirac.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NOW LOOK HERE: The tension is obvious as Blair and Chirac talk and it
ends, seemingly, with the President telling the Premier just what he can do with
his attack on French farming subsidies
SOMBRE: Tony Blair tried to put a bright face on the giveaway at a press
conference in Brussels yesterday - but his strained look says it all
William Hague
Jose Manuel Barroso
Nigel Farage
Sir Menzies Campbell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                            December 12, 2005 Monday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: BY OLIVER MARRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 801 words


Eurocrats lose their cover under insurance group's roof

As Brussels played proud host to the American Secretary of State, Condoleezza
Rice, at the end of last week, Peter Mandelson and his fellow European
commissioners were fighting behind the scenes to keep one of their own offices.

The Commission has based Eurocrats for the past 40 years at a building owned by
the insurance company AXA Belgium.

But the office block " known as the JECL building which provides office space
for some 1,500 Commission staff including translators and administrators " has
been at the heart of a dispute since 2001.

Now, AXA has had enough and is ordering the bureaucrats to leave by the end of
the year.

'In the last five years, there has been endless talk about redeveloping the site
into a conference and office centre for the Commission to use,' says a source.

'But they keep insisting the rent AXA is asking for is vastly over the current
market rates, and far more than they can afford. Now AXA has had enough and
decided to call the whole thing off.'

Mandelson, left, and his colleagues on the Commission are upset by this, and
insist they need at least six months to rehouse their staff. A spokesman for the
Commission insists that 'negotiations are still ongoing.'

Unsurprisingly, perhaps, UKIP is taking great delight in the situation. 'The
building is probably in desperate need of renovation, considering the amount of
dead wood it shelters,' chuckles their MEP Nigel Farage.

Down on the aristocratic farm

It's official. BBC Radio 4's rural soap opera, The Archers, is employing a
deliberate strategy to attract new listeners.

'Let's not be too idealistic about it,' says Tim Bentinck, who plays David
Archer.

'It's got to keep going for the good of the country. So you have Dross the band,
infidelity, drugs, inappropriate sexual relations. We are encouraged to foster
debate.'

In an interview with The Field magazine, Bentinck, right, goes on to explain the
show is also engaging with current rural affairs.

'But I'm not the expert,' he says, modestly. 'Any farmer reading about some
bloody actor who thinks he knows about farming because he's done it on the radio
would say: 'Shut up, you're talking rubbish."

Unless, that is, the farmer had old-fashioned respect for the aristocracy: the
Islington-inhabiting leftish actor is also the 12th Earl of Portland.

Clarkson in wrong gear over radio broadcast

Most of Jeremy Clarkson's controversial comments are well-aimed public shots at
carefully chosen enemies. But today, the Top Gear presenter finds himself at the
receiving end of some unwanted publicity after an outburst against a presenter
on the local Manchester radio station, Galaxy.

As part of the tour to promote his Christmas stocking-filler DVD, Clarkson was
last week invited on to Wes Butters' breakfast show, but after broadcasting his
segment, believed that the DVD hadn't received sufficient publicity.

Turning to one of his associates, Clarkson, left, said: 'They didn't even
mention it. There's no point [in being here] if they are just sitting wanting me
to do stupid phone calls. Let's go.'

What 'Motormouth' didn't realise is that his microphone was still on, and his
words were broadcast to the station's many listeners.

'I couldn't believe what I was hearing,' counters Butters. 'I wouldn't mind, but
we did speak about his DVD and it's on tape. I'll still be watching Top Gear,
though.'

Julie's blues

David Cameron's victory speech kicked off with a promise to get more women
involved in Tory politics. It's ruffled feathers among her friends, therefore,
that the capable MP Julie Kirkbride has " so far " been overlooked for a role on
his front bench.

'There have been mutterings that it is because Julie supported David Davis,'
says one chum.

'But that doesn't really hold any water because her own husband, Andrew Mackay,
was a Davis supporter and has been given a plum advisory role. Could it be
because Julie's a bit 'council flat' for Cameron's lot to deal with?'

From very much the right side of the tracks comes Zac Goldsmith. The millionaire
ecologist has been asked to help guide the party on green issues, and is a
prospective parliamentary candidate.

A pointed dilemma for new diplomat

Ain't life grand in the highest diplomatic circles. When Francis Campbell, the
new young ambassador to the Holy See, arrived in Rome, it was by Ryanair.

The decision to use the budget airline is a clever one in terms of keeping costs
down " but it has caused difficulties in other areas.

'Francis has been worrying about how he's going to get his ambassador's sword
out there,' says a friend. 'He was not allowed to take it on the plane because
it might be used in a hijacking, and they don't want it in the hold.'

As a result, His Excellency is attempting to find a diplomatic bag large enough
to conceal the weapon.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 11, 2005

Tories seize lead in polls

BYLINE: David Smith and Andrew Porter

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words


DAVID CAMERON'S debut as Tory leader has given the Conservatives a surge of
support that has put them ahead of Labour for the first time in 18 months, a
Sunday Times poll shows.

The YouGov poll of more than 2,000 people, carried out since Cameron was
declared leader of the party on Tuesday, reveals that the Tories have turned a
two point deficit to a one point lead.

Cameron's victory has pushed the Tories up to 37% of the vote, two points up on
last month, while Labour is down one to 36%. The Liberal Democrats have also
been squeezed, down two to 18%.

Even more dramatic is the swing in Tory fortunes since the early autumn, before
the start of the leadership contest. Then, Labour had an eight-point lead. The
Tories were last in the lead in June 2004, when Tony Blair was under intense
pressure over Iraq.

Another poll finding will cause panic in Labour circles. Cameron's approval
rating, with a net 34% of people expecting him to do well, is well above that
for Blair and Charles Kennedy, the Lib Dem leader.

More significantly, it easily outstrips Gordon Brown's ratings, which have
slumped. His net approval rating was 41% before the general election; now it is
just 4%.

Despite the poll findings, Cameron last night faced embarrassment when the
party's only woman MEP threatened to resign over his policy that would see the
Tory group split from the centre-right block in the European parliament.

The row could open a problem for the new leader, who has made much of his
commitment to bring more women into frontline politics.

Caroline Jackson, the long-time and well-respected MEP for the South West, is
the only woman among the Tory contingent of 27 in Strasbourg.

This weekend she threatened to leave the Tory group in the parliament if Cameron
went ahead with his plan to withdraw the party from the mainstream European
People's party (EPP). Jackson said she would rather lose the Conservative whip
than sit with a right-wing fringe group.

She said the plan by Cameron would leave the party isolated and, in a stinging
attack, added that it showed the new Conservative leader "knows nothing" about
the politics of the European parliament.

Cameron and William Hague, his new shadow foreign secretary, show no sign of
backing down and on Friday he repeated his determination to pull the
Conservatives out of the EPP. Together with its allies, the European Democrats,
it is the largest international grouping in the European parliament and wields
substantial influence in Brussels.

In a rare strong policy stance during his campaign to become Tory leader,
Cameron said the EPP's leaning towards greater EU integration was at odds with
the Tory view of Europe.

Jackson said the majority of Conservative MEPs were "very angry" about the lack
of consultation on Cameron's plans, which she described as unworkable. She said
the Tories would be left looking for partners among the fringe groups of Europe
if they quit the EPP. Any new grouping could see them sitting with Italian
fascists or hardline Eurosceptics such as the UK Independence party.

"He is very new and he knows nothing about it," she said. "Why should anyone
give up the influence of the main centre-right group to go and sit with the
Latvian nationalists? We have got to have friends and allies to get things done
and they have got to be plausible."

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Michael Howard, the former Tory leader,
gives his strongest indication that he voted for Cameron throughout the
leadership campaign saying: "I'm very happy about the outcome, let's leave it at
that." He also says that Cameron will be the best leader the party has had since
Thatcher and adds that he has "a lot of substance".

Tomorrow Cameron will announce that he is freezing the party's parliamentary
candidate selection process while he re-examines the system.

King Con v Toff Gun Focus, pages 12-13

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 11, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CROSS BENCHER;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 43  words


AT LEAST one MEP is happy with the PM's negotiating technique over Britain's EU
rebate. Ukip's Nigel Farage says: "Tony Blair's wonderful achievement during the
UK presidency has been to alienate every single other member of the EU. He'll be
joining Ukip next!"

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 First Edition

Politics: Hague heads for Brussels to avoid split with MEPs

BYLINE: By Colin Brown Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 316 words


William Hague has said he would try to avoid a damaging split with Tory MEPs
over the pledge by David Cameron to force them to leave the main Conservative
grouping in the European Parliament.

The rift threatens to wreck the smooth launch of Mr Cameron's leadership, and
revive old splits between eurosceptics and europhiles in the Tory Party. Some
leading MEPs have warned they will not obey Mr Cameron if he insists on them
sitting with Italian fascists or hardline eurosceptics such as the UK
Independence Party, who want to pull Britain out of the EU.

The new shadow Foreign Secretary will go to Brussels to defuse the row with the
Tory MEPs led by Tim Kirkhope and Sir Robert Atkins, who are opposed to leaving
the European People's Party that the eurosceptic Bruges Group calls 'avowedly
federalist'.

Mr Hague has been given enhanced authority by Mr Cameron to deputise for him at
Prime Minister's Questions when Mr Cameron and Tony Blair are away, putting him
against John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister.

Mr Hague joked that he must be 'barmy' to return to front-line politics,
abandoning some of his declared interests worth pounds 800,000 a year.

'It is a rare moment in the Conservative Party,' he said. 'I think David Cameron
has the most fantastic potential as leader. He deserves the old-timers like me
getting involved again and helping him out.'

He said he would be holding talks over a compromise plan to create a new
Conservative grouping in the European Parliament.

He added that Mr Cameron had put his decision to withdraw from the EPP 'very
clearly in the leadership election. We will stick to that commitment'.

However, Mr Hague added: 'We will also consult with all the parties across
Europe, our existing allies and other parties, and aim to form a new grouping in
the European Parliament.

'I will be embarking on consultations about that which will take months rather
than weeks.'

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron pledged to withdraw Tories from EPP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Letter: Tory squabbles over Europe are not over

BYLINE: Gary Titley MEP

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 188 words


Sir: The Tories in the European Parliament have also been electing a leader.
When the votes stack up, they will reveal the stark divide that will rip open
the Tory party once leadership honeymoons are over.

A critical issue for generations of Tories, their position over Europe, is still
unclear. Cameron has promised to take the 27 Tory MEPs out of their European
Conservative grouping, resulting in the loss of all their influence: chairs of
committees, delegations and even the post of Vice President for one Europhile,
who will be deeply upset.

Voters need to know a few things about the Tories in Europe: they are prepared
to forfeit all their influence to move to the right; they are prepared to sit
alongside timewasters like UKIP, fascists, homophobic and anti-abortion parties;
and when it comes to crunch decisions on European policy like enlargement and
budget reform, they will spend more time squabbling about where they sit rather
than setting out the right conditions for jobs, prosperity and social protection
in a rapidly globalising world.

GARY TITLEY MEP

LEADER OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENTARY LABOUR PARTY BRUSSELS

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 45 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 6, 2005

Politics: Why Hague and Howard were forced into taking right turn

BYLINE: Julian Glover, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 406 words


David Cameron's team know that he will not be the first fresh-faced Tory to win
the leadership on a promise to revolutionise his party. William Hague made the
same claim in 1997 and both his successors, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael
Howard, started by saying they aimed to recapture the compassionate centre
ground of British politics.

But all three of them abandoned the attempt soon after, forced to move to the
right instead in an attempt to hang on to the Tory core vote. Mr Cameron's
advisers say this is the mistake above all others that he must avoid.

Mr Hague's leadership campaign, and his first year in the job, saw him give a
series of speeches that Mr Cameron could easily reuse without raising eyebrows.
"I'd like to tell you about a democratic, popular Conservatism that listens,
that has compassion at its core," Mr Hague told the Conservative conference in
1997. "I want to tell you about a changing Conservatism that acknowledges its
mistakes."

But it didn't last. As the polls got worse he came under pressure from the
shadow cabinet and soon found himself fighting for traditional Tory votes,
wrapping himself in the flag with a call to save the pound. In a notorious
speech shortly before the 2001 election he claimed Labour-run Britain was
becoming "a foreign land". This move to the right was a mistake, Mr Hague
admitted in Michael Cockerell's BBC documentary last Saturday. But he added that
Labour's lead on most issues had left him with no choice but to fight on the few
areas where voters believed the party was right.

Could it happen again? Mr Cameron's team believe they have the determination to
hold steady where Mr Hague wobbled, and point out that Labour looks less
invincible four years on. But many of Mr Cameron's closest allies worked for
Michael Howard, who also moved to the right. Mr Howard took office with a speech
at the Saatchi Gallery calling for a new kind of Conservatism but he ended up
campaigning heavily on immigration at the 2005 election. Once again, he did it
to shore up core Conservative support, threatened by new parties such as Ukip.
But the effect was to drive floating voters towards Labour and the Liberal
Democrats.

Mr Cameron has already warned his party that the benefits of modernisation will
not come quickly. But if the opinion polls do not begin to improve, he may find
that, like his predecessors, he will run out of time to demonstrate it.


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 498 words


Not the Dunne fling with Diana CONSERVATIVE MP Philip Dunne, tipped for
promotion when David Cameron becomes party leader, scoffs at claims that he had
a fling with Princess Diana.

It was said they played footsie at a restaurant and Diana put her tongue in his
ear on the dance floor. 'B***s,' says millionaire Ludlow MP Dunne. 'I holidayed
with the Waleses in Klosters twice and danced with her once.'

Friends say Diana used him as a 'decoy' to put people off the scent of her real
lover, James Hewitt.

TONY BLAIR'S cronies are about to dump George Bush's Republicans.

Polling guru Philip Gould told Cambridge students he was 'certain' his friend
Hillary Clinton would be the next US President, with Bill Clinton secretly
'subbing' her campaign, adding that volatile Republican frontrunner John McCain
could 'blow up'. He said of Blair: 'If you told him he was a stupid f******
b******, he'd say OK. He says the essence of politics is to concede and move
on.' SPEAKER Michael Martin has upset Jewish MPs by creating a 'prayer room' for
Muslim MPs, with a large arrow pointing to Mecca. 'There are many more Jewish
MPs than Muslims yet there are no special facilities for us,' said one.

Celebrities are having a ball backing Cameron

JOAN COLLINS, who dumped the Tories to support the UK Independence Party, is
leading the celebrity rush to back David Cameron.

Collins, left, golfer Colin Montgomerie's ex, Eimear, James Goldsmith's son Zac
and Coronation Street's Adam Rickitt are helping to organise an 'anything goes'
Black and White Dance to replace the stodgy Winter Ball where dinner jackets and
ball gowns were compulsory.

LADY Catherine Meyer, wife of former diplomat Sir Christopher, branded a 'red
sock fop' by John Prescott over his explosive Iraq war memoirs, plans a 'red
sock fop' day where supporters don red socks to show solidarity with her
husband.

JOHN MAJOR famously went to The Oval to watch cricket the day he lost power.

Michael Howard will step down as Tory leader on Tuesday and go to Stamford
Bridge the following night to watch his team, Liverpool, play Major's team,
Chelsea. At least one of them will be happy.

Patter of broken feet

NEWBURY Tory MP Richard Benyon visited wife Zoe and their newborn son Louis in
hospital, went home and contemplated how sweet life could be as he walked the
dog. So contemplative was he that he tripped on a rut, broke his foot and ended
up on a ward in the same hospital two floors up.

TORY MP Andrew Rosindell wants to castrate rapists and condemned Boots for
selling sex toys. Odd, then, that in the Commons Register of Interests he lists
Savvas Christodoulou as a backer. What he doesn't declare is that Christodoulou
runs Erotica Ltd, organiser of the UK's biggest exhibition of sex toys and
paraphernalia.

HAVING failed to get Ken Clarke elected as Tory leader, his spin doctor Richard
Chalk now has an even tougher job.

'Chalky' is working for the US Government in Baghdad trying to convince the
locals that George Bush is whiter than white.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blair 's GBP 20bn EU hangover for taxpayers

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 693  words


BRITISH taxpayers will have to fork out GBP 20billion each year for the Brussels
bureaucracy by 2012 if Tony Blair goes ahead with his plan to surrender GBP
7billion of our EU rebate.

That will mean 5p of every GBP 1 paid in income tax by British workers will go
straight into EU coffers.

The astonishing figures were revealed after the Prime Minister flew home
emptyhanded on Friday following two days of talks with Eastern European leaders
over his plans to reform the EU budget.

Mr Blair offered to pay back 15 per cent of Britain's annual EU rebate for seven
years to clinch a deal - a move which would cost GBP 1billion a year by 2012.

But he failed to convince his fellow EU leaders to accept 10 per cent cuts in
development aid in return - and he did not tie the deal to fundamental reforms
of the Common Agricultural Policy British proposals for a major summit later
this month on the future of the EU budget from 2007 to 2013 are due to be
presented to EU foreign ministers in Brussels at a meeting on Wednesday.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Liam Fox hit out at the botched EU deal, claiming:
"Tony Blair's EU presidency has been historically inept and a wasted
opportunity."

Dr Fox added: "He has now claimed that we need substantial reform of CAP but it
was his Government that negotiated a 10year agreement only two years ago. Then,
only months ago, he said there was no chance of renegotiating the rebate before
agricultural reform was carried out.

"Sadly this UK presidency has lacked all consistency and ambition. Labour's
whole European policy is an incoherent shambles.

"If a deal is not reached on the budget it will be a pitiful moment for the
British presidency." Yesterday Europe Minister Douglas Alexander warned that the
UK may not be able to secure a deal on the EU budget before the presidency ends
this month.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the next seven days could be crucial,
adding that there were "no guarantees" a budget deal could be achieved.

He said: "We are not prepared to sign any deal. We want to try to get the right
deal."

Britain's annual rebate, worth GBP 3.8billion this year, was won by Margaret
Thatcher in 1984 because, although Britain is one of the biggest contributors to
EU funds, it gets very low subsidies in return.

Our gross EU contributions, before the rebate, are already poised to go up by
about GBP 1billion every year from 2007.

And Britain's net contributions will also rise sharply over the next decade as
the 10 new member states become entitled to more and more cash under the CAP,
with a right to full farming subsidies by 2013.

Now, with the extra GBP 1billion in lost rebate payments promised by Mr Blair,
that will mean Britain making an annual payment of GBP 19.5billion into the EU
by 2012.

Neil O'Brien, director of the eurosceptic campaign Open Europe, said: "Tony
Blair is proposing a triple whammy - he has given away even more of our money,
he has totally failed to reform the wasteful EU budget and he has also
infuriated some of our closest allies in eastern Europe.

"He promised he would never negotiate away the rebate. He's let everyone down to
try to get a quick-fix deal."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "We shouldn't be giving a single penny of taxpayers'
money to the EU. This is an organisation whose own auditors have refused to sign
off the account for 11 years in a row."

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy warned Mr Blair that he was "on a hiding
to nothing". He accused the Prime Minister of acting "at the 59th minute of the
11th hour, scrambling around" for a deal.

Mr Kennedy said: "We supported the principle from the outset that, during the
British presidency of the EU, you should be looking to renegotiate in terms of
the rebate but only for the wider changes you are looking for in the EU budget."

A Downing Street source said: "This is not surrendering, this is behaving fairly
to the new EU countries.

"Britain's bill for the EU will go up anyway because 10 new countries have
joined and they are all much poorer than us.

"We will still be getting an increase in our rebate but, in solidarity with
these countries, we will be foregoing a little bit of that extra rebate."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday

Blair lands us with GBP 20bn EU hangover

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 12

LENGTH: 623  words


BRITISH taxpayers will have to fork out GBP 20billion a year for the Brussels
bureaucracy by 2012 if Tony Blair goes ahead with his plan to surrender GBP
7billion of our EU rebate.

That will mean 5p of every GBP 1 paid in income tax by UK workers will go
straight into EU coffers.

The figures were revealed after the Prime Minister flew home empty-handed on
Friday after two days of talks with Eastern European leaders over his plans to
reform the EU budget.

In a bid to clinch a deal, Mr Blair offered to pay back 15 per cent of the UK's
annual rebate for seven years - which would cost GBP 1billion a year by 2012.
But he failed to persuade his fellow EU leaders to accept 10 per cent cuts in
development aid in return, and he did not tie the deal to fundamental reforms of
the Common Agricultural Policy.

UK proposals for a major summit later this month on the future of the EU budget
from 2007 to 2013 are due to be presented to EU foreign ministers at a meeting
in Brussels on Wednesday.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Liam Fox hit out at the botched EU deal, saying: "Tony
Blair's EU presidency has been historically inept and a wasted opportunity". Dr
Fox said: "He has now claimed that we need substantial reform of CAP but it was
his Government that negotiated a 10-year agreement only two years ago. Then,
only months ago, he said there was no chance of renegotiating the rebate before
agricultural reform was carried out.

"Sadly this UK presidency has lacked all consistency and ambition. Labour's
whole European policy is an incoherent shambles. If a deal is not reached on the
budget it will be a pitiful moment for the British presidency."

Yesterday Europe Minister Douglas Alexander warned that the UK may not be able
to secure a deal on the EU budget before the presidency ends later this month.
He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the next seven days could be crucial.

He said: "We are not prepared to sign any deal. We want to try and get the right
deal." The UK's annual rebate - worth GBP 3.8billion this year - was won by
Margaret Thatcher in 1984 because, although the country is one of the biggest
contributors to EU funds, it gets very low subsidies in return.

Its gross EU contributions - before the rebate - are already set to go up by
about GBP 1billion every year from 2007.

The UK's net contributions will also rise sharply over the next decade as the 10
new member states become entitled to more cash under the CAP, with a right to
the full rate of farming subsidies by 2013.

With the extra GBP 1billion in lost rebate payments promised by Mr Blair, that
will entail the UK making an annual payment of GBP 19.5billion into the EU by
2012.

Neil O'Brien, director of the Eurosceptic campaign Open Europe, said: "Tony
Blair is proposing a triple whammy - he has given away even more of our money,
he has totally failed to reform the wasteful EU budget and he has also
infuriated some of our closest allies in eastern Europe.

"He promised he would never negotiate away the rebate - he's let everyone down
to try and get a quick-fix deal."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "We shouldn't be giving a single penny of taxpayers'
money to the EU. This is an organisation whose own auditors have refused to sign
off the account for 11 years in a row."

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy accused the Prime Minister of acting "at
the 59th minute of the 11th hour, scrambling around" for a deal.

Mr Kennedy said: "We supported the principle from the outset that, during the
British presidency of the EU, you should be looking to renegotiate in terms of
the rebate - but only for the wider changes you are looking for in the EU
budget."

A Downing Street source said: "This is not surrendering, this is behaving fairly
to the new EU countries."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 3, 2005 Saturday

Blair is doing eastern Europeans a favour

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: FEATURES; SIMON HEFFER on Saturday; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 175 words


Not only is the plan that Tony Blair seems to have hatched to give away our EU
budget rebate utterly pointless in political terms - as the UK Independence
Party has rightly said, all he needed to do was to refuse to discuss it - it is
also morally damaging to our so-called partners. Mr Blair is getting stick from
poorer countries in eastern Europe which want us to pay more to provide what
are, in effect, welfare benefits for them.

Shouldn't he tell them, quite frankly, that in our cut-throat global economy the
kindest thing we can do for them is make them wake up to the reality of the
subsidy-free life? Have these states, whose native enterprise has been
suffocated for decades by the dead hand of Marxist-Leninist control, really only
joined Europe to jump on the gravy train, get their noses in the trough, and
receive the golden handshake? I fear that they have. But these bubbles will all
have to burst at some time, and what better legacy could Mr Blair want from his
EU presidency than going down in history as the man who pricked them?

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 45 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 2, 2005

Reply Letters and emails: Funding Respects election challenge

BYLINE: Peter Facey

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 35

LENGTH: 166 words


Respect is correct to say that the New Politics Network's criticism of it is
politically motivated (Election spending was a record, December 1). As a
thinktank specialising in party funding, our recent criticisms of the
Conservatives, Labour and the Liberal Democrats are politically motivated too -
we are campaigning for greater transparency in the funding of political parties.

If Respect wishes to evade criticism, it merely needs to submit its 2004
accounts to the Electoral Commission, something it was legally required to do in
July this year. If the unaccounted for £500,000 it has spent on its last two
national election campaigns was raised solely by small donations, it would
suggest that the party - founded in January 2004 - has a larger membership and
supporter network than Ukip and the Green party combined, despite getting less
than a 10th of their votes. We await the release of their accounts with great
interest.

Peter Facey

Director, New Politics Network


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               44 of 45 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 1, 2005

Election spending was a record

BYLINE: Julian Glover Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words


This year's general election was the most expensive ever, with Labour narrowly
outspending the Conservatives for the first time, according to figures yesterday
from the Electoral Commission.

The data covers spending by parties in the year before polling day: Labour spent
£17,939,617, £87,000 more than the Conservatives' £17,852,240. Labour's total is
£7m more than spent in 2001, and the Conservatives' around £5m more.

Despite record funding given to the Liberal Democrats, they remained a distant
third, spending £4,324,574. Smaller par ties such as the Greens, £160,224, and
Ukip, £648,397, struggled to compete against the main three, who between them
spent more than £40m. The figure excludes spending by individual candidates on
constituency campaigns, thought to total at least a further £10m.

The Respect coalition, with one MP, George Galloway, declared expenditure of
£320,716. The party came under fire yesterday from the New Policy Network
thinktank for failing to declare donations on anything like this scale. Respect
declared £40,500 in the year before the election. A party spokesman said the
remainder was made up of small donations it did not have to declare and claimed
the criticism was politically motivated.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               45 of 45 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                           December 1, 2005 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Parties spent pounds 40m at election

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 171 words


The political parties ran up a bill of more than pounds 40m " almost a pound for
each voter " in the general election. Most was spent by Labour and the Tories,
with the Liberal Democrats a distant third, the Electoral Commission said.

A spending cap of pounds 19,380,000 for each party was set at the last election.
It was calculated as pounds 30,000 for each of the 646 parliamentary
constituencies. Commission figures show Labour, with pounds 17,939,617, almost
matched the Conservatives, with pounds 17,852,240.

Labour also benefited from the pounds 682,115 spent by the union Unison, and the
Conservative Rural Action Group had an election budget of pounds 550,370.

The Liberal Democrats, in their best election result for 80 years, spent a total
of pounds 4,324,574.

Biggest spenders of the minor parties were the UK Independence Party (pounds
648,397); George Galloway's Respect coalition (pounds 320,716); the Greens
(pounds 160,224) and the British National Party (pounds 112,068). Only Respect
gained a parliamentary seat.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
