
                               1 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 28, 2003, Friday

Tebbit attacks 'fanatic' Portillo

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 470 words

LORD Tebbit stepped up the Tory Right's attack on Michael Portillo yesterday by
describing so-called modernisers as "extreme social liberals" who supported the
legalisation of sex in public lavatories.

He ignored appeals from the party leadership for a return to calm after 10 days
of damaging headlines by accusing Mr Portillo of leading "fanatical" efforts to
undermine the party.

And he compared Iain Duncan Smith's handling of relations with senior colleagues
to Sir Alex Ferguson's moment of anger when he kicked a football boot into David
Beckham's face after Manchester United were knocked out of the FA Cup by
Arsenal. Despite widespread doubts about Mr Duncan Smith's leadership, Tory MPs
have agreed to let him continue in office until after the May elections. In turn
he has expressed regret at the way he handled recent staff changes at Central
Office that appeared to signal a change in policy direction.

What seemed to be a return to calm for the party at Westminster was shattered by
Lord Tebbit. The former Cabinet minister used an article in this week's issue of
The Spectator magazine and a lunchtime speech at the Commons to issue a
devastating critique of those who want the party to modernise its image.

His attack coincided with the launch of a drive to de-select Mr Portillo in his
Kensington and Chelsea constituency, the safest Tory seat in the country. Lord
Tebbit said: "The modernisation cult appeals only to a group of extreme social
liberals, cut off from the wider world." Voters, he added, preferred nostalgia
to modernisation.

"The modernisers may applaud Tony Blair's social policies, but in a life-time of
grassroots politicking I could count on the fingers of the right hand of a
Finsbury Park Muslim cleric the number of voters who have asked me to support
the legalisation of sex in public lavatories or instruction in oral sex in
schools."

He added: "The modernising agenda is far from modern. It grows from the rotting
corpse of the 1960s permissiveness that infected a once stable and law-abiding
society."

Lord Tebbit has made no secret of his contempt for Mr Portillo, who put himself
at the head of efforts to remove Mr Duncan Smith last week after the Tory leader
found himself under siege for sacking three Central Office officials.

At a lunch with parliamentary journalists, Lord Tebbit said voters "could not
care less" about all-women shortlists. What they were concerned about was issues
like tax cuts and immigration controls, not gay marriages.

He warned that Tory voters who withheld their support in the 1997 and 2001
elections could well turn to the UK Independence Party or the BNP at the next
election unless the Conservatives showed a united front. "Grass-root activists
have had a bellyful of stupid squabbling," he said.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 28, 2003, Friday

The latest prehistoric archaeology programmes are fascinating

BYLINE: Paul Hoggart

SECTION: Features; Times2; 23

LENGTH: 897 words


THE LATEST PREHISTORIC ARCHAEOLOGY PROGRAMMES ARE FASCINATING, BUT ARE THEY
MAKING FANTASTICAL MOUNTAINS OUT OF MOLEHILLS, ASKS PAUL HOGGART

FOR REASONS known only to the capricious Gods of the Schedule, Britain is
enduring a plague of prehistoric archaeology at the moment. Last Wednesday The
King of Stonehenge (BBC Two) investigated an early Bronze Age skeleton. His
top-of-the-range clay beakers suggested that he was a big cheese, but the poor
chap had also been hobbling around for years with a mangled knee and a painful
dental abscess.

His DNA indicated that he was of Swiss origin, which was surprising. We all know
about waves of Celts, Anglo-Saxons and Vikings that have reached our shores, but
whoever heard of the Swiss invasion? Perhaps he was a used henge salesman called
"Toni", whose genetic legacy led to yodelling country singers.

On Wednesday, assorted bearded folk were recreating a 10,000-year-old Mesolithic
timber and thatch family home in Northumberland. The remains of the original
structure were far older than anyone thought possible. Benefiting from a
delightful seaside location, it would suit the DIY enthusiast. Offers above 20p.

But it was last Thursday that things really got going. Horizon spent an hour
explaining how minute fragments of flint sent archaeologists lurching from one
grandiose theory about the origin of human thought to another. For decades, the
experts had believed that human thought appeared suddenly, probably in Europe.
One day we're all sitting around going "Ug", the next day someone wakes up and
said: "Hey guys, I've just invented grammar! Let's start working on the Hubble
telescope."

Then the discovery in South Africa of a 70,000-year-old lump of ochre covered in
geometric doodles indicated that early man got bored during history lectures at
a far earlier date than anyone had previously thought possible. Thought, it
seems, evolved gradually! Excuse me, but isn't this the scenario that someone
who knows diddly-squat about archaeology would probably have suggested if they
had been asked to guess?

That's the trouble with this area of study. The evidence is often so sparse that
the tiniest "finds" lead to epic speculations and fantastical theorisations.

Sometimes these are further infused with massive doses of wishful thinking, as
in Francis Pryor's two-part Britain B.C. (Channel 4), which concluded last
night.

Pryor, a flush-faced enthusiast with a tousled golden mane, is a man with a
mission. He wants us all to share his belief that prehistoric Britain was much
more sophisticated than the history books say. The idea that the ancient Britons
were a bunch of whooping, woadwearing barbarians is just Roman propaganda.

Some of his evidence was extremely impressive, especially the enormous
4,500-year-old Welsh copper mines and the 4,000-year-old sea-going "Dover boat",
cunningly fashioned from giant tree trunks. Evidence of ancient drove-roads
indicates that some Stone Age Britons kept herds of animals in enclosures.

But Pryor kept letting his enthusiasms run away with him. At the site of an
ancient lake community in Yorkshire, the archaeologist Tim Schadla-Hall found
the skeletons of three domestic dogs. Pryor explained that dogs were generally
thought to be kept for hunting, but he thought they were used for managing
sheep. Why? Because he has kept ancient sheep himself and you can't manage them
without dogs.

This despite the fact that the local expert Tim Schadla-Hall had just said:
"They were obviously used for hunting."

"It rather sounds as if you're talking about an extremely sophisticated
society," said Pryor, as if his point was proven. "I think of it as the
principle of least effort," said Schadla-Hall, which isn't the same thing at
all.

Then there was the question of ancestry. A 9,000-year-old skeleton found in
Cheddar Gorge turns out to have DNA commonly matched by current West Country
folk.

This, says Pryor, indicates that the Stone Age people were not supplanted by
Celts or the AngloSaxons, as previously believed. Another expert questioned
whether the ancient Britons were the descendants of continental Celtic invaders
at all, but this was just left hanging. It certainly doesn't account for Swiss
Toni.

Presumably a national DNA survey could settle the matter. Last night, striding
around Stonehenge, it became clear that Pryor, at least, has made up his mind.

"Our true ancestors are the people who built these monuments." The programme was
largely given over to intriguing speculation about the meaning of stone circles,
all presented by Pryor as virtual certainties.

These "people were not afraid to die protecting their land because their bond
with it was deep-rooted and strong," he declared. "They believed that their
souls would continue to own and nourish it long after their bodies had gone," he
suggested on their behalf, by now visibly excited. They had, he concluded,
"deep-seated beliefs in community and ancestry and a firm faith in individual
freedom. And life membership of the UK Independence Party."

Sorry, I made the bit about the Independence Party up, but the rest is an exact
quote, and that did seem to be the alarming drift. Never mind, next week
archaeologists near Scunthorpe will dig up a 20,000-year-old Mesopotamian
take-away menu and it will be all-change yet again.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 26, 2003

Tory feud forces Duncan Smith u-turn on sacking

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Kirsty Scott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 524 words


Iain Duncan Smith is preparing to perform a humiliating u-turn over the shakeup
at Conservative central office that sparked the crisis threatening his
leadership.

As Tory MPs openly feuded in the Commons tearoom yesterday, senior colleagues
said Mr Duncan Smith was planning to reinstate a party official who was
summarily sacked last week.

Stephen Gilbert, who was the director of field operations, is expected to be
asked to return to central office after the May local elections as a
"consultant".

One senior MP said: "Stephen is a highly respected figure who has given loyal
service to the party under successive leaders. There was no reason to remove him
and I think Duncan Smith has realised that he made a bad mistake."

Mr Gilbert, who was originally told to leave after the local elections, was
sacked at the same time as Portillo favourite Mark MacGregor was removed as
chief executive. Mr MacGregor is being replaced by the rightwing former Tory MP
Barry Legg, who will also act as chief of staff to the leader.

Tory MPs will be given a chance to vent their anger over the shakeup this
afternoon when the backbench 1922 committee holds its first meeting since the
sackings.

It is understood MPs will be told Mr Duncan Smith is not prepared to remove Mr
Legg, who is widely loathed by MPs. But they are expected to be told he has
taken on board their concerns about the removal of Mr Gilbert.

The executive of the 1922 committee will be given a taste of the anger among
Tory grassroots when they meet key members of the party board this afternoon,
led by John Taylor, chairman of the National Conservative Convention, who is
said to be "incandescent with rage" at the changes.

The u-turn was announced as MPs defied the leadership in the tearooms. Derek
Conway, the MP who alleged that Mr Legg came close to defecting to the UK
Independence party, made clear his disdain for the leadership after he was
taunted by Duncan Smith loyalist John Hayes. Mr Conway turned on the shadow
agriculture minister, who has been drumming up support for the Tory leader,
after Mr Hayes accused him of acting as Michael Portillo's spokesman.

The spat came as Tony Blair exploited Tory divisions. After William Hague made
what was widely seen as an impressive intervention during his statement on Iraq,
the prime minister thanked the former Tory leader for "showing us what we are
all missing".

Attempts by the Tory leadership to draw a line under the row suffered a blow
when senior Scottish Tories asked some members of the shadow cabinet to steer
clear of Scotland in the run-up to the May poll after requests from a number of
constituency associations north of the border.

Tory MSP Phil Gallie said: "I don't see there would be a real need to have
anybody from south of the border. I think in this Scottish election we want to
demonstrate Scottish Conservatives standing alone."

Officials say there is no question of a ban, but some party members say Scottish
Tories should be seen to distance themselves from the friction afflicting the
leadership.

More at guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 26, 2003, Wednesday

POLITICS & PARLIAMENT: BACKSTABBING IS CAUSING TORY CRISIS';
  CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 362 words


SPINNING AND character assassination by Iain Duncan Smith's aides are directly
to blame for the Tories' latest internal crisis, a senior backbencher said
yesterday.

Derek Conway, Conservative MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, said he believed Mr
Duncan Smith's chances of remaining as leader were being undermined by his
allies.

Mr Conway came under personal attack from one of Mr Duncan Smith's lieutenants
in the House of Commons tea room. He was accused of being an ally of Michael
Portillo and subjected to homophobic abuse.

The incident came as members of the executive of the powerful 1922 Committee
prepared to meet tonight to discuss recent events. A majority of the executive
is convinced Mr Duncan Smith could be removed if he makes another serious gaffe
or fails to produce impressive results in May's local elections.

Tony Blair rubbed salt in the Tories' wounds yesterday when he praised a Commons
speech on Iraq by William Hague, the former leader. Mr Blair thanked Mr Hague
for his support "and showing us what we are missing".

Mr Duncan Smith suffered another blow when it emerged that Scottish and Welsh
Tories urged him to stay away from devolved election campaigns this spring.

Mr Conway is one of the few backbenchers who has been prepared to publicly
criticise the leadership over the appointment of Barry Legg, the former
Maastricht rebel, as party chief executive.

He insisted yesterday that a cloud would hang over Mr Legg's appointment if he
failed to categorically deny that he considered joining the UK Independence
Party.

It was the replacement of Mark MacGregor, a moderniser, by Mr Legg, and
briefings against Theresa May, the party chairman, that triggered the latest
bout of infighting.

It is understood that a senior Tory MP close to Mr Duncan Smith was responsible
for newspaper stories criticising Mrs May's abilities.

Mr Conway said that the crisis was started by the way in which changes at
Central Office were handled. "There has been too much spinning and character
assassination by some of those close to Duncan Smith because they think that's
the best way to get him through. It's not," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 24, 2003, Monday

'Me, eccentric? I'm an ordinary duke' At 83, the Duke of Devonshire has
cancelled plans to re-enter the House of Lords. He'd rather be chatting about
the Beckhams, he tells Jan Moir;

BYLINE: By Jan Moir

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1901 words

It is not easy being a duke, says Andrew Cavendish, the 11th Duke of Devonshire.
It's not exactly a cakewalk, you know. "The thing about dukes," he cries, "is
that they are thought, no doubt rightly, to be absolute damn fools. And if they
are only damn fools without being absolute, people are rather surprised."

Now, come on. There must be some nice bits.

"It gets you a good table in restaurants, but you are regarded as a freak and a
complete fool. And dukes can be unbearable, just like anyone else. Will you
pour, my dear? No milk for me."

We are having tea in the Duke's rather dinky Mayfair home, one of those tall,
thin London houses that creak heavily with history. He bought it from Anthony
Eden in 1956; some time before that, it had belonged to Beau Brummel. In the
hallway, a framed selection of casino chips hangs in fond reminder of the Duke's
long-gone gambling days, and by the door to his sitting room, there are two
handsome pencil sketches by Lucian Freud.

Earlier, the Duke had shown me his little green breakfast room opposite, which
was as cold as a tomb on this sharp winter's day. How impressively frugal of the
billionaire Duke - the family seat of Chatsworth House, in Derbyshire, plus
Lismore Castle in Ireland, Bolton Abbey, huge tracts of Eastbourne, two hotels,
the London club Pratt's and the finest private collection of art in the country
are only part of his haul - to turn off the heating in rooms not in use! And
perhaps it was just the icy temperature, but it did feel a bit lonely in there;
the table set with a jar of Cooper's Oxford marmalade, one solitary plate and a
space cleared for the daily newspaper, which the 83-year-old Duke can now read
only with the help of a powerful magnifying glass.

But what do I know of ducal customs and habits? Being virtually blind and unable
to walk great distances, the D of D spends most of his time at Chatsworth with
his wife, Deborah Mitford, and now comes to London and his beloved gentlemen's
clubs only once a fortnight.

"Oh, I am a great club man," he says, with enthusiasm. "You see your friends
there and you talk. And now ladies are allowed in, so you talk to them, too.

"The hall at Brooks's is one of my favourites; it is a very beautiful place for
tea. I'm always stopping ladies going into the gentlemen's when I'm there and I
don't mind it - but what I do mind is when they ask where the ladies' is? How on
earth do they expect me to know that?"

In contrast to the chill of the breakfast room, the sitting room is heated to a
tropical degree and furnished in throbbing shades of red. The Duke appears not
to notice as the chocolate on our eclairs turns molten as he sits on his
straight-backed chair, his elegant legs crossed and his trademark yellow socks
on display - always worn because they are his racing colours. He looks tired and
quite frail, but sounds just the opposite; vibrant, loud - and given to
unexpected gusts of whimsy. "We Cavendishes are a dim, dull lot," he will
suddenly cry.

He is beautifully dressed in a navy suit and loves his clothes - silk shirts in
the city, flannel in the country - although he claims to find the sartorial
rules of the land-owning gentry a bit of a bore.

"It is all rather ridiculous, isn't it? Perfectly absurd. Why shouldn't you wear
brown shoes in the city if you want to? But that is the convention."

So do you wear them?

"Erk! Oh, no," he squeaks, in his horrified, aristocratic way. "I only wear
brown shoes in the country."

Nevertheless, the Duke is remarkably unstuffy and he hates snobs and snobbery.
"It is very unattractive. And the most unexpected people are snobs, don't you
think?" he muses. He is very keen on football and thinks it "the most marvellous
ice-breaker" when he has to meet, say, the mayor of Wolverhampton. "And if you
know that Wolves have had a good win, then it is a good start.

"I say," he adds, indulging in another piece of impromptu cross-class banter.
"What about that young fellow kicking the football boot at the other young
fellow, hmm?"

Remarkable, I say.

"Indeed," he says. And then, after a pause: "Have you ever met Posh and Becks,
my dear?"

No, but I would love to.

"So would I! So would I!" he cries. "I would love to meet them. He is a very
talented player and she is obviously a very glamorous lady. Sadly, I haven't met
any of the Spice Girls yet."

Surprisingly, he agrees with Tony Blair about abolishing peers - and he recently
gave up on his attempt to be re-elected to the House of Lords following the
death of Lord Oxfuird. "I'm not going to try - I wouldn't succeed. But I was
serious about it because I missed it very much. I was there for years and I
loved it."

He has now decided to become a patron of the UK Independence Party, but he
thinks the Prime Minister is both brave and right on the potential war with
Iraq. He is also the only major land-owning lord to support the right-to-roam
Bill.

"Aren't my colleagues foolish? The right to roam - of course! If you are lucky
enough to have these lovely places, other people should be made welcome there,"
he says. Although it is true to say that many of those who roam over Chatsworth
pay either an pounds 8 or pounds 5 entry fee first. "And the people who come are
lovely! I have a very nice sitting room which looks across the park, and to see
these families picnicking in the grounds is a great joy. With a big garden like
ours, you need people to give it scale."

Over recent years, his view from the gilded windows of Chatsworth and elsewhere
has become dimmer as his sight fades, but he remains upbeat in the face of this
infirmity. "So much better than being deaf. No music, no opera! Can you
imagine?"

Interesting, then, that he has collected books and paintings all his life, and
still continues to do so, despite his failing sight. He spotted Lucian Freud's
talent back in the Fifties and most of his family have had their portraits
painted by him. Devonshire says that sitting for Freud was "as if a great
searchlight had been thrown over you, you constantly felt under intense
scrutiny".

But when asked how he felt when he first saw his Freud portrait, he is silent
for some moments.

"Well he gave me a curious, great contusion here," he says, as his thin, white
duke fingers flicker over his face. Then, he changes the subject. "I had all my
family done. I am pretty good, but my two sisters are brilliant, my wife is very
good and my mother is the best of them, I think. My son is quite good, too. Yes
I did like my own, I thought he brought something out of me because he gets
character as well as likeness. I am rather a worrier, and that comes out. He got
that very well."

What do you worry about?

"My inadequacies. I worry even more about having far more than my fair share of
good fortune. It is not right that anyone should be as lucky as I am. I can
never begin to repay the good fortune I have received."

Andrew Cavendish was never meant to be a duke. His elder brother William,
Marquess of Hartington - who married JFK's sister Kathleen Kennedy - was killed
in action in 1944 and Andrew reluctantly became the heir to the dukedom then.
"My brother was a much better man than me. I never forget that I am here by
proxy, it still makes me feel uneasy," he says. His best piece of luck, of
course, was falling in love with Deborah - the youngest of the Mitford sisters -
at a dinner party in 1938. She was famously beautiful - was he handsome? "No
sir, no madam," he croaks.

They married and then, together, they faced the problems that ensued when his
father died in 1950, leaving the estate with pounds 7 million in death duties to
pay - a fantastical sum in those days. They survived by selling off the best of
the family treasures and using the Duchess's organisational and entrepreneurial
skills ("She is quite bossy, but I like that in a woman") to turn Chatsworth
into one of the country's most popular visitor attractions.

Meanwhile, the cheerful Duke was having difficult times of his own. He had a
good war, although his excessive modesty - bad form to boast! - rather
ridiculously impels him to tell you that he won his MC for "being cheerful".
However, back on civvy street, there were moments here and there when he was in
real danger of completely falling apart. He became addicted to gambling, but
managed to stop more than 40 years ago by focusing on the senselessness of it
all. "I woke up one morning, probably with a hangover, and thought: this is the
most frightful waste of money. You could buy a picture with this money, give it
to charity - God knows what you could do with it. So I stopped."

It took longer to give up drinking.

"It was difficult, but I am very glad I did it. I stopped 17 years ago, on
doctor's orders, and I am very much better. It became quite evident that I was
drinking too much. So I just said: 'Enough is enough', and I started taking a
pill called Antabuse."

This is an alcohol abuse deterrent used to treat chronic alcoholics. George Best
has Antabuse pellets sewn into his stomach; the Duke prefers to take one every
morning when he wakes up.

"So if you drink any alcohol at all, you feel very ill. I still take one each
day. Then, one is safe. So now, I neither smoke nor drink nor gamble. I think I
have already outlived my shelf life, don't you?"

Neither does he chase after young women in the way he once notoriously did and
he feels that the secret of his successful 62-year marriage to his wife is - no
surprises here - forbearance.

"You have to learn tolerance. And in a successful marriage, you want to have
both shared interests and separate interests," he says.

The Devonshires celebrate their anniversary in April and romantic old Andrew has
already been down to his favourite jewellers in Burlington Arcade to purchase
her gift. Of course, he won't say what it is, but he does admit to a "trite"
fondness for jewelled hearts in diamonds and sapphires. Lucky Debo!

And shortly after I leave, she will drive him back to his beloved Chatsworth,
where he grows 72 different varieties of crocus, the rare Chatsworth banana
("they taste just like any other banana") and an enormous amount of
prize-winning camellias much admired by the day-trippers. "If I may be bossy
enough to give you a good tip, my dear, it is that you can always tell a
non-gardener by someone who smells a camellia. Because they don't smell."

The Duke thinks that Chatsworth will go down in history as "the home of a very
dim family, nothing more", and scoffs at the notion that it will be notorious as
the original trysting place for his friends Charles and Camilla, who met there
when their romance was still a secret. Should they marry?

"I give you the most unsatisfactory reply; no comment," he says, "but she is
very, very, very delightful. Very, very, very delightful. And he is perhaps not
the best of communicators, but a very good man."

Our time is up. The Duke looks down at his shoes. He despairs that they are not
nearly polished enough, although how can he see them? He stands up in all his
yellow-socked, Posh-loving, crocus-growing glory and says goodbye. He is, in
essence, the kind of man who is the only one to be shocked when he is described
as eccentric.

"Me! I am the most conventional man you could imagine. Why should I be called
eccentric? I am ordinary! And I really like to think that I am not quite the
freak that people expect."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               6 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 24, 2003

Comment & Analysis: This must be a sabotage operation: Endpiece: The Tory leader
is now forced to rely on ex-cronies of Shirley Porter

BYLINE: Roy Hattersley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 823 words


Perhaps I have spent too much time recently reviewing books about British
espionage operations during the second world war. Whatever the reason, I cannot
help speculating about the possibility that Iain Duncan Smith has been "planted"
on the Tories by the forces of reason and radicalism and instructed to make sure
the Conservative party never forms a government again. Most of the British
agents captured in occupied France were victims of over-confidence - aces of
sabotage so blatant that their true identities became obvious. How else is it
possible to explain the appointment of Barry Legg as the chief executive of the
Conservative party?

Mr Legg is a comparatively young man who became very rich very quickly. There is
nothing to complain about in that. Indeed, we should be impressed that, even as
he was acquiring his sudden wealth, he always made time for public service.
Councillor Legg was chief whip of the Conservative group, which controlled
Westminster local government under the leadership of Dame Shirley Porter.
Unfortunately, Dame Shirley will not be a guest at the party to celebrate his
appointment as Duncan Smith's right-hand man. She is in Israel, a fugitive from
the district auditor, who requires her to pay a surcharge of pounds 26.5m as the
penalty for attempting to secure re-election by selling council houses to
potential Tory voters.

It would be quite wrong to find the Tories' new chief executive guilty by
association with the perpetrators of what Lord Bingham, while he dismissed their
appeal against the surcharge, described as "a deliberate, blatant and dishonest
use of public power" - especially so since the district auditor absolved Legg of
wilful misconduct. But he is entitled to more than a footnote in the history of
the squalid affair. "I find as a fact," wrote the district auditor in his
report, "that councillor Legg knew it was wrong for the council to exercise its
powers in order to secure an increase in the number of likely Conservative votes
in marginal wards. In such circumstances, a member has a duty to speak up."

Is it possible that Duncan Smith - mesmerised by ex-councillor Legg's
Euroscepticism - had forgotten his new colleague's role in the homes-for-votes
scandal? Or does the new Tory leader regard turning a blind eye as an acceptable
response to the discovery of politically advantageous wrongdoing? And - public
morality aside - can the Tory leader really imagine that the other parties will
forget the position Legg occupied when Dame Shirley organised the biggest
political gerrymander in British history? Hundreds of council tenants were left
in damp and decaying tene ments because the houses that were rightfully theirs
were allocated to Tory sympathisers. Believe me, Legg's tenure as chief whip on
the Westminster city council will be mentioned during the next general election
campaign.

The Shirley Porter inheritance - hanging round Legg's neck like a slime-covered
millstone - will hugely prejudice the Tory party's reputation with the general
public. But the beauty of his appointment - at least from my point of view - is
that he will also cause mayhem within what is left of the Tory party. I have no
idea whether or not he was recruited in a way that violates the Tories'
constitution. And I have no doubt Duncan Smith's associates are right to
describe Theresa May - Legg's principal critic - as an "airhead". But, all that
said, what benefit does Duncan Smith believe he derives from surrounding himself
with UK Independence party sympathisers, who made life hell for John Major
during the dying days of the last Tory government?

Duncan Smith, who made his name by undermining his leader, relies on the cynical
message of John Harrington's epigram, "Treason doth never prosper: what's the
reason? For if it prosper none dare call it treason." But in modern politics -
believe it or not - men and women retain a residual loyalty to old heroes. The
brightest and best of the modern Tory party did not look upon Major with
unqualified awe or admiration. They recalled that he was the Thatcherite
leadership candidate whose mission was to save her party from One Nation
Conservatism. But they still deeply resent the way a handful of fanatical
anti-Europeans assiduously undermined him and brought down his government. Now,
thanks to Duncan Smith, those rebels occupy more and more power within the
party. It is as though, after 1979, Michael Foot had annointed the trade
unionists who refused to bury the Liverpool dead.

Duncan Smith was right, last Thursday, when he told the Today programme that the
political debate is not about the state of the Tory party. But that is only
because its prospects have already been written off. Legg's appointment merely
confirms that all Duncan Smith now hopes for is the loyalty of the section of
his party that exists outside mainstream British politics.

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 24, 2003

Media: Bring on the donkey: Tim Dowling reads a Conservative Central Office
memo: victory timetable (revised)

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: Guardian Media Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 407 words


March 5: Lurch towards right now complete. This particular lurch was not on the
old timetable, but it was essential to complete it quickly while IDS still
basking in unprecedented popularity. The new chief executive of the Conservative
party, Barry Legg, will announce IDS's decision to box Michael Portillo for
Comic Relief.

March 12: With Portillo still licking his wounds in hospital, Theresa May can
now be safely released. John Redwood becomes temporary party leader as IDS leads
special Tory mercenary force into Iraq, while Blair and Bush dither.

April 1: Redwood's Commons April Fool's prank makes Blair look humourless and
girly. Details still to be worked out, but we can count on John's impeccable
comic timing.

April 13: IDS returns from Iraq in triumph on Palm Sunday. The parade permits
are already pending. It's been suggested that IDS could ride down the Embankment
on a donkey, but many felt the symbolism would be a bit heavy-handed, and prone
to backfire. Anyway, the tank has already been hired.

May 1: Local election triumph. Vindication for IDS proposals to cut excessive
NHS funding. Big poll bounce.

June 23: Lurch back to the centre. By now we've just about caught up to the old
timetable. Legg, David Davis et al defect to UKIP as planned, paving the way for
Oliver Letwin's new hairstyle. IDS resumes "Quiet Man" mode to allow poll
numbers to mature and ripen. His usefulness outlived, Redwood is reabsorbed into
the Borg.

July 4: Portillo, still walking with a cane, makes a rare public appearance to
endorse IDS fully. We will need sharpshooters on all the adjacent roofs in case
he goes off-message, but let's sort that out nearer the time.

August 29: Announce lurch toward Europe. Don't worry, it's only a feint.

September 3: Lurch back, collect poll winnings.

October 5: Party conference. Announcement that William Hague is to be brought
back into shadow cabinet to inject much-needed glamour. They'll stop laughing
when they see his beard!

November 1- January 31: Complete silence - designed to unsettle the opposition.

February 3: IDS announces new range of policies: war on France, dismantling of
public transport system, etc. The corresponding sharp drop in the polls will
trick Blair into calling early election. Sacking Hague restores poll numbers.
Final lurch to right in tune with public mood.

May 1: General election triumph. Now it's donkey time.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 24, 2003, Monday

When all else fails, why not try a little loyalty?

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 1428 words


On February 6 I went to a television reception at the Reform Club. On the way
in, I met Michael Portillo, whom I have known for the past 15 years or so. In
2001 I supported him, though with some reservations, for the Conservative
leadership, and still think he could have won it with a more positive campaign.
We had a brief discussion about the proposed European Constitution. A little
later in the evening there was a buzz of conversation, with people saying that
Michael had been openly briefing against Iain Duncan Smith, and in favour of Ken
Clarke.

In the last week of January there was much talk among Tory MPs about an imminent
push against Iain Duncan Smith's leadership by supporters of Portillo and
Clarke.

It was said that they intended to operate the mechanism for removing the leader,
which initially requires the signatures of 25 Conservative MPs. If that process
succeeded in removing the old leader, Ken Clarke would have the support of the
Portillo forces in the ensuing election by the national membership.

In January there was some doubt whether the attempted coup against Iain Duncan
Smith would be tried after the May elections or would be brought forward to
March.

Recent public opinion polls have been moving against Labour in favour of the
Conservatives, and strongly in favour of the Liberal Democrats. The Labour lead
in Great Britain is down to 1 or 2 per cent. This means that the Conservatives
must be ahead in England. As a low local government turnout will favour the
Conservatives, the May results are likely to be good, and could be excellent.
The co-conspirators have therefore every motive to accelerate the attack on the
leader.

This was the situation which faced Iain Duncan Smith at the beginning of the
second week of February. No doubt he knew better than anyone what Michael
Portillo had been saying at the Reform Club and elsewhere, and what disaffected
MPs were saying at Westminster.

By that time, he had serious doubts about the loyalties of some members of
Conservative Central Office. The chief executive, Mark MacGregor, had been very
close to Portillo in previous campaigns, apparently including efforts before the
2001 general election to fill Conservative seats with Portillo supporters. It is
also alleged that MacGregor briefed against the previous chairman of the party,
David Davis, and influenced Duncan Smith in the serious blunder of sacking
Davis, thereby making a martyr of him.

Although there are some differences between modernisers and traditionalists, the
challenge to Duncan Smith is not primarily about policy. Portillo is a long term
Eurosceptic, critical of the Maastricht Treaty, though he was a member of the
Cabinet which signed it, and opposed Britain joining the single currency. He is
now trying to make Clarke the leader of the party, although Clarke was
pro-Maastricht and against a referendum, and is now in favour of joining the
euro and of the proposed federalist Constitution for Europe. The Clarke-Portillo
axis is a marriage of convenience between a Euro-fanatic and a Eurosceptic. On
the other side of the coin, Clarke, until a few weeks ago, had never shown much
interest in the gay rights issues which have preoccupied Portillo.

Duncan Smith decided that he had to get rid of the people in Central Office he
had come to distrust. In at least one case, his suspicions are generally thought
to have been unfounded. Stephen Gilbert was the director of field operations,
and is regarded as a loyal and efficient professional. However, Iain Duncan
Smith was plainly acting in self-defence. There had been far too much leaking
from Central Office; there certainly was a plot to remove the leader, which had
the support of Clarke, in his laid-back way, and of Portillo, in his more
obsessive way. There is still a real possibility that the 25 signatures will be
found; and that could be followed by a majority vote in the parliamentary party
to remove the leader.

Duncan Smith decided to circle the wagons; he was right to do so.

The initial reaction in the constituencies has been one of fury against the
conspirators; they are now the most unpopular plotters since Guy Fawkes. This
may well save Duncan Smith. Because he is a genial chap, who is well liked in
the party, Clarke is spared some of the blame. But Michael Portillo is amazingly
unpopular; he is widely regarded as a traitor to his party. He has, indeed, been
disloyal to three successive Conservative leaders; he plotted against John Major
while in his Cabinet, against William Hague while in his Shadow Cabinet, and is
now plotting against Iain Duncan Smith while in his parliamentary party. I do
not believe there is a single Conservative constituency for which he could now
secure the nomination; even in his own seat of Kensington and Chelsea there are
growing protests.

I do not myself expect that Iain Duncan Smith is ever going to be Prime
Minister.

Even if the Conservatives do extraordinarily well at the next election, and
deprive Labour of their overall majority, that would lead only to some form of
Lib-Lab administration. Duncan Smith should probably be regarded as an interim
figure, like Neil Kinnock in the Labour Party.

The question that Conservative MPs have to face is whether an early leadership
election would help or harm the party's recovery. At the present moment it would
probably produce a David Davis victory. Clarke is unelectable, because his
European views are too rigid and too extreme; if he became leader, a queue of
lesser mortals would follow the Dukes of Devonshire, Somerset and Rutland into
the embrace of the United Kingdom Independence Party. For every extra vote
Clarke could win, the split on Europe would lose five.

David Davis would, in my view, make rather a good leader, but he too would
probably be an interim figure. Why should Clarkeites and Portillistas want to
get rid of Duncan Smith in order to make Davis king? Davis would be more
ruthless than Duncan Smith.

The other plausible future leaders belong to the next generation, and to the
target of a Conservative victory in 2009. No one who leads in the election of
2005 is likely still to be leader four years later. There is a surprisingly good
choice of able Conservatives for the election after next.

The leader could be Theresa May. In 2009 she will be only 53; she has come well
out of this imbroglio, not of her making. It could be the gifted intellectual
Oliver Letwin, who will also be 53; William Hague himself, a resilient man and
an excellent speaker, will be only 48. It could be Bernard Jenkin or John
Whittingdale, who will be 50; Liam Fox, 48; David Ruffley, 47; Tim Collins or
Boris Johnson, 45; Andrew Rosindell or David Cameron, 43; or George Osborne,
whom some think the ablest of them all; he will still be a mere babe of 38. Most
of these are still little-known names, but the Conservatives actually have a lot
of parliamentary talent, which Duncan Smith has helped to encourage.

The problem of the Conservative Party is not lack of talent. That is coming
along nicely, though some of the once promising horses, such as John Bercow,
have proved in training not to be stayers.

The threats to the Conservative future are disunity and disloyalty. These vices
have deep roots. They can be traced back through the period of the Duncan Smith
leadership, through William Hague's, though Hague did a surprisingly good job of
reuniting the party on European policy, through John Major and the disaster of
Maastricht. Behind that there is the political assassination of Margaret
Thatcher, the Heseltine resignation, and the long, proud sulk of Ted Heath.
Through it all there has been the underlying and honourable disagreement about
European policy.

The Conservatives need a leader who can unite them. That will be the test. The
failures of the Labour Party will help over time. It would also help if Iain
Duncan Smith were more charismatic, but it is hard to be charismatic if one is
repeatedly undermined by disloyal colleagues. If Duncan Smith finally proves
unable to do the job, the Tories will have to move on to a more skilful
politician, better on television, better in the House. However, Iain Duncan
Smith will not quit before he is convinced that he, personally, cannot unite the
party.

Nor should he. The overwhelming message from ordinary Conservatives, who do not
see themselves as particularly right-wing or left-wing, as "trads" or "mods", is
"Give loyalty a chance".

Contribute to Debate via comment@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 23, 2003

Comment: Laugh? IDS has almost died: Iain Duncan Smith's gauche attempts to save
himself have only made a challenge to his leadership all the more probable

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley, Political Journalist of the Year

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1288 words


THERE ARE MANY self-help manuals by famous names that will never find a
publisher: How to Manage Your Anger by Sir Alex Ferguson, How to Improve Your
Man in Bed by Ann Widdecombe, and How to Gain Popularity and Win Respect by
William Hague. And yet I can't help wondering whether Mr Hague has not only
written just such a book, but found a devoted reader in the person of Iain
Duncan Smith.

Another spasm of self-generated convulsions about his leadership gives the
impression that IDS is a faithful student of the Hague method of political
strategy and party management.

Perhaps this shouldn't be so surprising. After all, IDS came to the job in very
similar circumstances to his predecessor. Mr Hague was made leader of the
Conservative Party because he was not Ken Clarke. Mr Duncan Smith was made
leader because he was not Ken Clarke and he was also not Michael Portillo. Being
essentially negative choices, this bred in both Mr Hague and Mr Duncan Smith a
feeling of deep insecurity which often manifests itself in awful judgment.

Like Mr Hague, Mr Duncan Smith did not have a clear idea of where he wanted to
take the Conservative Party. In his early months, he paddled water. Mr Hague
travelled around the country Listening to Britain. Mr Duncan Smith extended the
tour to include the Continent and went Listening to Europe. Like Mr Hague, Mr
Duncan Smith initially seemed to confound his pedigree as a Thatcherite by
heeding the advice of those who said that the Tories had to broaden their
appeal.

Just as Mr Hague made an appearance at the Notting Hill Carnival, so Mr Duncan
Smith played in a charity football match to raise funds for the Refugee Council.
Just as Mr Hague tried to relaunch the Tories as caring Conservatives, so Mr
Duncan Smith tried to rebrand them as the 'party of the vulnerable'.

THE MODERNISING tendency within the Tory party were pleasantly surprised that
IDS appeared to have embraced their strategy. The problem with the strategy was
that it needed lots of time. It was never likely to be an easy task to convince
many of its ageing members that the Conservative Party required fundamental
change; it was going to be even harder to convince the voters that the Tories
had transformed themselves into an inclusive and compassionate party.

Eighteen months into his leadership, Mr Hague feared that his time was up. He
was ridiculed. The Tories languished in the polls. Right-wingers who wanted a
more traditional approach were breathing down his neck. The leader became so
desperate that he agonised about resigning. What he instead did was to protect
himself from the Right by lurching over to them. He took up as his causes crime
and asylum; he threw aside caring Conservatism and clumsily brandished tax cuts.

At almost exactly the same stage of his leadership, Mr Duncan Smith has arrived
at almost precisely the same place. I don't know whether he has pondered
quitting, but there are plenty of reasons for him to be in a panic. The party is
doing a bit better in the polls than it did under Mr Hague, but IDS's personal
ratings are just as abysmal and will surely fall lower still after the debacle
of the past week.

In a close imitation of the Hague survival plan, IDS has returned to the
traditional right-wing themes which he and most of his party activists are much
more comfortable with than talking about public services and the vulnerable. He
is banging the drum for tax cuts and locking up asylum-seekers. Asked last week
on the Today programme whether the Tory party is 'a modernising party or are you
not?', Mr Duncan Smith starkly replied: 'No. What we are is a party that offers
an alternative to Labour.'

That was during the interview with John Humphrys in which the Tory leader
dropped his persona as the Quiet Man in favour of a new character whom we might
call the Ha Ha Man. He has even begun to adopt one of Mr Hague's techniques for
trying to fend off difficult questions, which is to pretend to find them funny.
Asked about the palpable divisions within the Tories, Mr Duncan Smith's eloquent
reply was: 'Ha ha ha ha.' Pressed about the commotions within Conservative
Central Office which he himself unleashed, he responded: 'Ha ha ha. . . this is
the most uninteresting subject that I can imagine.'

In one sense, Mr Duncan Smith is absolutely right about that. To the vast
majority of onlookers, it is utterly uninteresting, this latest outbreak of Tory
fratricide between politicians they don't care about over apparatchiks they have
never heard of. It is only meaningful to most voters as another reason not to
take the Conservatives seriously.

To Mr Duncan Smith himself, though, I take it that who runs Central Office must
be highly interesting. Otherwise, he would hardly have bothered going to all the
trouble and inviting all the strife of sacking his party's chief executive while
the man was on holiday in Paris. Inci dentally, firing people while they are out
of the country does seem to be a trait that IDS has made his own. The similarly
messy removal of David Davis as party chairman last summer was executed while he
was away on a fishing holiday in Florida.

Mr Davis was sacked because he was seen as a threat from the Thatcherite Right.
The purge of Portillistas on the staff at Central Office and the spinning that
Theresa May will shortly follow them also flows from the leader's fears about
his own survival.

I used to hear the same complaints from members of the Shadow Cabinet about
William Hague - that he had descended into a bunker of paranoia and bolted the
hatch - I now hear about Iain Duncan Smith. Barry Legg, the ex-MP he wants to
implant at Tory party HQ, is a right-winger of such an extreme europhobic
persuasion that he has had to deny that he flirted with defection to the UK
Independence Party.

What recommends him to IDS, if virtually no one else, is that Mr Legg is an old
comrade of the guerrilla campaign against the Maastricht Treaty. John Redwood,
with whom his relations went off when Mr Duncan Smith didn't offer him a job
which met Mr Redwood's expectations, is said to be favoured for a return to a
prominent position in the Shadow Cabinet.

Just like William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith is trying to protect his right-wing
flank by moving to the Right and surrounding himself with right-wingers. Just
like Mr Hague, he sees a plot in every corner. Not all of these conspiracies are
products of his imagination. Just because he is paranoid doesn't mean that a lot
of Tory MPs aren't out to get him. Just like Mr Hague, the man he is most
paranoid about is Michael Portillo.

THE MANNER in which he struck out at the Portillistas made it inevitable that
there would be a counterattack. Mr Portillo's lacerating onslaught on IDS as a
silly and small leader is a call to arms to other Tory modernisers who are
aghast about what a retreat into a narrow laager will do for their prospects at
the next general election.

The election that transfixes Mr Duncan Smith is much nearer to hand; the
election that he has long known might seal his fate is the May vote for local
councils. Various factions of Tory MPs have been plotting for months to use a
poor result in that poll as the trigger for getting rid of him.

His botched attempts to protect himself have made a challenge not less likely,
but all the more so. When Tory MPs return to Westminster tomorrow, a large
number of them will be divided between those who think they should attempt to
remove Iain Duncan Smith in May - and those who think they can't afford to wait
that long.

a.rawnsley@observer.co.uk

More on the Conservatives. Can they recover? Have your say online
ww.observer.co.uk/tories


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               10 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           February 23, 2003, Sunday

Spoiling for a fight

BYLINE: Eden Black

SECTION: Features; News; 10

LENGTH: 1761 words


It was supposed to be a quick and professional St Valentine's Day massacre. A
week and a half ago, Iain Duncan Smith secretly met three trusted confidants and
concocted a master plan to consolidate his control of the Conservative party.

The aim was to reduce the influence of "modernisers" within the party apparatus.

The day for the blood-letting was to be Friday, February 14.

Rarely has a Tory purge been so badly botched. Tomorrow, when Conservative MPs
return to the House of Commons after a half-term break, Duncan Smith will be
fighting for his political career.

In the wake of a deadly attack by Michael Portillo, the Terminator of the modern
Tory party, Conservative MPs are already making plans to collect the 25
signatures that are needed to launch a formal challenge to Duncan Smith's
leadership.

This should have been the week when a reinvigorated Tory party went on the
offensive against the increasingly embattled and unpopular government. Instead
the Conservatives are again at each other's throats.

The battle between the "mods" (the Portillistas) and the "rockers" (the Duncan
Smith gang of back-to-grass-roots Tories) is now out in the open. How has
everything gone so wrong?

THE three men implicated with Duncan Smith in the debacle are Paul Baverstock,
the party's new director of communications, Barry Legg, the right-wing former
Conservative MP for Milton Keynes, and Owen Patterson, IDS's parliamentary
private secretary and closest aide.

Baverstock used to work for Lord Bell, the Tory image-maker, who is reported to
have been telling Duncan Smith that a clear right-wing message would win voters
back to the Conservative fold. Legg is an old comrade- in-arms from Duncan
Smith's long fight against the Maastricht treaty during the John Major
government.

Ten days ago Duncan Smith summoned them to his oak-panelled office off Speaker's
Court at the House of Commons. According to party sources, he insisted on not
meeting at Conservative Central Office in Smith Square because it was run by the
"enemy".

Theresa May, his choice as party chairman only six months ago, was not trusted
by the IDS camp. But it was worse than that. The leader's private staff,
previously regarded as a bastion of loyalty, were now also under suspicion.
Party sources say Duncan Smith told friends that he feared Dr Vanessa Gearson,
the head of his private office, and Rebecca Layton, the deputy head, might be
unreliable.

One Central Office insider said: "To suggest that two highly discreet and
trustworthy people like Vanessa and Rebecca could conspire against Iain is
crazy.

If he thinks that, then his judgment has gone haywire."

The reason for the secrecy soon became clear. Duncan Smith wanted to sack two
key Central Office modernisers who were branded as unreliable because of their
past support for Portillo.

With local government elections due in May - a vital test of Tory popularity -
Duncan Smith was desperate to pre-empt a bad result and any subsequent attempts
to remove him by ensuring that only loyalists remained in important positions
within the party.

It was time to stop dallying with the left and return to his own "traditional"
Toryism. That would not only put clear blue water between the Conservatives and
Labour but also attract back disaffected party traditionalists who had drifted
into the right-wing camp of David Davis, the shadow deputy prime minister.

The first name to be axed was Mark MacGregor, chief executive of the party. He
was widely regarded as having performed well since IDS appointed him in 2001.
But he had been a central figure in Portillo's camp, which made him a potential
traitor.

Next was Rick Nye, director of research. As a former member of the SDP and aide
to David Owen, he was a natural candidate for the chop.

Bizarrely, a third much less contentious figure, Stephen Gilbert, was also lined
up. He was never a political activist but, as director of field operations, was
responsible for running elections. He was also widely admired for his technical
ability and his dedication to the party.

Having worked for the Tories for 15 years under four different leaders, he was
an unlikely candidate for a factional purge. But his civil servant demeanour and
quiet objectivity had aroused IDS's suspicions. The Tory leader told allies that
he thought Gilbert did not like him.

Baverstock pointed out the blow to morale if Tory councillors and activists
discovered that the man who was supposed to be organising the Conservative
campaign for the May 1 council elections had been removed. But IDS was adamant.
As a concession he agreed to a generous pay-off for Gilbert if he agreed to stay
until the day of the elections - and to tell nobody of his sacking.

Duncan Smith was determined to put someone he could trust into Central Office.

That was to be Legg's role. The Tory leader asked him to become both chief
executive and chief of staff. As a co-supporter of John Redwood's failed
leadership bid against Major, Legg was an ideological soulmate. He accepted with
enthusiasm.

The meeting over, IDS telephoned the party treasurer, the formidable Sir Stanley
Kalms, former boss of Dixons. Kalms initially resisted the plan, pointing out
that Legg's combined role was highly unorthodox and that the redundancy packages
would cost a lot of money. Duncan Smith insisted and asked Kalms to meet
MacGregor and fire him.

The Tory leader wanted a meticulously conducted purge to take place in Central
Office on the morning of February 14.

He thought that the combination of the start of the parliamentary recess and the
domination of the news agenda by Hans Blix's latest report on Iraq to the United
Nations would ensure that it was, in Jo Moore's infamous phrase, "a good day to
bury bad news".

Things went wrong almost at once. In a situation eerily reminiscent of Duncan
Smith's botched sacking of Davis as party chairman last summer, MacGregor was on
holiday. Nobody had bothered to check if those being fired were to be in the
building on the chosen day.

MacGregor was tracked down to a hotel in Paris where he was taking what he
thought was a well-earned break. Kalms ordered him back to London for a "crucial
meeting".

MacGregor demanded to know what it was about and, when Kalms explained, refused
point-blank.

Instead, he negotiated a redundancy package and then called Steve Norris, the
Tory candidate for London mayor, who promptly appointed him as director of his
campaign.

Meanwhile, Duncan Smith had broken the bad news to Gilbert and Nye. Nye accepted
his fate with weary resignation but Gilbert was devastated. Observers said he
looked as if he had suffered a bereavement.

As news of the clearout started to spread, the reaction was not what IDS had
expected. The Tories' ruling body, the party board, is constitutionally
responsible for hiring and firing staff. It had not been consulted. Most of its
membership consists of the leaders of the voluntary wing of the party. The
activists were outraged at what they saw as a clear breach of the constitution.

Many MPs, hoping to enjoy a quiet holiday from Westminster, were horrified at
the decision to appoint Legg to such a powerful post. Not only had he been
embroiled in Dame Shirley Porter's "Homes for Votes" scandal at Westminster
council, but a number of his former parliamentary colleagues had heard rumours
that he had recently been on the point of defecting to the United Kingdom
Independence party (which he denies).

Senior party figures called Central Office to air views that, according to one
Tory aide, ranged from the concerned to the unprintable.

There was further outrage at evidence of a whispering campaign against May, who
had been informed but not consulted about the sackings.

One MP, previously critical of her, said: "For Iain to make major changes at
Central Office without fully involving her was unprofessional, but to allow his
most trusted lieutenants to brief against her is unforgivable."

There was disbelief last Thursday when Duncan Smith tried to play down the
significance of the sackings by chortling his way through an interview on the
Today programme - and despair that evening when he attempted to please an
audience of Sunderland businessmen by praising Newcastle United football club.

The chance was too much for Portillo to miss. In an astonishing outburst on
radio - markedly more deadly than Duncan Smith's - he accused the Tory leader of
trying to make himself appear taller in the eyes of the public by surrounding
himself with "short grasses" rather than talented people who might disagree with
him.

He added disingenuously: "I cannot figure out what is going on at Central
Office.

I would be very pleased if anyone could tell me. All I have seen really during
the past few days is what appear to be self-inflicted wounds and our party
plunged back into crisis, and I'm sorry about that."

Duncan Smith's supporters were dismissive, accusing Portillo of a simple desire
to stay in the news to further his burgeoning media career.

YESTERDAY, however, Tim Yeo, the shadow trade and industry secretary, added his
voice: "Certainly Michael (Portillo) is right and we have had a poor week and
there are divisions in the party. The verdict on all this and on Iain's
leadership will be on May 1, when we have got elections to councils all over
Britain."

Duncan Smith is insisting to friends that he is in command and intends to remain
so, telling colleagues: "I have never been more confident in what I am doing and
that I am the right person to do it."

However, he is now faced with dislike, personal and political, wherever he
turns.

Like Major, he is viewed by many in his own party as "part-buffoon, part
bastard".

There will be a crucial meeting of the Tory backbench 1922 committee on
Wednesday evening. Many MPs intend to vent their anger at what they regard as
Duncan Smith's gross incompetence. If it goes badly, the leadership could be
there for the taking.

Kenneth Clarke and Davis are considered the most likely candidates. Were Clarke
to challenge successfully, there are suspicions that Portillo would be happy to
become his deputy. But there is no certainty that Clarke would stand.

For his part, Davis has said he will never stand against Duncan Smith. But if
the leader loses a vote of no- confidence first, then he does not have to. The
silence from Davis since the crisis began is perhaps the best indication of
where his ambition lies.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           February 23, 2003, Sunday

IDS laughs and all we hear is a death rattle

BYLINE: Ferdinand Mount

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 1121 words


Are we being too hard on Iain Duncan Smith? Shouldn't we make allowances for the
dreadful situation he inherited? Have we forgotten how Ted Heath and Margaret
Thatcher in their early days as leader of the opposition were regularly
dismissed as useless and unlikely to last the next few months?

These questions are kindly meant but the answer to them is "No". Once again last
week IDS demonstrated that his gift for making the worst of a bad job is unique.
Having appointed Theresa May as party chairman to offer a more cheerful face, he
then sets about undermining her just as he did her predecessor David Davis. He
sacks the high command at Central Office without even consulting her. And when
asked on the Today programme to explain what he is up to, he laughs.

The laugh was the worst bit.

It was not one of those self- confident chuckles that old-style Tory leaders
such as Peter Thorneycroft or Reggie Maudling used to emit when asked a tricky
question. "I say, that's a rum'un," they would chortle and gently deflect the
question before toddling off for lunch.

This was a manic, computer-generated cackle which went on and on and on like the
old record of the laughing policeman. There was a terrible despairing
mirthlessness about it.

A man who thinks that such a laugh will inspire confidence is also a man who
would think it a masterstroke to appoint as his chief of staff an MP who, like
IDS himself, tore the party apart over Maastricht, who may or may not have
thought about defecting to the UK Independence party and who was a close
associate of Dame Shirley Porter - thus recalling in one person all the most
dreadful recent episodes of the Conservative party's history.

Michael Portillo is thought to have spoken out of turn in calling this "a
narrowing of the party". I would say that's putting it mildly. It looks to me
like self-inflicted arteriosclerosis.

People babble on about modernisers and traditionalists. But what Mr Duncan Smith
has so far conspicuously failed to show are the basic skills of leadership:
learning to work with people he is not greatly in sympathy with; deciding on a
message and then sticking to it; showing loyalty to the people he has appointed
- in short, those officer-like qualities which ought to come naturally to him.

Oh, and don't laugh if you want to be taken seriously or, at any rate, do recall
the instructions of George Robey, the great music hall comedian otherwise known
as the "Prime Minister of Mirth": "Temper your hilarity with a modicum of
reserve."

For as in Disraeli's day: "The British people, being subject to fogs and
possessing a powerful middle class, require grave statesmen."

The brutal reality is that, as long as IDS leads the Conservative party, Tony
Blair looks fairly safe. In any other circumstances, you would surely expect the
prime minister to be 10 points behind in the polls by now. After all, the Labour
party is a hollowed-out and disenchanted version of its former greatness. Its
government is embarked on a vast programme of tax-and-spend which is beginning
to look unsustainable and a war which, however just it may be, arouses sharp
anxieties in millions of voters. And its one unquestionable asset, the prime
minister himself, is beginning to feel the strain.

Playing the Glasgow Empire theatre on a wet Monday night used to be regarded as
the toughest proposition for a stand-up performer. But winning over the Labour
party local government conference on a chilly Glasgow morning in February must
run it close. Mr Blair poured all his eloquence into the case for dealing with
Saddam Hussein but found only a dutiful echo.

And even when he turned to the home front, he found it hard to lift the
audience. With a hint of desperation he departed from his script to remind them
that under Labour from now on the share of national income going to the public
services would increase each and every year. But even this vision of tax rises
from here to eternity did not seem to stir them much.

Those tax rises which seemed so far off when Gordon Brown announced them in his
budget a year ago are looming menaces now. From April our National Insurance
contributions go up. The threshold at which we start paying them stays frozen
and so do our income tax personal allowances - the usual weaselly ways that
chancellors seek to extract the cash without our noticing.

These tax increases were at least announced in the budget. But what about the
horrendous new rises in council tax: 27% in Croydon, 16.6% in Shropshire, 18.2%
in Ipswich?

The rises will be a little lower in the north, it is true, because Labour has
revamped the formula to load it against the south. But even so, people in
Barrow-in- Furness will be paying an extra 12%, in Middlesbrough 12.5%, in
Stoke-on-Trent 12.9%. All this is a long way above the average 7.2% that Mr
Brown foresaw in his pre-budget report last November.

Will his sums add up at all? The CBI, like other forecasters, last week
prophesied that because economic growth won't measure up to Treasury
expectation, Mr Brown will have to borrow a lot more, perhaps as much as Pounds
13 billion over the next two years. Already the chancellor's own projections
reveal that taxes and social security contributions are planned to rise as a
percentage of gross domestic product from a low point of 33% in l993-94 to 39%
in two years' time.

Despite all this, Labour's supporters are egging the party on to introduce even
more new taxes. Why not slap taxes on aviation fuel and put Vat on air tickets
to stop what Dame Edna calls "the paupies" from polluting the skies with their
cheap package holidays?

The Fabian Society wants to put up inheritance tax to pay for state creches. And
Ken Livingstone, fresh from his triumph of making central London at least
temporarily a ghost city, is urging that his congestion charge be extended first
to the outer London boroughs and then to the whole country.

Never was there a greater need for an opposition party to articulate the dangers
of overtaxing and throwing away the gains that the country has made over the
past two decades. I am delighted that Mr Duncan Smith is talking so
enthusiastically again about tax cuts, but unless he learns the arts of party
management he will give an excellent cause a bad name.

For more than 10 years now the Conservatives have been flatlining in the polls
and remain the only opposition since Dr George Gallup started polling us in the
late 1930s never to have menaced the 40% mark. Most of the time they have
struggled unsuccessfully to reach 35%.

There is no sign that any of this will change under the present management. And
that is no laughing matter.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           February 23, 2003, Sunday

Who will have the last laugh?

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN AND FRANCIS ELLIOTT

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1844 words

The members of the Board of the Conservative Party waited on the green benches
in the echoing Central Lobby of the House of Commons, barely able to contain
their anger. They were about to light a fuse which could yet lead to the
deposition of their party's leader.

Though its existence is little-known outside the Conservative Party, the board
is officially its ruling council, with a duty to oversee its smooth management.
Without consulting its members, Iain Duncan Smith had sacked Mark MacGregor as
the party's chief executive, and appointed, Barry Legg, a close friend of the
Tory leader and, like him, a former Maastricht rebel, to that role and as his
personal chief of staff. Deeply aggrieved with Mr Duncan Smith for this
perceived slight, the board's members demanded an urgent meeting with Theresa
May, the party chairman.

As speculation mounted that her own head was on the block, Mrs May had relocated
the meeting from Conservative Central Office to the more discreet setting of the
Opposition leader's office at the House of Commons, to avoid the press on the
doorstep of the party headquarters. The small group was ushered into an
ante-room behind the Speaker's chair, and gave vent to their anger about the
debacle. Among those present were leaders of the Conservative National
Convention, the party's voluntary sector - John Taylor, its chairman, Caroline
Abel Smith, its president, and Don Porter and Richard Stephenson, both
vice-presidents.

Mrs May was accompanied by two of the party's paid officials, Chris Poole and
Stephen Gilbert, and Lord Trefgarne, the chairman of the Association of
Conservative Peers.

One board member accused Mr Duncan Smith of "riding roughshod" over the party's
constitution. Another said that appointing Mr Legg to two roles was "totally
unacceptable". Lord Trefgarne, who represents peers on the party's ruling body,
said he felt that Mr Duncan Smith had acted with inexplicable high-handedness.

"It's not so much who Iain got rid of, it was the way in which it was done and
what he has replaced them with," said one member of the board at the meeting.
"He can have whoever he likes in his private office: the chief executive is our
responsibility."

The board members had a second grave charge against the absent leader - that he
was deliberately destabilising Mrs May. "We told her that she had our 100 per
cent support. She was left in no doubt of our reaction should she be fired," one
member later said.

The party chairman was in an impossible position - faced with an incipient
rebellion against her boss, but also the subject of intense speculation herself,
she assured the board that she would pass on its demands (notably that Mr Duncan
Smith make a public statement of confidence in her chairmanship). But she was
careful not to take sides.

"If that room had been bugged, Iain would have nothing to reproach her with. She
handled it very well," said a senior party figure.

The bespectacled Mr MacGregor, 41, had been described by Mr Duncan Smith when he
was appointed in the summer of 2001 as "young" and "sharp", with "a brilliant
mind". The former Tory candidate quickly established himself as one of the
leading "modernisers" in Central Office, acting beyond his narrow brief as the
party's chief operational manager by pushing for policy and presentation changes
to make the Tories more appealing, welcoming and "socially inclusive". Under his
direction, the Tories began to espouse support for the vulnerable, and to soften
their view of the traditional family to avoid alienating homosexuals and lone
parents.

His energy and impatience with dissent quickly established Mr MacGregor as a
hate figure for Tories who disagreed with the "modernising" agenda. Last year in
The Sunday Telegraph, Lord Tebbit, whom Mr Duncan Smith succeeded as Tory MP for
Chingford in 1992, became the first to call publicly for the sacking of Mr
MacGregor as one of the "spotty youths" who had taken over the Tory Party's
headquarters. From that moment, Mr MacGregor's survival in his post became
totemic: he was safe - as long as Mr Duncan Smith believed in the modernising
"project" he so vociferously championed.

In November, the tide turned with the internal party row over gay adoption, and
Mr Duncan Smith's "unite or die" challenge to the rebellious modernisers -
notably his defeated rival for the leadership, Michael Portillo. Mr MacGregor
was blamed by many traditionalists for the exclusion in January from the party's
shortlist for London Mayor of Nikki Page, a former model and long-time aide to
John Redwood who had become a media darling.

Meanwhile, Mr Duncan Smith was becoming convinced that he had to change
direction and return to the traditional Tory terrain of tax cutting, law and
order, asylum and Euroscepticism. He pencilled in the half-term break for a
purge of Central Office: Mr MacGregor would go, along with Rick Nye, the former
SDP activist and highly regarded head of the Tory policy unit.

Mrs May had been kept in the dark until the night before Mr MacGregor was
sacked. The news was delivered to Mr MacGregor by Sir Stanley Kalms, the party
treasurer, who reached him by telephone at a hotel in Paris. Mr MacGregor said
he had no intention of cutting short his trip and asked Sir Stanley to impart
whatever news he had over the telephone. Sir Stanley, the notoriously tough
former chief of Dixons, told him bluntly that he was fired. .

The announcement had been slipped out under cover of the Blix report that day to
the United Nations, as MPs were packing their bags for their half-term break. It
was a technique that Mr Duncan Smith had used before, timing his sacking last
year of David Davis as his party chairman while Mr Davis was on holiday in
Florida.

Mr MacGregor's departure barely registered in the newspapers last Saturday, but
Mr Portillo fired his opening salvo last weekend in The Sunday Telegraph.
Expressing deep disappointment, he described Mr MacGregor and Mr Nye as "two of
the most talented people that the party has ever employed". To drive home the
point, he added: "Their achievements will be badly missed."

Together they had played a central role in the two keynote "modernising"
speeches at last year's annual conference. Mr Nye, who had worked under William
Hague, had helped to draft Mr Duncan Smith's defiant "quiet man" speech. Mr
MacGregor, meanwhile, had been responsible for Mrs May's speech, which admitted
that some people saw the Tories as the "nasty party" - daring remarks which were
intended as a break with the past.

Mr Duncan Smith had been in the hall to lend his backing to her remarks, and
praised the speech explicitly in his own conference address. However, many in
the hall resented the implication that they were "nasty", and felt that Mrs May
was doing Labour's work for it. The response unsettled the Conservative leader
and, according to members of his shadow Cabinet, the leader's allies began to
question Mrs May's ability behind her back. "There has been dissatisfaction with
her in IDS's inner circle," said one shadow Cabinet member. "They have been
saying Theresa seems out of touch."

A close ally of Mr Duncan Smith said: "There was a lot of resentment about
Theresa's speech. The only thing that will be remembered when she goes is her
shoes, and her 'nasty' speech."

With Mr MacGregor gone, attention turned to Mrs May's own chances of survival -
and to Mr Duncan Smith's. He was advised by his press team to laugh off the
inevitable questions about leadership when he appeared on the BBC's Today
programme last week. But his giggling performance merely compounded the problem.

"He sounded paranoid but they are out to get him," remarked one Tory MP. A
former Cabinet minister compared the embattled Mr Duncan Smith to Saddam
Hussein: "They cannot find a smoking gun, but they will still finish him off."

If the departure of Mr MacGregor was bound to trigger factional mayhem, the
arrival of Mr Legg focused attention upon Mr Duncan Smith's judgment no less
inevitably. Former whips in the Major Government began a smear campaign of
whispers against Mr Legg, who was on their list of troublemakers. Roger Knapman,
the leader of the UK Independence Party, told The Sunday Telegraph that he had
privately discussed Mr Legg's defection to UKIP (which Mr Legg denies) after
Michael Ancram, the then party chairman, had allegedly helped to block Mr Legg's
inclusion on the candidates' list for a new seat. Mr Ancram said last night:
"Maybe - I don't have any recollection of it." Mr Legg's memory is clearer,
which poses the question: how will the new chief executive work with a deputy
leader who once thought him unfit to be a Tory candidate let alone to run the
entire party?

The board now proposes to block Mr Legg's appointment as chief executive. But
for Tory MPs returning to the Commons this week, the stakes have risen much
higher than the fate of one Tory official. In an outburst that left many Tories
speechless, Mr Portillo declared open war on the party leader on the BBC's World
at One on Friday. "To surround yourself with lesser people and with people who
agree with you is not a sign of strength." He added: "You don't look tall if you
surround yourself by short grasses."

A former Cabinet minister who knows Mr Portillo well said: "Michael knew exactly
what he was doing. He knows he can't be in the next leadership race. But he was
damn sure he was going to be the one to fire the starter's pistol".

Mr Portillo's intervention invited instant comparisons with Geoffrey Howe's
resignation speech in the Commons in 1990, which sealed Margaret Thatcher's
fate. The difference is that, 13 years ago, it was obvious that Sir Geoffrey was
calling upon Michael Heseltine to stand against Mrs Thatcher. It is much less
clear who Mr Portillo expects - or wants - to replace Mr Duncan Smith. Kenneth
Clarke's friends despair at his refusal to compromise on Europe. Meanwhile,
David Davis is biding his time.

But there is no doubt that the Tory sharks scent blood in the water. If Mr
Duncan Smith was shocked by Mr Portillo's remarks, he must have been dismayed by
the contribution of his own team members on yesterday's BBC Today programme. Far
from lambasting Mr Portillo, Tim Yeo, the Shadow Trade and Industry Secretary,
said that "Michael is right that we've had a poor week" and agreed that "we're
not yet providing the Opposition that Britain needs".

Worse, Mr Yeo effectively declared his own boss to be on probation until the May
local elections. "It will be quite proper then to analyse those results and if
the Conservative Party has not made net gains on May 1 then of course there will
be searching questions at the inquest afterwards," he said with silken menace.
Later on the programme, Mr Ancram could muster no more enthusiasm for Mr Duncan
Smith than to say that he expected him to gain "favourable" results in the next
general election.

"Talk about damning with faint praise," said one former Tory minister yesterday.
"With allies like these, who needs enemies?"

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               13 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 22, 2003, Saturday

Disgruntled dukes sign up for the upper-class party

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 254 words

It's been a dark old week for the Tories. First, in spite of a fast-improving
position in the opinion polls, party leader Iain Duncan Smith got rid of two key
aides. A clutch of disobliging headlines ensued.

Now, I hear that the Duke of Devonshire - a Conservative minister under Harold
Macmillan - has decided to join the UK Independence Party, along with two fellow
dukes, Rutland and Somerset. All three will act as UKIP "patrons", heading up a
fund-raising drive for next year's European elections.

"This country is losing more and more sovereignty to Europe," a defiant
Devonshire tells me from his Chatsworth seat. "As a result, I'm very keen to
support UKIP. I just don't want to see all of our decision-making transferred to
Brussels. How can we trust them (Europeans), when we see things like Mugabe
being wined and dined in Paris? I don't think that we'll win as many seats as
the Conservatives or Labour, but I should think we will perhaps get more than
the Liberal Democrats."

UKIP is adapting remarkably quickly to its position as the party of the upper
classes. "Few people understand Britain, especially rural Britain, in the way
that the dukes do," coos party leader Roger Knapman. "I am delighted to welcome
their graces to the only party that sees a free, independent future for the UK
outside of the European Union."

Knapman adds, without any prompting: "The UK Independence Party is a very
inclusive party, though - anyone's welcome, not just aristocrats."
[PS]Features: [ES]

Comment:

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               14 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 22, 2003

Tories in turmoil: Week of the long knives for beleaguered Duncan Smith:
Leadership crisis: No laughing matter as Portillo piles on the agony

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1153 words


A week has proved a long time in politics for Iain Duncan Smith:

Friday, February 14

With the eyes of the political world on New York and the United Nations security
council, Iain Duncan Smith executed a St Valentine's Day mini-massacre in
Conservative central office.

Two prominent supporters of Michael Portillo, Tory chief executive Mark
MacGregor and head of policy Rick Nye, were ousted.

Promoted to chief of staff was Barry Legg, a very right-wing Eurosceptic former
MP, as Duncan Smith stamped his traditionalist Toryism on the party HQ and
angered the modernisers.

Perhaps the Tory leader had been emboldened by an opinion poll four days earlier
in the Times, which, although disputed, put the Conservatives within touching
distance of Labour - just one point adrift - for the first time in Duncan
Smith's reign.

Burly Mike Penning, Duncan Smith's spin doctor, wandered round an almost
deserted Palace of Westminster at 4.30pm to slip out the central office changes
with a minimum of publicity.

Hans Blix had just sat down and Dominique de Villepin, the French foreign
minister, had just started an electrifying speech when Penning attempted to bury
what was to turn out to be bad news for his boss.

Most members of the shadow cabinet, as well as MPs in their constituencies
during the half-term recess, heard of the shake-up through the media.

Sunday, February 16

Portillo, smarting from an attack on his people and his policies, hit back in
the Sunday Telegraph by sticking in the knife.

MacGregor, who is to direct Steve Nor ris's campaign to be a Tory mayor of
London, and Nye were heavily praised by the beaten Conservative leadership
contender as "two of the most talented people the party has ever employed, their
achievements will be badly missed."

Duncan Smith hit back on the BBC's Politics Show. Asked about Portillo's praise
for the ousted modernisers, the Tory leader replied tetchily: "Internal changes
at central office are matters for the Conservative party.

"Of course people may go who are talented . . . I think the important thing for
us to recognise is that these matters do not concern the British people. They
are not interested in what goes on in central office."

Tuesday, February 18

The first evidence that this was more than another Duncan Smith-Portillo spat
burst into public with the jaw-dropping claim that the Tory leader was proposing
to sack Theresa May as party chairman.

A row had developed into a crisis with the disclosure in the Guardian and Daily
Telegraph that May, the kitten-heeled moderniser who warned last year's
Conservative conference they were viewed as "the nasty party", was on a
hit-list.

May, who backed Portillo for the lead ership, was said to be furious because she
was not told of the Friday departures until late on the Thursday despite being
MacGregor's and Nye's boss.

Duncan Smith was said to be "gunning for her" and his allies spoke of a "loss of
trust" between the party's leader and its chairman. The lurch to the right was
to be crowned by the return of John Redwood to the shadow front bench and
possibly even as chairman in succession to May.

An exasperated Tory was quoted in the Guardian: "Iain has done this because of
his paranoia that Portillo's people are out to get him. "He is making the same
mistakes as William(Hague) - seeing plots where there is none."

Wednesday, February 19

Chaos in Smith Square as senior figures make clear their alarm at the direction
Duncan Smith is taking the party and their concern at the heavy-handed way in
which he imposed his will.

At a secret meeting of members of the party's ruling board in central office,
May is told by supporters that she has been "treated with contempt" by Duncan
Smith. His staff claim there was no formal meeting as it emerges there was talk
of moving a vote of no confidence in the leaders.

Relations are said to be incredibly poor and Duncan Smith, in Brussels for a
session with Euro MPs, endures a broadside from John Taylor, chairman of the
Conservative National Convention. Louder is the silence from David Davis and Ken
Clarke, likely leadership contenders from the right and the left of the Tory
party.

Thursday, February 20

Things go from bad to worse as the Guardian reveals that Legg, Duncan Smith's
new chief of staff, considered defecting from the Conservative party to the UK
independence party shortly before the last general election.

Duncan Smith intends to restore the Tories as a tax cutting party by announcing
that it would scrap Labour's plan to raise national insurance by 1% in April to
fund big rises in NHS spending. But his day gets off to an odd start with a
bizarre barrage of chuckles, giggles and bursts of laughter during an interview
on the Today programme with John Humphrys.

As the BBC's inquisitor-in-chief quizzed the leader of the official opposition
about the state of the Tory party, Duncan Smith left listeners bemused.

Humphrys: "Let's clear it up. Are you a tax-cutting party?"

Duncan Smith: "No, no, no, let's not clear that up. Let's clear up where the
Conservative party is . . ."

Humphrys: "What is important is what is happening inside the Conservative party
if it is leading to divisions."

Duncan Smith: "Ha, ha, ha, ha."

Humphrys: "I don't know whether you genuinely find it amusing or whether it's
driving you to distraction."

Duncan Smith: "Ha ha ha . . . this is the most uninteresting subject that I can
imagine."

Humphrys: "Are you a modernising party, or are you not?"

Duncan Smith: "No. What we are is a party that offers an alternative to Labour .
. . It's not some notional Wesminster debate about whether this is a moderniser
or a traditionalist. That's why any story on the other is an irrelevance."

Humphrys: "But it isn't an irrelevance."

Duncan Smith: "Oh, come on . . . ha, ha."

Humphrys: "This is a very serious point."

Duncan Smith: "Oh, is it? I'll take your word for it, John."

The Tory leader's woes were not over. In Washington, part of the City of
Sunderland, he appeared to think he was eight miles away on the River Tyne.
"It's great privilege to be here in Newcastle," he declared wrongly before
compounding his error by praising Newcastle's football team in front of an
audience of supporters of arch-rivals Sunderland.

May is forced to deny that she threatened to resign. Portillo later twists the
knife, warning: "All I have seen over the last few days is a series of
self-inflicted wounds and our party plunged back into crisis and I'm sorry about
that."

Yesterday

Portillo goes for Duncan Smith's jugular with a declaration of war.

May, he said, was in an "impossible" position, as he exposed the civil war at
the heart of the Conservative party. Duncan Smith's allies are plotting their
revenge on Portillo, as Clarke and Davis wait in the wings.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 22, 2003

Tories in turmoil: Clarke wary of challenge as plot talk sweeps party: Former
chancellor's allies urge him to make final bid for leadership

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 737 words


Tory MPs, who have been scattered round the globe on winter sunshine breaks over
the past week, will have one thought on their minds when they return to
Westminster on Monday. Has the explosive intervention by Michael Portillo
provided enough cover for Iain Duncan Smith's opponents to overthrow the Tory
leader?

At a purely technical level, a leadership contest is easy to organise. Unlike
the days of Margaret Thatcher, when a can didate had to mount a challenge,
opponents now only need to gather the signatures of 25 MPs. This would trigger a
vote of confidence which, in the present circumstances, Mr Duncan Smith would
probably lose.

At least 50 MPs would dearly love to sign such a letter. But they have been
reluctant to act for fear of provoking a split with the grassroots, which could
make them vulnerable to challenges in their constituencies.

Opponents of Mr Duncan Smith believe two factors may change the MPs'
calculations. Mr Portillo's intervention was so damaging that they now feel
emboldened to act. And in a potentially more significant development, they may
now feel they have been provided with cover by key members of the grassroots. At
least three members of the party's governing board are so disgusted by Mr Duncan
Smith's "high handed behaviour" that they are said to be close to resigning.

Should Mr Duncan Smith fall, the frontrunner to succeed him would be the former
chancellor, Kenneth Clarke. It is likely Mr Clarke would form a "dream ticket"
with Mr Portillo as his deputy.

Friends of Mr Duncan Smith are convinced the two men have been plotting and came
close to overthrowing the Tory leader last autumn. But Mr Clarke is still
undecided whether to stand.

It is understood the former chancellor fears he could face a rerun of the 2001
leadership contest, where he won at Westminster only to be trounced in the
country by a candidate from the right.

"Ken is very wary," a leftwinger said yesterday. "Don't forget he has lost twice
- in 1997 and 2001. The question that needs to be answered is whether the party
is ready to rescue itself or whether it simply wants to carry on with its
internal battles."

Clarkeites believe he will only put his name forward if he could be sure he
would win by acclamation. Under a sce nario doing the rounds at Westminster, Mr
Clarke would need to know he would win the support of at least 100 of the 166
Tory MPs. Such a powerful mandate would, his supporters hope, persuade the
overwhelmingly Eurosceptic grassroots to embrace a figure who would like nothing
better than for Britain to join the euro.

Fearing that the euro is his one weak spot, key Clarke supporters have been
pleading with him to tone down his pro- European rhetoric. It is understood,
however, that the pleas have fallen on deaf ears because Mr Clarke has said in
private that one of his great missions in life is to help lead Britain into the
single currency.

"We have been sitting round with Ken pleading with him not to speak out so much
in favour of the euro," a friend said. "But he insists he has to say what he
believes in."

Despite their doubts, friends believe Mr Clarke will find it difficult to resist
standing again if a vacancy arises. With his 63rd birthday approaching, he knows
he will never have another chance.

Unlike Michael Heseltine, who was denied the crown after wielding the knife to
unseat Lady Thatcher in 1990, Mr Clarke will be able to claim he did nothing to
precipitate the present crisis. Most Tories agree last week's events have been
brought on entirely by Mr Duncan Smith, who attempted to stage a "coup" while
everyone was on holiday, the modernisers claim.

Mr Clarke's likely opponents would struggle to beat him at Westminster. David
Davis, the shadow deputy prime minister, who stood in the last contest, would
take up the banner of the right.

A member of the "Doc Marten" tendency in the shadow cabinet, Mr Davis came from
relative obscurity in 2001 to beat the former party chairman, Michael Ancram,
into last place. He is supported by formidable operators, such as Derek Conway,
a former whip who challenged the authority of Mr Duncan Smith this week by
claiming his new chief executive had contemplated joining the United Kingdom
Independence party.

Michael Howard, the shadow chancellor, could mount a "stop David Davis"
campaign.

More at guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 21, 2003, Friday

May tells Duncan Smith to halt secret briefings

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 608 words

THERESA MAY, the Tory chairman, has confronted Iain Duncan Smith and insisted
that he call a halt to the secret briefings that have put her future in doubt.

She spoke to the Conservative leader on Wednesday morning to report the outcome
of a hastily convened meeting of members of the party's ruling board.

Eight members of the panel met in secret in the wake of Mr Duncan Smith's
decision to sack Mark MacGregor, the party's chief executive, last week.

Conservative Central Office denied that the meeting had taken place but The
Daily Telegraph has established that Mrs May chaired the gathering which heard
claims that Mr Duncan Smith was at risk of destroying the party.

It is understood that those who attended were instructed not to speak to the
media and to declare that the meeting had not taken place.

Those present were John Taylor, the chairman of the party's volunteer wing,
Caroline Abel-Smith, party president, Richard Stevenson and Lord Trefgarne, a
former minister. Steven Gilbert and Chris Poole, two party officials who are
also board members, were present.

The meeting heard that board members were "outraged" at not being consulted
about changes to party personnel. The board is the party's ultimate ruling body.

Some of those present told Mrs May that they had been "treated with contempt".

Last Friday Mr Duncan Smith sacked Mr MacGregor and accepted the resignation of
Rick Nye, his policy director, but did not consult the board, the shadow
cabinet, or Mrs May.

One of those present told Mrs May: "For the first time in 34 years I have lost
confidence in the leader." To avoid media attention the meeting was moved from
Central Office in Smith Square to the anteroom outside Mr Duncan Smith's office
behind the Speaker's chair in the Commons.

Particular anger was voiced about anonymous briefings from Mr Duncan Smith's
circle that he had lost confidence in Mrs May and that she was likely to be
removed as chairman in a summer reshuffle.

Mrs May was told by the board members to tell Mr Duncan Smith: "Briefing against
people and suggestions that they might be removed must cease." She was also told
to inform the leader that the board must be treated "with respect" and that "the
leader must work with the board".

The board was also critical of Mr Duncan Smith's decision to appoint Barry Legg,
a friend and former MP, to replace Mr MacGregor. In particular the leader was
asked to reverse his decision to give Mr Legg two jobs: as chief executive and
his personal chief of staff.

Mrs May was told to warn the leader that there could be resignations from the
board if he proceeded with the plan. One said: "This leader is destroying our
party and he has got to stop." Mrs May has no intention of resigning.

Derek Conway, a former Tory whip, issued a public call last night for Mr Legg to
deny that he had attempted to defect to the UK Independence Party less than
three years ago.

He said that Mr Legg had on several occasions discussed with the UKIP the
possibility of crossing the floor of the Commons to join the party, which stood
candidates against the Tories in the 2001 election.

Mr Conway questioned the statement issued by Mr Legg that appeared in
yesterday's Daily Telegraph in which he said the report was "complete and utter
nonsense".

In a letter to Mr Legg, Mr Conway said: "We both know that such a statement, if
an accurate reflection of your words, is not the same as a categorical denial
that such conversations had taken place."

Mr Conway's intervention will galvanise opposition to Mr Legg, amid reports that
Michael Portillo is preparing to lead resistance.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               17 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 21, 2003, Friday

Modernisers left reeling by backroom upheavals A decision by Iain Duncan Smith
to appoint a new party chief executive has re-opened arguments between rival
groupings fighting for the soul of the Conservative Party. Benedict Brogan
reports on the battle between the "modernisers", or "Portillistas", who want
Tories to be more tolerant towards alternative lifestyles and stress reform of
public services more than tax cuts, against the traditionalists, who say they
should be a low tax, anti-regulation, pro-marriage party.

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 989 words

THE latest crisis to afflict Iain Duncan Smith started with a telephone call
last Friday. Sir Stanley Kalms, the High Street electronics tycoon turned
Conservative treasurer, was told to ring Mark MacGregor, the party's youthful
chief executive, and summon him to Central Office.

Mr MacGregor, a prominent "moderniser" and architect of the party's autumn
conference, was tracked down in a Paris hotel, where he was enjoying a break. He
made clear he had no intention of returning to London. Whatever Sir Stanley
wanted to talk about, it would have to be over the telephone.

Mr Duncan Smith did not deliver the message himself - he left the task to Sir
Stanley - but it was a simple one: Mr MacGregor was fired, after barely a year
in the job.

The announcement was slipped out to the media later that afternoon, after MPs
had left Westminster for the half-term break and as Hans Blix briefed the United
Nations Security Council on Iraq's failure to disarm. It was, Mr MacGregor's
friends noted later, the perfect moment to bury bad news.

Central Office tried to gloss over his departure by describing it as "by mutual
consent", and by announcing at the same time that Rick Nye, the Tory head of
policy who had served under William Hague, would also be leaving.

But as the news spread it quickly became evident that Mr MacGregor's going was
anything but voluntary. "He told them he didn't want to go, that he enjoyed his
job. He was sacked, plain and simple," one friend said. Although Central Office
said Mr MacGregor would take up a senior post with Steven Norris's campaign for
London mayor, The Daily Telegraph understands that the job is unpaid.

In his place, it was announced, Mr Duncan Smith had appointed Barry Legg to
serve as both party chief executive and his personal chief of staff. The former
MP and Maastricht rebel, who escaped censure in the Westminster council "homes
for votes" scandal a decade ago, is a close friend of the Tory leader.

By rights, personnel changes deep inside CCO should not attract attention, let
alone trigger a run of dreadful headlines for the leader. But among MPs the
effect of Mr MacGregor's going, and in particular Mr Legg's appointment, has
been the political equivalent of kicking over an anthill.

Fans of Mr Legg, an ardent Right-winger, are hard to find at Westminster.
"Putting Legg in charge is the weirdest political appointment since Caligula
made his horse a senator," said one MP.

Others have tripped over themselves to volunteer their recollections of his
involvement in Dame Shirley Porter's downfall, his time as a Maastricht rebel
alongside Mr Duncan Smith, and his alleged negotiations with the UK Independence
Party in 2000 about defecting from the Tories.

On the back benches and in the shadow cabinet, no one is under any illusion
about what his arrival means - the leader believes that the time has come for a
return to a more robust form of Opposition. His critics say he has "veered to
the Right".

He has been bolstered by a succession of polls that show the gap between the
Tories and Labour has dropped to as little as one point. He believes that the
public is so disillusioned by Tony Blair's failure to deliver noticeable
improvements in health and transport that voters are now ready to hear about a
Conservative alternative.

Mr MacGregor had to go because he was a Portillo ally and a key figure among
those who argue that the Tories must change the way they look and sound if they
are to be successful in 21st century politics.

Next in the line of fire is Theresa May, the Tory chairman. The leader believes
that she is too soft on Labour and will have to go in a summer reshuffle. He is
also said to be unhappy at her failure to make more progress in getting more
women and ethnic minority candidates selected for safe seats.

But MPs believe that it will not end there. Mr Duncan Smith's friends are
pressing him to take it further and purge the shadow cabinet of those associated
with the modernising tendency.

The loudest cheerleader for change to the Right is John Redwood, who took to the
airwaves on Wednesday to urge the need for a more "robust" approach against
Labour. The former Tory minister also admitted that he was keen to return to the
front bench.

The leader's office has tried to play down rumours of an impending Redwood
return, possibly as chairman. But there is no mistaking the spring in the step
of some on the Right who believe that they are moving back into the ascendant.

Mr Duncan Smith feels more secure in his job, thanks largely to the failure of
his opponents within the party to come up with a credible alternative. He has
told friends that David Davis, despite his summer demotion, is now his "human
shield" rather than a threat. He argues that most MPs - in particular the
modernisers - feel safer with the current leader than his hard-nosed rival.

Michael Portillo, who yesterday accused Mr Duncan Smith of damaging the party,
has told supporters that the appointment of Mr Legg and the briefing against the
chairman is more about incompetence than ideology. He believes that the leader
has dumped modernisation.

The extent of the change that is underway was underscored yesterday when the
leader called on Gordon Brown to scrap plans to increase the rate of National
insurance Contributions by 1p. Helping the vulnerable, last year's mantra, has
been set aside in favour of tax cuts.

MPs return to Westminster on Monday and the issue is likely to dominate the
weekly meeting of the backbench 1922 Committee. Mr Duncan Smith will be pressed
to explain what he is doing, and why.

John Bercow, who quit the shadow cabinet over Mr Duncan Smith's opposition to
gay adoptions, called last night for an investigation into reports that Mr Legg
had considered defecting to the UKIP.

Mr Legg has described the reports that he had considered joining UKIP as
"complete and utter nonsense".
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               18 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 21, 2003

May hits back at Tory leader: Duncan Smith faces rebellion if drift to right
continues

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


Theresa May, the Tory chairwoman, has delivered a blunt message to Iain Duncan
Smith warning him to stop undermining her and other key supporters of Michael
Portillo.

In a sign of the catastrophic breakdown in relations at the top of the
Conservative party, Mrs May warned Mr Duncan Smith that he would face a
rebellion if a whispering campaign against her continues.

Mrs May delivered the unprecedented warning to the Tory leader on the
instructions of the board of the party, whose members are infuriated by the
removal of two Portillo supporters from central office.

Michael Portillo waded in last night, telling BBC news: "I can't figure out what
is going on at (Conservative) Central Office, I would be very pleased if anyone
could tell me. All I have seen really over the last few days is what appear to
be self-inflicted wounds and our party plunged back into crisis, and I'm sorry
about that."

At an emergency meeting, held in secret at Westminster on Wednesday, Mrs May was
asked to tell Mr Duncan Smith that the board was "outraged" by the ousting of
Mark MacGregor as chief executive. Board members believe that Mr Duncan Smith
staged a coup by appointing the former rightwing Tory MP Barry Legg as the new
chief executive without consulting them.

Mrs May, who found herself the subject of a whispering campaign from
rightwingers close to the Tory leader this week, received a boost when the board
asked her to tell Mr Duncan Smith of their unequivocal support for her. They
asked her to tell Mr Duncan Smith to stop the briefings.

Leading figures from the Tory grassroots told the board meeting that they felt
they had been treated with contempt by Mr Duncan Smith over the changes at
central office.

The tough message from Mrs May prompted speculation last night that she will
resign as chairwoman, a move that would probably prove fatal for Mr Duncan
Smith.

Friends insisted last night that Mrs May was "not the resigning type",
particularly given her new-found power. One friend said: "Theresa has got Duncan
Smith over a barrel. She can exert maximum pressure."

The anger among grassroots Tories will strengthen the hands of MPs who want to
confront Mr Duncan Smith when the Commons returns next week. The Tory leader has
fended off critics at Westminster by saying that he enjoys an overwhelming
mandate from the Tory grassroots.

He now appears to be losing this support, to the delight of critics at
Westminster who have been reluctant to challenge Mr Duncan Smith for fear of
provoking a split with the grassroots. Only 25 MPs need to sign a letter to
trigger a vote of no confidence.

One senior MP indicated last night that MPs were spoiling for a fight when he
intensified the campaign against the party's new chief executive. In a direct
challenge to the authority of the Tory leader, Derek Conway asked Mr Legg to
offer a "categorical denial" of allegations in yesterday's Guardian that he
nearly defected to the United Kingdom Independence Party.

Mr Conway, the MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, who confirmed the original
allegations in the Guardian, wrote to Mr Legg to say: "I hope you will now take
this opportunity to reply with a categorical denial that you, during 2000,
discussed . . . the possibility of joining UKIP."

Mr Duncan Smith dismissed the row over the central office shake-up as
"meaningless"and confirmed his drift to the right by demanding the scrapping of
April's national insurance increases.

Tory turmoil, page 9


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               19 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 21, 2003

Tory turmoil: Defiant leader laughs off feuds: Opponents scorn BBC interview
performance as Duncan Smith attempts to highlight 'jobs tax' attack on Labour

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 616 words


Iain Duncan Smith yesterday fought back against his critics by casting himself
in the role of a Thatcherite tax cutter as he demanded scrapping of the imminent
rise in national insurance contributions.

Confirming a recent shift to the right, the Tory leader abandoned his usually
cautious approach to call for the scrapping of the "jobs tax", due to be levied
this April.

His remarks, in a speech in Washington, Tyne and Wear, were designed to show
that Mr Duncan Smith will not back down in the face of a whispering campaign
against his decision to embrace a more aggressive style of Tory politics.

Tory MPs from all wings of the party reacted with dismay last week after Mr
Duncan Smith replaced a key supporter of Michael Portillo as Conservative chief
executive with the rightwing former MP Barry Legg.

Opponents last night intensified their campaign against Mr Legg, who faced
embarrassment over claims in yesterday's Guardian that he nearly defected to the
United Kingdom Independence Party.

Derek Conway, Tory MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, who confirmed the allegations,
reacted furiously after Mr Legg dismissed the claim as "nonsense". In a letter
to Mr Legg, which was seen as a direct challenge to the authority of the Tory
leader, Mr Conway asked for a "categorical denial" of the allegation. "We both
know that such a statement . . . is not the same as a categorical denial," he
wrote of Mr Legg's initial response.

A key moderniser underlined the unease over Mr Legg's appointment by demanding
an investigation into the allegations.

John Bercow, who resigned from the shadow cabinet over Mr Duncan Smith's
opposition to gay adoptions, said: "The accusation is highly damaging, and it is
essential to know whether discussions with UKIP representatives did or did not
take place, irrespective of who initiated them. I hope the party will conduct a
full investigation to establish the precise facts before Mr Legg takes up his
new position."

The interventions by such senior MPs undermined Mr Duncan Smith's attempts to
laugh off the furore. The Tory leader dismissed the row as "meaningless" during
an appearance on the Today programme, in which he laughed repeatedly when
challenged by John Humphrys.

Tory opponents said his performance had backfired because they described his
laughter as synthetic. "It was a truly dreadful performance which did little to
enhance Iain's reputation," one senior Tory said. Insisting that his interview
had been a triumph, Mr Duncan Smith went on the offensive a few hours later as
he confirmed his intention to mark out the Tories as the tax-cutting party.

Speaking to a business audience in Washington, the Tory leader said the one
percentage point increase in national insurance would hit workers and cost
employers pounds 4bn a year.

"The government must think again and scrap this jobs tax now before this
spending goes the same way as the last," he said.

Tory aides confirmed that Mr Duncan Smith's remarks marked a change in emphasis.
The Tory leader has repeatedly criticised the tax rise, but has stopped short
until now of calling for it to be scrapped for fear of laying himself open to
Labour charges that he would cut key public services.

Labour duly labelled the speech as a shift to the right. Paul Boateng, Treasury
chief secretary, said: "It is proof that they have ditched any pretence to
believe in funding the NHS properly (because) the rise in national insurance is
purely to fund the NHS."

His views were shared by senior Tories. One said: "You have to calculate the
effects before calling for a tax to be scrapped."

More at guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               20 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 21, 2003, Friday

Tories in confusion over May threat to quit

BYLINE: Melissa Kite Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 447 words


THERESA MAY denied last night that she had threatened to resign as Tory chairman
in protest at her exclusion by Iain Duncan Smith from decisions to sack key
officials at party headquarters.

At least three other members of the Conservative board were also believed to
have threatened to quit over the removal of Mark MacGregor, the chief executive,
and Rick Nye, the research director.

Mrs May broke her silence on the issue to insist that she was staying: "I have
not threatened to quit. We have taken the decision and we have a new Central
Office team and I will be working with them over the next few weeks."

The Times has learned that privately Mrs May was furious about the way the
affair was handled. Friends including former members of the Shadow Cabinet and
former ministers said that she had threatened to resign over the sacking of Mr
MacGregor.

Mrs May chaired a meeting of eight members of board on Wednesday which heard
claims that Mr Duncan Smith was at risk of destroying the party. She was told to
warn Mr Duncan Smith that there could be resignations if he proceeded with the
plan.

Earlier this week Central Office denied that Mrs May was holding crisis talks
with board members but later admitted ththe meetings had taken place.

Mrs May is the highest-profile woman in the party, and would be the second
chairman to leave under Mr Duncan Smith after the departure of David Davis. As
chief executive, Mr MacGregor was directly employed by her but she was not
consulted about the Central Office shake-up. Mrs May is believed to have warned
the Tory leader that his instalment of the rightwinger Barry Legg in place of Mr
MacGregor, a moderniser, breached the party's constitution. It states that the
leader may not appoint or sack party executives, the decision being in the hands
of the chairman and the board.

The leader's troubles were exacerbated by the insistence of the United Kingdom
Independence Party that Mr Legg, a fervent Eurosceptic, discussed the
possibility of defecting to them, despite denials.

The clearout at Central Office was welcomed by rightwingers, including John
Redwood, rumoured for a return to the Shadow Cabinet. In an interview with The
Times today, Mr Redwood urges Mr Duncan Smith to move on from the modernising
agenda.

Mr Duncan Smith dismissed the machinations at his personnel shake-up as
"meaningless." A spokesman said: "We don't comment on idle speculation from
invisible people."

Last night the former Cabinet minister Michael Portillo said the party had been
"plunged back into crisis" by renewed in-fighting,

Attack on Labour,

Legg denial, page 2

Redwood's view, page 10


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               21 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 21, 2003, Friday

Barry Legg

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 269 words


Claims that the new Conservative chief executive flirted with defecting from the
Tories grew last night (Greg Hurst writes).

Roger Knapman, leader of the UK Independence Party, gave a detailed account of
discussions with Barry Legg that culminated with him promising to "make his mind
up".

Mr Legg has dismissed the claim that he had considered joining the UKIP as
"complete and utter nonsense" , saying: "I have always been a Conservative and
always will be."

However, a senior Tory MP demanded a fuller explanation from Mr Legg, who has
been controversially appointed to Central Office by his one-time fellow rebel
against the Maastricht Treaty, Iain Duncan Smith. Derek Conway, MP for Old
Bexley and Sidcup, said: "I have asked him to categorically deny that during
2000 he had conversations with Roger Knapman about defecting to UKIP."

The former Shadow Cabinet member John Bercow called for a party investigation
before Mr Legg took up his post.

Mr Knapman, former Tory MP for Stroud, searched his papers after a request from
The Times for details of contacts with Mr Legg. Both lost their seats in 1997.

They met in April 1999 as Mr Legg wanted advice on getting back on to the Tory
candidates' list.

They allegedly discussed the UKIP only after Mr Knapman defected in May 2000 and
contacted old colleagues to persuade them to follow him. "There were further
meetings which were discussing UKIP and the possibility that he might care to
join," Mr Knapman said. At the final meeting, "he was going to make his mind up
overnight. He decided not to."

Peter Riddell, page 10


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               22 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 21, 2003, Friday

Duncan Smith risks looking weak if he surrounds himself with allies

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 555 words


IF THE answer is Barry Legg, then Iain Duncan Smith is asking the wrong
question.

At one level Mr Duncan Smith was right to argue yesterday that changes at
Conservative Central Office are uninteresting and meaningless, the ultimate in
insider court politics. But, in a deeper sense, he was wrong.

The shambles of the latest changes at the top of the party shows what is wrong
with the Tories. As Tony Blair has repeatedly argued, changing the party in
opposition was the crucial preliminary to convincing the public that it was
ready again to form a government. Hence, the rewriting of Clause Four and the
"big tent" new Labour approach to broadening support outside its traditional
base were central to the party's victory in 1997, however battered that strategy
now looks.

Similarly, Mr Duncan Smith's first priority should be to reform his party and to
broaden its appeal and base of support. That is why his latest appointments, and
the over-wrought manoeuvring of modernisers and traditionalists, matter. His
changes show what type of party he wants. Despite his correct strategy of
addressing ordinary people's concerns about public services, the signal sent by
the latest changes at Central Office is contradictory. Instead of embracing a
wide range of opinion in the party, the result has been to narrow the base.
Whatever contacts Mr Legg, the new chief executive, may or, as he insists, may
not, have had with the UK Independence Party, his career and personality are
hardly reassuring to currently excluded groups. He has always been on one
ideological wing.

Lord Howe of Aberavon may not be the most welcome voice of advice to Mr Duncan
Smith. But in the current issue of The Spectator Lord Howe draws some valid
comparisons with Baroness Thatcher's period in opposition.

She retained most of the experienced ex-ministers who had voted against her in
the 1965 leadership, making "full use of all the assets at her disposal".
Admittedly this partly reflected her initially weak position and the leading
"wets" were dropped in office. But she always sought a diverse team, never a
solely "Thatcherite" one.

By contrast, Mr Duncan Smith risks creating a rump leadership of ideological
allies and personal friends. Of course, many senior Tories have chosen to
exclude themselves from his team. But that itself is worrying.

He needs urgently to build bridges with the excluded by inviting them back on to
the front bench.

In the short term the Tories may be able to claim that their prospects are
improving. The Government's troubles may produce big Labour abstentions and
losses at the May elections, creating the illusion that the Tories are
recovering, as after their success at the 1999 European elections.

But enthusing your core supporters with a strong line on asylum and tax cuts (as
yesterday) is not the same as winning back pre-1997 Tory voters.

In the long term the Tories should benefit from the Government's problems in
improving public services. Some spokesmen have begun to create an alternative.

But, so far, this is still little more than piecemeal initiatives and slogans.

How Mr Duncan Smith reorganises his party matters. At present he still looks
like a leader struggling to retain his position, rather than like a potential
future Prime Minister.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               23 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 20, 2003

Tory grandees in revolt over IDS sacking of modernisers

BYLINE: Paul Eastham

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 634 words



IAIN Duncan Smith faced a revolt at the top of his party last night over his
latest move to the Right.

Members of the Tories' ruling board are angry they were not consulted over the
sackings of two key modernisers, chief executive Mark MacGregor and policy
director Rick Nye.

The grandees made clear their unhappiness at a hastilyconvened Commons
confrontation with party chairman Theresa May yesterday.

They also insisted that the man who replaced Mr MacGregor, controversial
Right-winger Barry Legg, cannot hold the two posts of chief executive and chief
of staff, as Mr Duncan Smith had decided.

The board's ultimatum, to be presented to Mr Duncan Smith in a few days, is seen
as an attempt to rein him in.

Senior party members are worried that while his manoeuvres may help him keep his
job as leader, they may not be so good for long-term Tory interests.

Some also have serious concerns about the quality of the new appointments.

Mr Legg, a close friend of Mr Duncan Smith, was tarred by Westminster Council's
alleged 'homes-for-votes' scandal in the 1990s, although cleared of wilful
misconduct.

The ominous sign that Mr Duncan Smith has angered some of his party's most
powerful members came after his aides tried to deny that the meeting with Mrs
May was happening at all. They insisted that she would be in her Maidenhead
constituency all day - until she was spotted slipping into the
virtually-deserted House of Commons, where MPs are on half-term holiday. Mr
Duncan Smith, who was in Brussels yesterday, has told friends of his plan to
revive his and the party's fortunes.

In a decisive shift to the Right,

he has ruled out more concessions to modernisers and pledged a return to the
'real politics' of asylum, tax cuts and marriage. Aides admit the move is
designed to win the support of traditionalist backbenchers in the expectation
that he will face a

vote of no confidence after May's local elections. Some MPs speculate the
shake-up could see the return to the front bench of Rightwing former Cabinet
Minister John Redwood. He welcomed the change of direction yesterday, saying:
'It's time to move on. I think it's time to deepen and widen the modernising
that's in place.' Mr Duncan Smith had made strenuous efforts to balance warring
factions since taking over the top job a year and a half ago.

He tried to placate the modernisers grouped around Michael Portillo by shutting
up about Europe, taxation and asylum issues and concentrating on public services
and 'helping the vulnerable'.

But the approach produced no improvement in the opinion polls and he came to
believe that senior Portillistas were plotting to sabotage his leadership.

Among them were Mr Nye and Mr MacGregor, the man who wrote last autumn's
conference speech in which Mrs May said many people saw the Tories as the 'nasty
party'.

The speech angered the rank and file and badly damaged Mr Duncan Smith's
standing. The turmoil has triggered speculation Mrs May herself is about to be
sacked.

Sources very close to Mr Duncan Smith have denied this, but insiders say her
influence is in decline and she may not survive past May.

iTHE Tories faced more infighting last night amid allegations the party's new
chief executive once considered defecting to the UK Independence Party.

UKIP leader Roger Knapman, a former Conservative MP, claimed Barry Legg
approached him to talk over a possible defection in 2000 - a year before the
last general

election. They held at least three meetings, even though Mr Legg was on the
official Conservative candidates' list. Mr Knapman told the Guardian: 'I think
he was nearly there. In the end, for reasons I don't know, he decided not to
join.' UKIP - the anti-EU party formed in 1993 - has two MEPs.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               24 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 20, 2003, Thursday

Tory chief 'had talked of defecting to UKIP'

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 425 words

THE Tories were plunged into a fresh round of infighting over Iain Duncan
Smith's leadership last night after senior MPs claimed the party's new chief
executive had considered defecting to the UK Independence Party.

Barry Legg allegedly approached the head of UKIP before the last election to
discuss the possibility of switching allegiances, despite being on the official
Conservative candidates list.

The Daily Telegraph has been told that Mr Legg made contact with Roger Knapman,
the former Tory MP who now leads UKIP, and discussed the possibility of a
defection on three occasions in 2000.

UKIP was formed in 1993 to take Britain out of the European Union. It stood
candidates against the Tories in the last two general elections, and its clear
stance against the single currency attracted many disgruntled Tory voters.

Its intervention was widely held to have resulted in the loss of a number of
Conservative seats.

Last night Mr Legg insisted that he was a loyal Conservative. He said: "This is
complete and utter nonsense. I have always been a Conservative and always will
be."

But the sense of a deepening crisis around the leader intensified when Michael
Portillo accused Mr Duncan Smith of single-handedly damaging the party with
provocative personnel changes that have triggered a battle between modernisers
and Right-wingers.

Mr Portillo told The Daily Telegraph: "My constituents are dismayed at another
round of infighting which appears to have come from a clear blue sky and to be
causing damage which is purely self inflicted."

His intervention, the first time he has criticised Mr Duncan Smith directly
since his defeat in the 2001 leadership contest, will be seen as the start of a
fight-back by those on the modernising wing of the party.

The Tory leader appointed Mr Legg to the joint role of party chief executive and
his personal chief of staff last Friday after sacking Mark MacGregor - an ally
of Mr Portillo - who he had made chief executive a year ago.

Derek Conway, a former Whip and now the MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, claimed a
source inside the UKIP told him that Mr Legg had held talks with senior party
figures while he was trying to be chosen as a Tory parliamentary candidate.

Yesterday John Redwood, the former Cabinet minister, said he was prepared to
discuss a frontbench role with Mr Duncan Smith.

He told the BBC that he was in regular contact with the Tory leader who was
shaping a team around him which could take the party on to the "next stage" of
its comeback.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               25 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 20, 2003, Thursday

Eurosceptic fury over EU plans to limit party funding

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 430 words

EUROSCEPTIC parties were furious about a draft law unveiled by Brussels
yesterday that would deny them European Union funding unless they signed up to
the European project.

The draft could also limit their ability to operate as political groups.

Under the plans, the EU would fund "Pan-European" parties to the tune of pounds
5.6 million a year in order to "contribute to forming a European awareness".

To qualify, party groupings must respect "the principles of democracy", the
Charter of Fundamental Rights, and "the state based on the rule of law" - a term
explained yesterday by EU officials as a mistranslation of the French l'etat de
droit rather than an allusion to a European superstate.

They would also have to be represented in at least a third of EU states,
virtually guaranteeing that the money would go to the big blocs in the European
Parliament, chiefly the Socialists, Christian Democrats and Liberals.

Romano Prodi, the European Commission president, said: "Strong and independent
parties will ensure that European elections are fought on truly European rather
than national issues."

The UK Independence Party, which won seven per cent of the vote in 1999, said
the proposal would shut out parties refusing to toe the line on Europe, or that
are locally rooted by their nature - such as the Scottish, Welsh, Basque,
Andalusian, Flemish and Lombard nationalists, or the Dutch Fortuyn List, the
Danish People's Party, and the Austrian Freedom Party.

Nigel Farage, MEP, the party's spokesman in Strasbourg, said: "We fear this sets
out conditions under which we can be banned as a political party, since we can
be 'de-registered' if they don't like what we think, whatever that means," he
said.

The commission admitted yesterday that it would be "pretty hard" for
Eurosceptics to get any cash, but said that parties would not be banned.

Mr Farage said he was proud to be disqualified from receiving such funding. "I
most certainly don't respect the primacy of EU law and I think the charter is
downright dangerous because Article 52 gives Brussels emergency powers to
suspend civil liberties," he said.

Article 52 says the EU can abridge all rights, "subject to the principles of
proportionality", where necessary to meet the "general interest" of the union,
although the charter is not yet legally binding.

The proposed law would ban private contributions of more than 5,000 euros (
pounds 3,355) per donor to each pan-European party grouping. Individual local
parties would be subject to their national laws.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               26 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 20, 2003

New Tory chief caught up in defection row: Duncan Smith's attempt to swing party
to right provokes controversy over key appointment

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 560 words


Barry Legg, the man chosen to be chief executive of the Conservative party by
Iain Duncan Smith, nearly defected to the UK Independence party before the last
election, the UKIP claimed last night as senior Tories held emergency
discussions on the appointment.

Not only did Mr Legg hold "at least three" exploratory conversations with the
present leader of the UKIP, another former Tory MP, Roger Knapman, he did so
while seeking a Conservative seat, Mr Knapman said last night.

The meetings were at Mr Legg's suggestion, he added. "I met Barry Legg at least
three times in an attempt that he should come to the party. I think he was
nearly there. In the end, for reasons I don't know, he decided not to join."

Mr Knapman, 59, former MP for Stroud and a government whip under John Major, is
one of at least four former Tory MPs, including Neil Hamilton, who belong to the
UKIP, which has campaigned for British withdrawal from the EU since 1993 and has
two MEPs.

Mr Legg's appointment last Friday to replace the "moderniser" Mark MacGregor has
dismayed rightwing Tory MPs as well as pro-European moderates, not least because
he has been given an unprecedented dual role: chief of staff to the leader as
well as chief executive of the party machine.

Though John Redwood, tipped as a future chairman, has expressed enthusiasm for
Mr Legg's appointment, other MPs regard their former colleague as unsuitably
rightwing - "absolutely unacceptable", said one Thatcherite frontbencher.

Critics also see Mr Legg's dual role as virtually unconstitutional, especially
as he is a personal friend of the Tory leader. Mr Duncan Smith and Mr Redwood
helped him get reinstated on the Tory candi dates panel after he was dropped.

As the Tory chairwoman, Theresa May, met party board members at Conservative
central office in Westminster, Mr Legg denied he had considered joining the UKIP
or initiated discussions.

"This is complete and utter nonsense. I have always been a Conservative and
always will be," he said.

However, Derek Conway, the Eurosceptic MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, confirmed
yester day that the rumours of a potential defector were so strong that
constituency officers at Bexley in December 2000 asked the three shortlisted
candidates if they had been in contact with the UKIP.

It would have been a major coup for the party to claim its first Westminster MP.

The three were Mr Conway, Mr Legg and Angela Harvey. "They asked each candidate
in turn if the rumours to this effect were true. Barry Legg looked very shaken
and was certainly off-form," Mr Conway, a former government whip and a David
Davis supporter, said last night.

The then party chairman, Michael Ancram, who is now deputy Tory leader, could
not be contacted on a visit to China to confirm he had been tipped off about a
UKIP defection plot among aspiring candidates under William Hague.

The then Tory chief whip, James Arbuthnot, said: "I must not divulge anything
that happened while I was chief whip.

"There is the additional problem of memory, it was all some time ago. So I
cannot confirm or deny that these things happened."

Mr Knapman said: "We have had conversations with several emissaries from the
leader of the Conservative party and from others who would wish to have his
title."

New face of the Tory party? page 3


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               27 of 30 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 20, 2003, Thursday

TOP TORY: I QUIT THIS SHAMBLES;
 EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: PAUL STARLING POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words

HIGHLIGHT: GONE: Elwyn Jones


THE Tory Party in Wales was last night branded "a total shambles" - by one of
its top figures.

Elwyn Jones was the party's north Wales organiser for 26 years and is the former
agent to Welsh Office Minister Wyn Roberts.

But he has quit the Tories for the UK Independence Party and condemned his old
party as "a lost cause".

"The party has now completely lost its way," he said.

"Party organisation in Wales is totally shambolic.

"There are hardly any local party agents, branches have disappeared and those
that are left have an ageing membership.

"No press releases are sent out and little effort is made to spread the party's
message.

"In short it is now a lost party in Wales."

Elwyn Jones singled out the Tory group in the Assembly for criticism.

He accused them of going back on traditional Tory opposition to the Assembly to
protect their own jobs.

He accused the group of "a miraculous conversion brought about by their own self
and vested interests. These things have replaced their principles".

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                               28 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 20, 2003, Thursday

New Tory chief executive denies defection move

BYLINE: Melissa Kite Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 592 words


THE new chief executive of the Conservative Party had to deny last night that he
nearly defected to the UK Independence Party before the last election.

The claim by the UKIP that Barry Legg had held at least three meetings with
Roger Knapman, its present leader, raises the prospect of further infighting
among the Conservatives. The UKIP wants Britain to withdraw from the European
Union.

Mr Legg, who was appointed by Iain Duncan Smith last Friday, described the claim
as complete nonsense. "I have always been a Conservative and always will be," he
said.

There were signs, however, of growing frustration within the Tory party at the
decision to appoint Mr Legg as a replacement for Mark MacGregor. Michael
Portillo, a former leadership candidate, said that his constituents were fed up
with squabbling "which appears to have come from a clear blue sky and to be
causing damage which is purely self-inflicted".

Mr Duncan Smith was also given a warning last night that he had breached the
party's constitution in the troubled shake-up at Central Office and could face a
formal challenge.

Modernisers and supporters of Mr Portillo accused Mr Duncan Smith of presiding
over a "slow-motion car crash" as the removal of Mr MacGregor descended into
farce. Central Office was forced to admit, after initially denying, that crisis
talks between Theresa May and Tory board members had taken place throughout
yesterday.

The Tory chairman held meetings with board members angry at not being consulted
over the replacement of Mr MacGregor. The Tory leader also arranged for the
departure "by consent" of Rick Nye, head of research and another moderniser.

To make matters worse Mr Duncan Smith was in Brussels as the furore unfolded and
left Mrs May to pick up the pieces. She was said to be unhappy after being told
to deny that the meetings were taking place.

Members of the board are considering whether to launch a formal challenge to Mr
Duncan Smith who, according to one well-placed source, is in breach of clause
17.2 of the party's constitution, which states that no party leader has the
power to appoint or dismiss members of the Central Office hierarchy. The rule is
aimed at ensuring that party executives are not subject to the political whims
of different leaders, ensuring continuity.

Modernising Tory MPs were scathing about the dismissal. "This is like watching a
slow-motion car crash," a former member of the Shadow Cabinet said. "You
wouldn't want to run a corner shop this way. What sort of organisation is it
which spends its time delivering its most potent attacks on its own people?"

The MP said that modernisers, including supporters of Mr Portillo, were biding
their time. "It's not over for us. Iain may try to distance himself from us and
choose his friends carefully, but there are getting fewer and fewer to choose
from. It is the beginning of the end for him."

Lord Howe of Aberavon, the former Conservative Foreign Secretary, admitted that
the Tories were losing the will to live and urged Mr Duncan Smith to reshuffle
his Shadow Cabinet. "Putting together a broader-based, more experienced and more
credible Shadow Cabinet is a crucial first step towards making it clear that the
current leader is not the only component of an alternative government," he said.

Writing in The Spectator, Lord Howe cautioned against a leadership challenge.
"The likely result of yet another messy contest would be to reinforce the
message that the Tory party remains rudderless and deeply divided."


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               29 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               February 16, 2003

FLAG RAGE(... or how a ban on a St. George's flag just three-quarters the size
of this page left acity inuproar )

BYLINE: David Newman

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 421 words


PATRIOTIC residents in Bath were flying the flag with extra pride yesterday in
reaction to an extraordinary decision to remove a St George's Cross from the
city's police station.

They were incensed after the flag, measuring 12insx9ins, was removed from the
top of a penholder because it could be seen through a window.

A senior officer ordered its removal after a local councillor complained that
the national flag might cause offence to ethnic minorities. Chief Inspector Mike
Greedy of Bath Police confirmed: 'The flag was removed as a result of a request
to staff in view of the sensitivity surrounding the diversity issue.' Neither
the senior officer who took the decision to remove the flag, nor the councillor
who complained has been identified.

The move sparked a wave of patriotism across the Georgian city and yesterday
scores of flags were fluttering defiantly from people's homes and offices.

Falklands veteran and former commando Major Martin Tracy, 50, was one of the
first residents to react, proudly hoisting a 4ftx3ft St George's flag over the
front of his picture framing shop in the city centre.

He said: 'I got a bit irritated and decided to fly the flag outside my shop and
I've had nothing but support from people.

'Customers have been coming in to say "Well done" and I had an ex-RAF chap on
the phone congratulating me.' He added: 'I'm not surprised the councillor who
complained to the police hasn't come forward. I think you could probably best
sum up someone like that as distressingly inadequate.

'I hope there are hundreds of flags flying all over Bath by St George's Day on
April 23.' In Bath's Guildhall Market, trader Mike Watts said he had sold nearly
50 flags since the row blew up.

He said: 'The reaction has been extraordinary. Everyone is talking about it, it
has really got people going.' Barry Bristow, who runs an industrial machinery
business, had a 12ftx8ft flag fluttering from a 30ft pole in his back garden in
Twerton, Bath. Mr Bristow, 59, said: 'We've got young lads who are about to go
to war and possibly lay down their lives and these people are saying we can't
even fly our own flag in our own country. It is an absolute disgrace.' The Imam
of the city's mosque, Rashad Azami, said he didn't think Muslims would be
offended by the flag.

The decision to remove it has also been criticised by the Royal British Legion
in Bath and members of the city branch of the UK Independence Party, who staged
a protest outside Bath police station.


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               30 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 6, 2003, Thursday

LETTER: EU ABOVE THE LAW

BYLINE: GRAHAM BOOTH

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 96 words


Sir: You declare that voters "should have the ability to sack at an election
those who make their laws" with which they disagree (leading article, 4
February). However, you also appear to be an ardent advocate of the EU, staffed
as it is with unelected, unaccountable law-makers who are themselves above the
law. I refer to the Commission, not the Parliament, of course, which has no
powers other than that imparted by a rubber stamp. You cannot be serious!

GRAHAM BOOTH MEP

(UK Independence Party, South-West England)

The European Parliament

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd
