
                               1 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Tory backlash as Cameron 'goes soft' on the EU

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 421 words


DAVID Cameron was today facing a Tory backlash after colleagues accused him of
watering down his veto of a new EU treaty.

Just a month after being hailed a hero, the Prime Minister is accused of
performing a U-turn to appease the Lib Dems.

In Brussels last night he dropped his refusal to let the eurozone countries use
EU bodies like European Court of Justice to enforce their new fiscal rules.

He justified it by saying Britain did not want to inhibit the eurozone leaders
from stabilising the ailing currency, but insisted Britain would be "watching
like a hawk" for any threat to UK interests or the single market.

After eight hours of talks, Mr Cameron insisted nothing changed the fact that he
had vetoed a treaty proposed for all 27 EU members in December. But Tory critics
signalled he will face a raft of tough questions in Parliament today.

In a late-night press conference last night, Mr Cameron dismissed criticism as
"bizarre".

He said: "There isn't a Brussels EU treaty and they've had to make a treaty
outside the EU.

"They would have preferred to have had it inside the EU, which is why they are
already talking about trying to bring it back inside the EU. So to argue that
the veto doesn't matter is bizarre.

"We are not in this treaty, we are not part of it, we are not bound by it, we
don't have to ratify it. That is what the veto secures you."

Martin Callanan, leader of Tory MEPs said his position had changed and blamed
much of it on Lib Dem deputy prime minister Nick Clegg, claiming he is
"desperate to sign anything the EU puts in front of him".

Senior Tory Eurosceptic Philip Davies warned Mr Cameron against "waving the
white flag".

He added: "This will define whether he is seen as a Thatcher or a Major. If he
caves in, the comparison will be with John Major."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage stormed: "He has revealed he is not as tough on the EU
as he would like us to think." In one minor piece of good news for Mr Cameron,
only 25 of the 27 EU members actually signed up in principal to the new fiscal
pact.

The Czech Republic declined, meaning Britain is now in a minority of two rather
than one.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy are
demanding greater EU control of the failing Greek economy against a furious
political reaction in Greece.

Several EU leaders had to fly into Belgium on military aircraft at an air base
outside Brussels because of a public sector strike reflecting growing disquiet
across Europe at austerity measures that have hit incomes and jobs.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicolas Sarkozy at the summit
Mr Cameron in Brussels yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 702 words


&#10002;Many challenges confront the culture secretary, Jeremy "Berkeley" Hunt,
each day, but still he seeks to learn. Last year he started training as a soccer
ref, the better to understand the people. It's going well, he told a
ConservativeHome function. He finally qualified as a level 7 ref last month, and
thus was given the responsibility of officiating a real match. One player did,
he said, call him the word that rhymes with Berkeley Hunt - as James Naughtie
did in 2010 - but unlike Naughtie, the footballer's abuse was deliberate.
Berkeley chose leniency. "I only gave him a yellow card - not a red - because it
wasn't entirely unjustified," he said.

&#10002;A quiet year so far for Godfrey (never less than eight pints in a single
sitting) Bloom, the Ukip MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire. Once you have
damned women for failing to clean behind the fridge, and the president of the
European parliament for being a "Nazi", it's not clear where you go next.
Broaden the canvas perhaps, and with that in mind, we see Godders is now taking
aim at funding given to Europe's main organisation for lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender people, ILGA-Europe. A slew of questions to the European
commission about the funding criteria and the group's legitimacy. He's receiving
brickbats from all sides, of course, but vilification has never stopped him
before. A panto villain available all year round. That's Godfrey.

&#10002;And after the gladiatorial clash at the high court between Roman
Abramovich and Boris Berezovsky, we wait for a verdict. And wait. And wait. Just
as draining for them, we suspect. And as Judge Elizabeth Gloster mulls it all
over, London-based Boris offers advice to those still stuck in his homeland,
oppressed by his enemy Putin. Church leaders must play a bigger role in events,
says Boris. Alas, the church is unconvinced. "The past activities of this man
lead one to believe that you should listen to this man attentively and do
exactly the opposite," says Orthodox church spokesman archpriest Vsevolod
Chaplin. Harsh. But we say much the same of Godfrey.

&#10002;Throughout a stellar career in Fleet Street, Donald Zec was peerless. He
was the Daily Mirror's man to beat for showbiz scoops. Bogart, Kirk Douglas, the
Beatles; when they talked, they talked to him. Same goes for Marilyn Monroe.
That's a fact. Assert the contrary at your peril. Perhaps the message has now
got through to the various arms of the Murdoch empire. They do keep taking on
the legendary reporter; each time they come off worst. At issue are the memoirs
of Colin Clark, the inspiration for the all-star movie My Week with Marilyn.
Clark didn't much like Zec - "little creep", he called him. And what really
irked the author was Zec's behaviour. All that sneaking, as he put it, into
their park-side house to get interviews and photos. The cheek of the man; he
actually put his arms around Marilyn's waist. "Zec was telling everyone who
would listen that Marilyn was a personal friend of his," notes Clark on 15 July
1956. But that would not have been an unreasonable thing for Zec to do. For
Marilyn and he were friends. He was, indeed, a confidant. In 1997, the Sunday
Times was forced to retract. "The review also said that Miss Monroe and Mr Zec
were 'total strangers'. We now accept that this was wholly untrue." Now, 13
years later, another reprint and another grovelling apology, this time from
Murdoch's HarperCollins. The allegations are "without foundation and should not
have been published", concedes the publisher. "By the time of the events
described in the book, Mr Zec knew Monroe personally. We apologise to Mr Zec and
his family. All future editions of the book will be amended." Even now, they bow
to Donald Zec - the man who got the scoops.

&#10002;He is delightful when we make contact. No wish to gloat. He has only
ever wanted to set the record straight. "I was astonished to find the book still
maintaining the same allegation," he says. "It offended me because it's
nonsense." The end of the matter, one hopes, for at 92, he has other things to
think about. "I don't want apologies," says Zec cheerily. "I just want a few
more years."

diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 31, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: A referendum on Europe? Just be careful who you ask

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 707 words


Calls for a referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union are
usually heard coming from the right - from rebel Tories and the UK Independence
Party.

But soon, voters of a yet-to-be-chosen parliamentary seat will be targeted in an
unusual political experiment in which they will be invited to vote in a
referendum organised along similar lines to a parliamentary by-election. The
question on the ballot paper will be a bald one, asking whether they want to
stay in, or come out of the EU. The votes will be counted on a Thursday night.

This gambit is being organised by a campaign called People's Pledge, which held
a launch event in the Commons yesterday. It is dedicated to lobbying for an
official, UK-wide referendum, something no government has been prepared to offer
since 1975 because of the risk that the public might defy the advice of the
political class and vote to leave. The campaign has gathered almost 100,000
signatures.

Unusually, it is not the exclusive preserve of the anti-EU right, although some
usual suspects, such as the maverick Tory MP Douglas Carswell, are involved.
Speakers at yesterday's launch included the former Labour Europe minister, Keith
Vaz, pictured above, well known as a Europhile, who thinks that a referendum
would clear the air and allow a "balanced debate" about Europe.

Publicity for the campaign is being run by Ian McKenzie, a former special
adviser to John Prescott, who wrote on the LabourList website yesterday that
"economically, it would be madness to turn our backs on a (EURO)10 trillion
market with 500 million people in it".

It has long been a right-wing assumption that the public would vote to leave the
EU if they were given the choice, because Europe is seldom mentioned in
political discourse on these islands except in a negative context. But that
proposition has never been tested. When it came to a real vote, voters may well
decide not to risk seeing their standard of living drop for the sake of national
sovereignty.

Hilton's advice is never that smart

The world of politics was curiously under-represented in GQ's list of the 50
best-dressed men in Britain, which appears in the latest issue of the magazine,
out on Thursday. The only political entrants were the Tory MP Zac Goldsmith at
24, and the Labour MP Chuka Umunna, at 34.

But when it comes to the worst-dressed, the men of Westminster are up among the
winners, with two names in the top 10. Labour's shadow Foreign Secretary,
Douglas Alexander, makes the number eight slot, while David Cameron's strategy
director, Steve Hilton, is right up in second place, behind the R&B star Chris
Brown.

The difference is that Hilton dresses badly on purpose as part of his life's
mission to change the Tory Party's "nasty" image, while poor old Dougie
Alexander tries to dress well.

Give Guido enough rope...

The blogger Guido Fawkes has failed so far to find the seam of public support he
was looking for when he started a campaign to bring back hanging. Saturday will
be the last day that anyone can sign the e-petition he launched on the Downing
Street website, which needs 100,000 signatures to have a chance of being debated
in Parliament. With four days to go, he is only just over a quarter of the way
there, having attracted 26,284 signatures by late yesterday afternoon, more than
7,000 behind a rival petition calling for the ban on capital punishment to
remain.

Mohan fails to lighten the mood

Dominic Mohan, the editor of The Sun, was due to have Sunday off at the weekend,
so imagine the surprise of Sun hacks when their leader turned up to do a day's
work. His purpose was to try to restore morale after the previous day's
shattering news that four Sun journalists had been arrested on the strength of
information passed to the police by their employers.

Jobbing hacks at The Sun have endured months of feeling under siege, but at
least they could feel that being inside the newspaper's fortress-like Wapping
headquarters was some kind of protection. Now they have seen four colleagues
chucked off the ramparts by their own bosses. Nothing Mohan could say was ever
going to dispel the gloom.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU's open borders let gangsters into UK

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 342 words


THE EU's passport-free travel scheme has seen the number of Albanians trying to
sneak into Britain hit a record high.

The folly of the borderless Schengen zone is today laid bare. Before the eastern
Europeans were given visa-free access to mainland Europe in 2010, British
immigration officers picked up around two illegal Albanian migrants a week.

Once Brussels opened the door, 229 were turned back in the three months between
July and September 2011 - a rise of more than 800 per cent.

The study by Frontex, the EU's border agency, found that in the same period,
3,550 Albanians were turned away from all EU borders - a seven-fold increase on
the year before.

The details emerged a week after the EU opened talks over visa liberalisation
for Kosovo.

Experts fear this will provide a new backdoor into the UK for more illegal
migrants and criminal gangs who will exploit the weak border controls.

Campaigners expressed outrage yesterday at the Albanian figures, saying they
proved that, even though Britain is not part of the EU's borderless Schengen
Area, lax controls still affect the UK.

Gerard Batten, MEP and UKIP home affairs spokesman, said: "We have warned about
this sideeffect of visa-free travel many times.

"These figures will be just the tip of the iceberg because they represent only
the ones who are caught."

Alp Mehmet, spokesman for campaign group Migration Watch, said: "These figures
are an important reminder that we have to maintain control over our borders and
should not give that up."

Mr Mehmet, former UK ambassador to Iceland, also warned that staffing cuts at
the UK Border Agency could lead to an overreliance on computer systems to spot
fake ID.

Under the Schengen Agreement, which does not include the UK or Ireland, passport
controls were scrapped to promote free movement of people and trade across 26
European countries.

Albanian gangsters are said to control more than 75 per cent of UK brothels and
turn over £15million a year in London's West End alone.

Their gangs are implicated in heroin dealing, kidnaps and street robbery.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrants in Calais, northern France, hoping to make it to Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Virtual' EU costs £170k

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 117 words


THE EU has spent £170,000 creating an online European parliament for users to
get to the heart of "democracy in action" in Brussels.

The virtual reality site will go live in 23 languages next month. The brains
behind it hope participants will create a personalised avatar and even interact
with their MEP.

Eurosceptic and UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage signed up to the site -
saying he wanted to find out "exactly how they were wasting people's money".

The site, Citzalia, is billed a breakthrough that captures "the essence of the
European Parliament".

It adds: "You can participate in debates, write articles, and draft virtual
legislation on EU policy, using the official EU information provided."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                January 29, 2012
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom says [...]

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 39 words


UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom says squaddies are hauled home from Afghanistan on "short
breaks not for their welfare but to ensure they pay tax". "Nonsense," the taxman
tells me. "We'd rather have our throats cut." Form an orderly queue now.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Euro's Grand Theft Politico

BYLINE: James Gillespie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 464 words


IT IS hardly Grand Theft Auto or Call of Duty. In fact the latest online
interactive game is short on the usual sex and violence.

That is not a surprise, given that Citzalia comes to the internet gaming
community courtesy of the European parliament, which has put up £170,000 to
create a virtual parliament building.

The site, which has been in development for 18 months, goes live in a few weeks,
after which anyone can register, create an avatar and wander the corridors of
power.

In time the creators hope that participants will be able to meet their MEP in
this virtual world for a frank and meaningful exchange of views about the
European dream.

At the moment, however, it is a little more basic. Given exclusive access to the
virtual EU by its makers, I created an avatar and headed into the parliament to
set the world to rights.

President Alley seemed the most promising corridor of power, so off I went. I
was searching for the offices of the Italian MEPs in the hope of crashing a
bunga-bunga party but the corridor turned out to be a dead end. I changed
direction and went instead to the one place you can usually be assured of
meeting politicians: the bar.

The Luna Park, as it is called, was deserted, but there were plenty of drinks
lined up. My avatar seemed incapable of picking up a glass of red wine so I
headed for the slot machines to play a game of Citz-Tris, pouring virtual euros
into the machine.

A man wearing a hard hat and carrying bricks appeared on the screen. Somewhere
in this virtual world a lot of building was going on, which cost a lot of euros.

That will be Ireland, then. Just then, another avatar appeared and greeted me
warmly. It turned out to be Michael Fallise, 38, a Belgian and one of the game
designers from European Service Network, a Brussels communications agency.

"Citzalia is a means of understanding how the EU's parliament works," said
Fallise's avatar. "It's an opportunity to hear how fellow citizens feel about
issues and the role of the parliament."

The exchanges between avatars will not be censored, unless they degenerate into
foul-mouthed abuse. Players will be able to build up points from their
contributions on Citzalia and reach new levels. But the avatars cannot fight,
they have no weapons and there is not a woman of dubious repute in sight. In
fact, it lacks the ingredients usually looked for by internet gamers.

However, Fallise is confident it will pick up as soon as the site is live and
people sign up.

An early subscriber to the site was Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP. "The reason I
joined is that it was the only way I could find out exactly how they were
wasting people's money," he said.

No one can doubt Citzalia's accuracy: the virtual EU has cost us a lot, Farage
is just as grumpy in it and nowhere can you see an exit sign.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Gillespie's avatar contemplates a game of CitzTris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Grand Theft Politico: EU's £170,000 internet game for wannabe wonks

BYLINE: James Gillespie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 538 words


IT IS hardly Grand Theft Auto or Call of Duty. In fact the latest online
interactive game is short on the usual sex and violence.

That is not a surprise, given that Citzalia comes to the internet gaming
community courtesy of the European parliament, which has put up £170,000 to
create a virtual version of the parliament building.

The site, which has been in development for 18 months, goes live in a few weeks,
after which anyone can register, create an avatar and wander the corridors of
power.

In time the creators hope that participants will be able to meet their MEP in
this virtual world for a frank and meaningful exchange of views about the
European dream.

At the moment, however, it is a little more basic. Given exclusive access to the
virtual EU by its makers, I created an avatar and headed into the parliament to
set the world to rights.

President Alley seemed the most hopeful corridor of power, so off I went. I was
searching for the offices of the Italian MEPs in the hope of crashing a
bunga-bunga party but the corridor turned out to be a dead end. I changed
direction and went instead to the one place you can usually be assured of
meeting politicians: the bar.

The Luna Park, as it is called, was deserted, but there were plenty of drinks
lined up. My avatar seemed incapable of picking up a glass of red wine so I
headed for the slot machines to play a game of CitzTris, pouring virtual euros
into the machine. A man wearing a hard hat and carrying bricks appeared on the
screen. Somewhere in this virtual world a lot of building was going on, which
cost a lot of euros.

That will be Ireland, then. Just then, another avatar appeared and greeted me
warmly. It turned out to be Michael Fallise, 38, a Belgian and one of the game
designers from European Service Network, a Brussels communications agency.

"Citzalia is a means of understanding how the EU's parliament works," said
Fallise's avatar. "It's an opportunity to hear how fellow citizens feel about
issues and the role of the parliament."

The exchanges between avatars will not be censored, he said, unless they
degenerate into foul-mouthed abuse. Players will be able to build up points from
their contributions on Citzalia and reach new levels.

But the avatars cannot fight, they have no weapons and there is not a woman of
dubious repute in sight. In fact, it lacks the ingredients usually looked for by
internet gamers.

However, Fallise is confident it will pick up as soon as the site is live and
people sign up. So far it has been the preserve of about 200 testers but he
believes that with EU citizens and MEPs able to speak directly to each other
there will be lively exchanges.

Certainly, their hopes were raised when an early subscriber to the site was
Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP. I put in a call and suggested we meet in the Luna
Park.

"The bar in the real parliament is a dull place at the best of times," he
responded. "The thought that I might be propping up their virtual bar is
preposterous.

"No, the reason I joined is that it was the only way I could find out exactly
how they were wasting people's money."

No one can doubt Citzalia's accuracy: the virtual EU has cost us a lot, Farage
is just as grumpy in it and nowhere can you see an exit sign.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Gillespie's avatar contemplates a game of CitzTris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday

DRIVING THE LORDS ROUND THE BEND

LENGTH: 1082 words


ON SATURDAY


By QUENTIN LETTS

FROM the Palace of Westminster comes the sound of crossness, crunched gearboxes
and muttered oaths amid complaints about 'U-turns'. Literally. Peers have been
subjected to new security checks when parking their cars. They ain't happy.The
arrangements have been introduced by the new Black Rod, Lieutenant General David
Leakey, a man keen to 'make some changes'. Oh dear.Peers can no longer just wave
their passes and park their ageing Wolseley Hornets outside Parliament.
Squinting against the sun, they must weave down a single-lane path, have their
undercarriages, boots and bonnets checked for bombs, turn round, then pootle
back up the one-lane path before parking their motors.At busy times, peers
driving back up the path have encountered fellow lords motoring the other way.
Cue parping of horns, shaking of fists before one side or other has had to
reverse -- not easy on elderly necks.Their lordships are so peeved that a debate
this week on the Korean Free Trade Agreement was hijacked by denunciations of
the new car park system.

Labour's Lord Barnett complained that he has had to resort to walking -- not
easy owing to a recent operation. Lady Trumpington (Con) called the arrangements
'a total failure' and unlikely to deter a single terrorist. It could be argued
that Lady Trumpington alone would strike the fear of God into an al-Qaeda
bad-hat. Perhaps Black Rod ought to think of that. Lord Pearson (Ukip) said
terrorists could more easily attack Parliament via the River Thames.Lord Peston
(Lab) said the House should exercise its sovereignty -- how sweet to hear such
words from a Europhile -- and tell the security wallahs to hop it.Lord
Strathclyde, Leader of the House, gave a deep sigh. He knows une pomme de terre
chaud when he encounters one. This row could make the Hunting Bill look like a
stroll.Lord Pearson said yesterday: 'Black Rod is a very good man but he may
have to do a U-turn of his own on this issue.'



TORY firebrand Nadine Dorries (Mid Beds) biffed the BBC presenters Andrew Neil
and Andrew Marr this week. In a debate about 'gender balance in broadcasting'
she complained that every politician in Mr Marr's 'best political moments of
2011' was male.As for 'that particularly rude man' Mr Neil -- 'an ageing,
overweight, orange-toupeed has-been'-- she said she once ran to accept a
last-minute invitation to his show. 'Mr Neil thought I could not hear him as I
finished but I still had the earpiece in and heard him say: "Well, she looked
tired and out of breath there, didn't she?".' Oops.Mr Neil declines to respond
to Mrs Dorries's howitzer fire. I find myself in the position of liking both
parties. Just one thing, Nadine: Andrew may be no gallant, but he's just as rude
about us blokes!



* SHADOW Cabinet members are unimpressed with their peers for blocking a £26,000
cap on benefits this week. Thanks to those Labour lords and Anglican bishops,
the sky is still the limit for welfare-handout claimants.Blairites fear their
party has lurched to the Left. Blame is directed at Labour's Chief Whip in the
Upper House, Lord Bassam -- a former squatter who is nicknamed 'Lord Swampy'. No
wonder he wanted the 'welfare community' to remain quids in!Lord Swampy is a big
fan of the Occupy protests, too. Across the country, tins of Carlsberg Special
Brew are no doubt being raised to him.





* VETERAN actor Madhav Sharma opened this week in Alan Bennett's West End hit
The Madness Of George III. Next Tuesday, he faces a nastier ordeal. He is taking
his union, Equity, to an ACAS tribunal, accusing its bosses of being 'almost
Stalinist'. Mr Sharma is challenging rule changes engineered by Equity's
imperious, £70,000-a-year general secretary, Christine Payne. Equity's lawyers
just happen (a coincidence, I'm sure) to employ Mrs Payne's husband. 'I am
appalled at the way Equity is being run by what appears to be an almost
Stalinist cabal,' says Sharma. 'Many members are frightened to speak up. I
refuse to kowtow to bullies.'

Sharma, who signs his legal letters with the words 'love and peace', is being
supported by his MP, Matthew Hancock. 'Too often trade union bosses seem to care
less about their members and more about themselves,' reckons Mr Hancock.

* AMONG the audience at the first night was Defence Minister Nick Harvey, a Lib
Dem. The play, full of 18th-century politics, includes the line 'office makes
Tories of us all'. That drew a bark of laughter from Harvey's row.

GOOD OLD BRITISH BULLDOG



MY pin-up today is Onslow, aged three months. Bulldog Onslow lives with readers
Malcolm and Myra Anders of Pocklington, Yorkshire. They named him after the late
Earl of Onslow, the debonair Tory who died last May.'Bulldogs only bark when
necessary, defend their territory with courage and have a great capacity to
amuse,' explains Mr Anders, 60. 'We never met Lord Onslow but admired him
greatly. He was an example of Old England.' Mr Anders has long loved bulldogs.
'Our first, George, was a gentle giant at 105lb, the same weight as my wife. He
had a sense of mischief.'One day I let him off his lead on a bridle path and he
took off into the long grass. He suddenly leapt on something and there was a
sharp cry of "Christ!" A policeman lifted himself sheepishly off a policewoman
on whom he was lying. They said they were resting during a refreshment break.'



DON'T TRY SOMETHING NEW TODAY



FOLLOWERS of this column have helped to see off an expansion by Tesco at
Ledbury, unofficial 'poetry capital' of England. Hooray. Now the bad news. On
Thursday, Herefordshire council will consider an equally threatening Sainsbury's
hypermarket on the outskirts of the town. Time to write in again,
folks.Sainsbury's has hired a multi-spondoolicks PR outfit, which has schmoozed
the local media and sent teams into the town wearing orange T-shirts and moony
smiles, handing out orange balloons. Shades of a Hare Krishna ashram. All they
lack is tambourines and dots on their foreheads.Bill Wiggin, Ledbury's MP, says:
'The orange T-shirt mob have backfired. Every time they appear, people hurry to
a table run by the www.saveledbury.com stall crowd and sign their anti-
Sainsbury's petition.'



HE'S NOT BIG ED

READER David Holland was changing at the East Devon Tennis Centre, Exmouth, and
fell into conversation with a shy stranger. 'Did anyone ever tell you that you
look like Ed Miliband?' asked Mr Holland. 'Yes,' said the man politely before he
left, 'they have.' Modest chap, our Leader of the Opposition. It WAS him!

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fears about jobs and welfare benefit claims

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 231 words


A MASSIVE 78 per cent of voters want the Government to ignore Brussels rules
that could entitle European Union migrants to claim welfare benefits in Britain.

28n04eugraphic Two thirds believe immigration from other EU countries over
recent years has been bad for the UK.

The exclusive YouGov poll for the Vote UK Out Of EU campaign found overwhelming
dissatisfaction among the public with the impact of Brussels on Britain's border
controls.

It also highlighted widespread disquiet about the effects of European Court of
Human Rights decisions on border controls.

Sixty-three per cent agreed that "a sharp reduction in immigration would be good
for Britain's economy, because it would mean more jobs for British-born
workers".

Fifty-six per cent thought EU freedom-of-movement rules had been bad because
they prevented the Government from controlling immigration from other EU lands.

More than half (53 per cent) also thought only migrants with a track record of
working in the UK and paying taxes should be entitled to claim welfare benefits.

Ukip Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "Wages have been depressed, housing is more
expensive and public services are overloaded."

Q Should Britain leave the EU now?

YES: 0901 030 8348

NO: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088

No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 28, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

Tim Lott: I'm proud of my country - the land of Blake, Dickens, Orwell, and Ian
Dury;
We all ache to fuse ourselves with something above and beyond us, in which we
can take pride

BYLINE: Tim Lott

SECTION: COMMENTATORS

LENGTH: 1139 words


I have a white friend from a working-class background who would prefer to wave
the St George's Cross than the Union Flag, who strongly supports Scottish
independence and who is passionate in declaring his patriotism as specifically
English, rather than generally British.

Is he an English Defence League member, a supporter of Ukip, a skinhead thug or
simply a Tory? None of the above. In fact, he has never voted anything but
Labour. He believes in secularism and the multicultural society. He is a
lifelong republican and values literature and the arts.

He is, in fact, not my friend at all. Not because I find his views offensive,
but because he is me. For I suffer from the love that dares not speak its name -
at least among polite left-liberal society. I love the English people, because I
am from England made. I do not love Scotland or Wales or Northern Ireland,
though I hold nothing against them. I identify with the ancient nation of
Shakespeare and Dickens and Orwell and, for that matter, Linton Kwesi Johnson,
the Specials, Zadie Smith and Steve McQueen. I draw my sense of self from the
historical and present fact of England, not the political construction that is
the United Kingdom.

I am not alone in this identification - 40 per cent of those polled in a new
survey by the Institute for Public Policy Research this week sees Englishness as
more important to them than Britishness; just 16 per cent takes the opposite
view. Meanwhile, Alex Salmond argued in his Hugo Young lecture that Scottish
independence would benefit England, allowing a revival of a sense of nationhood
south of the border.

The IPPR survey comes as no surprise. I think my longing to enjoy a guilt-free
sense of positive belonging to my own country is a sentiment whose time has
come. This kind of thinking makes many of the left-liberal axis nervous, even
though many great radical movements, among them Chartism, Methodism and early
feminism, all grew out of specifically English traditions. But the left will
have to face a fundamental human truth. We all ache to fuse ourselves with
something above and beyond us, which we can take pride in and draw a sense of
self-respect from, and that something for most of us, either avowedly or
subliminally, is the nation we belong to.

The play Jerusalem, which had people queuing overnight for tickets, speaks
loudly to this impulse - the sense of a "real" England, somewhat anarchic,
dangerous, connected spiritually with the land. You can link it with
Shakespeare's "blessed plot", Blake's "Jerusalem", Orwell's nation of
fundamentally gentle tea-loving people with bad teeth, Larkin's melancholic
northern towns. It is not right wing or left wing - it is an ancient feeling of
belonging to an ancient land and its deeply rooted cultures and customs. This is
not about Morris dancing and horse brasses. It is a deep, barely describable
sense of a particular way of being.

If we take the decision that we are English and we are proud, instead of British
and shamefaced, then what are we to love? We suffer poverty and inequality,
racism, social disruption and much besides. All those problems likewise assail
Scotland, plus a nasty dose of sectarianism, but they did not stand in the way
of a Burns night party I attended this week which was enormous fun, and a
specific, joyous celebration of a particular country. How I would love a Larkin
night, or a Shakespeare night. But it is not in our tradition. Is colonial guilt
the barrier? Plenty of nations, including the US, France and Spain, manage to
take a pride in who they are without indulging in that particular
historio-cultural cringe.

Once you subtract any political /historical/ military/scientific "pride" - which
is more the ambit of the right wing, such as Wellington, Churchill, Brunel,
Stephenson, Drake, kings and queens, Nelson and so on - I think what's left over
is the England that I, at least, can take pride in. This residue encompasses a
nation of extraordinary and disproportionate creative and radical intelligence.
And, crucially, this is not "just" history, rooted in Victoriana and the Empire.
It persists today and flourishes more than ever.

I am thinking of the endless roll call of great English cultural figures, many
from the grassroots rather than the glittering spires. Richard Thompson and the
scores of brilliant English folk musicians. A Harold Pinter play, a Mike Leigh
film, a Kinks record, a Tony Harrison poem, a David Hockney painting. This tiny
nation stands shoulder to shoulder with the mighty United States in our
world-class contributions to the arts.

We on the left are conditioned not to see these achievements in the foreground.
They appear as background fuzz. We see only pomp and circumstance. This is not
my England; this is an England imposed by Tory romantics, who have had an open
field in the face of liberal hesitation. Quite apart from its large-scale
creativity, the real England is a grassroots mindset - one that sticks its
finger up at the world (now most perversely apparent in so-called "chavs", once
the proud and bloody-minded English working class). It is a mindset that is
indignant and individual and honest and satirical and transcends northernness or
southernness. It is non-sectarian. It is creative and vibrant and untamed.

If we can cut free from the constitutional absurdity and unfairness of Scotland
- how it irks me that English children have to pay university tuition fees
there, but not EU citizens; how I resent their free prescriptions and their
cynical MPs' votes on English affairs - all we need to do is to re-imagine
ourselves to become great again, but great in a different way from before.

We could inflect the design of the St George's Cross to reclaim it from Tory
England. We could make Blake's "Jerusalem" the national anthem and place Ian
Dury's remains in Poets' Corner. We could build a George Orwell memorial garden
in front of Buckingham Palace.

I am aware that all these figures are white, but a new Englishness, while
embracing wholeheartedly the multicultural society, would not be about "equal
representation" for all ethnicities and cultures. It is about something more
subtle that all are finally subsumed in and accommodated by. Then, at last, we
could make a start of turning this most imaginative and clever and
individualistic and inclusive and artistic and rebellious country into a place
for all to embrace and no longer recoil from. We would no longer be arrogant,
insecure, alone and backward-looking.

Britain would be gone, and we would be England, new again. We would be good, not
Great, and proud, not ashamed or indifferent. Most importantly of all, that
pride would be here and now and alive, no longer echoed through the distorting
chambers of the past.

Tim Lott's new novel, 'Under the Same Stars', is published by Simon and Schuster
on 1 April

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Not quite your average resort;
Skiing Where else do pigs, politicians and palm trees share a piste? Rob Freeman
hits the Swiss slopes in surreal Davos

BYLINE: Rob Freeman

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 809 words


The ten piglets shot out of the little wooden starting gate with such alacrity I
can only assume that someone had shouted "bacon butties". A crowd,
hundreds-strong, watched and cheered as they trip-trotted their way down the
snowy 100m course. "They train them for weeks," a local told me. "The piglet
race is a highlight of the season."

This was somehow so Davos-Klosters. No other ski resort I know blends,
seamlessly and surreally, such a range of international diplomacy, culture and
sporting eccentricity. Where else can you watch specially trained piglets racing
each other one moment, and British MPs the next (in the annual outing of the All
Party British-Swiss Parliamentary Ski Group)?

The Swiss resort in the canton of Graubünden initially achieved fame and wealth
by catering for charabanc loads of the sick, and private carriages of wellheeled
hypochondriacs, rolling into town to take the mountain air while lolling on the
wide verandas of expensive sanatoria.

What Thomas Mann, who wrote the rather tortured and almost impenetrable novel
The Magic Mountain (peopled by those very same characters seeking the cure in
Davos), would think of this vibrant resort now, goodness only knows. Of course,
if he were to commit his opinion to paper, I for one wouldn't have a clue what
he was going on about anyway. The novel is a monumental work of erudition and
irony, sexual tension and intellectual ferment, pulsing with life in the midst
of traumatic experiences, while modern Davos is ... er, hang on a minute, yep, a
bit like that, too. It's multilayered, intriguing, difficult in some ways to get
a handle on - and quite captivating.

So, not your average ski resort then. Every January, government ministers and
captains of industry flock here for the renowned World Economic Forum, as they
have done for more than 40 years. January is also when the pig racing takes
place, and keen skiers from the British Parliament take on their Swiss
counterparts.

Throw in world-class figure skating, a classic car rally and a rich and varied
programme of art exhibitions, classical music shows, poetry readings and drama
productions, and you get the general idea that aprÈs-ski for many here comprises
more than eight or nine Jäger bombs and a quick blast of Europop. There is also
great skiing. I hit a different ski area - Pischa, Jakobshorn, Rinerhorn,
Parsenn or Madrisa - each day in the mountains surrounding Davos, which shares
its slopes with the neighbouring royal retreat of Klosters. I love the fact that
some mountain restaurants are eccentric enough to reflect the nature of the
town. My favourite is the Alice-in-Wonderland-like Jatzhütte, with its mock palm
trees, giant plastic bottles and multicoloured sofas out on the terrace. And I
had the good sense to hire local instructor Hans Anbühl, who conducted me down
the Leidbachalp black run on the lower reaches of the Rinerhorn to his beautiful
farmhouse beside the piste, where nothing could be more delightful than sitting
round the huge table on his terrace enjoying a chilled beer.

Is nothing or no one mundane in Davos? When he's not teaching and guiding on the
slopes, Hans can be found discharging both barrels on a vast grouse moor in
Scotland in the company of the former leader of the UK Independence Party Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, another Davos devotee. Hans found himself guiding Baron
Pearson and his wife, Caroline, during one World Economic Forum. Inevitably,
they chatted about their shared love of hunting, and sheep-farmer Hans and his
wife, Isabella, have since found themselves fixtures on the guest list for the
Glorious Twelfth.

Back in town, my companions and I sauntered over to the ice rink in front of our
elegant and superbly located hotel, the Seehof, to find ourselves challenged by
a jolly bunch of Germans to a game of eisstock - curling without all that
brushing palaver. A thrilling encounter ensued, producing - as well as a
not-so-jolly bunch of Germans - one of the biggest winter sports upsets since
Great Britain won gold in ice hockey at the 1936 Winter Olympics ... and we had
more than simply a wonderful day on the slopes watching piglets trotting along
to celebrate that evening.

Need to know

Rob Freeman was a guest of Inghams (020-8780 4447, inghams.co.uk), which has
seven nights' half-board at the four-star Hotel Seehof or the Hotel Waldhuus
from £1,029, including return flights with Swiss from Heathrow to Zurich and
return train travel to Davos. Flights are also available from Birmingham (an
extra £39) and Manchester (extra £55).

Six-day adult ski/snowboard and boot hire starts from £114. Three days of
ski/snowboard school (four hours a day) costs from £130. A six-day adult ski
pass for the Davos-Klosters area starts from £200; the children's six-day pass
is from £84 and it's free for under-5s. For further information, go to
davos.ch/en.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: If the piglet racing and World Economic Forum don't grab you, hit the
Davos slopes instead
STEFAN SCHLUMPF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 27, 2012 Friday

A MONUMENT TO SPORRAN FILLING AT THE PUBLIC EXPENSE

BYLINE: By QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 655 words


DEBATE in the House of Lords is normally civilised, avoiding ad hominem attacks,
but there were rude words yesterday about Alex Salmond, leader of the Scottish
National Party.

Old Hairy Ears (sorry, I should say 'the Rt Hon Gentleman' - this is becoming
contagious) was described as 'devious', 'cunning', 'a gambler'. He was compared
to the leaders of two notorious communist states. I say!

All this in a Chamber where they are normally as wedded to understatement as
Japan's Emperor Hirohito who announced his country's surrender in 1945 by saying
that the Second World War had been 'not necessarily to our advantage'.

The anti-Salmond speeches arose in a debate on the Scotland Bill, which proposes
to extend the Scottish Parliament's powers (eg to speed limits). Lord Forsyth
(Con) thought it a waste of time.

Given that we may soon have an independent kingdom of Caledonia, he may have had
a point.

He took a swipe at Mr Salmond's desire to give 16-year-olds the vote in the
Scots independence referendum.

'Only nine countries in the world give 16 and 17-year-olds the vote,' said Lord
Forsyth. They include North Korea and Cuba, which also have leaders with a high
opinion of themselves.' Laughter.

This brought Lord Foulkes (Lab) to the oche. Ah, guvnor Foulkes. Over the years
this column has dropped as much high-grade ordnance on this partisan ex-MP as
the RAF has done on its bombing range at Donna Nook.

Yet still the great hefty stands, wind whistling through the gap between his
ears, a monument to sporran-filling at the public expense (he used to be a
member of the Scottish Parliament, too).

Yesterday M'lud Foulkes gave, good Heavens, quite a punchy, interesting speech.

'Don't be afraid of Salmond,' he cried. 'He's cunning, able, a gambler, but he
is not infallible.'

Even more amazingly, Lord Foulkes praised the Conservatives, noting that they
are campaigning to keep Scotland in the United Kingdom even though it is against
their narrow parliamentary interest.

He regretted that some Labour people are refusing to campaign alongside the
Tories against Scots independence.

'Jibes from Salmond and the cyber Nats' about Labour being in bed with the
Tories should be ignored, he said.

After all, Mr Salmond had been content to rely on Conservative co-operation when
he was in a minority administration in Edinburgh. Lord Forsyth added that it was
the SNP which effectively brought Mrs Thatcher to power in 1979 when they felled
the Callaghan Government. 'Aye, that treachery!' said Lord Foulkes.

Lord Sanderson (Con), speaking from personal experience, called Mr Salmond,
'extremely clever, extremely devious'. He might seem easygoing but he would 'put
the boot in', said Lord Sanderson.

Lady Liddell, done up in a tartan scarf which made her look like a British
Caledonian stewardess, noted that the Nats want to hold a referendum in 2014 to
coincide with the 700th anniversary of Bannockburn.

She noted that 2014 was also the 100th anniversary of the start of the First
World War, in which many brave Scots died for the United Kingdom.

Lord Wigley (Plaid Cymru) was one of only two peers to defend Mr Salmond. He
deplored the insults and suggested they would increase Nationalist support.

Then that most egregious of Europhiles, Lord Kerr (Crossbencher), once top civil
servant at the Foreign Office, rose to mock the 'blue bonnets' of the Scots Tory
and Labour parties.







LORD Kerr claimed to be a Unionist but we are perhaps allowed to be sceptical,
given his love for all things European. Would it not suit Brussels to have the
UK split asunder?

He wanted the Scots Nats to have six members of the House of Lords (they have
been offered peerages but Mr Salmond keeps rejecting them).

Lord Forsyth wondered if this meant that Lord Kerr, who tends to be incredibly
snooty about Eurosceptics, would also welcome a group of peers representing the
views of Ukip.

Kerr didn't like that one bit and dodged the question. Ha!

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The European Parliament should be done away with

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 263 words


LIFE sounds just grand for Members of the European Parliament belonging to the
African­Caribbean Pacific and EU assembly (ACP­ EU).In November 2010, 50 of them
ran up a bill equivalent to more than £17,000 each on a trip to the Congo.

In January of the same year 64 fled chilly northern Europe for a summit in
Tenerife, accruing costs of more than £9,000 each. In between, in July 2010, 13
of them found it necessary to visit the Seychelles on a five­day trip costing
more than £4,000 a head.

Yet is there the remotest sign of any insight or innovation being arrived at or
implemented on any of these trips that has improved the quality of life for the
citizens of Europe? Certainly not if one goes by the state of the European
economy.

This is not so much a gravy train as a jet­set lifestyle funded by taxpayers. As
Ukip's Marta Andreasen puts it: "Even as the eurozone crisis was starting to
bite hard, MEPs were rewarding themselves with self­serving and largely
pointless delegation visits."

It is encouraging that MEPs are finally being placed under sufficient scrutiny
to unearth outrageous abuses such as the ACP­EU junkets and it is to be hoped
that their exposure will lead to a tightening of procedures.

But the basic fact is that the European Parliament should not even exist.
Parliaments are required only by nations, not by international alliances or
common markets.

No anthem, no flag, no diplomatic service and no parliament are required to
foster co­operation between the nations of Europe. And the only way to make sure
MEPs provide value for money is to abolish them.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Scandal of the £230m EU bill for overseas junkets

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 720 words


FURY erupted yesterday after it emerged the EU blew £230million on junkets to
exotic locations including the Seychelles.

Euro MPs enjoyed dozens of taxpayer-funded trips and fact-finding missions
including an eight-day trip to the Democratic Republic of Congo costing £850,000
- to discuss poverty.

Tory MEPs Daniel Hannan, Nirj Deva, Martin Callanan, and Liberal Democrat
Catherine Bearder were among 50 delegates on the trip.

During the November 2010 gathering in the African country's capital Kinshasa,
the group stacked up a bill of £17,067 per head.

It means taxpayers forked out more than £2,000 per MEP per day.

However, the Daily Express understands the total bill for the British contingent
of MEPs was signifi-cantly less than the average.

The scandalous bill, 141 times the £121 average annual income in Congo,
indicates that the relentless juggernaut of EU excess shows no sign of slowing
down.

It also adds further weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of
the EU altogether.

The MEPs were attending a meeting of the African-Caribbean Pacific and EU
(ACP-EU) joint parliamentary assembly to discuss with MPs from the developing
countries how to tackle poverty in the world's poorest regions.

Critics said the cost was "disgusting" and "an affront to taxpayers". Matthew
Elliot, of the campaign group the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "Taxpayers are sick
of hearing of one EU junket after another. It's disgusting these MEPs racked up
the equivalent of some British taxpayers' annual salary in a matter of days."

Shocking figures reveal a 64-strong ACP-EU delegation of MEPs had previously
jetted out to Tenerife in January 2010. They racked up travel and hotel bills of
£588,404 or £9,193 each, in one week. In comparison, a week in a junior suite at
London's Ritz Hotel is a snip at £3,928.

In July of the same year, 13 of the ACP-EU MEPs travelled to the exotic Indian
Ocean Seychelle Islands for a five-day trip that cost the taxpayer £4,374 per
head in travel, hotel and "logistics" bills.

In addition, a group of four MEPs went to Argentina in March 2010 costing
£21,878 a day for each MEP.

Meanwhile seven MEPs on the European parliament's trade committee managed to
rack up travel, hotel and other bills of £5,384 each over four days in
springtime Rome.

Overall, the cost of first class flights and luxury hotels for the trips in 2010
hit a colossal £230million. The financial details of these trips were uncovered
following an inquiry into spiralling costs by MEPs on the parliament's budget
committee.

The figures, seen by the Daily Express, show the huge bills presented to
taxpayers for keeping MEPs in the lifestyle to which they are accustomed.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and the European Commission's former chief
accountant, described the costs as "astonishing" at a time when the EU was
imposing austerity programmes on the eurozone.

She said: "Even as the eurozone crisis was starting to bite hard in 2010, MEPs
were rewarding themselves with self-serving and largely pointless delegation
visits.

"These figures are an appalling abuse of public money. They should hang their
heads in shame."

A European parliament spokesman insisted the figures include costs for
accompanying staff and hiring meeting rooms.

She said: "These meetings provide the only way in which elected representatives
of, for example, the ACP former colonies, can make their wishes heard."

A spokesman for Conservative MEPs said of the Congo trip: "This was anything but
a jolly. Anybody who has ever been to the Democratic Republic of the Congo knows
it is not exactly a tourist destination.

The cost per head would be exaggerated by the excessive number of interpreters
and other staff which EU rules demand are sent on these trips.

"The flights would have been very expensive as there is no competition on the
routes.

"The work we did in Kinshasa was very demanding and far from frivolous.

We were involved in a series of high-level meetings.

"A great deal of EU aid is spent in that region and we consider it important to
engage with legislators there to help ensure it is spent properly."

Is the EU a scandalous waste of our money? q Yes: 0901 030 8346 No: 0901 030
8347 Yes text DXFRIYes to 80088 No text DXFRINo to 80088 Calls cost 26p from a
BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network
operator rates

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tory MEP Nirj Diva, a delegate to Congo
An eight-day trip by Euro MPs to Congo's capital Kinshasa cost £850,000
Tory Martin Callanan
MEP Catherine Bearder
Euro MP Daniel Hannan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 27, 2012 Friday
                              Correction Appended

European Union: the sceptics:: Analysis: Britain, proud home of Euroscepticism

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1135 words


The British do not have a monopoly on Euroscepticism. But suspicion towards the
European project has existed for longer within the British mainstream than
anywhere else. It was evident in the lofty mistrust displayed by both Labour and
Tory governments towards the project's first faltering steps. At the signature
of the treaty of Rome in 1957, Britain sent Russell Bretherton, a middling trade
official, not even a minister. To observe, not join.

When the then prime minister, Harold Macmillan, acknowledged the strategic error
and applied to join in 1961, his wartime ally, Charles de Gaulle, feared Britain
would be an Anglo-Saxon Trojan horse and kept it out until 1973. In those early
days it was Labour's leader, Hugh Gaitskell, who raised the Eurosceptic standard
against losing "1,000 years of history" as an independent state. His enemies on
the Labour left, who saw Europe as a capitalist ramp, cheered him on. Fellow
moderates were appalled.

The Tories had their sceptics too - including pro-Commonwealth nostalgics -
preaching the angry language of betrayal. They were marginalised, their
rebellious votes neutralised by Europhile Labour and Liberal (later Lib Dem)
MPs, as well as most of Fleet Street, where - as at Westminster - most top jobs
were held by "never again" veterans of the second world war.

With the exceptions of the pro-empire Daily Express and the communist Daily
Worker, Fleet Street voted yes in the 1975 referendum on UK membership. Seven
Labour cabinet members were allowed to campaign for a no. Margaret Thatcher
campaigned for a yes with Harold Wilson, Ted Heath, David Steel and Roy Jenkins.

Only in the late 1980s, as vivid wartime memories faded, did the centre of
gravity shift in both main parties. Claiming to have been deceived, in 1988
Thatcher denounced "federalism" in Bruges, just as Neil Kinnock - encouraged by
the visionary French European Commission president, Jacques Delors - led Labour
to embrace a social Europe. As Labour swung towards Europe, most of Fleet Street
swung the other way. So it has remained.

Why did this happen in Britain more than elsewhere? Deep-seated history,
geography, law and intellectual traditions and (much under-remarked) religion,
played their parts. All contributed to a distinctive strand of European culture,
sometimes integrated (400 years of Roman rule) but often semi-detached: "Fog In
Channel, Continent Isolated," as a headline once put it.

It had been so since rising waters of the North Sea broke through the chalk
bridge that once linked Dover to Calais. It took another 8,500 years before
Thatcher's Channel tunnel (an irony also under-remarked) rejoined them.

In consequence, the English language developed as a hybrid one, neither Germanic
nor Latin. Pragmatic common law traditions, later exported throughout the
English-speaking world, were different from codified Roman law. Henry VIII's
Tudor Church of England was neither Catholic nor Calvinist, but nationalist and
individualistic.

Spared the traumas of foreign occupation or endless wars fought on home
territory (25 of the 27 EU member states, all but the UK and Sweden, were
occupied by foreign armies and/or domestic dictators in the 20th century),
England's political liberties prospered.

A stable national state (England had not yet morphed into Britain) fostered a
cocky sense of "sceptred isle" exceptionalism so evident in Shakespeare's
histories and Elizabeth I's bold seafarers. The new British state, a maritime
trading nation since prehistoric times, now fashioned growing naval and
industrial power into a world empire that sealed an often arrogant self-regard,
global but also insular.

Not even economic collapse-disguised-as-victory after 1945 could dispel cold war
illusions of "Big Three" status. Britain's role, up there with the US and USSR,
was to be sustained by its three circles of influence: the US special
relationship; the UN security council; and the Commonwealth. Who needed Europe,
eh?

At this point Britain took another distinctive turn. Under Thatcher and Reagan,
Anglo-Saxon capitalism lurched away from the post-war social democratic
consensus towards free markets and free trade. It was why much of the British
left, once dogmatically anti-European, swung the other way with equal fervour
precisely because it now seemed to offer more security to ordinary people.

Yet soft pro-European rhetoric from Tony Blair in the New Labour years could
never reverse Thatcher's "betrayal" cry at Bruges, just two years after she had
signed the 1986 Single European Act. And two years later, just weeks before she
was ousted by her own party, a weakened Thatcher was forced to take sterling
into the embryo-euro, the ERM.

By the time it was ejected and the architect of the policy, John Major, was
humiliated in 1992, Euroscepticism was rampant in the Tory ranks, with Thatcher
its unofficial champion.

By now the "sceptical" language was becoming harsher. The EU wanted to control
our courts, our armed forces, our fishing fleets and farmers. Brussels was
bureaucratic and increasingly arrogant.

Earnestly and cautiously, EU leaders tried to build an unprecedented political
entity that could compete with the US and China. For their pains they were
accused of rushing so fast that they left voters behind them, the "democratic
deficit" of an arrogant EU elite.

Tory-led Britain had fought for an enlarged EU - "wider, not deeper" - and got
its way as ex-Soviet states joined. London won its opt-out from the single
currency project at Maastricht in 1991, and commitments to economic reform on
more competitive, Anglo-Saxon lines. But "Euroscepticism" was not so easily
appeased. The pro-Europeans were technocratic and rational, their opponents used
the stirring language of independence and liberty.

The appearance of one-policy parties such as the UK Independence party pulled
the Tory mainstream further away from the idea of Europe. David Cameron clinched
his leadership bid in 2005 by promising to leave the EU conservative block at
Strasbourg and form a less "federalist" group. His consequent isolation
contributed to last December's summit veto in Brussels, a sceptics' triumph that
may proved short-lived.

For many the sovereign euro crisis that has followed the bank bust of 2007-09
served only to prove the arrogant folly of Europe's leaders.

It was a perfect storm, decades in the making, as EU skies darkened and the
thunder grew louder. By now 1990s Euro-optimism had given way to Euroscepticism
across the continent, from Finland and Austria to jobless young workers trying
to leave Spain and Portugal. Even in loyal founder states - the Netherlands,
France, Germany itself - Euroscepticism and xenophobic parties were again on the
rise.

Euroscepticism had proved to be one of Britain's more successful exports through
the Channel tunnel.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2012



CORRECTION: * In an analysis piece headlined Britain, proud home of
Euroscepticism (27 January), it was said that the Daily Worker opposed a yes
vote in the 1975 UK referendum on membership of the European Economic Community.
The paper had by then become the Morning Star.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 27, 2012
                                 First Edition

Google, don't put me in a pigeonhole

BYLINE: E Jane Dickson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 435 words


If a tree falls in a forest and there is no one to record the event on YouTube,
does it still make a sound? This is the philosophical mindbender for the silicon
generation. It was announced this week, with some fanfare, that an hour's worth
of YouTube video is uploaded every second. That's an awful lot of talking dogs.

Actually, I quite like the talking dogs. I'm not sure I'd want to employ one,
though, and I can't say I'm cheered by news that employers are increasingly
ignoring CVs and choosing job candidates on the basis of their "online profile".
Which is as much as to say that it's no longer what you think or know, or even
what you have done that counts; the modern metric of success is how much noise
you make in cyberspace.

The blogging and the tweeting and the Facebooking, the endless Googling - all
those things your teenagers do as naturally as breathing, things your slow,
saurian brain has dismissed as "arsing about on the computer when you should be
revising" - turn out to be important life skills.

I can see that, to prospective employers, one's online activity says more about
the individual than a professed love of hill-walking; maybe it's the awful proof
of the cyber-footprint that frightens me, the idea that you are the sum, not of
experience sifted in the tra-ditional manner (a process once known as "growing
up"), but of every fleeting 2am interest.

It frightens me even more that, as of 1 March, when Google rolls out its new,
improved, tracking technology, information itself will be sorted according to
user-profile, with search queries "tailored" to interests already expressed on
online forums such as Google+, Gmail and social networks.

Apart from concerns about privacy and targeted advertising - the latter is
surely driving the initiative - this seems to me a sinister and curiously mind
-shrinking refinement.

If, for example, you type in "race relations" and have previously Googled "UKIP
", does the search engine register your "interest" in immigration policies and
lead you straight to websites dealing in Nazi memorabilia? It can be argued that
established information vectors, such as radio, TV and, ahem, newspapers, have
traditionally reflected and reinforced the prejudices of their adherents, but
Google's ad hominem add-on makes a hollow mockery of the broad and impartial
database that has, until now, been the defining virtue of the web. I balk at a
system where the brain is stocked with (and jobs secured on the strength of) the
last hilarious video I forwarded to my friends of a fat man falling in mud. "I
link therefore I am"? No, thanks. Or at least, not yet.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 27, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

E Jane Dickson: Google, don't put me in a pigeonhole;
Employers are now choosing job candidates on the basis of their online profile

BYLINE: E Jane Dickson

SECTION: COMMENTATORS

LENGTH: 490 words


If a tree falls in a forest and there is no one to record the event on YouTube,
does it still make a sound? This is the philosophical mindbender for the silicon
generation. It was announced this week, with some fanfare, that an hour's worth
of YouTube video is uploaded every second. That's an awful lot of talking dogs.

Actually, I quite like the talking dogs. I'm not sure I'd want to employ one,
though, and I can't say I'm cheered by news that employers are increasingly
ignoring the classic CV and choosing job candidates on the basis of their
"online profile". Which is as much as to say that it's no longer what you think
or know, or even what you have done that counts; the modern metric of success is
how much noise you make in cyberspace.

The blogging and the tweeting and the Facebooking, the endless Googling - all
those things your teenagers do as naturally as breathing, things your slow,
saurian brain has dismissed as "arsing about on the computer when you should be
revising" - turn out to be important life skills.

I can see that, to prospective employers, one's online activity says more about
the individual than a professed love of hill-walking; maybe it's the awful,
empirical proof of the cyber-footprint that frightens me, the idea that you are
the sum, not of experience sifted and sorted in the traditional manner (a
process once known as "growing up"), but of every fleeting 2am interest.

It frightens me even more that, as of 1 March, when Google rolls out its new,
improved tracking technology, information itself will be sorted according to
user-profile, with search queries "tailored" to interests already expressed on
online forums such as Google+, Gmail and social networks.

Apart from ordinary concerns about privacy and targeted advertising - the latter
is surely driving the initiative - this seems to me a sinister and curiously
mind-shrinking refinement. If, for example, you type in "race relations" and
have previously Googled "UKIP", does the search engine register your "interest"
in immigration policies and lead you straight to websites dealing in Nazi
memorabilia?

It can be argued that established information vectors, such as radio, TV and,
ahem, newspapers, have traditionally reflected and reinforced the prejudices of
their adherents, but Google's ad hominem add-on makes a hollow mockery of the
broad and impartial database that has, until now, been the defining virtue of
the World Wide Web.

Concern is rehearsed about the effect of the internet on how we think -
scatter-gun intellects, attention spans of gnats etc. I'm willing to see the
other side of the argument - clearing out the well-stocked brain in the
interests of faster, more efficient processing. But I balk at a system where the
brain is stocked with (and jobs secured on the strength of) the last hilarious
video I forwarded to my friends of a fat man falling in mud. "I link therefore I
am"? No, thanks. Or at least, not yet.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

PERFECT HARMONY? NO, POLITICANS COSYING UP TO POP STARS ALWAYS LEADS TO DISCORD

LENGTH: 1316 words


AFTER JAGGER SAYS THE TORIES USED IM AS A POLITICAL FOOTBALL

By QUENTIN LETTS

SIR Mick Jagger, he of the big lips and geriatric snake-hips, was pouting even
more than normal this week after being used as 'a political football'.

The OAP rock star pulled out of an engagement to appear alongside David Cameron
at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where it had been quietly
hoped that he would promote British business interests.

Sir Mick was displeased -- and you do not lightly displease a billionaire
Rolling Stone -- after word of his planned appearance with Mr Cameron leaked to
the Press.

A red-top, pro-Conservative newspaper gave the story a hefty application of
topspin and ran the tale under the headline 'Jagger backs Tories'.

Sir Mick crossly announced that he had no intention of announcing his public
support for any political party. That had never been his intention.

With that he upped and left, taking his moulderin' bones with him, to the
pink-cheeked inconvenience of Mr Cameron and his too talkative little helpers.

Bruised

Sir Mick will recover his impish joie de vivre. The world will survive. Worse
things happen at sea and all that.

But this sorry little episode illustrates something that is too seldom grasped
by politicians and by showbusiness: the two worlds do not mix. Occasionally they
can assist one another, but on the whole it ends with one side or the other
feeling bruised and used.

Just as actors always say that you should never perform with children or
animals, so politicians should learn that celebrities can be an egotistical,
emotive nightmare.

Celebs, meanwhile, should be warned that the political world is as full of
snares as Davy Crockett's closet. Those politicos may seem charming when they
come knocking at the dressing room door, but once it gets down to the business
of agreeing policy -- and the star feels their half-baked political views should
be given a wider airing -- they may become distinctly slippery.

Celebrity endorsements are nothing new. They have been backfiring since the
Sixties, if not before. The then Leader of the Opposition, Harold Wilson, who
liked to portray himself as far groovier than was the case, sucked up to The
Beatles in the most appalling way.

He even saw to it that the Fab Four were given MBEs in 1965. They were the
biggest thing in showbiz at the time and Mr Wilson ached to associate his Labour
Party with them.

Four years later, John Lennon showed his appreciation by saying he had 'sold his
soul' when he accepted the honour. He returned his medal to Buckingham Palace in
protest at the Government's policy on Vietnam. Mr Wilson, deservedly, was left
looking a fool.

Another Labour leader, Tony Blair, marked his arrival at No 10 in 1997 by
throwing a splashy party for various denizens of the pop-art world. It was
hailed as a symbol of New Labour's affinity with 'Cool Britannia'.

Who can forget that cheesy photo of Mr Tony alongside Noel Gallagher of the
group Oasis, in which the manic-grinning Blair looks very much the junior
partner.

At the time, credulous people hailed a publicity masterstroke by Mr Blair and
his PR man Alastair Campbell. How 'of the moment' they were.

They lived to regret it, though. Gallagher turned against the Blair regime over
the Iraq war and accused his old friend Tony of behaving like a president. Oops.
That wasn't meant to happen.

The trouble is, once a celebrity has endorsed a politician, the media will keep
returning to the celeb every time the politician does anything controversial and
will ask: 'Do you regret it?'

Look what happened to poor old Nick Clegg. Before the 2010 General Election,
Cleggy was having his moment. Cleggmania: remember it?

Among those who helped to create an aura of success around the Lib Dem leader
were actor Colin Firth, novelists Kate Mosse and Jeanette Winterson, fashion
designer Bella Freud, singer Billy Bragg, and atheist authors Philip Pullman and
Richard Dawkins. How exciting it all was. The yellow balloons! The TV cameras!
Publicity for all! Cue 'think pieces' about 'the zeitgeist' and all that sort of
palaver.

The celebrities benefited from the sheen of public duty -- what highbrow,
community-involved folk they were, rather than mere money-grubbers.

And Mr Clegg, for once, found himself surrounded by Alpha-list achievers, some
reasonably good-looking, rather than the taupe-trousered, suburban,
wispy-bearded losers who normally attend Lib Dem rallies.

But then came disaster. Ooooh dear. Mr Clegg became Deputy Prime Minister and
had to adjust to the realities of office. Along came the university fees vote
and the Lib Dems had to drop their loudly proclaimed manifesto promise not to
whack students.

Pin-up Firth was horrified and said he would 'never contemplate' renewing his
Lib Dem support. Miss Freud snapped that she would 'never vote for Nick Clegg
again'. Mr Bragg spoke of Cleggy's 'betrayal'. Miss Winterson was reported as
planning a breakaway party.

Chaos. Disillusion. How much better it would have been for all involved if they
had never joined together in political matrimony in the first place.

Danger

Sometimes the endorsement of a well-known and glamorous person can make a
substantial difference. The Scottish Nationalist Party has benefited from the
very public support of actor Sir Sean Connery. He has even given them money.

More than his cash, though, Connery gave the Scots Nats that air of raffish
danger which Sir Sean's James Bond used to possess. It helped them survive a
period of political failure. They had few seats but they were never invisible.

If you have to opt for a celebrity, find an old one, perhaps.

Much though it grieves me to say so, Brit Art's Tracey Emin has also probably
done herself some good by getting into her unmade bed with the Cameron Tories.
She has made herself seem Establishment. Hey presto, she has now been made
professor of drawing at the Royal Academy, and one of her neon installations,
edgily entitled More Passion, is prominently displayed in No 10.

The association may not have proved so fruitful for the Tory Party, mind you.
Does it not make the party look amoral to be consorting with so plainly limited
and coarse an artist?

The late Kenny Everett, madcap comedian, was persuaded to appear at the Tory
conference in 1983. He duly went on stage and said 'let's bomb Russia!' and
'let's kick Michael Foot's stick away!'

Terrible

The representatives loved it. The headlines were terrible.

Tony Blair was well aware of the drawbacks to celebrity endorsements. In his
memoirs, he recalls attending an Eighties concert by Red Wedge -- the
anti-Thatcher, pro-Labour music collective.

Much though he appreciated the support of performers such as Paul Weller and
(that man again) Billy Bragg, Blair said that 'we need to reach the people
listening to "middle-of-the-road" Duran Duran and Madonna.'

His comment went down badly at the time, but it was surely a shrewd one.

Mind you, look what happened to the Tories in the mid-Nineties, when their
celebrity support consisted of the likes of comedian Jim Davidson, singer Patti
Boulaye and DJ Mike Read. They looked dated and the media mocked them.

UKIP fell into the same trap when it persuaded stargazer and xylophone worrier
Sir Patrick Moore to front one of its election broadcasts. Sir Patrick may be
popular but he is, to say the least, an eccentric figure. That, as it happens,
was how UKIP was (and in some ways continues to be) seen.

Then there was the Green Party. It asked TV presenter David Icke to be its
spokesman for three years until 1991. Poor Greens. Little were they to know
their public face would soon be telling the world to beware power-crazed
lizards.

Come to think of it, wasn't there something along those lines in the Greens'
last election manifesto?

On reflection, given that politicians and showbiz luvvies deserve each other,
the people worst served by this unseemly collaboration are the voters.

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Appalling' cost of MEPs' foreign trips is disclosed

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 563 words


THE European Parliament spent more than £850,000 sending 50 MEPs for an
eight-day trip to the Congo in 2010, according to a list of its most expensive
foreign delegations.

MEPs were attending a meeting of the African-Caribbean Pacific and EU (ACPEU)
joint parliamentary assembly to discuss with MPs from the developing countries
how to tackle poverty in the world's poorest regions.

At the gathering in Kinshasa in November 2010, MEPs ran up a bill of £17,067 per
head - 141 times the £121 that is the average annual income in Congo. The
figures, obtained by The Daily Telegraph, were described by a UK Independence
Party MEP as "an affront to taxpayers".

The same ACP-EU delegation of MEPs, a group of 64 this time, had previously
gathered in Tenerife in January 2010. They ran up travel and hotel bills of
£588,404, or £9,193 each, over a week. A one-week stay in a junior suite in
London's Ritz Hotel costs £3,928.

The costs of the first-class flights and five-star hotels for the trips,
totalling £230million in 2010, have traditionally been shrouded in secrecy. But,
following an investigation into rising costs by the parliament's budget
committee, officials have compiled a list of the most expensive trips, breaking
down costs for the first time. Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and the European
Commission's former chief accountant before she was sacked by Lord Kinnock -
then the commission vice-president - for whistle-blowing in 2004, described the
costs as "astonishing" at a time when the EU was imposing austerity programmes
on the eurozone.

"Even as the eurozone crisis was starting to bite hard in 2010, MEPs were
rewarding themselves with self-serving and largely pointless delegation visits,"
she said. "These figures are an appalling abuse of public money. They should
hang their heads in shame."

A parliament spokesman insisted that the figures include "global costs" such as
accompanying staff and the cost of hiring rooms for meetings. "These meetings
provide the only way in which elected representatives of, for example, the ACP
former colonies can make their wishes heard as regards EU policies."

Other Brussels institutions and officials are increasingly concerned that
spending by MEPs is in danger of damaging the EU during a period when national
public budgets are being cut and living standards have been hit by a recession
generated by the eurozone crisis.

This week, Janusz Lewandowski, the European budget commissioner, wrote a letter
to the parliament asking MEPs to show the public that the EU was tightening its
belt and reducing the costs of administration. "It is of utmost importance to
continue to demonstrate that the European institutions are acting responsibly in
the light of the difficult economic and budgetary conditions," he wrote.

The top 10 visits  1 £853,360 Kinshasa, Congo, Nov 2010: , 50 MEPs for eight
days 2 £588,404 Tenerife, Spain Jan 2010: 64 MEPs for seven days 3 £385,441
Cuenca, Ecuador, Nov 2010: 39 MEPs for four days 4 £201,880 Seville, Spain, May
2010: 51 MEPs for three days 5 £170,334 Washington, Dec 2010: 28 MEPs for three
days 6 £147,280 Shanghai, China, May 2010: 11 MEPs for eight days 7 £125,347
Valparaiso, Chile, May 2010: nine MEPs for six days 8 £120,292 Shanghai, China,
May 2010: seven MEPs for eight days 9 £107,954 Mexico, Nov 2010:11 MEPs for six
days 10 £97,883 Ottawa, Canada, Nov 2010: nine MEPs for nine days

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Britain, proud home of Euroscepticism

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1464 words

ABSTRACT

Distrust of Europe seems inherently British, born of geographic distance and
political loyalties

FULL TEXT

The British do not have a monopoly on Euroscepticism. But suspicion towards the
European project has existed for longer within the British mainstream than
anywhere else. It was evident in the lofty mistrust displayed by both Labour and
Tory governments towards the EU's first faltering steps. At the signature of the
treaty of Rome in 1957, Britain sent Russell Bretherton, a middling trade
official, not even a minister. To observe, not join.

When the then prime minister, Harold Macmillan, acknowledged the strategic error
and applied to join in 1961, his wartime ally, Charles de Gaulle, feared Britain
would be an Anglo-Saxon Trojan horse and kept it out until 1973. In those early
days it was Labour's leader, Hugh Gaitskell, who raised the Eurosceptic standard
against losing "1,000 years of history" as an independent state. His enemies on
the Labour left, who saw Europe as a capitalist ramp, cheered him on. Fellow
moderates were appalled.

The Tories had their sceptics too - including pro-Commonwealth nostalgics -
preaching the angry language of betrayal. They were marginalised, their
rebellious votes neutralised by Europhile Labour and Liberal (later Lib Dem)
MPs, as well as most of Fleet Street where - as at Westminster - most top jobs
were held by "never again" veterans of the second world war.

With the exceptions of the pro-empire Daily Express and the communist Daily
Worker, Fleet Street voted yes in the 1975 referendum on UK membership. Seven
Labour cabinet members - led by Michael Foot - were allowed to campaign for a
no. Margaret Thatcher campaigned for a yes with Harold Wilson, Ted Heath, David
Steel and Roy Jenkins.

Only in the late 80s, as vivid wartime memories faded, did the centre of gravity
shift in both main parties. Claiming to have been deceived, in 1988 Thatcher
denounced "federalism" in Bruges, just as Neil Kinnock - encouraged by the
visionary French European Commission president, Jacques Delors - led Labour to
embrace a social Europe. It would protect workers against the free market
capitalism of Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. As Labour swung towards Europe, most
of Fleet Street swung the other way. So it has remained.

Why did this happen in Britain more than elsewhere? Deep-seated history,
geography, law and intellectual traditions and (much under-remarked) religion,
played their parts. All contributed to a distinctive strand of European culture,
sometimes integrated (400 years of Roman rule) but often semi-detached: "Fog In
Channel, Continent Isolated," as a headline once put it.

It had been so since rising ice-melt waters of the North Sea broke through the
chalk bridge that once linked Dover to Calais. It took another 8,500 years
before Thatcher's Channel tunnel (an irony also under-remarked) rejoined them.

In consequence, the English language developed as a hybrid one, neither Germanic
nor Latin. Pragmatic common law traditions, later exported throughout the
English-speaking world, were different from codified Roman law. Henry VIII's
Tudor Church of England was neither Catholic nor Calvinist, but nationalist and
individualistic.

Spared the traumas of foreign occupation or endless wars fought on home
territory (25 of the 27 EU member states, all but the UK and Sweden, were
occupied by foreign armies and/or domestic dictators in the 20th century),
England's political liberties prospered, even if its economic and intellectual
development often lagged behind continental neighbours.

A stable national state (England had not yet morphed into Britain) fostered a
cocky sense of "sceptred isle" exceptionalism so evident in Shakespeare's
histories and Elizabeth I's bold seafarers, savage pirates and Protestant
terrorists as Spaniards saw them. The new British state, a maritime trading
nation since prehistoric times, now fashioned growing naval and industrial power
into a world empire that sealed an often arrogant self-regard, global but also
insular.

Not even economic collapse-disguised-as-victory after 1945 could dispel cold war
illusions of "Big Three" status. Britain's role, up there with the US and USSR,
was to be sustained by its three circles of influence: the US special
relationship; the UN security council; and the Commonwealth. Who needed Europe,
eh?

Such gut Euroscepticism has been evident elsewhere in the cool Protestant North;
in Norway, which (worried about its fish) vote no to joining; in Iceland (which
never applied); in Denmark and Sweden, which both rejected the euro, successful
social democratic states that maintained a degree of detachment from the
dominant European "Rhineland" model of modernisation. But they were the
exceptions in the decades when "joining Europe" was the modernising ambition of
states as different as Turkey, Portugal and former Soviet satellites.At this
point Britain took another distinctive turn.

Under Thatcher and Reagan, Anglo-Saxon capitalism lurched away from the post-war
social democratic consensus towards free markets and free trade. It was exactly
what many continental mercantilists - more inclined to managed and protected
markets and Catholic "social solidarity" - instinctively mistrusted. It was why
much of the British left, once dogmatically anti-European, swung the other way
with equal fervour precisely because it now seemed to offer more security to
ordinary people.

Yet soft pro-European rhetoric from Tony Blair in the New Labour years could
never reverse Thatcher's "betrayal" cry at Bruges, just two years after she had
signed the 1986 Single European Act, which had abolished so many national vetoes
that impeded the single market. And two years later, just weeks before she was
ousted by her own party, a weakened Thatcher was forced to take sterling into
the embryo-euro, the ERM.

By the time it was ejected and the architect of the policy, John Major, was
humiliated in 1992, Euroscepticism was rampant in the Tory ranks, with Thatcher
its unofficial champion.

By now the "sceptical" language was becoming harsher, a scapegoat for
disappointment, party faction-fighting (Thatcher's assassin, Michael Heseltine,
had been a pro-EU cheer-leader) and ever-harsher economic realities. Asia's
return to the top table after 500 years of subservience to Europe was only
slowly being understood. Louder than ever, it was said that, back in 1973,
Britain had been tricked by Heath into joining what was presented as a trading
block but was really an embryo-superstate, a corrupt one too. The EU wanted to
control our courts, our armed forces, our fishing fleets and farmers. Brussels
was bureaucratic and increasingly arrogant.

Earnestly and cautiously, EU national leaders tried to build an unprecedented
political entity, a series of structures - some inter-governmental, others
integrated - that could compete with the US and China. For their pains they were
accused of rushing so fast that they left voters behind them, the "democratic
deficit" of an arrogant EU elite.

Tory-led Britain had fought for an enlarged EU - "wider, not deeper" -and got
its way as ex-Soviet states joined. London won its opt-out from the single
currency project at Maastricht in 1991, and commitments to economic reform on
more competitive, Anglo-Saxon lines. But "Euroscepticism" - by now largely the
property of the populist right - was not so easily appeased. The pro-Europeans
were technocratic and rational, their opponents used the stirring language of
independence and liberty.

The appearance of one-policy parties such as the UK Independence party pulled
the Tory mainstream further away from the idea of Europe. David Cameron clinched
his leadership bid in 2005 by promising to leave the EU-conservative block at
Strasbourg and form a less "federalist" group. His consequent isolation
contributed to last December's summit veto in Brussels, a sceptics' triumph that
may proved short-lived.

For many the sovereign euro crisis that has followed the bank bust of 2007-09
served only to prove the arrogant folly of Europe's leaders.

Eurosceptics were happier to blame failures of state regulation than the
market-driven greed and irresponsibility of bankers, whose sparkling promise of
easy money they preferred to the dour language of Brussels bureaucrats.

It was a perfect storm, decades in the making, as EU skies darkened and the
thunder grew louder. By now 90s Euro-optimism had given way to Euroscepticism
across the continent, from Finland and Austria to jobless young workers trying
to leave Spain and Portugal. Even in loyal founder states - the Netherlands,
France, Germany itself - Euroscepticism and xenophobic parties were again on the
rise.

Euroscepticism had proved to be one of Britain's more successful exports through
the Channel tunnel.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Politics Live blog: Nick Clegg's speech on tax cuts

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6172 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen, including Nick Clegg's speech on tax cuts

FULL TEXT

3.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] A senior MP has strongly criticised the government's plans to enable
MPs found guilty of serious misconduct to be subject to recall. As the Press
Association reports, Kevin Barron, chairman of the Commons standards and
privileges committee, told a committee he had "grave concerns" over the recall
plans. Parliament would "implode" if members could be forced to face a
byelection for no more than breaching their code of conduct, he said. Under the
government plans the standards and privileges committee would determine whether
an offence was serious enough to merit recall. Barron warned this would put MPs
in a position where they were potentially able to end the careers of political
rivals for misdemeanours which did not even merit a criminal charge. And if the
political balance in the Commons was on a knife-edge, a recall decision could
cost the government its majority.

[#xfffd] Lord Mandelson has defended Stephen Hester's right to receive a large
bonus. Asked about reports that the RBS chief executive will get a bonus worth
almost [#xfffd]1m, Mandelson told Sky.

I think Stephen Hester is in the category of those people who work fantastically
hard to try to turn around RBS, and what a challenge that is, who put in the
hours, who have to apply considerable skill, assume huge responsibilities onto
his own shoulders. He is responsible for the success or failure of one of the
greatest and most important financial turn-arounds that we've seen in banking
history. So, if anyone was going to get a bonus, I would say it was Stephen
Hester.

Mandelson also said the "very many others" who did not share Hester's
responsibilities were not so deserving.

[#xfffd] Another 3,000 civilians are to be axed from the Ministry of Defence
because the department appears to have miscalculated how many staff it can
afford, the Guardian has learned.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

2.50pm: Here's an afternoon reading list.

[#xfffd] Richard Murphy at Tax Research UK says Clegg's proposals amount to "a
poorly thought out, regressive tax package that's little more than a bribe that
won't boost the economy or relieve the stress of those with profound concerns in
the squeezed middle".

[#xfffd] Benedict Brogan at the Telegraph wonders what George Osborne will
receive in return if he gives Clegg what he wants on the tax allowance.

Team Dave is already thinking about the next legislative session, and in
particular the damage a drawn out fight over Lords reform will do to the
Coalition's programme. They are desperate to persuade Mr Clegg to set aside his
pet project. What can they offer him in return? A big win on tax?

[#xfffd] Jonathan Jones at Coffee House says Clegg's language about tax was
similar to Barack Obama's in his State of the Union address.[#xfffd] Gavin Kelly
at the New Statesman wonders how living standards will play as an election issue
in 2015.

The conventional wisdom would hold that the defining question for a living
standards election, which 2015 should surely be, is Ronald Reagan's "are you
better off" than you were five years ago?

I'm not so sure. As things stand it's not clear in whose interests it will be to
make this the issue hovering over the ballot paper. Unless Labour somehow
manages to secure a seismic shift in the public's assessment of where blame lies
for the crisis and its aftermath it may not like the answer it gets if this
becomes the election question. As for the Conservatives, "things could have been
even worse" is not exactly a rousing campaign tune for David Cameron to be
humming. All of which raises the unlikely possibility that the largest decline
in household incomes in living memory might be the dog that no one -- or at
least no party leader -- wants to bark come 2015.

2.27pm: David Cameron has been on the phone to Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso, the
president of the European Commission, and and Herman Van Rompuy, the president
of the European Council, about next week's EU summit. Downing Street have put
out this statement.

The prime minister emphasised the need for bold action to restore Europe's
competitiveness. In this context, the meeting should concentrate on ways that
the EU can support economic growth across the continent and set specific targets
to liberalise EU trade with other markets and to reduce the burden of EU
regulation on business.

Turning to foreign policy, they discussed Syria and Iran. The prime minister
welcomed the sanctions packages that had been agreed this week by foreign
ministers on Monday. Leaders should send a clear signal from the summit that
they will continue to maintain pressure on both regimes until they address the
concerns of the international community. The prime minister also raised the need
for the EU to underline its support for the progress being made in Burma and the
need for this to continue.

1.55pm: This morning ConservativeHome's Tim Montgomerie said he hoped Tory MPs
would not criticise Nick Clegg for his "raise the tax allowance more quickly"
speech. (See 9.08am.) David Ruffley has clearly decided to take no notice. The
Bury St Edmonds MP was on the World at One arguing that Clegg's plans were
flawed. According to PoliticsHome, Ruffley said it would be better to use any
spare money to cut national insurance.

There might be better candidates for boosting business confidence rather than
just going for the 10,000 tax free slice straight away. Many of us think
business confidence will be better stimulated in the short run by cutting
payroll taxes and National Insurance contributions.

Ruffley also said it would be wrong to cut pension tax relief for higher-rate
taxpayers.

If Nick Clegg thinks that he's going to get more money from loopholes by
attacking the pensions industry and attacking the culture of saving by putting
more tax on 40p tax payers with the pension proposals that we just heard about,
or mansion tax, he's got another thing coming. We're not in the business of
hitting the striving classes. People who are paying 40% tax are earning just
forty-two and a half thousand pounds. That's not rich.

Clegg did not specifically call for more cuts to pension tax relief, although he
did say the government had already taken steps to cut the tax relief available
to the very wealthy in relation to their pension contributions.

1.15pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has urged eurozone leaders to follow Britain's "bold and
decisive" action in dealing with its crisis as he warned that the continent was
facing a "perilous" moment.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has said that the government should be "much more ambitious"
about raising tax revenue from "serious, unearned wealth". He made the call in a
speech saying the government should speed up its plans to lift the income tax
personal allowance to [#xfffd]10,000. Number 10 said that tax decisions would be
announced in the budget and that the quad - David Cameron, George Osborne, Clegg
and Danny Alexander - had not yet discussed the details of the budget.
(See12.01pm.)

[#xfffd] Lord Mandelson has said that he is no longer "intensely relaxed about
people getting filthy rich". In an interview on the Today programme, reflecting
comments he has made in a foreword to an IPPR report, he said that Labour had
now acknowledged the extent to which globalisation was increasing inequality.
"Globalisation is generating income inequalities within countries and between
countries that we simply can't and shouldn't live with," he said. (See9.36am.)

[#xfffd] Nick Herbert, the policing minister, has said that the quality of
policing does not just depend on the number of officers available. In a speech
in Londonin which he announced plans for a national police air service, Herbert
said: "The strength and quality of frontline policing cannot, and should not, be
measured simply in terms of officer numbers. What matters is not the total
number of officers employed, but how officers are deployed. The best forces had
twice the visibility and availability of those at the bottom of the table. So
spending isn't the sole issue." Herbert was speaking after Gloucestershire's
chief constable, Tony Melville, said cuts to his force's budget would take it to
"a metaphorical cliff edge".

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has announced that cash payments for
scrap metal are to be banned. To deal with the growing problem of metal theft,
fines are also going to be "significantly increased". Yvette Cooper, the shadow
home secretary, said the plans did not go far enough. "Government proposals to
increase fines and stop cash payments at scrap yards are welcome, but they are
not enough to help police crack down on this damaging crime blighting commuters,
churches and communities across the country," she said. Labour would be
proposing its own "tougher and more substantial proposals" next week, she added.

[#xfffd] The Department for Education has published school performance tables
containing an unprecedented amount of information about how pupils with
different abilities improve. Nick Gibb, the schools minister, said: "Today's
figures reveal a shocking waste of talent in many schools across the country.
All too often, pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds aren't given the same
opportunities as their peers."[#xfffd] Christopher Graham, the information
commissioner, has told the Leveson inquiry that he has seen no evidence of
journalists illegally obtaining private data since two landmark reports were
published in 2006. There are more details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Stephen Hester, the RBS chief executive, is set to get a bonus worth
between [#xfffd]800,000 and [#xfffd]950,000, Sky has reported.

[#xfffd] The government has confirmed that it will next week attempt to overturn
the six defeats inflicted on its welfare reform bill when the legislation
returns to the Commons next week.

[#xfffd] Norman Baker, the transport minister, has announced plans to allow
councils to charge utility companies up to [#xfffd]2,500 a day to dig up busy
roads during peak times. [#xfffd] The Labour party has announced that it will
hold its 2013 annual conference in Brighton.

12.30pm: Here's some reaction to the Clegg speech.

From Ed Miliband, the Labour leader

Finally Nick Clegg has woken up to the squeezing of people on middle incomes,
but the problem is who squeezed the middle?It is this government that has put up
VAT, this government that is cutting tax credits and this government that is
allowing energy companies to rip people off on their bills.I don't think people
are going to trust Nick Clegg or this government to help the squeezed middle.

From Owen Smith, a shadow Treasury minister

Nick Clegg has got a cheek preaching about fairness and tax. This is the man who
campaigned against a rise in VAT and then introduced it just after he got
elected. And his government's autumn statement took three times more from
families with children than from the banks.For the last year Labour has been
arguing for fair tax cuts, such as a temporary cut in VAT, to help hard-pressed
families and pensioners and kickstart our stalled economy. And we want to see a
tax on bank bonuses at the top to fund 100,000 jobs for young people. Now that
the economy has gone into reverse, these measures should be part of a real plan
for jobs and growth in the next budget.

From the UKIP leader Nigel Farage on Twitter

Clegg's mansion tax is nothing more than petty jealousy and based on bad
economics

What wealth is 'unearned'? Surely it was earned - and taxed - somewhere along
the line?

From the Independent on Sunday's Matt Chorley on Twitter

Only big surprise on Clegg's income tax speech is that it's taken this long for
LibDems to make a big song and dance about their best policy

From Duncan Weldon at the TUC's Touchstone blog

Raising the allowance is usually talked of by Nick Clegg has a way to help the
low paid and struggling, but as analysis by Howard Reed and Tim Horton pointed
out in 2010, the distributional gains are hardly progressive.

[#xfffd] the measure would do nothing to help the very poorest, who don't have
income large enough to pay tax;

[#xfffd] only around [#xfffd]1 billion of the [#xfffd]17 billion cost (6 per
cent) actually goes toward the stated aim of lifting low-income households out
of tax;

[#xfffd] households in the second richest decile would gain on average four
times the amount than those in the poorest decile; and

[#xfffd] the policy would increase socially damaging inequalities between the
bottom and middle.

Furthermore with the VAT rise costing families [#xfffd]450 a year on average
even raising the allowance to [#xfffd]10,000 won't offset this for many
families.

From Tim Horton at Left Foot Forward

Has anyone noticed how the Lib Dems' catchy proposal to raise the income tax
threshold to [#xfffd]10,000 has very quietly changed? Back in the old days -
when the Libs were a progressive party of the left - the proposal was for a 'tax
switch', taking [#xfffd]17 billion off the super-rich (highly progressive) to
fund the cut in income tax (itself highly regressive).

David-Cameron-Nick-CleggBut now it's just become the tax cut. The Lib Dems have
agreed to drop many of the progressive measures to pay for it, such as a mansion
tax and scrapping higher-rate pension relief. And it looks instead as if the
revenue will come mainly from public spending cuts - making the overall effect
even more regressive.

From Janet Daleyat the Telegraph

The Deputy Prime Minister then went on to say something utterly and perniciously
misleading. "We had a situation (until recently) where a hedge fund manager paid
less tax on their shares and capital gains, than their cleaner did on their
wages." No, Nick, he DID NOT pay less tax than his cleaner. He paid tax at a
lower rate - which is a very different thing. Capital gains tax is lower than
income tax in every free market economy because if it were not, no one would
ever take the risks involved in investing in any entrepreneurial venture. (Why
should they?) The lower rate of tax is a compensation for the fact that you
might (and often do) lose money when you invest it. But those hedge fund
managers paid humongous amounts of tax - far more than an army of cleaners who
were paying income tax on their minimum wage jobs.

12.01pm: Nick Clegg wants the government to go "further and faster" in raising
the personal tax allowance to [#xfffd]10,000. That was the main message in the
speech. The government is committed to raising it to [#xfffd]10,000 by 2015, and
it was assumed it would do it in stages over the next three years. The Lib Dems
say Clegg is not trailing a policy that has already been agreed, but if George
Osborne does decide to move faster on this issue, it will look as if he is
bowing to pressure from Clegg. If Osborne ignores Clegg's appeal, the Lib Dems
will be able to argue that "bad" Tories are thwarting "good" tax-cutting Lib
Dems. In that sense it was a safe speech to make.

All this was briefed last night. But today we heard a bit more about where Clegg
would like to find the money to fund tax cuts for middle-income families. Here
are some points of interest.

[#xfffd] Clegg said the current tax system was "unfair and out-of-whack".
[#xfffd] He seemed to rule out direct income tax increases for high earners.
Citing the OECD, he said increasing marginal tax rates on work would "simply
drive many of the rich away to other countries".[#xfffd] He said the government
should be doing more to tackle tax avoidance. The Treasury has already published
a report from Graham Aaronson advocating a general anti-abuse rule (GAAR) to
restrict tax avoidance and Clegg hinted that the government will adopt this
proposal. He also said the government needed to be tougher in other areas too,
"not least stamp duty avoidance, particularly on higher end property sales and
the transferring of assets and income abroad to avoid UK tax".[#xfffd] He called
for more green taxes.[#xfffd] And he called for higher taxes on "serious,
unearned wealth". He renewed his call for a mansion tax, but his call for the
government to be "much more ambitious" in taxing "the eyewateringly lucrative
assets so often hoarded at the top" implies that he would consider other wealth
taxes like, for example, a tax on land.

The full text of the speech is now on the Lib Dem website.

11.37am: The Clegg speech is over. The key message was briefed to the press in
advance and there wasn't anything in the full text that "changes the story"(as
written up by Patrick Wintour in today's Guardian). But it did flesh out Clegg's
thinking on tax. I'll post a summary soon.

11.26am: Clegg turns to the issue of how tax cuts can be funded.

The government can close loopholes, he says.

In its recent excellent report Divided We Stand, the OECD noted how the incomes
of the richest 1 per cent have soared away from everyone else over the last 20
years. And showed that these people could be making a bigger tax contribution.

They also made clear that the right way to do this is not to increase marginal
tax rates on work any further. This would simply drive many of the rich away to
other countries, or encourage them to use tax avoidance mechanisms more
aggressively.

Instead, they suggest, governments need to look at tackling industrial-scale tax
avoidance, as well as at the allowances and reliefs which favour those on very
high incomes. That is how we can raise the average taxes paid by the very rich,
without any further rise in marginal rates.

Clegg says the government is looking at introducing a general anti-avoidance
rule.

And he says the government should be "much more ambitious" about targeting
"serious, unearned wealth".

I know the mansion tax is controversial. But who honestly believes it is right
that an oligarch pays just double the council tax of an average homeowner.

The Lib Dems will continue to campaign for it, he says.

11.24am: Families cannot afford to wait for tax cuts, he says.

Some food prices have doubled. Some energy prices have gone up by 50%. And, yes,
we are now seeing some moderation in inflation..

But, in just three years, real household disposable incomes have fallen by some
5 per cent. One of the biggest squeezes since the 1950s, since the records
began.

These families cannot be made to wait.

Household budgets are approaching a state of emergency.

11.18am: Clegg says the government has already put up capital gains tax and
clamped down on tax avoidance as part of its drive to tackle the "unfair and
out-of-whack tax system".

But there is also an "urgent need" to cut taxes for ordinary people, he says.

Go back 50 years or so and many more working people were exempt from income tax
- thanks to a more generous tax-free threshold.

But over the last few decades wage rises have outpaced the increase in the
allowance, sucking more and more people into the income tax net.

And, while in the early 70s, the Personal Allowance was worth around 28% of
average earnings, by 2010 that had dropped to around 20%.

The coalition has already started to raise the personal allowance towards
[#xfffd]10,000, he says. As a result 1.1m people are being taken out of income
tax altogether.

Today I want to make clear that I want the coalition to go further and faster in
delivering the full [#xfffd]10,000.

Because, bluntly, the pressure on family finances is reaching boiling point.

Compared to those at the top, these families have seen their earnings in decline
for a decade. And that's got worse since 2008, with lower real wages and fewer
hours at work.

11.16am: Clegg says these liberal principles are particularly important today,
when all countries need to decide how the burden will be shared.

Every politician now has a simple choice: do you support a tax system that
rewards the hard-working many? Or do you back taxes that favour the wealthy few?

I know which side of the line I stand on:

The UK's tax system cannot go on like this. With those at the top claiming the
reliefs, enjoying the allowances, hiring other people to find the loopholes,
while everyone else pays through the nose.

11.12am: Clegg turns to tax.

My philosophy on tax is simple. The system should reward effort, enterprise and
innovation. And bear down on those things which are bad for our society.

For those from the conservative tradition, taxes are necessary, but "there is an
understandable fear that tax-done-badly can threaten entrepreneurialism and
business," he says.

For the left, taxes are a means of redistribution.

Socialists will support a penal rate of tax on the highest earners. Simply
because it makes them poorer.

For them, tax is a badge of socialist success: the more, the better.

They would rather draw money in through the state and then hand it back to
people, rather than letting them keep more of their earnings in the first place.

Clegg says the liberal approach is different.

The liberal approach, put most simply, is based on a profound commitment to the
value of paid work. Citizens are empowered when they can keep the fruits of
their own labour. As Gladstone said, it is better for money to 'fructify in the
pockets' of the people who earn it, rather than in the Treasury. And fiscal
liberalism supports taxes on unearned wealth precisely to lighten taxes on the
wages of the hardworking.

11.09am: On benefits, Clegg says those who cannot work must be protected.

That is precisely why, in the Autumn Statement last year the coalition committed
to the full uprating for pensions and out-of-work benefits from April - 5.2%, in
line with inflation.

Not everyone agreed that "the unemployed" should receive the full uplift,
certainly not in the current climate. And, if you believed everything you read,
you would think that these benefits are, essentially, unlimited handouts for the
'idle poor'.

But that just shows what is so often wrong with this debate.

For one thing, for decades now benefits have been uprated in line with prices,
while earnings have generally increased at a faster rate.

Clegg says only a "minority" abuse the benefit system. And many people get off
benefits quickly, he says. "The majority of people who claim JSA are off
benefits within three months."

11.07am: The economy needs to be rebalanced, he says. And that includes a
rebalancing of the tax and benefit systems.

Both need to be rebuilt with work at their heart, restoring some sense to the
assistance and rewards the state provides.

11.05am: Clegg starts by saying that yesterday's GDP figures show the recovery
will be "uneven".

The UK's economic weakness was "a damning indictment of the way our economy had
been run", he says.

An economy that became closed, elitist, driven by vested interests, where we
prized recklessness and short-term gains, and undervalued stability and
hardwork.

11.01am: Nick Clegg is about to give his speech on tax cuts - or "supporting
working families", as the Cabinet are calling it.

He's speaking at the Resolution Foundation, a thinktank specialising in the
plight of low and middle-income families.

10.48am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are three articles that are particularly
interesting.

[#xfffd] Andrew Grice in the Independent says George Osborne is considering
bringing forward tax cuts in line with the proposals being made by Nick Clegg
today.

George Osborne is considering tax cuts for low and middle earners in his March
Budget in an attempt to kick-start growth after figures showed that the economy
is contracting.

The Chancellor will consider speeding up the Coalition's plan to raise the
personal tax allowance to [#xfffd]10,000 a year by 2015. The move would help
families in the "squeezed middle" and enable them to spend more - in the hope
this would get the economy moving again.

Significantly, the Treasury has cleared a speech by Nick Clegg today in which he
will urge Mr Osborne to go "further and faster" towards the [#xfffd]10,000
tax-free income goal. This was a key Liberal Democrat pledge at the 2010
election and is Mr Clegg's No 1 priority in negotiations with Mr Osborne about
the Budget, which have just begun.

[#xfffd] Sue Cameron in the Daily Telegraph says the universal credit project is
in trouble.

All is not well - far from it, according to insiders. One senior figure says:
"The idea that universal credit will be ready to roll in 2013 is pie in the sky.
It just won't be possible to meet the deadlines. Civil servants don't like
saying 'No, minister' and the result is that everything has been overpromised."

It doesn't help that DWP officials will not be given information from the pilot
and, unsurprisingly, they are not happy. Perhaps old habits of confidentiality
at HMRC die hard. Officials there are bound by law - and the threat of
imprisonment - not to reveal anyone's tax details. They've not even been allowed
to tell other government departments - with a few rare exceptions, such as
helping the police, but then only in cases of murder and terrorism.

Now I discover that the Coalition has sneaked through changes in the law that
will allow workers in benefit offices everywhere to access everyone's tax
details. Maybe this is necessary, but shouldn't ministers who pretend to believe
in shrinking the state have told us instead of doing it by stealth? Benefit
officials will risk jail if they leak any taxpayers' details, but there's no
doubt that security will be far weaker.

[#xfffd] David Robertson and Sam Coates in the Times (paywall) says that Lord
Mandelson in his IPPR report has admitted that Labour "oversold" the benefits of
globalisation.

He argues that Labour seized on globalisation in the early Nineties as a
response to the decline of manufacturing and a "general understanding that the
world was changing".

He adds: "Looking back, we can see that this approach did neither us, nor
globalisation itself, any favours. It was intellectually abstract and inflexible
... It oversold globalisation and, ultimately, made it harder to make a
pragmatic case for openness. It is not enough to pretend that globalisation is
simply irreversible."

10.32am: David Cameron will soon be delivering his speech in Davos. I'll be
taking a look at it, but, for full coverage, you need to go to my colleague
David Shariatmadari's Davos live blog.

10.18am: Liverpool is going to get its own mayor, the Liverpool Post is
revealing this morning.The government was already committed to giving Liverpool
and 10 other cities a vote on whether or not they should have a mayor. But in
Liverpool that referendum has now effectively been bypassed and voters in the
city will elect a mayor in May.

Several of the cities due to hold votes on whether to move to a mayoral system
(in November) are expected to vote no and a colleague points out that this could
be quite a clever way of encouraging them to vote yes. If Liverpool is getting a
mayor, Sheffield should have one too, the argument might go. David Cameron wants
as many cities to vote yes as possible because he believes having elected mayors
will help urban regeneration.

10.13am:Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, told BBC Radio
Scotland this morning that he did not see why Scotland would have to wait "a
thousand days" before being allowed to vote on independence.

I still think there's a question people will want to consider when they respond
to these consultations about why it is we have to wait a thousand more days
before we can get on and have this question asked. I remember back in 2009 when
the SNP Government last set out plans for a referendum, they said they were
going to call it in 2010. So back then they thought they could get the job done
in a year.

9.36am: For students of New Labour, Lord Mandelson's interview on the Today
programme this morning was a treat. For a start, he disowned what is seen by
many as the defining quote of the New Labour era, his own assertion that he was
"intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich". In other respects, he
sounded very New Labour, attacking banker bashing and hinting (at least, to my
ears) that he's more in the George Osborne camp than the Ed Balls camp on the
subject of deficit reduction. And his comments on Ed Miliband were fascinating
too - not just because (as Guido Fawkes has gleefully pointed out) he was
disintinctly lukewarm, but because his analysis of Miliband's predicament was
rather a good one.

Here are the main points.

[#xfffd] Mandelson declared that he was no longer "intensely relaxed about
people getting filthy rich". He was more concerned about inequality than he was
in the past, he said. Asked about his "filthy rich" remark, he said it was "a
rather spontaneous, unthought-off remark" made in in 1998 response to a senior
America industrialist who was worried about investing in the UK because he
thought the new Labour government would introduce socialism. This is what he
said when he was asked if he would use the phrase now.

I don't think I would say that now. Why? Because, amongst other things, we've
seen that globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all, the
benefits from globalisation that should have come from rising prosperity and
living standards that we took for granted and which we assumed globalisation
would drive ... Globalisation is also generating income inequalities within
countries and between countries that we simply can't and shouldn't live with.

[#xfffd] He gave an equivocal endorsement of Ed Miliband, saying that the Labour
leader was "doing well in the circumstances" but "struggling" with the need to
defend Labour's record, oppose the government and remodel centre-left politics
for the 21st century all at the same time.

What I think that Ed Miliband is doing - he's struggling with two things and
they are not easy. One is that he's trying to oppose the government on the
economy where, legitimately or not - people will take different views - they
think the government is in the wrong place. But in making an argument against
what the government is doing in fighting the recession, he's also struggling
with his own inherited legacy from the previous Labour government, and they are
not doing that easily or finely, but nor it is simple to do.

At exactly the same time, he's struggling to invent a new left-of-centre
political paradigm that isn't New Labour, that in a sense takes lessons and
experience from the last 15 years, not least from the experience of
globalisation, revisits the issues to do with markets and inequalities and
responsible capitalism, to invent a new left-of-centre politics for the 21st
century. Now he's trying to do these things simultaneously, neither of them are
simple or straightforward, at a time when not very many people are giving him
the benefit of the doubt. It's a rather unenviable job, which I think he's doing
well in the circumstances. But it's not easy.

As the Telegraph's James Kirkup points out on Twitter, it is hard to believe
that an old pro like Mandelson used the word "struggling" about Miliband three
times without knowing what impression would create.

The line about the economy - "where, legitimately or not - people will take
different views - they [Labour] think the government is in the wrong place" -
was also intriguing. To my ears, that was Mandelson hinting that he himself
takes a "different view" and that he does not agree with his party about the
need for slower deficit reduction.

[#xfffd] He said the right had been winning the argument on deficit reduction.

I think in the main, what's happened [in politics globally] is that the right
wing have been better at handling the rhetoric of austerity and cutting back and
deficit reduction, which broadly speaking I have to say is where the public have
been. I'm not sure they're going to remain in that place, but, you know, there's
been a marrying-up of right-wing rhetoric and what the public feel is necessary.

[#xfffd] He said the left should avoid banker bashing.

The centre left have got to fight back, but not by reverting to old arguments
about state control and intervention, and not in my view by employing too much
of the new rhetoric on the left of business and bank bashing. I don't think
that's going to get them anywhere at all.

[#xfffd] He endorsed the industrial policies being pursued by the Department for
Business under Vince Cable and David Willetts.

After a shaky start, BIS [the Department for Business] has got into its stride.
If you see what Vince Cable is doing, and what David Willetts in particular is
doing - I read a speech of his only the other day, I could have written every
word of it myself - it is in a sense taking to a higher and more sophisticated
level the sort of industrial policy thinking and actions that I was introducing
when I came back to government.

Mandelson was on the Today programme because he has contributed to a report
globalisation being published by the IPPR today. You can read the 108-page
report here (pdf).

There is also an audioBOO of the Today interview.

9.08am: At ConservativeHome Tim Montgomerie is saying that he hopes
Conservatives will not criticise Nick Clegg for demanding tax cuts for
middle-income earners, funded by tax increases for the rich.

It is regrettable that the Tory leadership has allowed Nick Clegg to make the
running on this issue. The Conservative brand remains fundamentally weak. At the
last four elections we've scored just 30.7%, 31.7%, 32.4% and 36.1%. One of the
key reasons is that we are not seen as a one nation party. Half of Britons tell
YouGov that the Tories only appeal to one section of Britain. That compares to
just 19% and 11% who think the same of Labour and the Lib Dems. George Osborne
should be leading the way in creating a system that taxes jobs less and wealth
more while leaving the overall burden of tax unchanged. This is a principle
theme of ConHome's Majority Conservatism. If Conservatives do not rebalance the
tax system in a sensitive way then more radical parties will do so in a way
that's less helpful to the free market. My fear is that the usual Tory MPs will
fill the airwaves today to attack Nick Clegg and reinforce the Tory toff
problem.

Montgomerie has been pleased to see that three Tory MPs have already used
Twitter to back his argument. Zac Goldsmith and Gavin Barwell have posted tweets
saying they agree with Montgomerie's point about the need for the Conservative
party not to attack Clegg. And Justin Tomlinson has posted this.

@TimMontgomerie Absolutely, it is the best way 2 get money back into the pockets
of those doing the right thing & working, has 2 be priority

8.50am: The news fountain is in full flow this morning. David Cameron is giving
a speech in Davos. Nick Clegg is giving his own speech, which I will be focusing
on in detail, effectively opening up the coalition budget negotiations to public
scrutiny with an explicit demand for tax cuts for middle-income Britain. And
Lord Mandelson has been on the Today programme. As usual, it made for cracking
copy. As well as giving a decidely equivocal assessment of Ed Miliband and
saying that he agreed with every word of a recent speech given by David Willetts
(an endorsement which is not likely to endear Willetts to his Tory colleagues,
Mandelson also said that he would not now say that he was "intensely relaxed
about people getting filthy rich". Given that (rightly or wrong) this remark
came to be perceived as a key New Labour credo, this is quite a capitulation.
I'll post a full summary of the interview soon.

Here's the agenda for the whole day.

9am: Nick Herbert, the policing minister, gives a speech. As Alan Travis
reports, he will announce plans for a national police air service.

9.30am: The Department for Education publishes secondary school league tables.

10am: John Lyon, the parliamentary commissioner for standards, gives evidence to
the Commons political and constitutional reform committee.

10am: Senior executives from Google and Facebook give evidence to the Leveson
Inquiry. Other witnesses include Christopher Graham, the information
commissioner, and Popbitch founder Camilla Wright.

10.30am: David Cameron delivers a speech at Davos. He is going to urge EU
leaders to be bolder in their approach to the eurozone crisis, saying "tinkering
won't cut it any more".David Shariatmadari will be covering this on his Davos
live blog.

11am: Nick Clegg gives a speech to the Resolution Foundation. As Patrick Wintour
reports in today's Guardian, he is going to call for tax cuts for middle-income
Britain in what amounts to public budget submission to the chancellor, George
Osborne.

At some point today Caroline Spelman, the environment secretary, is also
publishing the first ever national assessment of the risks from climate change.
As Juliette Jowit reports, it will say that flooding is the greatest risk, with
up to 3.6 million people at risk by the middle of the century.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 26, 2012 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Letters: Tories must uphold rights code;


SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1784 words


Let me start by saying I found the European Court of Human Rights' decision on
Abu Qatada baffling; I firmly believe a country's borders are the responsibility
of that country and that country alone. However, David Cameron is right to
demand reform and must reject knee-jerk calls to leave the European Convention
on Human Rights.

The convention was founded following the atrocities suffered by millions during
two world wars. Britain and Churchill were the driving forces behind the
convention and it was drafted by British lawyers and based on British law. There
is nothing controversial in the convention. The right to life, liberty,
security, fair trial, privacy, expression, property and free elections are ones
we all subscribe to.

We read about the court only when we feel the hand of judicial activism or
controversial, baffling decisions; but the same can be said of our domestic
courts. Yet we would not dream of abolishing them.

The convention is separate from and predates Britain's membership of the EU. I
am convinced this issue is being blurred because many people wrongly think the
court is part of the EU.

The convention is written to allow member governments plenty of scope for
national interpretation; it is a loose framework, not a prescription. Such basic
rights, upheld by the judiciary, are commonplace in most western democracies.
They address a weakness of majoritarian government, whereby its executive can
easily wear down civil liberties.

Yes there have been mistakes, yes the judges, may on occasion in the eyes of
many, exceed their brief and this risks undermining the founding principles of
the court. But the convention has done much that is good and has done much to
safeguard our freedoms. Without it our freedoms would have been eroded long ago.

Sajjad Karim MEP

Conservative Legal Affairs Spokesman, European Parliament, Brussels

Why honesty went out of fashion

As Darwin showed, all living species are essentially selfish. So perhaps we
shouldn't be too surprised that in Britain people are becoming less honest
("Britain facing boom in dishonesty", 25 January).

However, evolution has - at least in the case of humans - given us a capacity
for compassion and sharing. The reason these characteristics are out of kilter
is that back in the 1980s greed was legitimised in the markets-know-best
philosophy of Reagan and Thatcher.

What we are now seeing, of course, is that extreme wealth at the very top of the
capitalist chain creates abject poverty at the other end. Is it any wonder,
then, that people are increasingly out for themselves? If the business and
financial elite can screw the system, why shouldn't those less lucky?

Morality is not a God-given characteristic; it has evolved through the simple
need to get on with one other. Only by curbing the excesses of the few ( through
social pressure rather than legislation) will greater fairness and honesty be
readopted by the majority.

Quentin Macfarlane

Arbroath

***

Is "Britain facing a boom in dishonesty"? Maybe, but there would be no way of
knowing from the University of Essex study, at least as you've reported it.

People weren't asked if there were circumstances in which they themselves would
feel justified in acting dishonestly. They were asked if, in general, they felt
acting in such a way could be justified.

So it would be perfectly possible for example for someone who would never make
up something in a job application, or avoid paying a fare on public transport to
be able to envisage a situation where such acts might be justified. This
suggests a society that exercises not less honesty but greater tolerance than
that implied by the rigid moral code the University of Essex would appear to
want us to live by.

Kate Francis

Bristol

***

I told a friend who is a graduate child psychologist that I have never known my
wife tell a lie in 47 married years. She seemed to think it was a clinical
condition, presumably treatable. This was such a surprising reaction that I
contacted three other people whom I would trust to always be honest.

One, a Methodist minister, said that she had once lied in Year 6 and felt so
dreadful afterwards that she never wanted to do that again. Another, a lady of
over 80, said that she also had lied once when a child also aged about 10, and
recounted the circumstances with amazing detail. She also never did it again.
The third decided to disqualify herself if I included "white lies".

David Butland

Bridlington, East Riding

***

Haven't young people always been more tolerant of dishonesty than older people?
As with friendship, it takes experience fully to understand the value of
integrity.

Sara Neill

Tunbridge Wells, Kent

A deal for the Falklands

If the Falklanders wish to remain British, that is a very reasonable request to
be supported, as says David Cameron (19 January). But I thought the underlying
issue was about the minerals under and the fish in the oceans around the
Falklands.

As the Falklands are neither heavily populated nor heavily industrialised, they
probably need only a small proportion of the off-shore wealth for themselves in
order to remain sustainable and to continue their British lifestyle.

So why can't we come to a friendly agreement with Argentina about keeping the
Falklands British but sharing its off-shore wealth with Argentina, which as a
large and growing country must have greater need of resources?

In any case it must make more logistical sense to harvest this wealth in
conjunction with mainland Argentina, rather than trying to do it all from
faraway Great Britain.

H Trevor Jones

Guildford

***

As the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war approaches, two things are
abundantly clear: Argentina will never relinquish its claim to the islands and
the islanders will never willingly cede sovereignty to Argentina. A possible
solution to the impasse occurs to me.

There are two main islands; East and West Falkland, the majority of the
population reside on East Falkland around Port Stanley. Why not give control of
West Falkland to Argentina with the population of this island being given the
option to re-settle on East Falkland which would remain as a self-governing
British Overseas Territory? An agreement could be reached sharing mineral and
fishing rights for the whole area with a UN resolution ensuring compliance.

I am not suggesting that Argentina has a legitimate claim to the islands, but if
a solution is not found another war remains a possibility; the last one cost
more than a thousand lives and we must ensure that it is not repeated.

Jim La Bouchardiere

Telford, Shropshire

This 'leak' was just drivel

My old friend Stephen Glover (Media Studies, 23 January) implies that I have
form for leaking information, but there was no question of leaking information
about Theresa May, since the YouTube recordings comparing her speech with the
UKIP leader's similar attack on the Human Rights Act were already on a news
website. The first accusation that I had leaked Cabinet information was in The
Daily Telegraph on Tuesday last week, compounded by a vituperative piece in the
same paper by Cristina Odone.

On Saturday, the Telegraph completely accepted that the articles were wrong,
apologised to me, and particularly regretted the offence caused by Ms Odone. As
Mr Glover knows, it is rare for a newspaper to admit error quite so fulsomely,
and the reason for their speedy retraction was simply that I was able to prove
that the leak could not have been from me.

Mine is simply a belated attempt to stop the sort of bilious drivel written by
ill-informed columnists, usually in the Tory press, who never seem to check
their facts, but do not let their ignorance inhibit their invective. It may not
be very Christian of me - pace Ms Odone - but I decided no longer to turn the
other cheek.

Chris Huhne MP

House of Commons

Women and children last

"Women and children first" regularly pops up after passenger ship accidents, as
it has in the case of the Costa Concordia. However, it is a recent principle in
the overall history of seafaring, only marking its 160th anniversary this year
from the troopship Birkenhead disaster of 1852 - hence, also, "the Birkenhead
drill".

Sixty years on, loss of the Titanic in 1912 also saw it widely followed and
finally ensured the carrying of adequate lifeboats for all on board (as Titanic
did not).

In the wider age of sail, no ships had lifeboats as such, and the "law and
custom of the sea" was that in extremis the few working boats carried were
usually taken by those with the skills to escape in them: men of the crew, not
passengers of any sort, albeit with exceptions. AWB Simpson's splendid
Cannibalism and the Common Law (1984) provides chapter and verse.

Pieter van der Merwe

National Maritime Museum

London SE10

In brief...

How we learn gender roles

Julie Bindel's article on gender neutrality (Opinion, 24 January) resurrects the
ill-informed opinions of late 20th-century feminism. It's about time some
knowledge of genetics informed these attitudes.

This does not mean that humans are "hard-wired to be masculine or feminine"; but
to suggest that gender is "socially constructed... a set of rules laid down to
benefit males" is laughable. The fact that a behaviour is learned does not imply
a lack of genetic basis.

I doubt if boys are hard-wired to prefer blue and girls pink, but there is no
doubt a strong genetic drive to learn gender roles. We need, as a society, to be
careful about the gender roles on offer but we also need to avoid the simplistic
rejection of traditions.

Colin Wigston

Edinburgh

Phone cut off

Mary Dejevsky seems surprised that the folk in Ambridge don't reflect the rise
of mobile phone use above landlines (Notebook, 25 January). Obviously she's
never lived in the country, where mobile signals are as fickle as the wind. In
my house I can send and receive calls easily but a mile up the road poor
reception makes you sound like the comedian with a broken microphone.

Jean Williams

Culcheth, Cheshire

Noisy cinema

With reference to cinema sound (letter, 23 January), I've often wondered why
local cinemagoers mill around in the foyer until the big film starts. That is,
until recently, when I sat through the adverts with my fingers in my ears. I'm
not deaf, but I soon would be if I sat through that noise too often.

Evelyn Ross

Cheltenham, Gloucestershire

Foreign fields

Our 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 war cemeteries have been universally respected by
local inhabitants (letters, 25 January). Unhappily, this might not be true of
more recent conflicts.

Robert Davies

London SE3

Devalued

The Republicans of South Carolina, where I used to live, have put their "family
values" party in an ironic dilemma: they will now have to choose between a
Mormon and a polygamist.

Guy Ottewell

Lyme Regis, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 26, 2012 Thursday 4:32 PM GMT

EU 'bungs' of £12,000 to 'party members and friends' to continue;
The European Parliament is to continue the system of MEPs being allowed £12,000
in cash for visits of 'party members and friends' despite the concerns of
auditors.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 278 words


Individual MEPs have a budget of up to £32,000 a year to invite up to 110 people
to visit the EU's assembly's Strasbourg or Brussels seats in groups.

The subsidised trips, run by party activists, usually spend little time in the
parliament and are dominated by eating, drinking and other holiday activities.

When the group arrives in either Belgium or France, a nominated "leader", almost
always a party activist close to the MEP, is given cash, averaging £11,600, to
cover their expenses. No receipts are needed in order to get the payment.

The European Court of Auditors has warned that the rules leave the parliament
open to the "risk of overpayment" because no evidence was required of "actual
travel costs" and that cash advances "limits the possibility of applying
internal control procedures to these transactions". The auditors found payments
totalling £46,371 were made in cash to group leaders in four out of six cases
audited.

But despite the warnings, Klaus Welle, the EU official in charge of the
parliament's administration, earlier this week insisted that, rather than
requiring groups to apply for reimbursement via bank accounts after their
visits, cash payments would continue "for practical reasons".

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, has backed calls by the parliament's budgetary
control committee for the visit rules to revised "with a properly accounted for
system using receipts".

"This system of payments is antiquated and clearly open to abuse. Paying party
members and friends in used notes stuffed in an envelope looks too much like
bungs," he said. "The European Parliament as usual has set its face against
tightening up its financial procedures."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Santer to head up key rescue vehicle;
Concern at former EC chiefs appointment to bail-out fund

BYLINE: Emma Rowley; Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words


THE man who was president of a European Commission that was forced to resign
enmasse over a corruption scandal is to oversee a key eurozone rescue tool.

Jacques Santer, 74, will head the board of the Special Purpose Investment
Vehicle, or SPIV, which is designed to boost the firepower of the European
Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), the euro nations' rescue fund.

The fund's surprise appointment, signed off by eurozone finance ministers, has
caused consternation in Brussels.

"Putting Jacques Santer in charge of fundraising is like putting Dracula in
charge of the blood bank," said Martin Callanan, leader of the UK's Conservative
MEPs. "Santer's little helpers have dragged him out of retirement to give him
another cushy EU job."

Mr Santer led the Commission which collapsed in 1999, after a devastating report
on fraud and nepotism attacked the EU's executive body for serious management
failings.

All 20 members of the Commission stepped down, in what was described at the time
as the biggest crisis in the EU's history.

Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of UKIP, said Mr Santer's new job showed that "the
lunatics are now running the asylum".

Although the report by independent experts absolved the 20 commissioners of
direct involvement in fraud, it said that their claims of being unaware of
"undoubted instances of fraud and corruption" represented a serious admission of
failure.

The main criticism of Mr Santer, who was formerly prime minister of Luxembourg,
was of his failure to impose order on the Commission, which at the time was in
charge of administering a £65bn annual budget.

His new post is primarily a figurehead role for which he will not be paid,
according to the EFSF.

He was chosen because he is a "good European", a Luxembourger who will take on
the board role for the Luxembourg-based EFSF's SPIV without a salary, it said.

"He is someone with a name. He is close by and he was available," added an EFSF
spokesman.

Defending the decision, Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs the meetings of eurozone
finance ministers, told reporters: "He (Santer) served both Europe and his
country in the best way possible.

"You should revisit the notes you may have been given before having experienced
this kind of phenomenon."

His colleague Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner, then attempted
to lighten the mood by saying he took "full responsibility" for the fall of that
Commission, as he had scored some winning goals in a football match pitching EU
officials against the press.

"The journalists never forgave us and that led to the fall of the Santer
Commission," he joked.

The Telegraph

EU bail-out fund in strong demand at bond sale

telegraph.co.uk/finance

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM goes to war on human rights laws

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words


DAVID Cameron faces a clash with senior Eurocrats today when he delivers a stark
warning that it's time to seize a "once-in-a-lifetime opportunity" to curb the
meddling of human rights judges.

The Prime Minister will travel to Strasbourg to call for a root-and-branch
overhaul of the European Court of Human Rights after a torrent of controversial
rulings.

His trip follows rulings against Britain over asylumseekers and prisoners'
votes, and the latest decision to block extradition of Islamist terror suspect
Abu Qatada.

Backlog

He will tell the Council of Europe that Britain's sixmonth chairmanship of the
47-nation body is a rare chance to reform the court, freeing it from a backlog
of 160,000 cases to deal with only the most serious human rights violations.

He will argue that it should not act as a "small claims court" but should hold
us all to account by acting as a final court of appeal.

He will say that this was the role intended by the court's founders, including
wartime leader Sir Winston Churchill. Finally, he will argue that where rulings
have been made through correct legal procedures in member states, the court must
not interfere.

His speech will fly in the face of the court's most senior judge, who yesterday
urged the Government to back down.

British-born judge Sir Nicolas Bratza QC said: "It is disappointing to hear
politicians lending their voices to criticisms more frequently heard in the
popular press."

He went on: "It is particularly unfortunate that a single judgment on a case
relating to UK prisoners' voting rights - which was delivered in 2005 and has
still not been implemented - has led to repeated calls for the granting of
powers of Parliament to override judgments of the court against the UK."

Mr Cameron will try to appease critics by saying: "We are not and never will be
a country that walks on by while human rights are trampled into the dust."

Last year figures showed there were 40,850 cases pending from Russia, 15,950
from Turkey, 12,500 from Romania, 10,750 from the Ukraine and only 3,650 from
the UK.

Last night UK Independence Party Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "Calls for the
European Court of Human Rights to be reformed are as empty as their calls for
the reform of the EU. It simply isn't going to happen.

"Their decisions on prisoners' voting rights and forbidding the extradition of
Abu Qatada are politically motivated and show they have no regard for public
opinion in the UK."

OPINION: PAGE 12

DEBT CRISIS CUTS GROWTH FORECASTS

GROWTH forecasts for the UK and other major economies were slashed by the
International Monetary Fund yesterday.

It said the eurozone's failure to control debt may still derail global recovery.

But the IMF still expects Britain to outperform its struggling neighbours,
including Germany and France.

It expects the UK to grow by 0.6 per cent this year - down from the 1.6 per cent
it last forecast but in line with the independent Office for Budget
Responsibility's 0.7 per cent - and two per cent in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 25, 2012 Wednesday 9:40 PM GMT

EU sent 50 MEPs to Congo for eight days at cost of £850,000;
The European Parliament spent over £850,000 sending 50 MEPs for an eight-day
trip to the Congo in 2010, according to a list of its most expensive foreign
delegations.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 585 words


MEPs were attending a meeting of the African-Caribbean Pacific and EU (ACP-EU)
joint parliamentary assembly to discuss with MPs from the developing countries
how to tackle poverty in the world's poorest regions.

At the November 2010 gathering in Kinshasa, MEPs racked up a bill of £17,067 per
head - a sum that is 141 times the £121 that is the average annual income in
Congo. The figures, revealed by The Daily Telegraph, were described by a Ukip
MEP as "an affront to taxpayers".

The same ACP-EU delegation of MEPs, a group of 64 this time, had previously
gathered in Tenerife in January 2010. They ran up travel and hotel bills of
£588,404, or £9,193 each, over the course of a week in the Spanish sunshine,
according to the list revealed by The Daily Telegraph. A one week stay in a
junior suite in London's elite Ritz Hotel costs £3,928.

In July, 13 of the ACP-EU MEPs travelled to the Seychelles for a five-day trip
that cost the taxpayer £4,374 per head in travel, hotel and "logistics" bills.

The costs of the first class flights and five star luxury hotels for the trips,
totalling £230 million in 2010, have traditionally been shrouded in secrecy by
an EU assembly that is wary of fuelling its "gravy train" image.

But following an investigation into spiralling costs by MEPs on the parliament's
budget committee, the EU assembly's administration has compiled a list of the
most expensive trips, breaking down costs for the first time.

The figures, seen by this newspaper, show the huge bills presented to taxpayers
for keeping MEPs in the lifestyle to which they are accustomed.

A delegation of four MEPs to Argentina in March 2010 cost £21,878 in daily bills
for each MEP. Seven MEPs on the parliament's trade committee managed to rack up
travel, hotel and other bills of £5,384 each over four days in springtime Rome.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and the European Commission's former chief
accountant before she was sacked by Lord Kinnock for whistle-blowing in 2004,
described the costs as "astonishing" at a time when the EU was imposing
austerity programmes on the eurozone.

"Even as the eurozone crisis was starting to bite hard in 2010, MEPs were
rewarding themselves with self-serving and largely pointless delegation visits,"
she said.

"These figures are an appalling abuse of public money. They should hang their
heads in shame."

A parliament spokesman insisted that the figures include "global costs" such as
accompanying staff and the cost of hiring rooms for meetings.

"The why of these meetings is that relations between the EU and third countries
by necessity have a parliamentary dimension," she said.

"These meetings provide the only way in which elected representatives of, for
example, the ACP former colonies can make their wishes heard as regards EU
policies."

Other Brussels institutions and officials are increasingly concerned that
spending by MEPs is in danger of damaging the EU during a period when national
public budgets are being cut and living standards have been hit by a recession
generated by the eurozone.

Earlier this week, Janusz Lewandowski, the European budget commissioner, wrote a
letter to the parliament asking MEPs to show the public that the EU was
tightening its belt and reducing the costs of administration.

"It is of utmost importance to continue to demonstrate that the European
institutions are acting responsibly in the light of the difficult economic and
budgetary conditions and to send a corresponding signal to European public
opinion," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

BRIAN COX? HE'S NO ASTRONOMER -

LENGTH: 1913 words


As TV's newest heart-throb sparks a surge of interest in stargazing, Patrick
Moore turns his telescope on the young pretender - and concedes he's really
rather good (for an ex-rock star)

By JANE FRYER

Sir Patrick Moore is 88 years old and he looks it. His huge body is battered by
age ? lurid purple bruises decorate his enormous forearms, his baby-soft hands
are clawed with arthritis, and an old wartime spinal injury has left him
dependent on a rotating team of carers who share his fairytale 15th-century
cottage in Selsey, West Sussex.

They help him from bed to chair and back again, glue his famous monocle (yes,
really) to his eyelid to stop it tumbling out, launder his lurid Hawaiian shirts
and fix him a daily G&T at 12.30pm, on the dot.

His enormous brain, however, is as sharp as ever and flits from his beloved cats
Jeannie and Ptolemy (?they rule the house), to his loathing of all Germans ('if
I saw the entire German nation sinking into the sea, I'd help push it down') and
the national obsession with Professor Brian Cox -- the pop star-turned-physicist
who idolised Moore as a child, presented the 700th episode of Sky At Night with
him last year, and is adored by the British public.

Now, thanks to the BBC2 Stargazing Live show, Professor Cox has increased
telescope sales by more than 500 per cent and is poised to take on Sir Patrick's
mantle.

'These young ones come and they go, but he's a nice chap, you know,' barks Sir
Patrick in his fabulously posh voice. 'Came on my show once. Can't say I've seen
his, though. I've been so busy I keep forgetting. Sheer stupidity on my part. I
think he and I could learn from each other.

'Though, of course, he's not an astronomer -- he's a particle physicist!' he
hurrumphs. ?And he was in a rock band! But I suppose the more people that come
into astronomy the better. I'm all for it. And it?s a good thing, because I'm
ancient.?

So ancient, that he's planned his own death. In meticulous detail.

?I?ve got it all mapped out. I don't want a funeral. So they can take all my
good bits and use them for medical science.'

What about the less ?good bits??

'They can chuck it all away! I couldn't care less. But I?ve left some money in
my will for a very good party. There will be a candle and a tape with a message
from me, and they'll light the candle and play the tape, and at exactly the
right moment I'll blow the candle out.'

And the message?

'I've already recorded it! I say: "I'll blow that candle out if it kills me", ha
ha ha!'

Goodness.

Sir Patrick may be cruelly incapacitated by a failing body, but it's hard to
imagine his candle spluttering out any time soon. For one thing, he's too busy.

He's still filming The Sky At Night -- the longest-running programme with the
same presenter in the history of television ('I think we're on about instalment
760 . . . I can't see anyone beating it now, can you?') -- recorded here in his
cluttered study.

The first programme went out live on April 26, 1957, and he has missed just one
since -- in 2004, when he accidentally ate a rancid goose egg and nearly died of
salmonella.

He has also just finished his Data Book of Astronomy -- an enormous compendium
of pretty much everything you'd ever want to know about the cosmos, which took
him ten years ('so much has happened ? the probing of the planets, huge advances
in astronomy') and is now sitting glossily on his desk, topped by Jeannie the
cat.

But for all his impressive industry, his world has shrunk dramatically in the
past few years.

'I went to sleep one night about ten years ago and woke up like this,' he says,
looking down in disgust at his crippled body. ?Look at my hands. I can?t play
the piano or the xylophone any more. It killed everything.' Including regular
games of tennis, cricket (his unorthodox bowling style involving lots of leaps,
bounds and whirling of arms), travelling and even walking.

'My active life came to an abrupt full stop. It was a tremendous shock and it
was permanent. Unlike all those new telescope users out there, I can't even
operate my telescope any more -- I can't handle the controls. I try to make the
best of it, but I could have done without the last ten years.' So he'd rather
not have woken up that morning?

'It might have been better, yes,' he says. 'I?m not scared of dying. I believe
in some form of afterlife: I just hope my uncle George isn't there -- silly,
bald-headed old coot. But you've got to make the best of things and that's what
I've always tried to do.'

Patrick Alfred Cauldwell-Moore was born in Pinner, Middlesex, in 1923, only
child of Charles, a soldier (?who survived the Great War with a Military Cross
and a lungful of gas') and Gertrude, a trained opera singer.

He had a weak heart and so was tutored at home. In his spare time, he would lie
on the sofa reading about the moon and the stars, and saved his pocket money
until, aged 11, he had enough (67 10s) to buy his first telescope and became the
youngest member of the British Astronomical Association. Fifty years later to
the day he was elected its president.

On the outbreak of World War II, he lied about his age (he was 16) and his dodgy
heart and joined the RAF (?I knew if I joined the Army or Navy I'd last ten
minutes with my heart').

Today he's rather tight-lipped about his war years, admitting only to spending
five years as a navigator in RAF Bomber Command, losing all his teeth in an
accident, sustaining the spinal injury that has finally caught up with him and,
rather mysteriously, 'learning enough Norwegian to get by?.

With the war, though, came great personal tragedy.

'My girl, Lorna, was killed,? he says. 'We were both 20 and engaged. She was a
nurse and she was in the wrong place when a German bomb fell. There was no
question of anyone else ? I still think about her all the time. Second best was
no good for me. So I didn't marry and had no family.'

He lived with his beloved mother, Gertrude, until her death aged 94 in 1981
('the worst day of my life after Lorna died'), became an amateur astronomer and
travelled the world chasing eclipses, mapping the moon, reporting from meteorite
craters for The Sky At Night and playing the xylophone on Morecambe And Wise.

'I never thought the programme would go on so long, but there are various
reasons for it -- it?s cheap, it goes on late at night so it doesn't bother
anybody, and it's not controversial. Though we had plenty of disasters.'

Like the time he swallowed a bluebottle live on air -- 'it buzzed all the way
down' -- and his ten-minute interview in pidgin French with a Russian who spoke
no English -- 'we just about got away with it, ha ha!?

His high point was when he saw the dark side of the Moon for the first time
after it was photographed from a space probe.

Nearly 760 Sky At Nights later, his letterbox is still overflowing with
enthusiastic fan mail (they haven?t all defected to Cox yet), which he answers
in full -- despite barely being able to type on his specially adapted computer
keyboard -- though he does now lean on a few stock replies for the bog-standard
queries. 'You know . . . how do I take up astronomy? What?s that bright thing in
the sky? Is there life out there??

And is there?

'I'm sure there is. I refuse to believe we're the only living things. But I
can?t prove it. The clue is maybe Mars -- not little green men, or not any near
here, anyway -- but if we can find trace of any life on Mars, that will be our
pointer.'

He is also a magnet for rather more eccentric correspondence -- from the man
convinced the Earth was shaped like a teacup, the women who wanted to send a
carrier pigeon to the moon . . . He wrote back suggesting a parrot-pigeon
hybrid, so it could say hello when it got there.

'There are plenty of nuts -- the "flat-earthers" and "hollow-globers",' he says.
And he replies to every letter he receives, no matter how nutty.

Sir Patrick is surprisingly cheerful for a man whose physical life is restricted
to his downstairs bedroom, wood-panelled study and a view through the mullioned
windows at his cats playing on their very own scale model of Saturn in their
luxury cat run. (He's paranoid about keeping them safe -- there's a typewritten
sign by the front door: 'Patrick's cats are fiendishly clever masters of escape.
Please observe the airlock procedures?.)

'I used to wake up and think: "What have I got time for today?" Now, I get up,
drink my usual four coffees, have a look at the obituaries in The Times, and if
I'm not in them, I'll get on with the day's work.'

He is not a man afraid to speak his mind, whether it's regarding his own
disabilities, or sharing some of his rather more, er, trenchant views.

There was an uproar two years ago when he said the BBC had been ruined by women
executives drowning us in soap operas, cooking and quiz shows, and advocated two
separate television stations -- one for each gender. 'There should be a mix of
men and women -- that?s what I actually said,' he insists (not very
convincingly) today.

When I ask him about his comparing of EastEnders to diarrhoea, he smirks
naughtily and says: 'I've never been a fan of soap operas.'

And don?t, whatever you do, get him onto the Germans.

'Eughhh! A Kraut is a Kraut is a Kraut. And the only good Kraut is a dead
Kraut.'

Like many men of his generation, he is fervently anti-European (though he loves
the Norwegians and the Greeks -- 'the only people who fought gallantly all
through the war'), is a keen member of UKIP ('if I were 20 years younger I'd be
fighting for a seat next time') and frets about immigration.

'They need to be controlled. I'm not sure how, but let in the people you want
and not the riff-raff,' he says. Perhaps it's time to change the subject, and
ask if he wishes he'd made it to the moon himself. 'I had no chance,' he says,
'wrong age, wrong nationality and wrong medical grade.'

Yet he must take comfort in how many budding astronomers he has inspired and how
much he has crammed into his 88 years.

He has mapped the moon (when the Russians and Americans went to the moon, they
used his guides), played duets with Einstein ('exactly what I expected --
charming, old-worldly, courteous and never wore socks'), excelled as a musician
and composer ('one thing that is no credit to me is perfect pitch and perfect
timing') and written more than 70 books on astronomy.

And he is surely one of the very few people to have met the first man to fly,
Orville Wright, the first man in space, Yuri Gagarin, and the first man on the
moon, Neil Armstrong.

He's done an extraordinary amount in his 88 years. So would he feel happy to be
passing on the stargazing baton to Professor Cox? 'I'm not dead yet!' Oh dear.
'Of course I'm a lot older than him,' he relents. 'In a fortnight's time I'll be
89! But I'm okay, just. Though I can't play cricket any more.'

And, er, Professor Cox? 'Well, he's not the only one taking on the mantle. But
he is very good . . .'

That?s high praise indeed from the great man.

And with that I leave him planning his next project -- ?I think it's high time I
started concentrating on my composing' -- fussing over his beloved cats and
rubbing his vast hands at the thought of all those budding astronomers with
their shiny new telescopes -- ('a wonderful thing').

Sir Patrick is an exceptional man and one whom, for all his outrageously un-PC
views, it's impossible not to like enormously.

After all, there aren't many octogenarians who can wear a glued-on monocle and a
lurid green Hawaiian shirt and still exude gravitas. Professor Brian Cox has
some very large shoes to fill.

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

Taxpayers fund foreign fraudster's passport con

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 484 words


AN illegal immigrant jailed for a sham marriage was handed £1,500 of taxpayers'
money to go home - and used it to set up an agency selling fake UK passports.

Ashar Ali Rathore, 33, was freed from jail after just eight months to return to
Pakistan under a Government scheme to encourage foreign prisoners to leave the
country early.

But once back he used the handout to open a business that offered Pakistan
nationals passports, driving licences and British National Insurance numbers. He
had come to Britain with his wife Nadia Qadri, 34, on student visas. They then
went through sham bigamous weddings with two Polish people in a bid to gain
long-term residency.

Both were jailed last year for conspiring to breach immigration law - Rathore
for two years and his wife for eight months. His wife was released after only
four months but with no payoff.

Earlier this month the Daily Express revealed that more than £4million has been
handed to foreign national prisoners over the past five years under the UK
Border Agency's facilitated returns scheme.

The scheme to pay off foreign prisoners was attacked yesterday.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten called it "Alice in Wonderland stuff", adding: "Why are
we giving people like this any money at all? We owe them nothing. He came here
and broke the law. We pay him to go home. It's madness.

"They have seen that this is the way we operate and we are the mugs for letting
it happen."

Jonathan Isaby, of the Tax-Payers' Alliance, said: "Taxpayers will be appalled
to learn that £1,500 of their hard-earned money was used to give a convicted
prisoner this sick 'golden goodbye' prior to his deportation.

Disgrace "When all of us are having to tighten our belts and watch every penny,
payoffs for fraudsters like Rathore at British taxpayers' expense are an utter
disgrace.

"Ministers must urgently review the operation of this scheme to ensure that we
are not being taken for a ride."

To support their visa applications, Rathore and Qadri submitted fraudulent
documents including fake lease agreements and council tax and utility bills.
They were arrested at their home in Luton, Beds, after police found bank
statements which showed cash paid to their fake partners.

They also had more than £16,000 at the house.

In July Rathore agreed to be deported and used his lump sum to set up Xpress
Solutions in Kotli, Kashmir.

A sign at the office said he could provide UK passports, driving licences and
National Insurance cards to Pakistan nationals. A YouTube video at his office
showed a poster with pictures of UK driving licences, passports of various
nationalities and a UK National Insurance Number card. The video has since
removed.

The UK Border Agency said: "The scheme saves taxpayers the cost of keeping
foreign national prisoners in jail and denies them the opportunity to re-offend.
More than £16,000 was seized and that has been returned to the public purse."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Convict Rathore set up a business selling fake British passports using
taxpayers' money

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 24, 2012 Tuesday 10:08 PM GMT

Tainted former EC president Jacques Santer to raise money for EU bail-outs;
Jacques Santer, the head of the European Commission forced to resign en masse
over a corruption scandal, is the new head of a key eurozone rescue tool - named
the SPIV.

BYLINE: By Emma Rowley and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

LENGTH: 393 words


Mr Santer, 74, will head the board of the Special Purpose Investment Vehicle, or
SPIV, which is designed to boost the firepower of the euro nations' rescue fund,
the EFSF.

The fund's surprise appointment, signed off by eurozone finance ministers, has
caused consternation in Brussels.

"Putting Jacques Santer in charge of fundraising is like putting Dracula in
charge of the blood bank," said Martin Callanan, leader of the UK's Conservative
MEPs. "Santer's little helpers have dragged him out of retirement to give him
another cushy EU job."

Mr Santer led the Commission which collapsed in 1999, after a devastating report
on fraud and nepotism attacked the EU's executive body for serious management
failings.

All 20 members of the Commission stepped down, in what was described at the time
as the biggest crisis in the European Union's history.

Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of UKIP, said Mr Santer's new job showed that "the
lunatics are now running the asylum".

Although the report by independent experts absolved the 20 commissioners of
direct involvement in fraud, it said that their claims to be unaware of
"undoubted instances of fraud and corruption" represented a serious admission of
failure.

The main criticism of Mr Santer, who was formerly prime minister of Luxembourg,
was of his failure to impose order on the Commission, which then administered a
£65bn-a-year budget.

His new post is primarily a figurehead role for which he will not be paid,
according to the EFSF. He was chosen because he is a "good European", a
Luxembourger, who will take on the board role for the Luxembourg-based EFSF's
SPIV without a salary.

"He is someone with a name. He is close by and was available," said an EFSF
spokesman.

Defending the decision, Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs the meetings of eurozone
finance ministers, told reporters: "He (Santer) served both Europe and his
country in the best way possible.

"You should revisit the notes you may have been given before having experienced
this kind of phenomenon."

His colleague Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner, then attempted
to lighten the mood by saying he took "full responsibility" for the fall of that
Commission, as he scored winning goals in a football match pitching officials
against the press.

"The journalists never forgave us and that led to the fall of the Santer
Commission," he joked.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 24, 2012 Tuesday 4:32 PM GMT

Tainted former EC president Jacques Santer to raise money for EU bail-outs;
Jacques Santer, the head of the European Commission forced to resign en masse
over a corruption scandal, is the new head of a key eurozone rescue tool - named
the SPIV.

BYLINE: By Emma Rowley and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

LENGTH: 226 words


The former Commission president will lead the Special Purpose investment Vehicle
(SPIV), which is designed to boost the firepower of the eurozone rescue fund.

The surprise announcement has caused consternation in Brussels. Mr Santer headed
the 20-strong Commission which stepped down in 1999, after a devastating report
on fraud and nepotism attacked it for serious management failings.

At the time, the scandal was described at the biggest crisis in the European
Union's history.

"Putting Jacques Santer in charge of fundraising is like putting Dracula in
charge of the blood bank," said Martin Callanan, leader of the UK's Conservative
MEPs. "Santer's little helpers have dragged him out of retirement to give him
another cushy EU job."

Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of UKIP, said the appointment showed that "the
lunatics are now running the asylum".

Others raised their eyebrows at the appointment for different reasons. "I didn't
even know he was still alive," said one surprised EU official.

Although the 144-page report absolved all 20 commissioners of direct involvement
in fraud, it said that their claims to be unaware of "undoubted instances of
fraud and corruption" represented a serious admission of failure.

The main criticism of Mr Santer was of his failure to impose order on the
Commission, which administered what was then £65bn a year budget.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday

I WOULD SOONER HAVE STAYED A TYRE-FITTER. MONEY JUST BRINGS A LOAD OF LUMBER

BYLINE: BY AMANDA PERTHEN

LENGTH: 894 words


ONE OF BRITAIN'S RICHEST SELF-MADE MEN REVEALS HIS ANGUISH AFTER SPLITTING FROM
HIS WIFE OF 44 YEARS

WITH a fortune once estimated at 6650 million, Paul Sykes might appear to have
an enviable lifestyle.

But the self-made millionaire says that his wealth has brought him nothing but
anguish after his 44-year marriage hit the rocks.

The tycoon now faces having a lot less of that troublesome cash Z as he may have
to hand over a substantial proportion of his fortune as part of a divorce
settlement with his 'perfect' wife, Valeria.

The internet and property entrepreneur blames the collapse of his marriage on
the constant travelling involved in maintaining his empire.

In a frank phone call to The Mail on Sunday, the 68-year-old Yorkshireman said:
'I would sooner have stayed a tyre-fitter, where I started. Money just brings a
load of lumber.

'I deeply, deeply love one person, and that's my wife. I can't live without her.
But normality does not exist in the world I live in.'

Valeria has appointed lawyers to represent her in the split Z but an emotional
Mr Sykes was adamant: 'We're not going to get divorced. Me and my wife will
never part Z we're a devoted family.'

Mr Sykes, who has moved out of his 63 million family estate just outside Ripon
in North Yorkshire, added: 'My wife is Miss Perfect, and although we have
separated and I'm living in a different house to my wife, we are meeting each
other more often.

'There is no other woman living here with me. There's no one else involved. It's
because I travel around a lot and am not very settled, and she wants to become
more settled. It's to do more with different lifestyles.

'We met when we were both 22, when I was a tyre-fitter. I'm not of the
stuffed-shirt brigade, I've come from ground zero.

'Although lawyers were involved at the beginning, things have stalled because
I'm hoping we'll get back together.'

He insisted money was not an issue, saying: 'We give all our money away to
charity anyway, every penny will be given away eventually. We enjoy doing that.'

Mr Sykes, who is now living in a new home in Ripon, flew back from Majorca last
week where he had gone to think things over since the split a couple of months
ago.

Meanwhile Valeria, 68, was sunning herself in Barbados with a companion Mr Sykes
described as a 'lifelong friend'. The couple's daughter, Caroline, 30, who lives
in the nearby village of High Birstwith, said: 'They have not got divorced yet,
but they are separated at the moment. They are on talking terms and, who knows,
it could all be all right.'

Asked if her mother was intending to seek a divorce settlement, Caroline said:
'I think her lawyers are, but that's private and it's in the lawyers' hands.'

Mr Sykes has previously suggested their marriage was very traditional, and
described his wife as a Victorian. Valeria is said to have run the home,
including ironing her husband's underpants.

Mr Sykes has vowed not to leave any of his fortune to his children, except for
buying them houses, to encourage them to make their own way in the world. He has
explained: 'If you give the money to the kids, it could interfere with their
natural evolution. You have to let your children get on with it and not distort
their lives with money.'

The Sykes's generous donations have helped save local schools, provide
floodlights for Ripon Cathedral and restore Harrogate's landmark Royal Hall Z
which led to the couple meeting Prince Charles in 2006. And when Mr Sykes was
diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2000, he donated money to build a 61.5 million
urology centre at St James's Hospital in Leeds as a thank-you for his NHS
treatment.

The former scrap-metal dealer has also used his significant wealth to press
successive Tory Party leaders to resist joining the euro.

In 2004 he was one of UKIP's biggest donors, bankrolling their General Election
campaign after he rejected the Tories. He is believed to have spent 66 million
backing anti-European campaigns over the years. He said: 'I have always opposed
the euro and I've been proved right by recent events.'

The son of a miner, Mr Sykes left school with no qualifications to become a
tyre-fitter. He started dealing in car parts before branching out to sell
second-hand buses and lorries for a profit to the Far East. By the age of 24 he
was earning 63,000 a week and driving a Rolls-Royce.

In the Seventies and Eighties he invested in shopping centres, building the
massive Meadowhall near Sheffield. The property sold for 61.2 billion in 1999,
netting him 6280 million.

In 2000 he created the Planet Online internet provider, and bought a 62 million
jet and a 63 million yacht with a crew of five.

When he was once disturbed by noise from a Civil War re-enactment within the
grounds of Fountains Abbey, which is near his home, he had his own eccentric way
of dealing with it: he offered to buy the historic site from the National Trust
so he would not be disturbed by any more events. But the offer was turned down
and the Trust still runs the site.

Mr Sykes's donations mean that his fortune has rapidly diminished. In 2010

, The Sunday Times Rich List estimated he was the 26th wealthiest person in
Britain, worth about 6650 million Z but last year he failed to make the list
altogether.

Despite his riches, Mr Sykes has remained true to his humble roots, buying his
clothes from Marks & Spencer and abstaining from drinking and smoking.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GEORGE OSBORNE IS ABOUT TO FACE HIS TOUGHEST TACTICAL BATTLE YET

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 361 words


GEORGE OSBORNE'S voice must have fallen by two octaves since he became
Chancellor of the Exchequer.

Speculation suggests that the end of the helium balloon effect is more due to
the talents of a voice coach than to the chastening experience of staring into
empty Treasury coffers for 18 months.

But there is no denying that being Chancellor during these difficult economic
days has also added stature to a man once dismissed by critics as "Boy George".

In recent months the Chancellor has earned the grudging respect of some of the
Labour foes who used to underestimate him. They now see that he is the strategic
brain behind the revival of the Conservative Party. All of which makes
especially intriguing an impending tactical battle between Osborne and Shadow
Chancellor Ed Balls.

Osborne is under enormous international pressure to raise Britain's financial
commitment to the International Monetary Fund, perhaps by as much as £28billion,
in order that it can participate in measures to rescue the eurozone. This week
he hinted he was ready to accede to such demands.

But dozens of Tory backbenchers are passionately against throwing more good
money after bad in this fashion, encouraged by London Mayor Boris Johnson and
motivated at least in part by the threat of another Ukip surge in the polls.

Should Balls commit Labour to voting against increasing the IMF financing
facility then a rebellion by Tory backbenchers could inflict a devastating
Commons defeat on Osborne.

One usually well-informed source this week was reported as saying that Labour
had informally assured ministers it would not oppose more money to the IMF. But
on Thursday, Balls told a lunch hosted by the Parliamentary Press Gallery that
it was the job of the European Central Bank, not the IMF, to prop up countries
such as Italy and Spain.

"If Osborne thinks the IMF can come in and do what the ECB should be doing then
that's massively counterproductive," he said.

So the threat hangs heavy in the air. The mongoose and the snake stare at each
other across the political divide, each hoping to inflict a fatal blow upon the
other. It will be fascinating to see the struggle unfold in the weeks ahead.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 19, 2012 Thursday 7:27 PM GMT

Senior MEP sparks outrage by handing over post to her husband;
A senior Liberal Democrat MEP has sparked outrage by resigning to hand over her
well-paid post to her husband who is already employed as her assistant in the
European Parliament.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 265 words


Diana Wallis, a former vice-president of the EU assembly and a senior Lib Dem,
will formally announce her resignation on Friday.

The Yorkshire MEP is standing down after losing a bid to become the parliament's
president and under EU election rules will replaced by the next person on the
Lib Dem list in her region - her husband.

As well as being married to Ms Wallis, Stewart Arnold is also employed by his
wife as her chief of staff, under a special loophole that allows British MEPs
elected before June 2009 to employ their close relatives.

Chris Davies, a Lib Dem MEP for the North West of England, attacked a move that
"will leave a very bad taste in the mouths" of voters.

"It will serve to reinforce the 'gravy train' or 'jobs for the boys' image many
people have of MEPs," he told theparliament.com.

"One door shuts on her career in Brussels and another one opens for her husband.
I really cannot imagine her constituents will be impressed by any of this."

Godfrey Bloom, Ukip MEP for Yorkshire, said: "Trying to shoehorn her husband
into her old salary as she resigns really is a working definition of nepotism in
my opinion."

MEPs earn £80,000 a year, more than £15,000 more than their colleagues in the
House of Common. Euro-deputies are entitled to a "daily subsistence" cash
payment of £257 for each of the 184 days the parliament sits.

"General expenditure allowance", which is supposed to help MEPs run their local
office, will be increased to £3,627 a month. Both allowances are automatically
paid directly into bank accounts belonging to MEPs without receipts of
expenditure required.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 19, 2012 Thursday 4:37 PM GMT

Secret plan revealed for new EU taxes on Britain;
Germany and France have opened new battlefront with Britain over a demand for
new EU powers to set business and energy taxes on top of their push for a
controversial Europe-wide levy on financial transactions.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 494 words


A confidential Franco-German paper, seen by the Daily Telegraph, reveals that
the financial transaction tax is seen in Berlin and Paris as the first step to
giving the EU a new power to "coordinate" taxation.

The secret text also links existing European Commission proposals on energy
taxation and a common method for calculating corporate tax to the push for new
EU powers, heralding a major battle over sovereignty this spring.

"European institutions and member states should accelerate the process of tax
co-ordination," the Franco-German paper argues. "In particular the negotiation
of the European Commission proposals on energy tax directive, common
consolidated corporate tax base and common system of financial transaction tax
should be accelerated."

The taxation blueprint has reinforced British fears about the direction that the
EU is being pushed in by the eurozone crisis and sets the scene for a new
confrontation with David Cameron at a European summit in two weeks.

The Prime Minister has vowed to veto the European "Tobin Tax" and his "red line"
will be underlined by the Franco-German proposals which highlights the financial
levy as the thin end of the wedge on EU taxation powers.

"In order to set the stage for enhanced tax co-ordination, France and Germany
express their support for the European Commission's proposal on a common system
of financial transaction tax," the paper said.

In order to push the EU towards greater tax "harmonisation", Germany and France
will, later this month, announce proposals to harmonise their corporate tax
rates.

Britain has been always hostile to commission plans for an energy tax directive
and a "common consolidated corporate tax base" because both are seen as eroding
national sovereignty opening the door giving to the EU setting taxation rates.

EU officials have said that the Franco-German push will give a new lease of life
to Brussels for new energy taxes that will set higher minimum road and heating
fuel duties based on carbon emissions.

British and other European industries are concerned that the legislation will
lead to increases in the level of duty on red diesel, damaging competitiveness
during a recession.

Eurogas, which represents the European gas industry, concerned because the
commission proposals would set a minimum tax rates for natural gas at "eight and
half-fold higher than the current levels".

Douglas Carswell, the Conservative MP for Clacton, said that tax competition "is
a vital way of ensuring dynamism and competitiveness" and that Mr Cameron must
block any attempts to stop Britain using lower taxation rates to win investment.

"Tax harmonisation would create even more euro-sclerosis," he said. "Tax
harmonisation between France and Germany is a mutual suicide pact, Britain
should have no part of it."

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said: "This move will either force Cameron to
cave in to their demands, or drive Britain out of the EU for good. Which is it
that they want?".

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Goldman pay takes a hit after lucrative deals dry up

BYLINE: Patrick Hosking

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 426 words


Goldman Sachs, whose gilded investment bankers include some of the highest-paid
people in Britain, cut average pay by 15 per cent last year to $367,000
(£238,000), it emerged yesterday.

The total pay and bonuses pot was $12.22 billion, 21 per cent down on the $15.38
billion paid for 2010.

After adjusting for a reduction in headcount, pay was down by 15 per cent.
Goldman, the world's most successful investment bank, said that bonuses were
down by more than the 21 per cent fall in revenues during the year.

The average figures mask a huge disparity within the bank, with the vast bulk of
rewards going to star traders and dealmakers. Among the beneficiaries were an
estimated 5,700 staff in the London office of Goldman.

Goldman reported a 56 per cent fall in fourth-quarter profits to $978 million as
it, like other investment banks, was hit by low trading volumes and the paucity
of deals. Shares were marked 5 per cent higher because the figures exceeded
expectations and the bank had lifted its annual cost savings target from $1.2
billion to $1.4 billion.

Goldman's full-year profit of $2.5 billion, its worst performance since 2008,
was described as disappointing by David Viniar, the chief financial officer.

The bank suffered from a lull in business in the final quarter as the eurozone
crisis led investors and business leaders to sit on their hands. Revenues from
investment banking fell by 43 per cent, in fixed income, currencies and
commodities by 17 per cent and in equities trading by 15 per cent.

Mr Viniar said that there was a lot of dialogue regarding deals and many
companies circling one another. "But in terms of getting things announced, I
don't think they are going to pull the trigger." Goldman advised on some of the
biggest deals last year, including the purchase of Foster's, the brewer, by SAB
Miller.

It also cut staff levels by 2,400 to 33,000. More cuts are likely but Mr Viniar
said that revenue growth was the preferred answer. "We're not going to cut our
way to prosperity."

JP Morgan last week reported an 8 per cent cut in average pay to $342,000.
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are due to report their figures
today.

? Goldman Sachs was yesterday accused of "crony banking at its worst" by the UK
Independence Party. Steven Woolfe, the party's City of London spokesman, said
that the Greek debt restructuring was designed to benefit Goldman, which was one
of the biggest issuers of default insurance. "Many Goldman Sachs old boys are in
European Union governments. This is crony banking at its worst," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bloomin' good reason to dislike red tape;
City Diary

BYLINE: Anna White

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 161 words


REMEMBER European Parliament MP Godfrey Bloom?

No? Bloom was the UK Independent Party member who famously said: "No
self-respecting small businessman with a brain ... would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age."

He is back on the warpath. This time it's about regulation.

UKIP has released a video to support its Save the City campaign.

Thunderclaps sound at the beginning of the show reel as the camera pans around
an empty EC1.

Bloom plays a starring role in this attack on European legislative interference.

He rants: "Just when we thought it couldn't get any worse with the FSA, we find
we've been handed over ... to the European Union for financial regulation."

Business interests of the former fund manager include TBO Investments.

The company of investment advisors was fined £28,000 by the Financial Services
Authority in 2008 for failing to clearly document risks of transactions to
clients between 2001 and 2006.

No wonder he's not so keen on the FSA or regulation.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Robson bow joins the Smith glove;
FINAL WHISTLE Rainbow hair-band follows a long tradition of political statements
in the sporting arena

BYLINE: TANYA ALDRED

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 772 words


Political protest works best with simple imagery. Think of the black-gloved
salutes by Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 Olympics or the black
armbands worn by Andy Flower and Henry Olonga at the 2003 cricket World Cup. Now
we have a new, if slightly less-evocative, entry - Laura Robson's
rainbow-coloured hair-band at the Australian Open.

Robson was playing, and later losing, at the Margaret Court Arena in the first
round of this year's championships. Court, Australia's greatest player, who won
24 grand slam titles, is now an evangelical pastor and grand slam bigot at the
Victory Life Centre Church in Perth. She has been blunt about her disgust for
gay "abominable sexual practices" and her horror of same-sex marriages.

"Politically correct education has masterfully escorted homosexuality out from
behind closed doors, into the community and now is aggressively demanding
marriage rights that are not theirs to take," she has said.

There had been much talk in Melbourne of a coordinated protest against Court's
lessthan progressive views, and a Facebook campaign to wave rainbow flags on
court, but in the end it was just Robson who showed her colours - though she
denied it was part of any organised demonstration. Robson seemed slightly
befuddled by the coverage, but concluded: "I wore it because I believe in equal
rights for everyone."

Professional tennis players live a strange, cosseted life - flying from sunny
land to sunny land, room-service tray to room-service tray. They train, refuel,
sleep, travel and are easily drawn to a world of introspection and
self-interest.

Sometimes they even begin to think they are poorly rewarded.

English players have been criticised by their peers for being spoon-fed and
spoilt. So it was refreshing to see Robson, a few days before her 18th birthday,
dip a toe in the waters of protest, albeit unwittingly; to do something a normal
teenager might do.

She has a couple of political giants looking down on her. Tennis has produced
two formidable agitators in the brilliant Billie-Jean King - voted one of the
most important Americans of the 20th century by Time magazine - and Martina
Navratilova. That they, and other women on the tour, are openly gay makes
Court's remarks particularly pointed.

There have been other tennis players with political ambitions, if rather less
sanguine views - Goran Ivanisevic signed a letter protesting against alleged
Croatian war criminals being handed over to The Hague and Britain's own Buster
Mottram flew the flag for the far right. At one time ranked 15 in the world,
Mottram was not shy about his support for the National Front and Enoch Powell.
After retiring he failed five times to be accepted as a Conservative candidate
and was later expelled from the UK Independence Party for suggesting an
electoral pact with the British National Party.

Desperate for a British tennis activist of a higher calibre than Mottram, I rang
Wimbledon and the kind librarian sent details of Centre Court invasions and
protests, but mainly by small furry or feathery creatures - a mouse in 1998,
bees in 1982, a squirrel in 1949, a pied wagtail three times in 1990 and
numerous pigeons.

Other than the 1973 player boycott, over a power struggle with the International
Lawn Tennis Federation, the most formidable protest came in 1957. During the
men's doubles final, a Mrs Helen Jarvis of Croydon stormed on to the court
"shouting and waving a banner in her campaign for a new world banking system".
Plus ça change.

For those who think sport and politics should not mix - it is too late.
Politicians use sport - to proselytise, to empathise. Politicians sit in
corporate boxes, drink corporate wine and present sponsored trophies - they woo
the sponsors and the sponsors woo them back.

Sometimes, in the cases of Mohamed bin Hammam and Jack Warner, sport is a nice
little earner. Sometimes politicians use sport to further social cohesion and do
good - David Cameron has hosted two receptions at Downing Street for the
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender community and has talked of the
importance of kicking homophobia out of sport.

Whatever your views on same-sex marriage, how much better that a young woman
puts a rainbow bobble in her hair to the stance taken by Michael Jordan in 1990.

When he was asked to explain why he was not backing the civil rights leader
Harvey Gantt in the election against Senator Jesse Helms, a man with the
riproaring habit of addressing all black people as "Fred", Jordan replied:
"Republicans buy sneakers too."

"It was refreshing to see Laura Robson, a few days before her 18th birthday, dip
a toe  in the waters  of protest

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rainbow warrior: Laura Robson champions equal  rights

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£20,000 benefits for migrants who sell The Big Issue

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 421 words


A LANDMARK legal ruling has "kicked the benefits door open" for Eastern European
immigrants to claim £20,000 a year in state handouts by selling The Big Issue.

A judge ruled that selling the charity magazine counts as self-employment,
making vendors eligible for housing benefit. This means migrants may be able to
claim up to £400 a week, or £20,800 a year, to cover their rent.

Critics fear that will lead to a flood of people from countries such as Romania
and Bulgaria coming to the UK for the cash.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said yesterday: "This decision has kicked the benefits
door open for Eastern European beggars who want to come here and stay.

"It will spawn a range of scams where migrants who aren't entitled to benefits
without a job manage to get themselves into the system."

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of MigrationWatch UK, added: "Yet again decisions are
taken in complete disregard for the consequences for taxpayers."

Current rules say migrants from Bulgaria and Romania can only claim UK housing
benefit if they are working.

When Romanian Firuta Vasile, 27, applied to Bristol City Council for the handout
in 2010, it refused because her job selling The Big Issue "didn't count".

Entitled The mother-of-four took the council to a tribunal, arguing that because
she bought the magazines from Big Issue to sell on, she was self-employed.

She won her case, but the council appealed to an upper tribunal in London. Last
week Judge Mark Rowland ruled that as she worked 16-24 hours a week, it was
enough for her to be considered self-employed.

Ms Vasile already claims £25,547.60 a year in handouts. She would be entitled to
£160 a week in housing benefit, but because of her other incomes it will be
reduced to £50, boosting her annual handouts by £2,600.

Yesterday, speaking through an interpreter, Ms Vasile said: "I am pleased if
this decision means people from countries like Romania and Bulgaria who come to
the UK to work hard are not treated unfairly."

Last year the Daily Express revealed how Romanians and Bulgarians were
exploiting a legal loophole by selling The Big Issue to bypass a benefits ban
and collecting thousands of pounds in handouts.

Tory MP Patrick Mercer said: "The Big Issue does a great job for people in a
difficult situation, but acting as a vendor for a magazine that supports the
homeless cannot be a qualification for housing benefit."

Employment Minister Chris Grayling said he disagreed with the court decision,
adding that it was vital "to protect the benefit system" from abuse. OPINION:
PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Firuta Vasile with her three-year-old son yesterday. Right, The Big
Issue
Picture: DAVID HEDGES / SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Children must be shielded from this EU propaganda

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 180 words


BRAINWASHING the young has long been a favoured tactic of disreputable regimes
and therefore it comes as no surprise to catch the European Commission up to its
neck in it.

But the words of commission official Judith Schilling about indoctrinating
schoolchildren are still deeply disturbing: "We will never succeed in convincing
people about the value of being a member of the European Union if we do not
start early enough with the young people before they form prejudices and are
misinformed by other sources."

The dismissal of the very widely held view that Britain would be better off out
of the EU as being based on "prejudice" or "misinformation" is also an
outrageous piece of arrogance.

It is to be profoundly hoped that Education Secretary Michael Gove will take
seriously this shocking evidence, unearthed by Ukip, of EU propaganda
circulating unchallenged in our schools.

The commission's claim that the material it hands out is neutral and intended to
stimulate discussion is palpable nonsense. Mr Gove should send it an
uncompromising message: keep your hands off our kids.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 47 words


QUOTE OF THE DAY 'We can no longer decide who lives in this country and the
British public are getting sick and tired of seeing our judicial system trampled
on like this' UKIP HOME AFFAIRS SPOKESMAN GERARD BATTEN SLAMS THE RULING ON ABU
QATADA MADE BY THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU BRAINWASH OUR CHILDREN;
New video shows why they target British schools with propaganda EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 722 words


A PROPAGANDA programme from Brussels to "brainwash" British children in the
classroom should be halted, critics said yesterday.

The call comes after a new video shows the EU official responsible for teaching
aids for UK schools blatantly admitting the desire to get to youngsters "early
enough".

The programme is to convince them it is good to be in the EU before they "form
prejudices and are misinformed by other sources".

Ukip deputy leader and education spokesman Paul Nuttall MEP said: "It is what we
always suspected but could never prove. Now we can. They [the EU] are
effectively using our cash to brainwash our children. And it has to stop.''

Mr Nuttall said he has written to Education Secretary Michael Gove and Schools
Minister Nick Gibb claiming the programme appears to breach the law banning
promotion of "partisan political views" in schools and requires a balanced
presentation of issues.

He called for the European Commission to be made to halt its schools programme
pending an inquiry and to order schools to stop using such aids.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "It is vital that such an important issue, which
is essentially the deliberate political indoctrination of our children, be dealt
with in as open and as transparent a way as possible."

In Saturday's Daily Express we highlighted concern over EU activities in British
schools, including the handing out of brightly coloured EU-branded pencil cases.
The programmes are funded by the EU Commission, whose revenue comes from EU
taxpayers.

London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth

Movie

Schools are required by the National Curriculum - currently under review - to
encourage talks of European aspects in lessons, including "citizenship" and
geography classes in primary schools.

The latest revelation appears to show a purpose beyond provision of facts and
will add to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the EU. On the
Commission London HQ website, visitors can click "to enjoy our little movie"
about its free publication service.

Filmed at an Education Show in Birmingham - a trade fair for teachers - it
interviews Judith Schilling, who is manning the Commission stand wearing a blue
shirt bearing the EU's star. She says: "We are here to offer to the teachers the
resources produced by the European Commission's office in London but also the
ones we are being given by the directorates general in Brussels and Luxembourg.

"Because everybody has now picked up the idea that we will never succeed in
convincing people about the value of being a member of the European Union if we
do not start early enough with the young people, before they form prejudices and
are misinformed by other sources."

Literature free for teachers includes the "Passport to the EU", containing "fun"
information about states, and a "mini language guide" with samples of the EU's
23 official languages, which she said was useful for primary schools.

For "slightly older" readers is "The EU: What's in it for me?" explaining "how
we benefit from membership of the EU in our daily life, everything between lower
roaming charges and cleaner bathing water."

The Daily Express has established that the "Passport to the EU" and "The EU:
What's in it for me?" booklets are still available in British schools.

Evidence

Mark English, a spokesman for the EU Commission in the UK, said: "The Commission
distributes information to teachers and schools only when invited. Some material
refers to benefits that the EU brings and gives evidence for this. Others have
different views and schools are free to invite them, too.

"The Commission does not seek to mislead and invites those who systematically
promote an anti-EU agenda through the media also to make their arguments based
on the facts."

London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth
24 hours SuN to 5pm (hrs) Tory MEP Emma McClarkin said: "This looks like a
licence to force-feed pupils a very one-sided, starry-eyed version of what the
EU is and does for its people. We fear it will be a carte blanche to push the
federalist agenda that is so close to the hearts of the Eurocrats."

OPINION: PAGE 12

Aberdeen 3.3 Aberporth 4.1 Alnwick 2.3 Belfast 0.8 Birmingham 3.3 B'mouth 0.9
Bristol 1.9 Cardiff 2.0 Durham 3.4 Edinburgh 1.3 clearing in the afternoon.
northwesterly [...]

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Judith Schilling on the EU schools video

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Fury as radical cleric is allowed to stay

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan; Macer Hall; John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 779 words


EUROPEAN judges sparked outrage yesterday by banning Britain from deporting a
hate preacher described as a "truly dangerous individual" linked to Al Qaeda
terrorists.

Politicians attacked the controversial ruling by the European Court of Human
Rights for putting the feelings of radical cleric Abu Qatada before the safety
of UK citizens.

Home Secretary Theresa May led the outcry against the judgment, insisting the
Government would fight to have it overturned.

But it raises the spectre of Qatada, who has been called a hero to the 9/11
bombers, being freed within a few weeks from the UK prison where he is being
held for posing a "grave threat" to national security.

Britain had wanted to deport the 51-year-old rabble rouser to his native Jordan
where he was jailed for life in his absence over two terrorist bombings in the
capital Amman in 1999 and 2000.

However, Qatada argued that if sent back he would face a retrial in which he
would be denied a fair hearing due to prosecution evidence being obtained by
torture of witnesses.

Yesterday, the panel of seven judges in Strasbourg backed him in a landmark
ruling.

The British Government can make a last-ditch appeal before the judgment becomes
binding in three months' time.

If it fails, however, the cleric will have to be allowed out of Long Lartin
prison in Worcester-shire. Instead, he will be put on a curfew and fitted with
an electronic ankle tag, while most likely living off state handouts.

Mrs May said: "I am disappointed that the court has made this ruling.

"This is not the end of the road, and we will now consider all the legal options
available to us. In the meantime, Qatada will remain in detention in the UK."

David Cameron's official spokesman said that Britain wanted to use its
presidency of the Council of Europe, which it holds until May, to push through
reforms of the ECHR.

The spokesman said: "One of the most important issues is to make sure the court
focuses on the cases it should, instead of being a court of appeal for national
judgments."

The Prime Minister is expected to say more about reforming the court in a speech
in Strasbourg next week. But last night critics of the ECHR vented their fury at
the court.

Ukip home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten said: "We can no longer decide who
lives in this country and the British public are getting sick and tired of
seeing our judicial system trampled on like this."

Blair Gibbs, head of crime and justice at the Policy Exchange think-tank, said:
"This is a flawed ruling. We urgently need a new human rights settlement because
it is our own courts, and not Strasbourg, who are best qualified to balance the
rights of defendants against wider national security." Tory MP Dominic Raab
said: "Yet again the Strasbourg court has imposed a new category of restrictions
on our ability to deport serious criminals and suspected terrorists.

"This is a classic example of mission creep, with judicial legislation from
Strasbourg running roughshod over decisions that should be determined by UK
courts."

Former Home Secretary David Blunkett said: "This man has not only justified the
September 11 attacks but advocated jihad. As indicated by the judiciary, he is
extraordinarily dangerous and we don't want him on our streets."

Warnings about father-of-five Qatada were given by the Special Immigration
Appeals Commission when the cleric appealed against detention back in 2004.

The commission's then chairman Mr Justice Collins said: "The appellant was
heavily involved, indeed was at the centre, in the United Kingdom of terrorist
activities associated with Al Qaeda. He is a truly dangerous individual."

He added: "We have no doubt that his beliefs are extreme and are indeed a
perversion of Islam for the purposes of encouraging violence against non-Muslims
and Muslims who are or have been supportive of Americans in particular."

Qatada denies claims that he is Al Qaeda's "European ambassador" and insists,
contrary to reports, that he never met Osama Bin Laden.

Gareth Peirce, his solicitor, said yesterday: "The court's judgment of today is
long, thoughtful and complex, and sets out important guidelines for Europe's
member states on a number of difficult issues.

"It would be disappointing if the implications of this judgment were not
carefully and adequately digested and the United Kingdom were to continue a
challenge which flies so directly in the face of internationally accepted
standards."

COMMENT: PAGE 12

Should all preachers of hate be kicked out of Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8342

NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYEs to 80088

No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa May will fight ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 18, 2012 Wednesday 2:41 PM GMT

Britain faces £17bn IMF bill to pay for new bail out;
Britain is facing a £17 billion increased IMF contribution after a request from
the International Monetary Fund for additional resources to shore up ailing
economies, Downing Street said today.

LENGTH: 542 words


Chancellor George Osborne will put any ''decent request'' from the international
financial body to Parliament for approval by MPs, a spokeswoman said.

But any increase in UK funding would have to be designed to assist struggling
countries and not to bail out the euro, she stressed.

Unconfirmed reports suggest the IMF is planning to boost its lending resources
of around 400 billion US dollars by a further one trillion dollars to insulate
the global economy against any deterioration of the crisis in the eurozone.

The UK is liable for 4.5% of IMF funding, so a leap of this magnitude could see
Britain's contribution rise beyond the £40 billion maximum currently approved by
Parliament - potentially provoking furious opposition among MPs.

The Downing Street spokeswoman said: ''The Chancellor said on Monday that if it
was a decent request from the IMF, then of course he would be willing to go to
Parliament to make that request.''

Asked what the expected scale of any increased UK contribution might be, the
spokeswoman said: ''We are not in a situation where we can look at numbers
yet.''

She added: ''The money from the IMF is to support countries, not currencies.

''This money is not a substitute for the eurozone providing resources to back up
its own currency.''

Mr Osborne, who is on a tour of the Far East, was asked on Monday whether he
would be prepared to contemplate a boost in the UK's contribution to IMF funds.

He replied: "If I felt it was a decent request by the IMF, then, of course, I
would be willing to go to Parliament and make that request.

"Britain has always been prepared to provide the resources in the past and will
be willing to provide the resources in the future if there is a strong case."

Government sources played down speculation over a trillion dollar rise,
suggesting it was more likely to be a rise to one trillion dollars.

That would still be expected to take the UK's contribution significantly above
the ceiling authorised by parliament.

Tory backbencher Peter Bone said ministers would face a "good deal of trouble"
in any vote on increasing the IMF contribution.

"My view, and I think of a number of other Conservative MPs, is that enough is
enough," he said. "It is not that people are against funding the IMF, it is that
they are against funding the IMF for a purpose not originally intended...

"We are absolutely against putting money into countries where they are in the
euro and have no way of devaluing their currencies."

The Wellingborough and Rushden MP suggested a Tory rebellion could be as serious
as over demands for a referendum on EU membership - where 81 MPs defied the
leadership.

"I think the Government would have a good deal of trouble getting this through,"
Mr Bone added.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Downing Street should really
stop using this flimsy phrase of 'countries not currencies', as it simply does
nothing to reassure the British public that their country will not offer more
money to the IMF to help failed eurozone countries.

"The use of language is disingenuous - it is no more than a euro bailout by the
back door.

"Hard-working taxpayers will not wear their money being committed to the IMF
like this whilst they are expected to endure austerity at home."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 18, 2012 Wednesday 8:45 AM GMT

City Diary: Red cards not out of the ordinary at Hudson-Sandler;
City tongues are a-wagging.

BYLINE: By Anna White City Diary Editor

LENGTH: 528 words


Yesterday's Diary reported a legal spat between spinner Alistair
Mackinnon-Musson and Hudson Sandler.

The financial PR firm dismissed former sub-contractor, Mackinnon-Musson, from
the financial field of play. Lawyers are now involved.

The Diary piece solicited a surprise response from the City's communications
community. According to an ex-employee, Hudson Sandler has a track record of
issuing red cards.

Rumour has it, a few years back Andrew Hayes, the firm's chief executive, was
known for his rather short fuse.

A coping technique adopted by staff was to produce a red or yellow card whenever
he lost his temper.

In the 2001 general election Hayes, a Tory party candidate, lost out on the
Winchester seat to Lib Dem Mark Oaten. Maybe that explains his mood swings.

Michael Sandler, Hudson Sandler's chairman, denies any knowledge of the card
system.

Although he confessed it did ring a distant bell of an incident at a "Christmas
party."

But it was all rather a long time ago. Best let sleeping dogs lie.

Bloomin' good reason to dislike red tape

Remember European Parliament MP Godfrey Bloom?

No? Bloom was the UK Independent Party member who famously said: "No
self-respecting small businessman with a brain...would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age."

He is back on the warpath. This time it's about regulation.

UKIP has released a video to support its Save the City campaign.

Thunderclaps sound at the beginning of the show reel as the camera pans around
an empty EC1.

Bloom plays a starring role in this attack on European legislative interference.

He rants: "Just when we thought it couldn't get any worse with the FSA, we find
we've been handed over...to the European Union for financial regulation."

Business interests of the former fund manager and anti-FSA lobbyist include TBO
Investments.

The company of investment advisors was fined £28,000 by the Financial Services
Authority in 2008 for failing to clearly document risks of transactions to
clients between 2001 and 2006.

But that's a separate issue.

It's getting cosy down Lloyd's way

Doomsayers predicted technology would dent Lloyd's of London's worldwide
business. Not so.

Last week Aon announced its HQ was being relocated from Chicago to London -
right next door to Lloyd's.

Willis, another broker, has moved 20 yards from the world's largest insurance
market and Marsh might be next.

The company's placing brokers are based by the Tower of London.

WR Berkeley, an underwriter from the US, has snapped up a development site at
the junction of Lime Street and Leadenhall Street - and I hear it's been
approached by Marsh about taking space.

It seems a fleet of brokers are sailing closer to the mothership.

A fly-past of sorts for RBS deal-maker's Tess

Royal Bank of Scotland's Mark Bailie has plenty to celebrate.

The deal-maker flogged the bank's aviation leasing arm to Sumitomo this week.

A sale worth £4.6bn to the state-backed financial institution.

Bailie's department is tasked with selling toxic or capital intensive assets.

The aviation arm falls into the latter camp.

In team tradition he named the process after his daughter.

Project Tess concluded yesterday - on Tess's 10th birthday.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 18, 2012 Wednesday 8:00 AM GMT

Laura Robson's rainbow hair-band follows a long tradition of political
statements in the sporting arena;
Political protest works best with simple imagery. Think of the black-gloved
salutes, by Tommie Smith and John Carlos, at the 1968 Olympics or the black
armbands worn by Andy Flower and Henry Olonga at the 2003 cricket World Cup.

BYLINE: By Tanya Aldred

LENGTH: 717 words


Now we have a new, if slightly less-evocative, entry - Laura Robson's
rainbow-coloured hair-band at the Australian Open .

Robson was playing, and later losing, at the Margaret Court Arena in the
first-round of this year's championships.

Court, Australia's greatest player, who won 24 grand slam titles, is now an
evangelical pastor and grand slam bigot at the Victory Life Centre Church in
Perth.

She has been blunt about her disgust for gay "abominable sexual practices" and
her horror of same-sex marriages.

"Politically correct education has masterfully escorted homosexuality out from
behind closed doors, into the community and now is aggressively demanding
marriage rights that are not theirs to take," she has said.

There had been much talk in Melbourne of a coordinated protest against Court's
less-than progressive views, and a Facebook campaign to wave rainbow flags on
court, but in the end it was just Robson who showed her colours - though she
denied it was part of any organised demonstration.

Robson seemed slightly befuddled by the coverage, but concluded: "I wore it
because I believe in equal rights for everyone."

Professional tennis players live a strange, cosseted life - flying from sunny
land to sunny land, room-service tray to room-service tray.

They train, refuel, sleep, travel and are easily drawn to a world of
introspection and self-interest. Sometimes they even begin to think they are
poorly rewarded.

English players have been criticised by their peers for being spoon-fed and
spoilt.

So it was refreshing to see Robson, a few days before her 18th birthday, dip a
toe in the waters of protest, albeit unwittingly ; to do something a normal
teenager might do.

She has a couple of political giants looking down on her.

Tennis has produced two formidable agitators in the brilliant Billie-Jean King -
voted one of the most important Americans of the 20th century by Time magazine -
and Martina Navratilova.

That they, and other women on the tour, are openly gay makes Court's remarks
particularly pointed.

There have been other tennis players with political ambitions, if rather less
sanguine views - Goran Ivanisevic signed a letter protesting against alleged
Croatian war criminals being handed over to The Hague and Britain's own Buster
Mottram flew the flag for the far right.

At one time ranked 15 in the world, Mottram was not shy about his support for
the National Front and Enoch Powell.

After retiring he failed five times to be accepted as a Conservative candidate
and was later expelled from the UK Independence Party for suggesting an
electoral pact with the British National Party

Desperate for a British tennis activist of a higher calibre than Mottram, I rang
Wimbledon and the kind librarian sent details of Centre Court invasions and
protests, but mainly by small furry or feathery creatures - a mouse in 1998,
bees in 1982, a squirrel in 1949, a pied wagtail three times in 1990 and
numerous pigeons.

Other than the 1973 player boycott, over a power struggle with the International
Lawn Tennis Federation, the most formidable protest came in 1957.

During the men's doubles final, a Mrs Helen Jarvis of Croydon stormed on to the
court "shouting and waving a banner in her campaign for a new world banking
system." Plus ça change.

For those who think sport and politics should not mix - it is too late.
Politicians use sport - to proselytise, to empathise. Politicians sit in
corporate boxes, drink corporate wine and present sponsored trophies - they woo
the sponsors and the sponsors woo them back.

Sometimes, in the cases of Mohamed bin Hammam and Jack Warner, sport is a nice
little earner. Sometimes politicians use sport to further social cohesion and do
good - David Cameron has hosted two receptions at Downing Street for the
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender community and has talked of the
importance of kicking homophobia out of sport.

Whatever your views on same-sex marriage, how much better that a young woman
puts a rainbow bobble in her hair to the stance taken by Michael Jordan in 1990.

When he was asked to explain why he was not backing the civil rights leader
Harvey Gantt in the election against Senator Jesse Helms, a man with the
rip-roaring habit of addressing all black people as "Fred" Jordan replied:
"Republicans buy sneakers too."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 36 words


'It is extravagant vanity - another project where the Brussels elite show how
utterly out of touch they are with the people who pay their bills' UKIP MEP PAUL
NUTTALL ON EC CHIEFS' PLAN TO SPEND £112,000 ON A NEW LOGO

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 668 words


&#10002;A bothersome day for Michael Gove as his proposal to produce a new £60m
yacht for the House of Windsor is rubbished by No 10. Still, he'll get over it.
And few will notice that his bold idea was actually lifted from a policy
document produced two years ago by Ukip. Even Ukip resiled from it. Still, the
education secretary should be good at copying.

&#10002;Unusual to hear directly from Dirty Des, proprietor of the Star and
Express, but we did last week at the Leveson inquiry. A short contribution.
There one minute, gone the next. As was this helpful, erratically crafted,
reader posting that appeared immediately afterwards on the great man's website.
"I agree the news papers heve been scapegoated. No one knows what happened to
that poor wee girl Madelaine. Untill what has happened to her has been
established then no one can be rulled in or out of the enquiry. Unless their is
absolutley compelling and unrefutable evidence that the parents were not
involved then they should remain as suspects." They should "consider themselves
lucky that they have not been charged with child neglect". Another case of
system failure at the "world's greatest newspaper", and although the rant was
deleted the following day, he'll want to get his story straight. He's already
had to pay the McCann's £500,000 in damages.

&#10002;They could turn again to Clarence Mitchell, the former BBC reporter who
represented them at the outset. He's now managing director of PR giants
Burson-Marsteller UK but before that he gave a talk on it all: "Missing
Madeleine McCann: The perfect PR campaign". But that was then; right now he's
busy. Costa Crociere, the cruise ship operator whose fortunes, and vessel, hit
the rocks in Italy needs PR help. Someone has to do it. Might as well be him.

&#10002;Strange tidings with regard to the career path of Daily Star editor Dawn
Neesom, meanwhile. Last week we highlighted her witness statement to the Leveson
inquiry, which said she began as a casual reporter in 1982 on the Newham
Recorder newspaper in east London. Seemed strange, because no one who was there
at the time, including your diarist, could even vaguely remember her. We make
further inquiries and things begin to make sense. In oral evidence, she sought
to correct her statement, saying she had been no more than "a contributor to
local newspapers", and omitting any further reference to the Newham Recorder. A
mistake then. But it's a mistake that was happening well before her appearance
at Leveson last week, well before the establishment of Leveson. "Her career in
journalism began on the local weekly newspaper the Newham Recorder in 1982,"
says her unamended Wikipedia entry. "Began her career on the Newham Recorder,"
said the Evening Standard in an interview published seven years ago. "Her career
began in 1982 on the Newham Recorder," said the Independent, in 2006.

&#10002;Could be error. Could be spin. Certainly the art of spin is something
that interests the Commons culture select committee. What a boon it has been to
the notion of parliamentary scrutiny. They operate independently but they work
as a team. What unites them? They're headbangers. Heavy metal. Tom Watson
explains. "There's actually a real metal bias on the committee," he tells the
Word, the arts and music magazine. "(John) Whittingdale is a massive metalhead -
he's into the lot. Adrian Sanders - a little-known fact - has got a rock show on
Torbay hospital radio! And then you've got Louise (Mensch), who basically
dresses in black all the time. What brings us together is

AC/DC." And a shared love of James Murdoch obviously.

&#10002;Finally, it's happened. Three years into the job, Mayor Boris finally
assumed full responsibility for the capital's policing. And so it is that the
man who once had an amiable, conceptual, recorded discussion with an erstwhile
friend about breaking somebody else's legs becomes the master of all he surveys
at Scotland Yard. Really is a funny old world.

diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Monster mash-ups

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 406 words


SEETHING RED . . Utd boss Fergie is ridiculed SHAMED Labour MP Tom Harris quit a
top party post over a Hitler video about Alex Salmond.

We told yesterday, below, how the Glasgow South MP walked after sending up the
First Minister in the online Downfall spoof. It sees Salmond complaining about
the referendum row with David Cameron and SNP aide Joan McAlpine.

But the First Minister isn't the first public figure to be sent-up by the
Downfall mickey take, as MATT BENDORIS discovers ...

THE dramatic scene shows Hitler in the bunker during the last days of the Second
World War, surrounded by his nervous commanders.

Swiss actor Bruno Ganz's portrayal of the evil dictator was the best ever
on-screen Hitler - earning the 2004 film an Oscar nomination.

But now the movie is an internet prank with Alex Salmond its latest victim.

The craze started in 2008 when an internet site allowed users to add their own
Führer dialogue.

And Salmond's in good company, with former Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Man
Utd legend Sir Alex Ferguson also parodied.

Hitler (as Brown) is furious after Labour's disastrous European Election results
in 2009. He is told that: "The BNP, UKIP, even the Greens did better than New
Labour".

The then 'PM' replies: "There is some mistake, I'll phone Simon Cowell." He is
then told: "Even Susan Boyle says you've got no talent."

The Fergie send-up sees Hitler going into full 'hairdryer' mode after boasting
how he has Ronaldo, "The greatest player on the planet."

But a twitchy aide reveals Ronaldo is being sold to Real Madrid - after his
£80million transfer to the Spanish giants in 2009. 'Fergie' replies: "We're
f***ed now." Hitler is also seen defending Hollywood hunk Gerard Butler's 2006
film 300.

The dictator says: "300 is a great film. They fight to the death. The character
development is so good I almost cried. And capes, don't forget the capes."

Music loving Hitler is also seen trying to hire Michael Jackson for his birthday
celebrations - only to be told the King of Pop is dead.

A simmering Hitler replies: "Anyone who doesn't know Thriller, Bad or Dangerous
leave now."

The dreaded vuvuzelas - which were blamed for ruining the South Africa World Cup
- also got slated in 2010.

Hitler says: "Are you insane? Ruining the World Cup with a plastic bloody horn?
I just spent five grand on a TV and a surround sound system.

"Oh God, the wife will kill me. Buzz, buzz, buzz. That's all I hear for 90
minutes."

Transfer

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ZELAS GUY ... World Cup rant TOTAL WACKO ... Jacko send-up
BROWNED OFF ... ex-PM gets treatment THE BUTLER DID IT ... Hitler raves about
flick

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 17, 2012 Tuesday 2:22 PM GMT

The two Camerons and why, for once, we need Victorian values;
One half of the PM is planting trees, while the other is digging them up for a
railway, says Matthew d'Ancona

LENGTH: 964 words


DAVID CAMERON has been reading Jim O'Neill's The Growth Map: a strikingly upbeat
book in which the author, who is chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
argues that the so-called BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China) and the other
countries following close behind (Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia and others)
should be treated not as emerging nations but as a fabulous growth market.

The UK's motor industry may be foreign-owned, O'Neill writes, but there is a
burgeoning market for the cars manufactured on British soil by British hands.
The opportunity for the export of goods and services is already there: London,
he suggests, "can often seem like the BRIC capital of the world". Implicit in
all this, however, is the assumption that post-crash Britain will develop the
skills base and infrastructure necessary to compete at the new global table
cheerfully described by O'Neill.

Recently, the Prime Minister was fizzing with precisely the same sort of
enthusiasm: in this case, for the High Speed 2 rail link between London and the
Midlands. "The things that have made the biggest difference to regional patterns
of growth are major transport infrastructure," he told The Telegraph. "They
called the M40 the road to nowhere. It's been fantastically successful as a
driver of growth up the Thames Valley, as is the M4, you know, Britain's Silicon
Valley really. Would the Docklands have ever been the success it is now without
the Jubilee Line extension?"

This was Cameron at his most animated and kinetic. It was scarcely a surprise,
therefore, when Justine Greening, the Transport Secretary, gave the green light
to the £32 billion HS2 scheme on Tuesday of last week. Needless to say, her
decision will be contested by multiple applications for judicial review, media
pressure, a measure of parliamentary opposition, and public protests aplenty.
All this was pretty much to script. What is more intriguing is that one side of
the PM's character has prevailed so fully and unambiguously over the other.

Cameron is the most devotedly rural occupant of No 10 since Sir Alec
Douglas-Home (who wrote a book, Border Reflections, on shooting and fishing).
While George Osborne and Nick Clegg are avowedly metropolitan, the PM feels most
comfortable in the countryside, walking and cooking. His entry-point to Tory
modernisation was the environment, his conservationist's instincts gelling
easily at the start of his leadership with fashionable greenery. It was, after
all, Cameron who ditched the familiar torch as the logo of the Conservative
Party and replaced it with a tree.

That is one side of the PM's character. The other I first encountered at a
dinner during the 2005 leadership contest hosted by the former Tory donor Stuart
Wheeler (now Ukip treasurer). Cameron, not yet the favourite in the race,
surprised all present by declaring the absolute necessity for Britain to renew
and build afresh its decrepit infrastructure.

To state the inner dichotomy crudely: half of Cameron is always planting a tree,
and the other half is digging it up to make way for a mighty locomotive. In
office, the latter half has prevailed decisively, busily encouraged by the
Chancellor.

One must always remember the events that shaped this generation of Tories. The
fall of the Berlin Wall defined their world-view, just as Live Aid entrenched
their commitment to international development. Black Wednesday made them fiscal
conservatives, implacable believers in economic stability. And the fiasco of
rail privatisation taught them the limits of ideology and persuaded them that
ministers must keep a firm grip on the nation's infrastructure. It is a huge
error to see the Cameroons as laissez-faire state-shrinkers: when it comes to
the railways, they are radical interventionists.

Last week, Ms Greening declared that "HS2 is a project whose ambition would have
been familiar to our Victorian forefathers", making explicit the ancestral
comparison with the great age of steam.

The battle over HS2 is, first and foremost, a cultural one. In their different
ways, all the opponents of the scheme raise perfectly valid points. In an
article in the Spectator, Lord Astor eloquently defends the beauty of the
Chilterns; in the Commons, the Conservative MP Dr Julian Lewis said it was
"perverse" to spend money on HS2 when cuts are being implemented in each of the
armed services; commuters squashed together like sardines in suits wonder when
they will get a look-in.

Cameron, Ms Greening, and her predecessor, Philip Hammond, have done their best
to pre-empt these objections - most spectacularly in the case of Cheryl Gillan,
whose resignation as Secretary of State for Wales has been prevented by the
apparent promise of £500 million of tunnelling under her Buckinghamshire
constituency. But HS2 will continue to be divisive, contentious and provocative.

That may be no bad thing. Cameron needs high-voltage stories to dramatise the
fact that he does indeed have a growth plan and that the Coalition's economic
strategy amounts to more than austerity measures. In this instance, the
controversy should be all about national trajectory and economic readiness. The
question should be: does 21st-century Britain need a high-speed network,
radically increased capacity (especially for freight), and a modernised
transport system ready for the new demands of the global economy - or not?

It is folly of the Government to base its case on statistical prophecy: it
cannot possibly know how many jobs will be created by HS2, and how much
investment it will ultimately attract. Cameron's task is not to prevail
arithmetically but psychologically. He has to persuade the doubters that what
they see as a white elephant really is a mighty highway to the future: for once,
we really do need some Victorian values.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 17, 2012 Tuesday 11:13 AM GMT

The two Camerons and why, for once, we need Victorian values;
One half of the Prime Minister is planting trees, while the other half is
digging them up to make way for a railway, says Matthew d'Ancona

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

LENGTH: 964 words


David Cameron has been reading Jim O'Neill's The Growth Map: a strikingly upbeat
book in which the author, who is chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
argues that the so-called BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China) and the other
countries following close behind (Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia and others)
should be treated not as emerging nations but as a fabulous growth market.

The UK's motor industry may be foreign-owned, O'Neill writes, but there is a
burgeoning market for the cars manufactured on British soil by British hands.
The opportunity for the export of goods and services is already there: London,
he suggests, "can often seem like the BRIC capital of the world". Implicit in
all this, however, is the assumption that post-crash Britain will develop the
skills base and infrastructure necessary to compete at the new global table
cheerfully described by O'Neill.

Recently, the Prime Minister was fizzing with precisely the same sort of
enthusiasm: in this case, for the High Speed 2 rail link between London and the
Midlands. "The things that have made the biggest difference to regional patterns
of growth are major transport infrastructure," he told The Telegraph. "They
called the M40 the road to nowhere. It's been fantastically successful as a
driver of growth up the Thames Valley, as is the M4, you know, Britain's Silicon
Valley really. Would the Docklands have ever been the success it is now without
the Jubilee Line extension?"

This was Cameron at his most animated and kinetic. It was scarcely a surprise,
therefore, when Justine Greening, the Transport Secretary, gave the green light
to the £32 billion HS2 scheme on Tuesday of last week. Needless to say, her
decision will be contested by multiple applications for judicial review, media
pressure, a measure of parliamentary opposition, and public protests aplenty.
All this was pretty much to script. What is more intriguing is that one side of
the PM's character has prevailed so fully and unambiguously over the other.

Cameron is the most devotedly rural occupant of No 10 since Sir Alec
Douglas-Home (who wrote a book, Border Reflections, on shooting and fishing).
While George Osborne and Nick Clegg are avowedly metropolitan, the PM feels most
comfortable in the countryside, walking and cooking. His entry-point to Tory
modernisation was the environment, his conservationist's instincts gelling
easily at the start of his leadership with fashionable greenery. It was, after
all, Cameron who ditched the familiar torch as the logo of the Conservative
Party and replaced it with a tree.

That is one side of the PM's character. The other I first encountered at a
dinner during the 2005 leadership contest hosted by the former Tory donor Stuart
Wheeler (now Ukip treasurer). Cameron, not yet the favourite in the race,
surprised all present by declaring the absolute necessity for Britain to renew
and build afresh its decrepit infrastructure.

To state the inner dichotomy crudely: half of Cameron is always planting a tree,
and the other half is digging it up to make way for a mighty locomotive. In
office, the latter half has prevailed decisively, busily encouraged by the
Chancellor.

One must always remember the events that shaped this generation of Tories. The
fall of the Berlin Wall defined their world-view, just as Live Aid entrenched
their commitment to international development. Black Wednesday made them fiscal
conservatives, implacable believers in economic stability. And the fiasco of
rail privatisation taught them the limits of ideology and persuaded them that
ministers must keep a firm grip on the nation's infrastructure. It is a huge
error to see the Cameroons as laissez-faire state-shrinkers: when it comes to
the railways, they are radical interventionists.

Last week, Ms Greening declared that "HS2 is a project whose ambition would have
been familiar to our Victorian forefathers", making explicit the ancestral
comparison with the great age of steam.

The battle over HS2 is, first and foremost, a cultural one. In their different
ways, all the opponents of the scheme raise perfectly valid points. In an
article in the Spectator, Lord Astor eloquently defends the beauty of the
Chilterns; in the Commons, the Conservative MP Dr Julian Lewis said it was
"perverse" to spend money on HS2 when cuts are being implemented in each of the
armed services; commuters squashed together like sardines in suits wonder when
they will get a look-in.

Cameron, Ms Greening, and her predecessor, Philip Hammond, have done their best
to pre-empt these objections - most spectacularly in the case of Cheryl Gillan,
whose resignation as Secretary of State for Wales has been prevented by the
apparent promise of £500 million of tunnelling under her Buckinghamshire
constituency. But HS2 will continue to be divisive, contentious and provocative.

That may be no bad thing. Cameron needs high-voltage stories to dramatise the
fact that he does indeed have a growth plan and that the Coalition's economic
strategy amounts to more than austerity measures. In this instance, the
controversy should be all about national trajectory and economic readiness. The
question should be: does 21st-century Britain need a high-speed network,
radically increased capacity (especially for freight), and a modernised
transport system ready for the new demands of the global economy - or not?

It is folly of the Government to base its case on statistical prophecy: it
cannot possibly know how many jobs will be created by HS2, and how much
investment it will ultimately attract. Cameron's task is not to prevail
arithmetically but psychologically. He has to persuade the doubters that what
they see as a white elephant really is a mighty highway to the future: for once,
we really do need some Victorian values.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Central banks are solely to blame for the mess we're in;
Letters to the Head of Business

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 145 words


SIR - The point which is so misunderstood by Michel Barnier, EU commissioner for
internal market and services (letters, January 9) is the fundamental cause of
the international credit crisis.

It is convenient to blame the mismanagement of commercial banks or the lack of
regulation, but the audit trail to failure can be traced directly to the central
banks. The Fed, the Bank of England and the ECB created a credit boom via a
catalyst of commercial banks which has led to the inevitable bust. Money
printing, fractional reserve banking and political short-termism will ensure a
depression in the same way the incompetence of the Hoover/Roosevelt
administration did throughout the 1930s. We must return to hard money, realistic
marketled interest rates, reduced regulation, embrace flat taxation and start
afresh.

Godfrey Bloom UKIP MEP Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 15, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A tale of two Camerons and a return to Victorian values

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1229 words


David Cameron has been reading Jim O'Neill's The Growth Map: a strikingly upbeat
book in which the author, who is chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
argues that the so-called BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China) and the other
countries following close behind (Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia and others)
should be treated not as emerging nations but as a fabulous growth market.

The UK's motor industry may be foreign-owned, O'Neill writes, but there is a
burgeoning market for the cars manufactured on British soil by British hands.
The opportunity for the export of goods and services is already there: London,
he suggests, "can often seem like the BRIC capital of the world". Implicit in
all this, however, is the assumption that post-crash Britain will develop the
skills base and infrastructure necessary to compete at the new global table
cheerfully described by O'Neill.

In our interview with the Prime Minister last week, he fizzed with precisely the
same sort of enthusiasm: in this case, for the High Speed 2 rail link between
London and the Midlands. "The things that have made the biggest difference to
regional patterns of growth are major transport infrastructure," he said. "They
called the M40 the road to nowhere. It's been fantastically successful as a
driver of growth up the Thames Valley, as is the M4, you know, Britain's Silicon
Valley really. Would the Docklands have ever been the success it is now without
the Jubilee Line extension?" He continued: "If you really want this agenda,
rebalancing the British economy, spreading growth out from the South East,
linking up our biggest cities with high-speed rail, it's an agenda you simply
can't ignore."

This was Cameron at his most animated and kinetic. It was scarcely a surprise,
therefore, when Justine Greening, the Transport Secretary, gave the green light
to the £32 billion HS2 scheme last Tuesday. Needless to say, her decision will
be contested by multiple applications for judicial review, media pressure, a
measure of parliamentary opposition, and public protests aplenty. All this was
pretty much to script. What is more intriguing is that one side of the PM's
character has prevailed so fully and unambiguously over the other.

Cameron is the most devotedly rural occupant of No 10 since Sir Alec
Douglas-Home (who wrote a book, Border Reflections, on shooting and fishing).

While George Osborne and Nick Clegg are avowedly metropolitan - instinctive
town-dwellers who went to elite London day schools and have no time for the
bucolic idyll - the PM feels most comfortable in the countryside, walking and
cooking. His entry-point to Tory modernisation was the environment, his
conservationist's instincts gelling easily at the start of his leadership with
fashionable greenery. It was, after all, Cameron who ditched the familiar torch
as the logo of the Conservative Party and replaced it with a tree.

That is one side of the PM's character. The other I first encountered at a
dinner during the 2005 leadership contest hosted by the former Tory donor Stuart
Wheeler (now Ukip treasurer). Cameron, not yet the favourite in the race,
surprised all present by declaring the absolute necessity for Britain to renew
and build afresh its decrepit infrastructure. This was, to put it mildly, a
passion he had kept to himself: a Brunelian desire to see the arteries of the
nation unclogged so that the body could grow and flourish.

To state the inner dichotomy crudely: half of Cameron is always planting a tree,
and the other half is digging it up to make way for a mighty locomotive. In
office, the latter half has prevailed decisively, busily encouraged by the
Chancellor. A lengthy section of the Autumn Statement was devoted to capital
investment in transport, and the National Infrastructure Plan, and Osborne has
little time forTreasury officials who automatically oppose such measures, joking
that sooner or later he will find in the archives the memo that proves that the
mandarins were against the M25.

One must always remember the events that shaped this generation of Tories. The
fall of the Berlin Wall defined their world-view, just as Live Aid entrenched
their commitment to international development. Black Wednesday made them fiscal
conservatives, implacable believers in economic stability. And the fiasco of
rail privatisation taught them the limits of ideology and persuaded them that
ministers must keep a firm grip on the nation's infrastructure. It is a huge
error to see the Cameroons as laissez-faire state-shrinkers: when it comes to
the railways, they are radical interventionists.

On Tuesday, Ms Greening declared that "HS2 is a project whose ambition would
have been familiar to our Victorian forefathers", making explicit the ancestral
comparison with the great age of steam. The Victorian precedents, of course, are
not invariably happy: Ruskin and Matthew Arnold deplored the false gods of the
railroad. In making these grandiose allusions, the Cameroons must hope that
their mighty schemes encourage the same spirit that inspired Trollope to admire
the "great genius of order" in the imaginary Tenway Junction, and Tennyson to
see the railroads as a symbol of a glorious future: "Forward, forward let us
range, / Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change."

Such comparisons are not mere whimsy, for the battle over HS2 is, first and
foremost, a cultural one. In their different ways, all the opponents of the
scheme raise perfectly valid points. In an article in the current Spectator,
Lord Astor eloquently defends the beauty of the Chilterns; in the Commons on
Tuesday, the Conservative MP Dr Julian Lewis said it was "perverse" to spend
money on HS2 when cuts are being implemented in each of the armed services;
commuters squashed together like sardines in suits wonder when they will get a
look-in; those who will lose their houses understandably object to being scorned
as Nimbys.

Cameron, Ms Greening, and her predecessor, Philip Hammond, have done their best
to pre-empt these objections - most spectacularly in the case of Cheryl Gillan,
whose resignation as Secretary of State for Wales has been prevented by the
apparent promise of £500 million of tunnelling under her Buckinghamshire
constituency. But HS2 will continue to be divisive, contentious and provocative.

That may be no bad thing. Cameron needs high-voltage stories to dramatise the
fact that he does indeed have a growth plan and that the Coalition's economic
strategy amounts to more than austerity measures. In this instance, the
controversy should be all about national trajectory and economic readiness. The
question should be: does 21st-century Britain need a high-speed network,
radically increased capacity (especially for freight), and a modernised
transport system ready for the new demands of the global economy - or not? It is
folly of the Government to base its case on statistical prophecy: it cannot
possibly know how many jobs will be created by HS2, and how much investment it
will ultimately attract. Cameron's task is not to prevail arithmetically but
psychologically. He has to persuade the doubters that what they see as a white
elephant really is a mighty, Tennysonian highway to the future: for once, we
really do need some Victorian values.

HS2 perfectly demonstrates how the PMTs visionary instincts are prevailing over
his love of the countryside

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment on Matthew d'Ancona's view at » telegraph.co.uk/ matthewdancona

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

They think it's all Wendover - it is for choo-choo Nimbys

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 617 words


If ever there was an incentive to change my lifestyle, cut out the booze,
extinguish the cigarettes, do press-ups every morning and eat lentils every
evening, this is it. The tangible reward I've been looking for. If I am able to
prolong my life for another 15 years or so, I'll be able to travel to Birmingham
in just 49 minutes.

This would be courtesy of HS2, the highspeed rail link between London and the
Midlands. Even if I don't make it, I can die happy in the knowledge that my
children will, one glorious day, be able to get to Birmingham very quickly
indeed. How incredibly useful for them.

And if they manage to live long enough, they might be able to reach, say,
Stoke-on-Trent in half the time it takes right now. If the line ever gets
finished. I would have thought there was more political capital in designing a
rail route that meant you never got to Birmingham at all, but this is just one
of the many reasons I do not hold high office, I suppose.

It is a remarkable thing, the HS2. Not only in that it will apparently take the
government as long to construct the initial phase as it took those early
pioneers of the railways to criss-cross the entire country with tracks: that's
one of the benefits of modernity - everything takes a generation to effect, in
case people get upset and there are lawsuits. But also because this is a good
old-fashioned dirigiste Labour party prestige corporatist scheme, taken up with
strange alacrity by the prime minister. In doing so, he is wilfully alienating
Britain's most blindly loyal Conservative heartland.

Buckinghamshire, uniquely, has never been anything other than true-blue, but now
red-faced men in tweed jackets in Great Missenden and doughty women with
labradors in Wendover are thinking the unthinkable. Maybe next time they'll vote
for someone else. UKIP, I would assume.

David Cameron has even managed to estrange his own father-in-law, Lord Astor,
who is worried about the impact it will have on his back garden (an area known
to the rest of us as "the Chilterns").

Why is Cameron doing it? For the legacy? Because he loves trains? Because he
hates his father-in-law? It is a mystery. He is right, I think, nonetheless. The
HS2 has a romance about it and, more than that, it is a tacit admission of the
widening chasm between London and the rest of Britain and an attempt to put
things right.

Nobody ever liked railway lines. Those Bucks burghers live in towns and villages
that would not exist were it not for the railway lines being built through what
was, back in the 1830s, pristine countryside. Without railways, Bucks would be a
slightly more right-wing version of Helmand province. In the 1830s, those
landowners who weren't trousering vast sums from the railway companies also
objected, strenuously.

Everyone who is told a railway will be built near their home objects in an
almost Pavlovian manner. Once the line is built, the complaints die away and it
is usually thought absurd that the objections were taken seriously in the first
place.

I've met quite a few protesters, decent enough people who are, one suspects,
worried about the effects on their house values. This is not what they say to
you, of course. They insist their objections are not well-organised examples of
Nimbyism, as the rest of us might suspect.

One bloke even told me that what really worried him was the disruption that
would be caused to the Bangladeshi community of Camden, near the terminus of the
line. I am still cackling about that now. There is nothing wrong, morally, with
their real objection to the planned line, which is that it might be noisy and
affect how much they can get for their homes. It's just that every so often
these objections need to be

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Sarkozy leaves it to last moment as Le Pen closes in

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 511 words


CARLA Bruni-Sarkozy gave the strongest indication yet that her husband will run
for re-election as president in the spring, as new polls placed Nicolas Sarkozy
just two points ahead of Marine Le Pen, the National Front leader.

Mr Sarkozy is yet to launch his campaign for a second five-year term. He is
expected to leave the announcement until the last minute.

But his 44-year old former model wife gave a strong signal that he would run,
saying she would "stand by him" if he chose to do so.

"If he needs me, I'll be there," said the first lady on her first official
engagement since giving birth to their daughter Guilia in October.

"If my husband announces his candidacy, I will participate as much as possible."

Praising Mr Sarkozy's "superhuman abilities" in his "very difficult job", she
said: "He's changed a lot over the past four years, because it's the kind of job
that would change anyone. It would change a tree or a stone."

Elysée sources suggest Mr Sarkozy intends to throw down the gauntlet at the last
possible moment - five or six weeks before the first round on April 22.

His aides say he wants to emulate François Mitterrand, the late former Socialist
president, who remained above the electoral fray until a month before the first
round in 1988, going on to win a second term. Mr Sarkozy is seeking to portray
himself as a safe pair of hands in tackling the euro crisis - despite France
yesterday losing its AAA credit rating - compared with the relatively
inexperienced Socialist rival and front-runner, François Hollande. He hopes to
retain momentum with a flurry of reforms, from education to a VAT rise on
imported goods and a levy on financial transactions.

The tactic appears to have helped him to catch up with Mr Hollande, whom one
poll suggests he now trails by just two points in voting intentions. Mr Hollande
unveiled his campaign headquarters this week and slogan "Change is now" but has
been so far short on policy details.

Mr Sarkozy's camp has been effective in sniping at the few proposals Mr Hollande
has made, even if the Socialist is still predicted to win the second round
run-off on May 6.

But the president's greatest immediate threat is the rise of Miss Le Pen. An
IFOP poll released yesterday put the National Front leader within striking
distance of Mr Sarkozy, with 21.5 per cent of the vote compared with his 23.5
per cent, raising the possibility that she could knock him out to reach the
two-candidate second round.

The poll followed a survey in Le Monde which showed that almost a third of
voters agreed with the ideas of the National Front. Miss Le Pen has rebranded
her party as a French version of the UK Independence Party that wants to bring
back the franc and cut immigration while toning down its xenophobia.

But her party faced embarrassment yesterday after it emerged that a man made
"homeless" by Mr Sarkozy's policies featured on party posters was actually an
American model. Another picture in a denouncement of Mr Sarkozy's industrial
strategy featured a derelict factory that turned out to be in Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carla Bruni-Sarkozy yesterday on her first public engagement since the
birth of her daughter
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cash sunk into 'danger' marina

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 124 words


A MULTI-million pound marina partly built with British taxpayers' money is lying
empty, it emerged yesterday.

The project, on the Portuguese island of Madeira, was condemned as the latest
example of EU spending madness.

The Marina do Lugar de Baixo, built eight years ago on the stormy west side of
the island, is closed and undergoing further construction work which critics
claim is needed because the Atlantic waves make it too dangerous to use.

Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "This just shows why the euro and the EU are holed
beneath the waterline. Anybody who has ever been on a boat knows where the
prevailing wind lies, except those in Brussels who use our money to pay for it."
The EU contributed about £3million of the £31million cost.

/sou

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU accused of 'brainwashing' schoolchildren across Britain

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 330 words


CRITICS last night voiced concern after the EU's attempts to raise their profile
spread to classrooms across Britain.

A council staged an EU event encouraging teachers to link up with schools on the
Continent. Brightly coloured pencil cases bearing its 12-star logo have also
been handed out to pupils across the country.

The EU Commission denies such initiatives amount to "propaganda'' but some fear
the aim is to brainwash schoolchildren into backing the EU.

Andrew Allison, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Taxpayers will be shocked to
read the cash they pay to Brussels is being spent in this way. If schools want
children to know about the EU, there are plenty of unbiased resources.

"Teachers don't need to go to expensive conferences, and schools don't need to
buy books from the EU bookshop.''

Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall said: "It is utterly wrong that so-called neutral
information be provided to our children by an organisation which represents a
highly controversial political position."

It emerged yesterday that Staffordshire County Council's legal department is
considering a formal complaint lodged by a resident over a one-day conference it
held in November for 50 teachers to raise awareness of the EU in schools.

The Commission and the council denied the event, which cost £3,500, had a
political slant.

Councillor Liz Staples, Staffordshire's Cabinet member for schools, insisted:
"It focused on how schools without the EU could possibly link together, simliar
to e-twinning, and how young people can broaden their horizons by communicating
with and learning from children overseas.

"It was purely educational and not political in any way. There was no cost to
the taxpayer.''

He said the EU Comenius programme, supported by the British Council and aimed at
schools, colleges and councils across Europe, had in 2011 funded 438 UK schools
to make partnerships with European counterparts. "The UK authorities vigorously
promoted British involvement,'' he added.

OPINION: PAGE 18

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The EU pencil case has been handed out in schools

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

EU crisis as France loses credit rating

BYLINE: Natalie Chalk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 888 words


FRANCE had its gold-plated top credit rating downgraded last night sparking a
fresh crisis in the eurozone.

In a humiliating blow, Standard and Poor's rating agency slashed its coveted AAA
rating by one point, along with several other European countries. Aberporth 6.3
0.00 4 Alnwick 5.4 0.00 2 Belfast 6.1 0.01 0 Birmingham 6.4 0.01 0 B'mouth 6.4
0.01 -4 Bristol 6.2 0.00 -1 Cardiff 5.4 0.00 2 Durham 5.5 0.00 0 Edinburgh 4.8
0.01 -1 As the second largest economy in the eurozone, France is seen as vital
to the bloc's recovery. It is partly responsible for underwriting the bailout
fund, which is at the heart of floundering efforts to ease fears of a eurozone
collapse. Lighting-up times Belfast 4.27pm-8.35am Today Stocks across Europe
tumbled yesterday on rumours of the downgrades while the euro plunged against
several currencies, including the pound.

As well as reducing France to AA+, the US-based S&P also stripped Austria of its
AAA status. That means just four of the 17 nations in the eurozone - Germany,
the Netherlands, Finland and Luxembourg - have a top-notch rating. Amsterdam
Cloudy Brussels Fair Dublin Cloudy Frankfurt Fair Geneva Sunny Lisbon Fair
Madrid Sunny Paris Sunny Rome Fair Debt-ridden Italy dropped two points from A
to BBB, while Spain is also tipped to have its rating slashed.

The downgrades came on the day that talks between Greece and its banks to
restructure its debts also began to founder, prompting fears of a default.

Credit ratings are used by banks and investors as a measure of how risky it is
to lend to a country. A downgrade can force countries to pay higher interest
rates, putting finances under further strain. Confirming the downgrade on
television, finance minister Francois Baroin said it was "bad news" but not "a
catastrophe". CF Amsterdam . Sunny 6 43 Athens.....Sunny 9 48 Barcelona... Sunny
10 50 Berlin......Rain 4 39 Budapest ... Hail 6 43 Cairo.......Fair 12 54
CapeTown..Rain 22 72 Casablanca . Sunny 21 70 Corfu......Fair 11 52
Dublin......Sunny 6 43 Dubrovnik...Rain 9 48 Faro.......Sunny 16 61 Florence....
Cloudy 12 54 Gibraltar ... Cloudy 15 59 Guernsey ... Cloudy 8 46 However losing
the AAA rating is an embarrassment for French president Nicolas Sarkozy, who is
bidding for re-election later this year.

France's central bank chief Christian Noyer recently reacted to suggestions that
the country could lose its AAA rating by saying that the UK should be downgraded
before France.

Jersey......Sunny 8 46 Larnaca ... Fair 14 57 Las Palmas . Cloudy 20 68
LosAngeles.Cloudy 23 73 Luxor......Sunny 16 61 Malaga.....Fair 17 63 Mallorca
... Cloudy 14 57 Malta......Fair 14 57 Melbourne . . Cloudy 16 61
Miami......Cloudy 24 75 Moscow....Snow 1 34 Nairobi .. . . Sunny 24 75 New
Delhi... Fair 16 61 He said: "They should start by downgrading the UK, which has
higher deficits, as much debt, more inflation and less growth than us."
Nicosia.....Fair 12 Perth....... Cloudy 33 Prague.....Snow 3 Singapore... Fair
29 Stockholm. . Snow -1 Sydney.....Sunny 26 TelAviv.....Thndr 9 Tenerife. ...
Cloudy 22 Toronto.....Rain 3 Tunis.......Sunny 14 Venice.....Mist 4
Vienna.....Shwrs 5 Warsaw. ... Cloudy 2 Louise Cooper, markets analyst at BGC
Partners, said: "It was anticipated this was going to happen. Get used to it,
this is the world we now live in, this is what it looks like. Germany has kept
its AAA rating but it is going to be increasingly isolated. Saving the euro was
never going to be easy and France has a very big repayment schedule." norwich
Plymouth 24 hours SuN to 5pm (hrs) Ms Cooper said she thought the UK would keep
its AAA rating for now.

She said: "Our position is better than France but I imagine we will lose our AAA
at some stage. We are not France but it does not take many quarters of negative
growth for that to happen."

The failure of EU leaders to tackle the eurozone crisis was blamed for the
devastating downgrades. Aberdeen 3.9 Aberporth 6.3 Alnwick 5.4 Belfast 6.1
Birmingham 6.4 B'mouth 6.4 Bristol 6.2 Cardiff 5.4 Durham 5.5 Edinburgh 4.8
Trouble Britain Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday) Coldest: Wettest: Today In
an implicit attack on an inability to reassure markets, S&P said: "Today's
rating actions are primarily driven by our assessment that the policy
initiatives that have been taken by European policymakers in recent weeks may be
insufficient to fully address ongoing systemic stresses in the eurozone." The
group, sensitive to criticism that its ratings downgrades were unjustified and
only worsened the economic crisis said the results of the last EU summit in
December were insufficient in "size and scope" to fully address the zone's
financial problems. F 43 55 54 91 37 84 30 79 48 72 37 57 39 41 36 Amsterdam
Brussels Dublin Frankfurt Geneva Lisbon Madrid Paris Rome UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage last night called the downgrades, the "beginning of the
end".

He said: "Now that France has been downgraded I expect the bond yields of
countries like Italy and Spain to rise, leading to a need for a bailout and more
trouble for the Euro currency." Amsterdam. Sunny Athens.....Sunny Barcelona...
Sunny Berlin......Rain Budapest... Hail Cairo.......Fair CapeTown..Rain
Casablanca. Sunny Corfu......Fair Dublin......Sunny Dubrovnik...Rain
Faro.......Sunny Florence.... Cloudy Gibraltar. ... Cloudy CITY: PAGES 78&79

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Glum news for France's Nicolas Sarkozy HongKong..Rain 17 63 Istanbul..
... Fair 6 43 NewYork...Rain 6 Nice.......Sunny 13

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 14, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

The Saturday Quiz;


BYLINE: Simon O'Hagan

SECTION: PUZZLES AND GAMES

LENGTH: 155 words


1. According to the title of this landmark 1942 French novel, who is Meursault?

2. Charlie Williams is credited as the first man to achieve this unusual
sporting feat, in 1900; recently, Tim Howard did it. What?

3. What sign is on Ukip's logo?

4. What do Lady Macbeth and Donald Duck (right) have in common?

5. The so-called 13 colonies that declared their independence in the American
Revolution were British, Dutch and which other European nationality?

6. Brighton, Bournemouth and Devon. What - transportationally speaking - is the
connection?

7. In 1787, what term was coined by Edmund Burke in referring to an unofficial
force in society?

8. Which writer (1892-1973) is commemorated with plaques at four locations where
he lived in Birmingham and one in Oxford?

9. Tenochtitlan was the capital of which empire?

10. Which publication was founded by Cambridge University students in 1889 and
named after the ancient name for the River Cam?

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

BLACK FRIDAY THE 13TH;
NINE EUROZONE COUNTRIES SUFFER CREDIT HAMMERING

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 741 words


NINE eurozone countries have had their credit ratings cut in another massive
blow to the single currency, it was confirmed last night.

European leaders had hoped the single currency area was starting to stabilise
but France has lost its gold-plated AAA status in the Standard & Poor's ratings.

Austria, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia also slipped by one notch while Portugal,
Cyprus, Italy and Spain were downgraded by two.

The downgrade is a serious blow to French President Nicolas Sarkozy who is
fighting for re-election this spring.

Mr Sarkozy has staked his reputation on France keeping its triple-A credit
rating and had even boasted that Britain's credit rating was in a worse state.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said the French downgrade underlined the
"urgency" of solving the debt crisis in the eurozone. He called for a more
"concerted effort" by all 27 EU members to boost growth and productivity.

EU leaders will meet on January 30 for the latest emergency summit aimed at
saving the single currency from collapse.

Germany has retained the triple A rating and Chancellor Angela Merkel last night
made a veiled swipe at Mr Sarkozy for avoiding budget cuts to win votes.

She said: "Every member of the eurozone must have a debt brake in its
constitution, so leaders don't use elections or other oppor-tunities according
to their mood to live beyond their means."

World markets fell as news emerged that the downgrade was about to be announced.

At one point the FTSE 100 Index was down more than 1% though it rallied to 0.5%
down. Frankfurt's Dax fell 0.6%, and the Dow Jones in New York was down 0.8%.
Reports of a breakdown in talks between Greece and its banks to restructure its
debts fuelled fears of a default and drove markets lower.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, inset, said Standard & Poor's
announcement could mean "the beginning of the end" for the eurozone. He said:
"Now that France has been downgraded I expect the bond yields of countries like
Italy and Spain to rise, leading to a need for a bailout and more trouble for
the euro currency.

"The euro, the ultimate federalist fantasy, has become a nightmare for those
caught in its embrace.

"This downgrade of France's credit rating will make its debt more expensive and
may prove to be the beginning of the end for eurozone as we know it."

The leader of Britain's Tory MEPs Martin Callanan said the downgrade, coupled
with fresh difficulties for Greece, increased pressure on EU leaders to "stop
fiddling with treaties and start tackling the immediate crisis".

Twenty-six member states are trying to finalise a new "fiscal compact" to
tighten controls on eurozone debt and deficit levels but Mr Callanan said: "If
European leaders really want to save the euro, they need to listen to what the
markets have already told them. It is time for some countries to leave the
single currency. The longer we dither, the worse the crunch will be." He said
the negotiations on the new pact had done little to calm markets.

He added: "While European leaders have been gazing at their collective navel,
market confidence has continued to decline.

"We take one step forward and five steps backwards in this crisis."

And he warned: "We can't afford to keep buying time with taxpayers' money.
Eurozone leaders must face up to the reality the eurozone disease will not begin
to be cured until we remove the infected limb.

"The EU summit at the end of this month really is the last chance saloon for an
injection of realism from EU leaders.

"If we see yet more discussion of treaties, bailout mechanisms and attacks on
financial services then I fear we will soon pass the mark where we can salvage
anything from the wreckage."

A statement from Standard & Poor warned: "The outlook on the long-term ratings
on Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, and Spain are negative,
indicating there is at least a one-in-three chance that the rating will be
lowered in 2012 or 2013."

In an attack on EU leaders, it went on: "Today's rating actions are primarily
driven by our assessment that the policy initiatives that have been taken by
European policymakers in recent weeks may be insufficient to fully address
ongoing systemic stresses in the eurozone."

Austria's economy has been partly hit because it is a big exporter to struggling
Italy, while its banks are facing losses on subsidiaries they own in troubled
Hungary.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SWIPE Angela Merkel HUMBLED Nicolas Sarkozy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 13, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Tories face shires rebellion over rail link

BYLINE: David Millward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 153 words


THE Conservative Party faces a grass roots rebellion with councillors
threatening to defect or resign in protest at plans to go ahead with a
high-speed rail line from London to Birmingham.

Negotiations have begun between the UK Independence Party and a Tory and Lib Dem
member of Aylesbury Vale district council, as anger over the scheme shows no
sign of abating.

Tory associations are also bracing themselves for a wave of resignations from
party members as the backlash intensifies against plans for the 140-mile line,
which will cut a swathe through Buckinghamshire, Northamptonshire and
Warwickshire. Martin King, a former Tory mayor of Amersham, Bucks, was among the
first to turn in his party card after 30 years of membership.

"I have been fighting HS2 and I am disappointed that it is going through the
Chilterns," he said. "I have also spoken to a lot of people who said they will
never vote Conservative again."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 13, 2012
                                 First Edition

Sarkozy's attack dogs come out barking in presidential race that looks too close
to call;
FRANCE

BYLINE: John Lichfield IN PARIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 794 words


A hundred days before French voters go to the polls, the outcome of a tetchy
presidential campaign, muddled by crisis, is defying all forecasts.

The Socialist challenger, François Hollande, still leads in the opinion polls
but the French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, has closed the first round gap to
only two points.

Mr Sarkozy - now running at 25-26 per cent - is campaigning like an outsider who
happens to be President, firing off new proposals on a daily basis. He is not
yet officially a candidate but will probably declare early next month.

Despite unemployment at a 12-year high and slowing economic growth, Sarkozy has
gained ground in recent polls as he has sought to portray himself as an
experienced statesman capable of steering France through the eurozone crisis, in
contrast to the relatively inexperienced Mr Hollande.

Mr Hollande, who is on 27-28 per cent, is placidly staking out his position as a
more reliable, more caring reincarnation of the late President François
Mitterrand - without the eloquence or, so far, any clear programme.

The far right leader, Marine Le Pen, is running in third place with 17 to 20 per
cent. She is surfing successfully on her moderate image and fears of national
decline and economic calamity but does not appear, at this stage, likely to
reach the two-candidate second round.

If Ms Le Pen is to be believed, she may not even reach the first round. Her
National Front party complained this week that pressure and threats from Mr
Sarkozy's party meant that she was struggling to gather the 500 signatures from
elected officials that she needs to make the ballot paper on 22 April.

Meanwhile, the perennial centrist challenger, François Bayrou is enjoying his
usual January surge in the polls. Mr Bayrou, the candidate of those who can
stomach "none of the above", has risen from single figures to around 15 per
cent. As the only candidate in 2007 who warned of the dangers of debt, he is in
the unusual position of being a convinced pro-European who stands to gain
electorally if the Euro falls apart in the next three months.

Predicting the outcome of the election is more than usually hazardous this year.
The opinion polls suggest that Mr Hollande and Mr Sarkozy will reach the second
round on 6 May and that Mr Hollande will then go on to win easily.

But much depends on what happens in Brussels and on the financial markets in
coming weeks. If the euro and the European and French economies fall off a
cliff, all bets could be off.

Ms Le Pen, as the only leading anti-European candidate, would hope to register a
surge in the polls. Mr Hollande has already shifted his position to warn
left-wing voters that the first job of a new centre-left president would be to
cut deficits "fairly", not to spend.

President Sarkozy is indelibly associated with the efforts to rescue the euro.
He is, nonetheless, positioning himself as the battle-hardened, clear-headed
campaigner to whom France should turn to in the event of calamity.

In an off-the-record briefing with French journalists last week, the Socialist
candidate Mr Hollande predicted that Mr Sarkozy would campaign as the "sal mec"
("dirty swine") capable of doing everything needed to rescue France from
disaster.

Mr Sarkozy's henchmen immediately misquoted Mr Hollande and said that he had
called Mr Sarkozy a "sal mec". They then accused him of demeaning the
presidency.

In other words, they proved Mr Hollande right. Mr Sarkozy may not have
officially joined the race but his attack dogs are already barking. And though
still tame by American standards, this is shaping up to be a nasty campaign.

A survey in Le Monde yesterday showed that a third of voters agreed with the
ideas of the National Front, which has preached withdrawal from the eurozone and
protectionism to defend French industry.

The contenders

FRAN??OIS HOLLANDE

The Socialist candidate has been a player in French politics for three decades
without ever having a ministerial job. Likeable, thoughtful but unexciting, he's
promised to be a "normal" leader after the political soap opera of the Sarkozy
years.

MARINE LE PEN

The National Front candidate is the youngest daughter of the party's founder,
Jean-Marie Le Pen. She has moderated (or disguised) the party's xenophobic
excesses and is running as a kind of Gallic UKIP candidate.

EVA JOLY

A former magistrate turned sincere but unconvincing green politician, she came
to France as a teenaged Norwegian au pair. As candidate for the Green-Europe
Ecology party, she is failing to harvest a potentially high, green vote.

FRAN??OIS BAYROU

A former education minister with a small, dysfunctional, centrist party, he is
making his third run for the presidency as a plain-speaking candidate for
commonsense and the standard-bearer of the anti-Sarko centre-right.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 13, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Too close to call: French voters undecided about next President;
With 100 days to go before the country decides, Sarkozy is campaigning as an
outsider

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 719 words


A hundred days before French voters go to the polls, the outcome of a tetchy
presidential campaign, muddled by crisis, is defying all forecasts.

The Socialist challenger, François Hollande, leads in the opinion polls but
President Nicolas Sarkozy has closed the first-round gap to only two points. Mr
Sarkozy - now running at 25-26 per cent - is campaigning like an outsider who
happens to be President, firing off new proposals on a daily basis. Not yet
officially a candidate, he will probably declare early next month.

Mr Hollande, on 27-28 per cent, is placidly staking out his position as a more
reliable, more caring reincarnation of the late President François Mitterrand -
without the eloquence or, so far, any clear programme.

The far-right leader, Marine Le Pen, is running in third place with 17 to 20 per
cent. She is surfing successfully on her moderate image and fears of national
decline and economic calamity but does not appear, at this stage, likely to
reach the two candidate second round.

If Ms Le Pen is to be believed, she may not even reach the first round. Her
party, the National Front complained this week that pressure and threats from Mr
Sarkozy's party meant she was struggling to gather the 500 signatures from
elected officials that she needs to make the ballot paper on 22 April.

The perennial centrist challenger, François Bayrou is enjoying his usual January
surge in the polls. The candidate of those who can stomach "none of the above",
he has risen from single figures to around 15 per cent. As the only candidate in
2007 who warned of the dangers of debt, he is in the unusual position of being a
convinced pro-European who stands to gain electorally if the euro falls apart in
the next three months.

Predicting the outcome of the election is more than usually hazardous this year.
The opinion polls suggest that Mr Hollande and Mr Sarkozy will reach the second
round on 6 May and that Mr Hollande will then go on to win easily.

But much depends on what happens in Brussels and on the financial markets in
coming weeks. If the euro, and the European and French economies, fall off a
cliff, all bets could be off.

Ms Le Pen, as the only leading anti-European candidate, would hope to register a
surge in the polls. Mr Hollande has already shifted his position to warn
left-wing voters that the first job of a new centre-left president would be to
cut deficits "fairly", not to spend.

President Sarkozy is indelibly associated with the efforts to rescue the euro.
He is, nonetheless, positioning himself as the battle-hardened, clear-headed
campaigner to whom France should turn to in the event of calamity.

In an off-the-record briefing with French journalists last week, the Socialist
candidate Mr Hollande predicted that Mr Sarkozy would campaign as the "sal mec"
("dirty swine") capable of doing everything needed to rescue France from
disaster.

Mr Sarkozy's henchmen immediately misquoted Mr Hollande and said that he had
called Mr Sarkozy a "sal mec". They then accused him of demeaning the
presidency.

In other words, they proved Mr Hollande right. Mr Sarkozy may not have
officially joined the race but his attack dogs are already barking. And though
still tame by American standards, this is shaping up to be a nasty campaign.

In the race: Runners with eyes on the top job

François Hollande

The Socialist candidate has been a player in French politics for three decades
without ever having a ministerial job. Likeable, thoughtful but unexciting, he's
promised to be a "normal" leader after the political soap opera of the Sarkozy
years

Eva Joly

A former investigative magistrate turned sincere but unconvincing green
politician, she came to France as a teenaged Norwegian au pair. As the miscast
candidate for the Green-Europe Ecology party, she is failing to harvest a
potentially high, green vote

Marine Le Pen

The National Front candidate is youngest daughter of the party's founder,
Jean-Marie Le Pen. She has moderated (or disguised) the party's xenophobic
excesses and is running as a kind of Gallic UKIP candidate, abandoning the
Gallic BNP of papa.

François Bayrou

A former education minister with a small, dysfunctional, centrist party, he is
making his third run for the presidency as a plain-speaking candidate for
commonsense and the standard-bearer of the anti-Sarko centre-right.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 13, 2012 Friday 7:38 PM GMT

Carla Bruni-Sarkozy indicates Nicolas Sarkozy will seek presidential
re-election;
Carla Bruni-Sarkozy gave the strongest indication yet that her husband will run
for re-election in the spring, as new polls placed Nicolas Sarkozy just two
percentage points ahead of Marine Le Pen, the National Front leader.

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

LENGTH: 656 words


Mr Sarkozy is yet to officially launch his campaign to become the nation's
leader for a second five-year term, and he is expected to leave the announcement
until the last minute.

But his 44-year old former supermodel wife gave a strong signal that he would
run, saying she would "stand by him" if he chose to.

"If he needs me, I'll be there," said the first lady on her first official
engagement since giving birth to their daughter Guilia in October.

"If my husband announces his candidacy, I will participate as much as possible."

Praising Mr Sarkozy's "superhuman abilities" in his "very difficult job", she
said: "He's changed a lot over the past four years, because it's the kind of job
that would change anyone. It would change a tree or a stone.

Elysée sources suggest Mr Sarkozy intends to throw down the gauntlet at the last
possible moment - five or six weeks before the first round on April 22.

His aides say he wants to emulate François Mitterrand, the late former Socialist
president, who remained above the electoral fray until just one month before the
first round in 1988, going on to win a second term.

"(His status) is an advantage as he remains the President while the other
candidates are the challengers," political expert Dominique Reynié told Le
Parisien.

Mr Sarkozy is seeking to portray himself as a safe pair of hands in tackling the
eurocrisis compared to the relatively inexperienced Socialist rival and
front-runner, François Hollande.

The notoriously frenetic leader hopes to retain momentum with a flurry of new
reforms, from education to a value-added tax hike on imported goods and a levy
on financial transactions.

"(The reforms) act as ice breakers in the pack ice of his unpopularity," said
respected political commentator Alain Duhamel.

The tactic appears to have helped him catch up with Mr Hollande, whom one poll
suggests he now trails by just two percentage points in voting intentions. The
jovial, consensual Left-winger unveiled his campaign headquarters this week and
slogan: "Change is now" but has been so far woefully short on policy details.

Mr Sarkozy's camp has been brutally effective in sniping at the few proposals Mr
Hollande has made, even if the Socialist is still predicted to win the second
round run-off on May 6.

But the president's greatest immediate threat is the rise of Miss Le Pen. An
IFOP poll released on Friday put the National Front leader in striking distance
of Mr Sarkozy with 21.5 per cent of the vote compared to his 23.5 per cent,
raising the possibility she could knock him out to reach the two-candidate
second round.

The poll followed a survey in Le Monde this week showed that almost a third of
voters agreed with the ideas of the National Front.

Miss Le Pen has successfully rebranded her party as a French version of UKIP
that wants to bring back the franc and slash immigration while debatably toning
down its xenophobia.

Yesterday, however, she lashed out at Qatar for investing in "Muslim" areas of
French cities and for taking over Paris Saint-Germain football club.

"We are letting a foreign country choose its investments with regard to the
religion of this or that part of the French population or of French territory."

Her party, which preaches "national preference", faced embarrassment yesterday
after it emerged that a man made "homeless" by Mr Sarkozy's policies featured on
party posters was actually a US model.

Another photo used Miss Le Pen's party of a derelict factory - to denounce Mr
Sarkozy's industrial strategy - turned out to be a picture of a building in the
Northern Irish town of Lurgan.

But Miss Le Pen's hand will likely be further strengthened by reports yesterday
that France is about to lose its coveted triple A credit status from the
Standard & Poors rating agency.

Mr Sarkozy has tied his fate to that of the eurozone and with 100 days to go
before the first round, the future of the single currency and the French
presidency remains unclear.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 12, 2012 Thursday 3:36 PM GMT

Tory grass roots rebellion over high speed rail;
The Conservative party faces a grass roots rebellion with local councillors
threatening to defect or resign in protest at plans to go ahead with plans for a
high speed line from London to Birmingham.

BYLINE: By David Millward Transport Editor

LENGTH: 254 words


Negotiations have begun between UK Independence Party and a Tory and Lib Dem
member of Aylesbury Vale District Council as anger over the scheme shows no sign
of abating.

Other councillors on the route, which cuts a swathe through the Tory heartlands
of Buckinghamshire, Northamptonshire and Warwickshire, are also expected to
consider whether they wish to retain the Conservative whip.

Tory Associations are also bracing themselves for a wave or resignations from
rank and file party members as the backlash intensifies against plans for the
140 mile line.

The former mayor of Amersham, Martin King, was among the first to turn in his
Tory party card after 30 years of membership.

"I have voted Conservative since I was 18 and I am 64 next birthday. This was a
point I felt I had to make," he said.

"I have been fighting HS2 and I am disappointed that it is going through the
Chilterns. I believe we need to protect the Green Belt.

"There will be a lot of people along the route who will quit the party and I
have also spoken to a lot of people who said they will never vote Conservative
again.

"I will not vote Conservative at the next election, I will not vote at all," Mr
King added.

Martin Tett, the leader of Buckinghamshire County Council and one of the most
outspoken critics of the project, hoped to avoid defections.

"If we had not taken a stand, we clearly would have been wiped out in local
elections," he said. "But we are facing a backlash from members of all three
major parties against their national parties."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 12, 2012 Thursday 3:14 PM GMT

Coalition faces grass roots defections and resignations over high speed rail;
At least two councillors are negotiating to join the UK Independence Party in
protest at the Coalition's decision to go ahead with plans for a high speed line
from London to Birmingham.

BYLINE: By David Millward Transport Editor

LENGTH: 249 words


Negotiations have begun between UKIP and a Tory and Lib Dem member of Aylesbury
Vale District Council as anger over the scheme shows no sign of abating.

Other councillors on the route, which cuts a swathe through the Tory heartlands
of Buckinghamshire, Northamptonshire and Warwickshire, are also expected to
consider whether they wish to retain the Conservative whip.

Tory Associations are also bracing themselves for a wave or resignations from
rank and file party members as the backlash intensifies against plans for the
140 mile line.

The former mayor of Amersham, Martin King, was among the first to turn in his
Tory party card after 30 years of membership.

"I have voted Conservative since I was 18 and I am 64 next birthday. This was a
point I felt I had to make.

"I have been fighting HS2 and I am disappointed that it is going through the
Chilterns. I believe we need to protect the Green Belt.

"There will be a lot of people along the route who will quit the party and I
have also spoken to a lot of people who said they will never vote Conservative
again.

"I will not vote Conservative at the next election, I will not vote at all," Mr
King added.

Martin Tett, the leader of Buckinghamshire County Council and one of the most
outspoken critics of the project, hoped to avoid defections.

"If we had not taken a stand, we clearly would have been wiped out in local
elections," he said. "But we are facing a backlash from members of all three
major parties against their national parties."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 12, 2012 Thursday 7:00 AM GMT

Tory MPs face high speed rail backlash;
Opponents of plans for a high speed rail line are drawing up plans to oppose
Tories in some of the party's safest seats at the next election.

BYLINE: By David Millward Transport Editor

LENGTH: 583 words


The backlash against the coalition started within hours of Justine Greening, the
Transport Secretary, announcing that the scheme would go ahead.

Protesters are likely to target Cheryl Gillan, the Welsh Secretary, who had
hinted that she would be prepared to resign in protest at the plans to run
250mph trains through her Chesham and Amersham constituency.

But her apparent acceptance of the concessions offered by the Government
triggered anger among local voters.

"I find it astonishing that Cheryl Gillan is still in the Cabinet," said
Sebastian Berry, who won election to Chiltern District Council as a stop high
speed rail candidate.

"The anger already is palpable. It is blindingly obvious people will be voting
for a party which is opposed to the high speed rail or independents.

"There will be a lot of independent candidates up and down the route and the
process will start with the council elections next May.

"People feel betrayed here and betrayal is not too strong a word.

"These are Conservatives who stood in the 2010 election and produced leaflets
saying they would stop Labour's scheme, now here they are in power voting for
Labour's scheme.

"The Government's attempt to divide and rule by putting in a bit of extra
tunnelling has gone down like a lead balloon.

"If the Government thought that its political problems could be magicked away by
a little bit of extra mitigation, then they are sadly mistaken," he added.

Another campaigner, Penny Gaines, chairman of stop HS2. accused Mrs Gillan of
"bottling out" by appearing to welcome the concessions announced by Justine
Greening, the Transport Secretary.

"I think she was under a lot of pressure to support the Government's plans," she
said

"There is a lot of anger in Amersham and Chesham towards Cheryl Gillan. She
promised constituents an awful lot and she has let them down very badly."

"I saw her on television during the announcement, she looked as if she didn't
want to be there."

Other MPs are also likely to face stop-HS2 candidates at the election and the
Tory party is bracing itself for a wave of defections from local councillors as
well."

Those in the firing line include David Lidington, the Europe minister and MP for
Aylesbury.

His refusal to oppose the project has triggered two local councillors, one Tory
and one Lib Dem to start discussions over defecting to Ukip.

Mr Lidington said he was "disappointed" by the decision and demanded increased
compensation for his Aylesbury constituents who might be affected by the new
line.

"Feelings are running very high locally," said Chris Adams, a Ukip member of
Aylesbury Vale District Council.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, stepped up his party's pitch to lure disaffected
Tories by opposing the high speed rail project.

"Ukip is and remains the only political party opposed to HS2 and thus is a
natural home for those Councillors who have been campaigning against the
proposals and seen their parties veer away from their views," said Nigel Farage.

"The scheme shows how out of touch the political elite are with real people in
the country."

Andrea Leadsom, Tory MP for South Northamptonshire, said the decision to press
ahead with the scheme had antagonised a number of grass roots supporters and
members.

"I have a lot of extremely unhappy constituents and a number have said they will
never vote Conservative again and we have also lost some members.

"While you never know who is going to stand against you, I would understand if
an anti-HS2 candidate was put up."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday

Eurozone crisis: George Osborne says UK could increase IMF payments

BYLINE: Julia Kolleweguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6253 words

ABSTRACT

Chancellor tells MPs that Britain could be swayed by a well-argued case put
forward by the IMF and the G20

FULL TEXT

9.39pm: A late snippet -- the EU summit scheduled for 30 January in Brussels has
been shifted to the 29th, because of a general strike taking place in Belgium
that day.

The power of the workers, eh?

News of the change, and its cause, was confirmed by Danish PM Helle
Thorning-Schmidt this evening, telling reporters in Copenhagen that:

We have moved it a day earlier, and it really is because of the general strike.

Thorning-Schmidt was speaking at the ceremony to mark the start of Denmark's
presidency of the European Union.

9.12pm: A something-or-nothing day for the financial markets has seen the Dow
Jones index finish 13 points lower at 12499.

That's a fall of 0.1%, better than the 0.45% fall on the FTSE 100 today (it
finished 25 points lower at 5670).

Wall Street traders took some heart from the latest 'Beige Book' report from the
Federal Reserve. This regular US economic survey showed that conditions improved
at the end of 2011. Nothing spectacular, but December's "modest to moderate
pace" growth was better than November, when growth was "slow" in some districts.

8.53pm: Greek finance minister Evangelos Venizelos has called on the Arab world
to help Greece through its financial crisis.

Venizelos gave the closing speech this evening at the 1st Economic Forum
Greece-UAE 2012. In what reads like a rousing address, he said the support
offered to Greece by the rest of the EU was not sufficient to get it through the
crisis:

In this effort that requires very tough sacrifices of the Greek people, we need
international allies. Undoubtedly, we have found such allies in the face of our
partners in the Euro Area and the European Union. But they are not enough.

Our traditional and historic friends must come by our side too; and we will
always be by their side. And those friends are in the Arab world.

Middle Eastern countries are already providing some support to Greece through
their membership of the IMF - with the UAE contributing 0.32% of total funds. I
reckon Venizelos is suggesting they could take part in the large-scale Greek
privatisation programme (airports, the state lottery, and even some islands are
on the block).

Venizelos also told his audience that "an asymmetrical warfare" was being fought
in the eurozone:

...between states, international organizations and the organized market entities
on the one hand and the speculative aspects of the market on the other hand.

He also claimed that the long-running push to agree a debt-reduction deal with
Greece's creditors was going well (despite reports today saying they are going
badly):

Our discussions with the private sector regarding the PSI scheme have advanced
and are now at a very good point. We are ready for a next meeting, maybe
tomorrow morning, with our friend, Charles Dallara, from IIF.

IIF represents Greece's many lenders, who are being asked to accept a 50%
haircut on their loans.

The full speech is online here.

8.20pm: There's an interesting report in German newspaper Handelsblatt tonight
-- suggesting that Christine Lagarde has accepted that "tens of billions" of
extra euros need to be handed to Greece.

According to Handelsblatt, the IMf accepts that the deteriorating Greek economy
means that its second rescue package is not large enough. As things stand,
Greece will not hit its target of reducing the national debt to 120% of GDP by
2020.

Where might that money come from? If the IMF decides it must make up the
difference, then the UK might be asked to contribute -- putting George Osborne
on the spot.

It also appears that Lagarde and Angela Merkel have agreed to bring the
negotiations over Greece's debt reduction to a rapid conclusion.

Handelsblatt says that the two leaders have agreed that their goal is to
complete the private sector participation "in the next few weeks". That would
give enough time to sort out the paperwork and hand over Greece's next aid
tranche before (EURO)14bn of debt comes up for repayment.

8.07pm: Tomorrow could be a hectic day in the eurocrisis.

Spain is holding its first sale of government bonds this year (it is selling
three and four-year debt), while Italy will look for buyers of shorter-term debt
(135-day and 364-day Treasury bills).

The Bank of England and the European Central Bank are both holding their monthly
interest rate-setting meetings.

Analysts at Daiwa Capital Markets predicted that:

Both the BoE and ECB are likely to leave policy unchanged this month, but Draghi
could possibly signal further ECB easing in the months ahead.

7.37pm: Philipp Hildebrand, who quit as chairman of the Swiss National Bank
following revelations of currency dealings, is walking away with a pay-off of
900,000 Swiss francs (or [#xfffd]615,000).

From the FT tonight:

The bank said Philipp Hildebrand's contract entitled him to 12 months' pay. The
first six months covered his notice period, with the remainder compensating him
for a clause in his contract preventing him from working for another bank until
next January.

Hildebrand stepped down on Monday, saying he could not prove that he was unaware
that his wife was dealing in the US dollar while he was pondering whether to
intervene to push down the value of the Swiss franc.

Hildebrand insists that he and his wife are innocent of collusion, and a
pre-Christmas investigation by PricewaterhouseCoopers found no evidence of
wrong-doing. However, the news of his payout is likely to put banking pay under
the spotlight yet again.

7.03pm: I'm a bit late with this story, but it's still worth a read.

In Greece, local chemists are running out of painkillers and asthma inhalers as
the Greek population suffer from the worsening economic crisis.

Bloomberg reports that:

For patients and pharmacists in financially stricken Greece, even finding
aspirin has turned into a headache.

Pharmaceutical groups say that almost half the country's 500 most-used medicines
are in short supply -- including vitally needed products such as blood-thinners.

So why is the economic crisis to blame? One reason is that the Greek government
has cut the price at which medicines are sold, to lower its own costs. That
means suppliers can make higher profits by selling their wares in other
countries.

Another factor is the weakening Greek economy:

Wholesalers and pharmacists say the system suffers from a lack of liquidity, as
public insurers delay payments to pharmacies, which in turn can't pay suppliers
on time.

The human cost of the financial crisis -- on top of the recent rise in suicides
in Greece.

6.42pm: Over in the US, a sale of ten-year government debt has just seen
investors accept record low interest rates.

The 10-year Treasury bonds were sold at an average yield of 1.9% - the first
time ever that debt of this kind has been shifted at under 2%. Even that that
low price, there was strong demand -- the bid-to-cover ratio came in at 3.29
(meaning the US could have sold three times as much debt as was on offer).

This is the first auction of long-term US bonds since America's national debt
reached the size of the overall US economy (a dubious milestone passed earlier
this week).

Marketwatch has a good write-up about the details of the US auction, here.

6.20pm: The idea that the UK could increase its IMF contributions has gone down
badly with Margot Parker, a UKIP parliamentary candidate. She tweeted that

@MargotLJParker: Eurozone crisis live: George Osborne says UK could increase IMF
payments http://t.co/1I3mTd7b UK taxpayers bashed again eh!!

Sentiments that could be shared inside Westminster too....

5.48pm: So, how significant is George Osborne's comments this afternoon about
the possibility of the UK boosting its contributions to the International
Monetary Fund (see 3.10pm)?

The word from sources in the Treasury this afteroon is that the chancellor has
not changed his stance on the IMF.

However Andrew Tyrie, the Conservative MP who chairs the select committee,
believes that Osborne's remarks are significant. He told my colleague Jill
Treanor that:

What the chancellor appears to have been doing is sending his opposite numbers a
message that his room for manoeuour is limited, while at he same time he also
appeared to be saying that he was not excluding more support for the IMF.

The key point, we believe, is that G20 finance ministers are holding a summit in
Mexico next month. The issue of IMF funding will certainly be discussed. If
there is broad agreement to boost the IMF's firepower, then the UK government
would be under some pressure to join in.

But a major increase in funding would need parliament's approval -- and many
Tory MPs might block it (see 3.36pm)

5.24pm: The rumours this evening is that the negotiations over Greece's debt
reductions plans are not going well. The situation is so worrying, in fact, that
European governments may have to dip into their pockets and provide billions of
extra euros.

Reuters quotes a senior banking source saying:

Private sector involvement is going badly.

Another reckons that governments are now "mulling an increase in their share of
the burden".

The background here is that Greece is trying to agree a 50% haircut with its
lenders. Some creditors appear to be playing hardball, while there are also
fears that a 50% reduction may not be enough.

So how much money might EU governments have to provide? Dow Jones sources reckon
it could be (EURO)15bn.

4.48pm:Albert Edwards, one of the City's most famously bearish analysts, has
warned this afternoon that the next 12 months will be desperately grim.

That's the bad news. The good news is that 2012 will be the nadir of the current
crisis.

Edwards, who works for Soci[#xfffd]t[#xfffd] G[#xfffd]n[#xfffd]rale, told a
conference in London this afternoon that 2012 will be a stinker because the
Chinese economy will suffer a hard landing.

He explained that:

It is hard to think 2013 and onwards can be any worse than this year if China
hard lands.

(via economics editor Larry Elliott, who's at the briefing)

Why might China's economy stumble this year? There are several possible causes
-- some economists fear the country's housing market could collapse. Other
experts reckon its banking sector is hiding away masses of bad loans.

4.10pm: The Financial Transaction Tax raised its head again today - figuratively
speaking - when Italian prime minister Mario Monti compared it to the Loch Ness
Monster.

Monti said the idea of imposing a small levy on all financial transactions
shared one characteristic with the Highlands's most famous resident -- it keeps
disappearing, then reappearing. He supports the idea, but only if it can be
implemented across the EU. As the Associated Press explains:

Monti, who studied at Yale with economist James Tobin, who first proposed the
levy, said his one-time mentor likened the tax's popularity through history to
the Loch Ness Monster.

"You see it, it disappears, then reappears," Monti said. "In this phase I think
it has more sense than in others given the velocity of financial transactions,
which can cause damage, and not just benefits."

But will the FTT slide back into the murky depths, or is it finally ready for
the limelight? The French are absolutely determined to bring the tax in - and
hope to draw up plans by this spring. Britain argues that the tax would need to
be imposed globally.

3.36pm: George Osborne will face a fight with his own backbenchers if he does
attempt to increase the UK's contributions to the International Monetary Fund
(as he suggested at 3.10pm).

Parliamentary arithmetic means that Conservative eurosceptic MPs could defeat
the plan (unless opposition MPs voted with the government).

Two Tories have already voiced their concerns this week. Conservative MP Douglas
Carswell told City AM that:

I suspect that if the government pushes it to a vote they may well find they
cannot rely on a majority.

A total of 30 Tories rebelled last July when the goverment asked the Commons to
approve another [#xfffd]9bn for the IMF, cutting its majority to 28 (as Labour
opposed the increase).

Sir Peter Bone MP also opposes Britain paying more to the IMF, saying last
weekend that:

Enough is enough.

3.10pm:Chancellor George Osborne has just suggested that Britain could increase
its payments to the International Monetary Fund.

Osborne is appearing at the Treasury select committee in parliament --
officially to answer questions the Independent Commission on Banking. The MPs,
though, were keen to discuss the financial crisis, and ask whether the UK could
raise its IMF contributions.

Osborne reckoned he was the first finance minister anywhere in the world to
suggest the IMF needed more resources. He then explained that:

"We are absolutely enthusiastic supporters of a well-funded IMF.

If there is a case to be made for additional IMF resources we should hear it
from the IMF. If it is a good case then ourselves and other countries like
Japan, like Australia, will look at that, I am sure, favourably.

[6pm: updated with fuller quotes from GO]

Osborne then skirted around the issue of whether it would be more than the 4.5%
that the UK usually contributes... but also spelling out that any money should
go into "general resources" and not to bail out the EU.

(with thanks to my colleague Jill Treanor, who is watching the session).

Britain's contributions to the IMF have to be approved by parliament. Last year,
MPs gave the green light to a budget of (EURO)40bn, of which around (EURO)30bn
has already been committed. That's why the UK refused to contribute (EURO)30bn
to an IMF loan to the eurozone last month.

3.01pm: Afternoon all. The euro just suffered one of its periodic wobbles. The
trigger appeared to be our old friend - the French downgrade rumour.

The euro fell to $1.2673 in the last few minutes, on rumours that Standard &
Poor's had finally done the deed. This was followed by 'sources' at the French
Treasury insisting that a downgrade was not imminent [by convention, rating
agencies warn their victims sovereign nations before changing their credit
rating].

The Gallic denial sent the euro bouncing back over $1.27, before sliding back
again close to a new 15-month low of $1.2668..... Something's afoot? The pound's
also falling against the dollar ($1=[#xfffd]1.5344) as risk aversion returns.

2.30pm: It's good-bye from me, Julia Kollewe. I'm handing over to Graeme
Wearden.

1.43pm: Time for a look at the markets. The FTSE is down more than 30 points at
5665, a 0.55% fall. Germany's Dax has slipped 17 points, or 0.5% while France's
CAC has lost 31 points, or 0.5%.

Markets were spooked by bearish comments from credit rating agency Fitch. David
Riley, the head of sovereign ratings at Fitch, said the ECB should ramp up its
buying of eurozone debt to prevent a "cataclysmic" collapse of the euro.

A strong German bond sale this morning was seen as a sign that investors were
flocking to safe-haven debt, and sparked worries that Spanish and Italian
auctions on Thursday and Friday may struggle.

Alex Paterson, a trader at Liberum Capital, said:

Because the German auction has gone so well, the market is wary that these
[Spanish and Italian] auctions may not go so well.

But the sell-off on stock markets could also have a technical element to it as
it came when the market was "at the top of its range," he said.

1.17pm: Speaking at her office in Berlin after talks with Italian PM Mario
Monti, Angela Merkel stressed that the eurozone's top priority at the moment is
to secure a second aid package for Greece. She said it had to be sorted out
before European leaders could start working on how to boost growth and jobs.

The German chancellor said:

The eurozone's first obligation this year is to resolve a second Greek programme
and finalise these negotiations with the banks so that we can then concentrate
on structural problems in the eurozone.

The press conference has now finished.

1.05pm: The euro has clawed back some losses and German Bund futures retreated
from the day's highs after Merkel suggested Germany may add more funding to a
permanent eurozone bailout fund.

The German chancellor said Germany would be prepared to pay more capital into
the European Stability Mechanism when it is launched later this year. The euro
briefly leapt to $1.2730 from $1.2690 before the comments.

A bond trader told Reuters that the comments "seem like a change of tack" -
suggesting Germany is taking a "more proactive approach to the crisis".

1.02pm: More comments from Merkel:

We have said from the beginning that we want to work closely together among the
big economies in the European Union and especially in the eurozone. I don't need
to stress that that doesn't mean that we want to exclude the economies that
aren't quite as big but I believe it is particularly important that everyone of
us makes his contribution to the stabilisation of the euro zone.

We also talked about the next summit, ... which should concern itself with the
question of how we can advance growth and employment beside (the topic of)
budget solidity.

I want to stress there are measures that cost money and those growth-supporting
measures that are in the structural area, so it's important we talk about labour
law, that we exchange experiences among one another.

12.53pm: Monti, for his part, is insisting Italy will work closely with France
and Germany to solve the eurocrisis. Leaders from the three countries will meet
on 20 January.

12.50pm: Merkel said she wasn't 45 mins late for her press conference because
she was arguing with Monti - but because they had so much to discuss. The two
have discussed ways of increasing growth in the eurozone - and she said there
are ways of doing this that don't cost money - structural methods.

12.45pm: The press conference in Berlin has started. Merkel kicked off by
praising Italy for taking huge steps on structural reforms and the budget. She
also said it was positive that plans for a European fiscal pact are progressing.
The next summit will not just focus on budget deficits but also look at how to
encourage economic growth in Europe.

The German chancellor said:

We have followed with great respect how quickly the [Italian reform] measures
are being implemented.

We talked about how positive it is that the fiscal compact has already made good
progress in negotiations.

12.20pm: While we're waiting for Merkel and Monti, there is more bad news from
Greece. Helena Smith, our Athens correspondent, reports:

The country's development minister Michalis Chrysohoidis has this morning
revealed that Athens' budget deficit will definitely be above target, predicting
it will reach 9.6% of economic output in 2011, way above the 7.5% the Greek
finance ministry had originally hoped for. The news came as Fitch Ratings also
pronounced that Greece's financial woes could still exacerbate the eurozone
crisis if private creditors fail to agree on a debt reduction deal widely seen
as the meatiest part of a second package of rescue funds for the debt-stricken
nation.

Sounding the alarm, Fitch's head of sovereign ratings David Riley said the
country "still has lots of potential to plunge Europe into crisis" and that
"time is running out."

Athens is racing against the clock to wrap up what have broadly been described
as "extremely complex" negotiations with private investors ranging from banks to
insurance companies on accepting a 50% reduction in the face value of the bonds
they hold.

Charles Dallara, managing director of the International Institute of Finance
(IIF) is, according to local media, expected to arrive in Athens later today in
a bid to conclude the talks before international debt inspectors, from the EU
and IMF, also arrive in town next week.

Addressing an international economic forum outside Athens, Chrysohoides was at
pains to emphasise the "good news" saying that "absorption of European Union
funds has exceeded all expectations". His upbeat take chimed with that of Olli
Rehn, the EU's Economic and Monetary Affairs chief who is busy telling anyone
who will listen that a second bailout deal for Greece is "only weeks away."

The EU and IMF agreed to part with a further (EURO)130bn in financial aid for
the indebted country last October - if the deal is not signed and sealed by
March when Athens has to cough up 14 bn euro to cover maturing debt, Greece
faces economic armageddon.

12.13pm: Angela Merkel and Mario Monti are due to give a joint press conference
in Berlin soon. You can watch it live here, from the Bundeskanzleramt in Berlin.

TradeDesk_Steve Steve Collins tweets:

Merkel's speaking in a min... any positive comments should offer an opportunity
to sell EUR on the rally

11.53am: Barclays Capital warns that a skyscraper building boom in China and
India may be a sign of an impending economic correction. AP reports that

Barclays has mapped an "unhealthy correlation" between construction of the
world's tallest buildings and impending financial crises over the last 140
years, including the Great Depression and the Asian financial crisis. Today,
China is home to over half the 124 skyscrapers now under construction worldwide.

India, which has just two skyscrapers, is building 14, including the world's
second tallest tower, in the financial capital Mumbai. Barclays says such
clusters of building activity usually coincide with periods of easy credit,
excessive optimism and rising land prices, which often occur before market
corrections.

11.45am: Bad news for orange juice lovers. Fears that the US might ban OJ
imports from Brazil drove orange juice futures to a record high on Tuesday.
Health regulators have begun testing all incoming shipments for traces of an
illegal fungicide called carbendazim.

According to the Food and Drug Administration, a US juice producer had detected
low levels of carbendazim in orange juice concentrate imported from Brazil, the
top grower which accounts for more than 10% of the US supply. The pesticide is
banned in US citrus but it is used on orange trees in Brazil to fight mould.

Meanwhile, cocoa futures rose to a 7-week high early on Wednesday, extending
this week's steep rally fuelled by a sharp slowdown in port arrivals in top
producer Ivory Coast following adverse weather. Arabica coffee futures edged
higher while raw sugar futures were slightly lower.

11.32am: The latest draft version of the EU fiscal compact treaty has been
leaked. London-based think tank Open Europe said:

After the last draft, this one now looks to be much more in line with the UK's
demands and suggests that the UK still has some negotiating power or some allies
willing to argue a similar line. For the eurozone, it actually may not be great
news since it seems to be watered down in terms of enforcement mechanisms and is
likely to breed fears over the potential weakness of the treaty in tackling the
eurozone crisis.

Open Europe's director Mats Persson added:

This latest draft marks a provisional victory for Cameron and Clegg - the
references to the single market are gone and the role of the EU institutions
watered down. The fact that the changes line up closely with UK objectives
suggests that the Government may have more allies than has often been portrayed.

The strengthened commitment to incorporate these new rules into the EU Treaties
within the next five years sets the stage for another round of EU negotiations
involving the UK, potentially another source of leverage for the government in
the future.

At the same time, however, the narrower role for the EU institutions in
enforcing the rules for eurozone countries that run large debts may be seen by
markets as a weakness reminiscent of the original Stability & Growth Pact.

11.27am: More reaction to the German bond auction.

Jeremy Cook, chief economist at foreign exchange company, World First, said:

This was the first auction of 5 year German debt that has yielded less than 1%,
and demand was strong - shifting (EURO)8.97bn against a target of (EURO)4bn.

This comes in the same week that a 6 month paper auction from Germany was sold
with negative yields, i.e. paying to lend money to Germany.

It all suggests that despite all the 'soothing talk' from some members of the EU
political class, the market is still very concerned about solvency, going
forward.

This news comes a couple of hours after the initial estimate of German GDP for
Q4 last year was revealed as "roughly" -0.25%, a number which could be revised
lower.

This represents bad news for the entire eurozone. If Germany's not growing,
nobody will be.

10.53am: Here's some reaction to the German bond auction, courtesy of Reuters.

Annalisa Piazza, market economist at Newedge Strategy in London, said:

Demand was super-strong with total bids at (EURO)8.97bn for a 2.8 bid/cover. The
line was priced at an average 99.24, with no auction tail, further underpinning
the strong auction results...The amount retained is a touch higher than average
but the auction would have been strong anyway.

Richard McGuire senior fixed income strategist at Rabobank in London, said:

Germany's five-year auction went well. (EURO)3.15bn of the five-year Bobl was
issued with the Bundesbank retaining (EURO)847m... This positive result has
provided an uplift for the front end with short dated yields 1-2 basis points
lower.

10.33am:Germany has sold (EURO)3.15bn of of its new 0.75% five-year benchmark
bonds. The auction drew more demand than the previous bond sale in early
December, with the bid to cover ratio at 2.8% compared with 2.1%. The average
yield, or interest rate, was 0.9%, down from the 1.1% seen at the previous
auction.

10.08am: The picture on European stock markets is mixed. The FTSE is down just
1.7 points at 5694 now while shares in Germany, France, Spain and Italy have
edged higher.

10.05am: While the latest UK trade figures are not that bad, the outlook isn't
great. Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said:

UK goods exports fell in November, reversing some of the huge gain seen in
October and causing the trade balance to widen. However, exports nevertheless
appear to have regained a modest upward trend in recent months, which is likely
to have persisted into December. Trade is nevertheless unlikely to contribute
strongly to UK economic growth in 2012, which looks set to be a challenging year
as signs of improved demand from countries such as the US and China are likely
to be countered by weak demand in the eurozone.

Looking ahead, there are signs that exports fared well in December, but the
longer term outlook is one where 2012 looks set to be a challenging year for UK
exporters.

10.02am: Some more reaction to the German GDP numbers. David Miller, partner at
Cheviot Asset Management, said the lack of growth in the fourth quarter shows
that Germany could now be on its way into a shallow recession and can't afford
to be complacent about the eurozone debt crisis.

Germany's 3% growth for the year was respectable but the fourth quarter saw a
marked slowdown, which hints at a possible shallow recession later this year.

The growth is apparent in the industrial companies that export but the financial
sector is weak and domestic consumption is just not picking up.

The GDP figures today show just how important propping up the euro is for the
Germans. Firstly, the euro is undervalued relative to what the Deutschmark would
be, which is why the exporters are doing well. Secondly, German growth this year
is dependent on health of export markets and, as the bulk of it's export markets
are European, the euro must be propped up to enable growth.

9.47am: One of our readers, ballymichael, makes an interesting point about the
meetings that aren't happening.

Hmm.

Note the meetings that aren't happening. Mr. Cameron seems remarkably blithe
about the three biggest eurozone economies and the head of the IMF going into
daily huddles with each other and discussing things like the FTT and Eurozone

Or possibly, he still believes he's (ho-ho) "Vetoed" everything?

Meanwhile, visceralpelican makes an equally valid point:

Cor Christine, easy on the sunbeds and fake tan

9.40am:Germany has had a good crisis, says Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank.

Germany has confirmed a 2011 budget deficit of just -1.0% of GDP. Last September
the European Commission had forecast that it would take until 2012 for the
country to register this improvement. While the eurozone is most likely
presently in recession and although German growth slowed in Q4, Germany
continues to have a relatively good crisis. Last week both German unemployment
and export data brought positive surprises. This was reminiscent of data in 2010
when Germany's economy powered ahead supported by strong demand for German
exports.

In the first half of 2010 German exporters benefitted as the euro was pushed
lowered by the Greek financial crisis. On a trade weighted basis the eurozone's
nominal exchange rate is currently pressing below those 2010 lows which puts the
trade weighted euro back at levels not seen since 2003. For Germany its adoption
of the EUR in 1999 has been a remarkable boon to trade. European Commission data
showed that Germany's real effective exchange on a steep downward trajectory
between 1995 and 2008 and, after a modest appreciation into 2009, a softer tone
then emerged as the Greek debt crisis kicked off.

Movements in effective exchange rate illustrate that Germany has benefited
significantly from its association with weaker Eurozone countries. A Germany
outside of EMU would no doubt be strangled by a sharply stronger exchange rate.
While it is of huge importance that all countries within EMU adopt prudent
budgetary policies, it is also imperative that Germany plays a key part in
stimulating growth in other parts of the system by stimulating domestic demand.

9.29am: The UK trade figures are out. Britain's trade in goods deficit widened
more than expected to [#xfffd]8.6bn in November, reversing the previous month's
record narrowing. October's deficit was revised to [#xfffd]7.9bn.

Exports fell, especially to countries outside the EU, while imports of oil and
chemicals hit record highs. The trade figures tend to be volatile but will add
to concerns over Britain's ability to grow.

9.20am: Our man in Rome, John Hooper, has picked up this newspaper interview
with Mario Monti in German daily Die Welt.

Die Welt this morning carries a long interview with the Italian prime minister,
Mario Monti, ahead of his meeting today with Angela Merkel. His core message
could be summed up as "Give us a break! We're doing our bit. Now let up".

Monti, who said he had "always worked for an Italy that as much as possible
resembles Germany" (interesting to see how that goes down in Naples) said the
key issue now was growth rather than the budgetary discipline the Germans are so
keen to impose.

Italians were bracing themselves for a round of liberalisations that many would
find painful. "The problem is that, despite these sacrifices, the EU is not
meeting us halfway in terms of a reduction in interest rates," he said.

Monti will also be arriving in Berlin with a warning, and a rebuke. He said
that, if all the euro was seen to bring was suffering, then there was a risk
that Italians could be tempted by eurosceptic populism. And he told his
interviewer the "EU's biggest mistake in the last 10 years" was the decision
taken by France and Germany in 2003 not to respect their budgetary commitments
under the Maastricht treaty.

9.18am: Germany will auction (EURO)4bn of the new 5-year benchmark this morning.

Citi analysts Peter Goves and Aman Bansal say:

We expect the auction to be well supported by ongoing demand for sub-5yr AAA
paper as evident from the extremely low level of yields and recent strong
auctions.

9.12am: Some good news from Italy, where the public budget deficit narrowed to
4.3% of GDP in the first nine months of 2011, compared with 4.6% in the same
period of 2010. The improvement in the government finances was due to revenue
growth, of 1.6%, outpacing spending growth of 1.1%. In the third quarter, the
deficit amounted to 2.7% of GDP, down from 3.5% a year earlier. Italy's official
target is to bring the deficit down to 3.8% of GDP in 2011, from 4.6% in 2010.

8.49am: The European Central Bank's overnight lending to European banks has hit
another peak, of (EURO)1.9bn, compared with (EURO)1.5bn the previous day.

8.31am: European shares edged lower from Tuesday's one-week closing high amid
nervousness ahead of key bond acutions in Italy and Spain later this week.

The FTSE is now down 16 points at 5680, a 0.3% fall, while Germany's Dax and
France's CAC are now flat after slipping in early trading.

Keith Bowman, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, told Reuters:

A touch of nerves is creeping back ahead of some significant debt auctions. If
the auctions go reasonably well, investors will just leave the issue on the back
burner and concentrate on the quarterly results season. If we were to see a
badly received auction, then that could certainly cause further concerns.

On Thursday, the Spanish Treasury looks to raise between (EURO)4bn and (EURO)5bn
from three debt auctions, including one of a new three-year benchmark bond,
while on Friday, the Italian Treasury will be selling up to (EURO)4.75bn of
fixed-rate bonds.

8.21am:Greece and private creditors are inching closer to a deal on a bond swap
to halve the country's debt load. Charles Dallara, the head of the Institute for
International Finance which represents global banks and insurers, is expected in
Athens later this week for meetings with top Greek officials. In October, IIF
members agreed to accept a 50% reduction in the face value of their Greek bonds.

Greece needs to clinch a deal to secure further bailout funds from its eurozone
partners and the International Monetary Fund, in order to stave off a default in
March when (EURO)14.5bn of its bonds mature.

Under the proposal tabled by banks, private creditors will voluntarily accept a
nominal 50% discount, or haircut, on their Greek bond holdings in return for a
mix of cash and new bonds. They would swap their old bonds for new ones at 35%
of their face value and an average coupon of 5%, along with a cash payment
amounting to 15% of the old bonds' face value. This could lead to a bigger "net
present value" loss of 60% to 65% for private creditors.

However, the proposal also includes a sweetener which would allow for a bigger
return on the new bonds if the economy does better than expected. And it asks
that the new bonds should have "pari passu" status which means holders would
have priority in claiming assets in case of default.

8.07am:Germany, Europe's largest economy, grew by 3% last year, as expected -
down from 3.7% growth in 2010, the strongest since reunification two decades ago
(and compared with a sharp 5.1% contraction in 2009).

Export growth slowed to 8.2% from 13.7% in 2010 but private consumption finally
picked up, growing by 1.5%, up from 0.6%, according to the Federal Statistics
Office. Consumers went out and spent more as unemployment fell, with the jobless
rate hitting the lowest level in December since the country was reunified.

However, the German economy shrank by 0.25% quarter-on-quarter in the final
three months of last year.

"The economic recovery took place primarily in the first half of the year," said
Roderich Egeler, the head of the statistics office. "2011 saw strong private
consumption," he added.

J[#xfffd]rg Zeuner, chief economist of Switzerland's VP Bank, said:

Germany cannot isolate itself so easily from tensions within the eurozone. In
addition, the export sector is facing a difficult period given the fall in
global demand. Another quarter of contraction and thereby a technical recession
is distinctly possible. However if there is no further escalation in the
eurozone debt crisis, the German economy should still grow in 2012, albeit at a
moderate 0.5%.

8.06am: The FTSE has slipped about 7 points to 5689, a 0.1% fall. Germany's Dax
and Italy's FTSE MIB are also down 0.1% while Spain's Ibex is flat and France's
CAC has lost 0.2%.

7.49am: Here is today's agenda:

[#xfffd] German GDP for 2011 at 8am[#xfffd] Italian third-quarter deficit at
9am[#xfffd] UK trade for November at 9.30am[#xfffd] German (EURO)4bn auction of
5-year notes at 10.15am[#xfffd] Merkel and Monti meet in Berlin, press
conference at midday[#xfffd] Sarkozy and Lagarde meet in Paris[#xfffd] George
Osborne appears before TSC on banking reforms at 2.15pm[#xfffd] IFF chief
Charles Dallara expected in Athens today to discuss Greek haircut

All times are GMT

7.30am: Welcome back to our rolling coverage of the European debt crisis. More
meetings of European leaders today: German chancellor Angela Merkel meets
Italian prime minister Mario Monti in Berlin, with a press conference at midday,
while it is French president Nicolas Sarkozy's turn to meet IMF chief Christine
Lagarde after Merkel's meeting last night.

On the economic data front, German GDP growth is expected to have slipped back
to 3% in 2011. It will be interesting to see how much demand Germany sees for
5-year notes at its (EURO)4bn auction today, after it sold short-term bills at
negative yields recently.

In the UK, the trade deficit looks to have worsened slightly to around
[#xfffd]8.4bn, after October's surprise improvement to [#xfffd]7.6bn. This would
still enable the chancellor to meet his targets for 2011.

European stock markets are expected to open slightly lower as worries over the
eurozone debt crisis ahead of Spanish and Italian bond auctions later this week
outweigh recent optimism about corporate earnings and the US economy.

Financial spreadbetters are calling London's FTSE 100 index 13 to 16 points
down, or 0.3%, while the Dax in Frankfurt is set to open 28 points, or 0.5%,
lower, and the CAC in Paris is expected to slip 10 points or 0.3%.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday

View from the Chilterns: We will stand together. We will not give in and we will
not be split up'

BYLINE: Sam Jones and Gwyn Topham

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words


At first sight, the protest signs along the roads meandering through the
Chiltern hills suggest the argument over HS2 is a rather friendly affair; a
frank and informal discussion between the Tory heartlands and their leader.

"Pssst, Dave," reads one. "Sure you're on the right track?"

Drive past the signs and into the Buckinghamshire market town of Wendover,
though, and the bonhomie and home counties loyalty evaporates.

"Unbelievable," was Dick Fairbrother's verdict on yesterday's announcement.

"It's been a whitewash and it's been steamrollered through - it's a prestige
capital project that Cameron wants to put his name to, despite all the feelings,
all the advice and all the arguments against that have been put forward."

Other Chilterns residents marching down a high street festooned with anti-HS2
slogans - on railings and road signs, on shop fronts and car bumpers - shared
his exasperation.

"It'll ruin the countryside and for what?" asked Steve Sergeant, who lives
nearby. "Look at it," he said, pointing at the wooded hills above the town. "How
can you think of a benefit to putting a 60-70ft train line through an area of
outstanding natural beauty?"

Like many others, Sergeant felt neither the government nor the project's
advocates had properly considered the environmental and economic impact the
high-speed line would have.

"How much are the fares going to be for an express train?" he wondered. "And it
will create no jobs here, just noise."

Another local, Sue Hetherington, said she had never had the slightest doubt that
the project would get the go-ahead. "It was inevitable. But I'd like to know
what happened with the consultation. It was just a box-ticking exercise. There's
no democracy."

She warned that the Tories were likely to suffer a serious backlash for ignoring
the objections of the party faithful, adding: "Ukip aren't for it and they might
do pretty well next time."

Hetherington also complained that people in Wendover were sick of being labelled
nimbys and accused of putting their own needs above the national interest.

"I'm worried about the whole line, not just here, (and) the destruction of the
countryside and the wildlife," she said. "We've only got one England, and after
it's wasted, it's gone."

In nearby Great Missenden - where significant numbers of Range Rovers fill the
station car park - local feelings run similarly high and estate agents tell
tales of unsaleable houses. Linda Morris, in Christopher Pallet's, said the
market had been "challenging" since HS2 was first announced.

"People rang up that same day and withdrew offers." She pointed to one £2.75m
property languishing on their books, which will have the line running at the
bottom of its - admittedly large - garden.

A former colleague, Jean Reed, bristled at the mention of Philip Hammond, the
former transport secretary who infuriated locals with his reported dismissal of
the area as "not exactly Constable country".

Construction, said Reed, would mean "the lorries, the caravans, the workers".
Morris agreed: "We'll be a dustbowl."

Back in Wendover, Neil Irvine, the owner of the No. 2 Pound Street deli, paused
among the bottles of English sparkling wine, packets of artisan Swedish
crispbread and bags of spelt conchiglie to voice the town's disappointment - and
its defiance.

"I feel annoyed and betrayed," he said. "This is a very close community. It's a
town with a village feel and HS2 would split the town in half."

However, he added, the people of Wendover were showing a "terribly British"
determination and were going to keep battling the government.

"We think we can fight this and we think we can win it - not just for our lovely
countryside but for the country," he said. Irvine was donating the proceeds of
his caffeine sales to the anti-high-speed rail fighting fund.

That resolve was echoed down the road, where Marion Clayton, a Conservative
councillor and the chair of the local action group, was plotting the next move
with a touch of Churchillian rhetoric.

"We feel very strongly and we will fight," she said. "We will stand together; we
will not give in and we will not be split up."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'Our town will go off the map. Who will want to come now? It's over';
Ruth Maclean finds anger in communities that won't even be able to use the new
trains

BYLINE: Ruth Maclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 626 words


In the heart of the Chilterns, people met in halls and pubs yesterday to watch -
and heckle - Justine Greening's announcement. United in their hatred of HS2,
each had his or her own reason for being there.

Martin Price and his wife, Sue Bishop, moved from London five years ago for a
peaceful life for their children, Matthew, 10, and Finlay, 6. Mr Price said:
"They both go to Great Missenden school, which is on the other side of the
planned railway from our house. What happens when this is built? How are we
going to get from A to B? We don't know yet.

"We're not just looking out for what's in our back yard, but if you're going to
have to pay a price, you have to be sure it's worth it, and that's not the case.
Every statement in its favour has been based on incredibly optimistic
assumptions of passenger numbers and so on."

Jaqui Carruthers, another Great Missenden parent, said: "The train line is going
400 yards from my house. There will be so many lorries, so much dust and
pollution, my children won't be able to walk the 20 minutes to school. They have
this idea that we all live in big houses, but we don't. We are fulltime workers
travelling into London on trains that we have to stand up on. We can't even get
on the new trains."

Davida Allen, who owns a B&B in Amersham, grew up there and is often seen
cycling around the town or feeding her chickens. "Whatever else transpires
during the construction, Amersham will go off the map," she said. "People come
here to enjoy themselves.

Who will want to come? The trade will plummet. Originally Amersham was a
stopping place between Oxford and London, that's why there are so many inns. Now
it's a pleasure town in its own right. But that's over."

On the road to Chequers, the Prime Minister's country residence, Roger Longden
has an agricultural business with his son Graham. They are tenant farmers on 55
acres. "The railway line goes right through the middle of it, and it's not one
of the bits they're tunnelling," Mr Longden said. "It's going to take 40 of the
55 acres and what's left won't be worth having. It's desecration of the land -
it'll be finished. It'll destroy all the woodland.

"And David Cameron goes in the local pub pontificating, saying how he wants to
protect the environment. We have got all the notices up [against HS2] on his
route to Chequers. But they just ignore everything. I'll never vote Tory again -
I'll be voting UKIP."

Gary Hammond, a Great Missenden estate agent, said houses sold for £700,000 on
average in the area. "What we've found is that if you can see the [railway]
line, it affects the value of the property by 30 per cent. People have either
had to swallow that or sit on their property. I've been inundated with locals
asking about their houses. I've had lots of people in tears."

Tammy Phelps said: "I'm a university lecturer and my course has been slashed in
the cuts. So I've lost my job and can't sell my home. I'm being asked to support
austerity and then I'm being asked to support something that is costing £32
billion."

Tony Williams owns Shardeloes Farm near Amersham and also has an equestrian
centre, which the Chinese Olympic team is currently using for training. "The
tunnel is running right under the house. I have no idea how it's going to affect
us, whether or not we'll feel the vibrations. I also have no idea what impact it
will have on the horses.

"There are two issues. Do we need it? There is probably some hidden agenda on
that score. And where's the best place to put it? Most of the high-speed
railways in Europe go down the side of big roads - it could go all the way down
the side of the motorway. "The people most disadvantaged by HS2 have no way of
using it. If you want to go to Geneva or wherever, you have to go to
Birmingham."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anxiety on the faces of Great Missenden families listening to Justine
Greening
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, TOM PILSTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

A challenge to Christopher Booker: try Decc's future energy calculator properly

BYLINE: Mark Lynasguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1125 words

ABSTRACT

Mark Lynas: Christopher Booker earns a living from promoting conspiracy theories
and his recent column on the 2050 calculator was a textbook example

FULL TEXT

Everyone loves a good conspiracy theory. Indeed, some media columnists and
commentators seem to make a living from promoting them, and none more so than
those prolific scribblers on the climate-denying far-right. Last weekend's
column by the Telegraph pundit Christopher Booker was a glorious textbook
example, and especially ironic because the target of his ire - the Department of
Energy and Climate Change's (Decc) new 2050 pathways energy calculator - is in
reality a rather interesting and innovative effort at open-minded policy-making,
as Damian Carrington wrote recently, and as Booker might have discovered for
himself had he bothered to investigate it properly.

The irony is particularly clear because Booker's central complaint is that the
Decc 2050 calculator is not sufficiently transparent, and supposedly includes
various nefariously hidden assumptions about the relative costs of clean energy
and efficiency as compared with fossil fuels. But the truth is that the 2050
work is probably the one of the most open and transparent pieces of
policy-making ever undertaken by the British government, where every cost
assumption - rather than being shadily hidden - is in fact explicitly described
in an open-source wiki which everyone can challenge and contribute to.

Booker's misunderstandings, like his commentary in general, are not original -
in this case they come second-hand from the former Ukip press
officer-turned-blogger Tim Worstall, whose complaint on the Adam Smith Institute
blog is entitled "Perhaps Decc would like to do their sums again".

Worstall's problem is that he "can't find the price assumptions they make" about
the future costs of fossil fuels. He laments: "I'm afraid I can't find it, just
can't find it at all." He therefore conspiracy theorises that "the calculation
isn't presented to us" because "we might find that renewables aren't really an
option that anyone would go for."

Whoops. Worstall's conspiracy evaporates when one discovers that he has simply
not clicked on the correct link on the Decc website.

To understand the underlying cost assumptions - and tweak them as he wishes -
all Worstall has to do is to click on the link to the 2050 web tool on the 2050
pathways calculator page, which would take him to a standard calculator layout
with all the options set at the default lowest setting (little energy
efficiency, hardly any renewables/nuclear, growth based on fossil fuels, etc).
This is what I call the Booker Plan, because it increases greenhouse gas
emissions between now and 2050 by about 100 million tonnes per year - in other
words it pretends that climate change does not exist, and continues business as
usual.

So, I hereby challenge Tim Worstall to select an energy pathway of his choice
(the Booker do-nothing option is fine) and then click on the link at the top
left ("See implications") and then choose "Cost sensitivity".

Doing so would take him to a page with all the cost assumptions laid out in a
table, where anyone can change the default setting to either today's cost or
cheaper (where costs of gas, renewables, nuclear and so on are either assumed to
be the same in 2050 as they are now or to get less expensive). Also - if one
goes so far as to click the link called "see assumptions" - you can, er, see the
assumptions for each fuel source or policy measure.

This, if you believe in an open-source approach to data, is where things get
interesting. Each cost assumption has its own page (here's an example for
nuclear), with graphs of different estimates from different published sources,
and links to those sources and their explanations. If you don't like the
sources, you are able to suggest your own - this is, to the best of my
knowledge, the first time that the UK government has opened up its policy-making
process to a wiki format. All you have to do - come on, Tim - is register as a
user, and then you can add your own data source, providing it is from a reliable
source in the published expert literature.

Another Booker misunderstanding - that renewables are somehow "contrived" by
Decc to appear half as expensive as fossil fuels - also originates with Tim
Worstall, though in a different blog post.

Thanks to the open-source nature of this whole exercise, you can look at the
offending cost-optimising "MARKAL" pathway on the Decc 2050 website, and confirm
for yourself that actually it has fairly low selections for renewables -
including "no significant solar PV capacity". All this shows in reality is that
energy efficiency is the cheapest way of reducing emissions, which most of us
already knew.

Incidentally, Friends of the Earth have created their own proposed 2050 pathway,
as have I. Theirs includes lots of wave, wind and energy efficiency, and mine -
which I of course consider more realistic - has lots of nuclear, less efficiency
and wave power but plenty of offshore wind. I also let people live in warmer
houses with the thermostat set to 20C, as mine currently is (no, I don't want to
wear another jumper). Both scenarios are equally valid because they add up to an
80% emissions cut by 2050 (in line with UK law as per the Climate Change Act),
because their energy-use numbers add up, and because their assumptions are open
and transparent.

Crucially, this transparency aspect includes their cost assumptions. My pathway
comes out a tiny bit cheaper than Friends of the Earth's despite all the nukes,
I am glad to say, but no doubt we could find plenty to argue about in terms of
the underlying assumptions. If I tweak their pathway to make solar PV and wave
the same price in 2050 as today (assuming, therefore, no cost-reducing
innovation), I can inflate their costs still further. If they retaliate by
making future nuclear reactors the same price as todays, they win the costs
battle. Either way, it is all out in the open, and we can have the argument on
the basis of data and real numbers, rather than ideology and assertion.

Once again, I invite everyone - solar industry insiders, climate sceptics,
everyone - to construct their own pathways. It's easier than you think. Then
compare costs, and assumptions, and emissions. If you think future costs are
inherently uncertain (which I do) then click the "uncertain" tab and have the
block colours replaced by shaded error bars.

None of us really know much about the future. But if we can base today's policy
decisions on what data we have, from the best possible sources, and have as wide
a supporting debate as possible in an open-source way, then perhaps we can get
beyond the energy culture wars. And that really would be progress.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

HS2 high-speed rail reaction: Wendover wakes up to its worst fears

BYLINE: Sam Jonesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 465 words

ABSTRACT

Confirmation of HS2 arrival brings dismay to Chilterns market town, where
residents warn Tories of backlash

FULL TEXT

The Chilterns market town of Wendover awoke to the news it had been dreading but
expecting for many months. On the high street, dog walkers and early shoppers
were only too keen to stop and give their views on what HS2 would mean to their
town and their lives.

"It'll ruin the countryside and for what?" said Steve Sergeant, who lives
nearby. "Look at it," he said, pointing at the wooded hills above Wendover. "How
can you think of a benefit to putting a 60-70ft train line through an area of
outstanding natural beauty?"

Like many others, Sergeant felt neither the government nor the project's
advocates had properly considered the economic impact the high-speed line would
have on the area and future HS2 users before its go-ahead was announced on
Tuesday. "How much are the fares going to be for an express train?" he wondered.
"And it will create no jobs here, just noise."

Another resident, Sue Hetherington, said she had never had the slightest doubt
that the project would get the go-ahead. "It was inevitable," she said. "It was
always going to happen. But I'd like to know what happened with the
consultation. It was just a box-ticking exercise. There's no democracy."

She warned that the Tories were likely to suffer for ignoring the objections of
those in the Conservative heartlands. "Ukip aren't for it and they might do
pretty well next time."

Hetherington also said that many people in Wendover were sick of being called
nimbies. "I'm worried about the whole line, not just here - the destruction of
the countryside and the wildlife," she said. "The whole thrust of this
government is anti-environment. We've only got one England, and after it's
wasted, it's gone."

Neil Irvine, the owner of a delicatessen on the high street felt so strongly
about the matter that he had a sign reading "coffee against HS2" in the window
and was asking customers to donate to the fighting fund in lieu of paying for
their coffees.

"I feel annoyed and betrayed," he said. "But we think we can fight this and we
think we can win it - not just for our lovely countryside but for the country.
It's a huge tax bill that we can't afford."

The people of Wendover, he added, were showing a "terribly British"
determination to stop the rail line bisecting their beloved home town. "This is
a very close community," he said. "It's a town with a village feel and HS2 would
split the town in half."

His sentiments were echoed by Marion Clayton, the chair of the local action
group, who was discussing the news with her friends and neighbours on the high
street. "We feel very strongly and we will fight," she said. "We will stand
together; we will not give in and we will not be split up."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                January 8, 2012
                                 First Edition

Mayoral race is joined by 'Mum for London';
Civil servant says she will speak for 'ordinary Londoners'. Joanna Moorhead
reports

BYLINE: Joanna Moorhead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 665 words


A high-flying civil servant who was on track to become one of Whitehall's
youngest mandarins will launch her campaign next week to beat Boris Johnson and
Ken Livingstone to become London's next Mayor.

Siobhan Benita, a 40-year-old mother of two, will fight under the slogan "A mum
for London". She says the heavyweight candidates have dominated the capital's
political landscape for too long, that they're too in thrall to party politics,
and that she will put the concerns of "real Londoners" back on the city's
agenda.

"I've worked at the very top of government, in the Cabinet Office and at the
Department of Health, for the last 15 years - and I've seen how power politics
work, and how the agenda is drawn up between politicians and the media without
much reference to the things real people care about," says Ms Benita, whose
husband Vincent is a banker and who has two daughters, Grace, 12, and Emily, 11.
"But I'm also an ordinary mother and an ordinary Londoner who grew up here after
my grandmother came over from India when my mother was a child in the 1950s.

"And it's the concerns that come from being an 'ordinary Londoner' that I don't
feel Boris and Ken are addressing. They're both tied up with party politics,
because even though they're both maverick characters, they're heavily funded by
their party machines.

"Also, as we move into a year when the eyes of the world will be on London, I
think we need to think about the image we'll be presenting. We need a dynamic,
fresh face for London - and I think I can be that face and that I can deliver on
the policies London needs."

Ms Benita's policies, as spelled out on her campaign website, include:

* Improving London's street lighting and making the capital safer for cyclists.

* Tackling the "growing fox problem", which she says is "a serious issue" for
many Londoners.

* Introducing a monthly "Free London" day when Londoners can travel on the
city's transport system for free, and will also be offered discounts and offers
in restaurants, shops and attractions across the capital.

* Allowing free bus travel for parents with babies and toddlers.

* Making London the best Wi-Fi-enabled city in the world.

As a civil servant - albeit one who worked closely with the former head of the
civil service, Sir Gus O'Donnell, and who was widely regarded as a future
permanent secretary - she says she has become increasingly frustrated with
getting change implemented. "You can do a lot as a civil servant, but I think
the time has come in my life when I can do a lot more as an elected leader than
I can inside the civil service. What you see there is that policies are
dominated by quite narrow interests, and I'd like to be able to put the views of
real people back at the top."

To that end, Ms Benita - who left Whitehall on Friday - says she'll spend the
next few months touring London boroughs and talking to residents and community
leaders about the changes they'd like to see. "I'm very conscious that some
voices just don't get heard - I'm thinking especially of young people and the
elderly - and I'm also finding there are a lot of women from ethnic backgrounds
who don't feel their concerns are being represented," she says.

Although she concedes she will have her work cut out to topple Boris Johnson, Ms
Benita says she's in the race to win. "I wouldn't ask people to vote for me if I
didn't believe I had a chance of success, so yes, I'm absolutely in this because
I believe I can be London's next Mayor," she says. "Since I declared my position
I've had a huge swell of support from people across the city, and I'm looking
forward to being able to build on that over the weeks and months ahead."

The London mayoral election will be held on 3 May, and the declared candidates
so far, in addition to Ms Benita, are the sitting Mayor and Conservative
candidate Boris Johnson, Labour's Ken Livingstone, Brian Paddick for the Liberal
Democrats, Jenny Jones from the Green Party, Carlos Cortiglia of the BNP and
Lawrence Webb of Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                January 8, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Still, at least Brussels can find money for fine wines...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 163 words


EUROCRATS want to buy 9,000 bottles of wine this year despite the eurozone's
growing financial crisis, writes Kirsty Buchanan.

The European Council has issued a tender for fine wines to be bought at an
average of 170 bottles a week.

The tender, which could cost taxpayers more than £111,000, was condemned as a
massive waste of public money at a time when Europe is teetering on the brink of
another recession.

Ukip MEP Stuart Agnew said: "It looks as if they have found their own way to
siphon off a portion of the infamous wine lake into their own ever-expanding
bellies."

Most of the red, white, sparkling and fortified wines will come from France,
Spain and Italy, although the council is also looking to buy from other member
states, from Slovakia through to Germany and Greece.

The one country not specifically mentioned in the tender is Britain, despite our
growing reputation for producing good quality wine.

The tender will run for one year but could be extended for three more.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             January 6, 2012 Friday

G2: The readers' room: What you thought of G2 this week . . . Inspiring - or one
long entry for Pseuds Corner? Plus, locking up badger baiters and Murdoch's
tweets

BYLINE: Leo Hickman

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1424 words


&#10002;Those seeking an invigorating injection of new year creativity and
inspiration flocked online on Tuesday to G2's all-you-can-eat buffet of
interviews with artists offering their top tips for "unleashing your inner
genius". Composers, playwrights, singer-songwriters, choreographers, directors
and photographers, ranging from Martha Wainwright and Elbow's Guy Garvey through
to Martin Parr and Isaac Julien, between them offered up their artistic
sparkplugs.

"Write about what you don't know," said playwright Lucy Prebble. "Don't wait for
a good idea to come to you," advised taxidermist artist Polly Morgan. "Start by
realising an average idea - no one has to see it."

Some readers seemed to form the opinion that the article was one long entry for
Private Eye's Pseuds Corner, whereas others found it incredibly useful. But
nearly everyone enjoyed the nuggets listed by playwright Anthony Neilson. His
advice ranged from the conventional: "Try to ignore the noise around you: the
chatter, the parties, the reviews, the envy, the shame." To the less
conventional: "Masturbate frequently. You'll probably do that anyway, but you
may as well make it a rule."

To say there was an air of embittered cynicism among the readers' reaction would
be an understatement, though. Amberjack led the way: "Any idiot can have ideas,
and mere hard work will bring them to fruition. The most important factors in
being a 'successful' artist are: 1) How wealthy your parents are; 2) Who
you/they know; and (a related point) 3) What art/music/theatre school you manage
to get into. Without one or all of those three, you're doomed to exhibit your
artworks in local libraries or provide the music at village fetes for all
eternity. Oh, and: 4) Overweening self-confidence and; 5) An infinite capacity
for self-promotion."

PeteCW developed the theme: "Daydream about being creative for so long that a
chance in any other occupation would be impossible - then panic and be creative
out of a sense of desperation . . . Avoid all poets."

WrongMeeting cut to the chase: "If in doubt, plagiarise."

&#10002; Patrick Barkham's harrowing insight on Wednesday into why badger
baiting is making a comeback both moved and enraged many readers. We learned
about "chittering" (the sound a wild animal makes when it is in "great pain and
distress") and we heard the testimony of Mark Randell, a police officer for 30
years, who now acts as an intelligence co-ordinator for the League Against Cruel
Sports. He tried to explain why some are choosing to commit an act that was
outlawed in 1835. "The criminality revolves around (their) dog and what the dog
can do - 'My dog is tougher than your dog. My dog can kill foxes and badgers and
deer'."

For some readers the article moved on to particularly controversial territory
when it explored "what kind of person" engaged in badger baiting. Louise
Robertson, also of the League Against Cruel Sports, said in the article that "it
tends to be lower classes of people involved with crimin al activity who are
doing it for sick pleasure."

Nerves were touched. 0NBH said: "This article talks a lot about the rural lower
class, even the rural underclass, but the root of that is that rural Britain has
long suffered from chronic underinvestment, and a slow transformation from a
worked and managed environment to a playground for the rich. Underlying every
rural issue in modern Britain is the need to revive the countryside as a place
for the ordinary man."

Weathereye failed to see what separated badger baiting from fox hunting; "So
what exactly are the alleged qualitative differences? Or is the difference only
in the 'classes' of people who entertain themselves by tormenting and killing
animals in these various ways?"

But thesensiblechoice had little sympathy for any who baited badgers for
pleasure, saying it "brings out the Daily Mail reader in me". "Lock 'em up and
throw away the key."

&#10002; The promise that 2012 will be as seismic and surprising a year as 2011
received an early boast on New Year's Eve when Rupert Murdoch shocked one and
all by deciding to join Twitter. As Hadley Freeman pointed out on Wednesday, the
"fantasy of Murdoch being some terrifying, all-knowing being" first began to
crumble during his select committee appearance last July. On that occasion, she
wrote, he had revealed himself to be "something more akin to Frank Costanza on
Seinfeld - all shouts and hand pounds and paternal bossiness - than an
international puppet master". Joining Twitter is the latest chapter in "a
remarkable act of self-destruction": "Not since Toto tugged back a curtain with
his teeth and revealed the lie of the Wizard of Oz has a reputation been so
thoroughly trounced."

Freeman imagined what Murdoch might have been thinking when he signed up: "Well,
I've already dented my reputation - let's totally destroy it and show the whole
world that I don't even know how to punctuate."

Intriguingly, within his first few tweets, Murdoch had chosen to big up the
Guardian's former DIY columnist, Benjamin Mee. Sure, it was less because of this
role and more because he is now being played by Matt Damon in a new Fox movie
adaption of his best-selling book about buying a zoo, but still.

Readers were also somewhat stunned by Murdoch's arrival online. "It is like
getting on a bus and suddenly realising you are sitting next to Darth Vader . .
. scary and surreal," remarked Bluedun71. "What do you say to him?"

On Twitter itself, Freeman's article led some to fear that this all might
actually be part of a dastardly master-plan by the media mogul to buy up the
popular microblogging site. "Murdoch pls dont buy #twitter," pleaded an alarmed
@lucygreenwood. "Cant you just be happy with some new trainers from JDSports
like everyone else. Stop it!"

&#10002; On Wednesday, there was warm applause for Paul Mason's analysis of "how
the revolution went viral" in 2011, as laid out in an extract from his book Why
It's Kicking Off Everywhere. The Newsnight reporter pinpointed why "graduates
with no future" with smart phones hooked up to Facebook and Twitter had formed a
global network of revolt. Don't look to the upheaval of the 1960s for parallels
and lessons, he said. Look to the decade before 1914 when the "freedom
zeitgeist, technological progress and globalisation were aligned".

"Excellent article by @paulmasonnews which makes me strangely hopeful for the
future," tweeted FieldStudiesUK. Romantotale17 summed it pithily:
"Disenfranchise the educated at your peril!"

But Holzy took the analysis to a level beyond the even Mason's reach: "I think
you'll find Madonna summed it all up in her typically concise, literate way:
Music makes the people come together; Music mix the bourgeoisie and the rebel.
Clearly she was discussing the revolutionary potential of technology as a means
of creativity and communication.

&#10002; "Lately," wrote Suzanne Moore on Thursday, "I feel very English . . .
That's right: English, not British. I see England speaking of itself once more
and I am not surprised." Talk of "Englishness" before an online audience is
often akin to waving a red flag to a John Bull. Sinews twist, chests pump and
eyebrows curl. But it's a topic that must no t be shunned, urged Moore.

"Old and new Englishness abounds and it is not connected with racism or with
Ukip. But it will be if it cannot be heard . . . It matters that we talk about
Englishness, and now even more so in our post-European 'isolation'."

She then outlined the Englishness that she would be happy to see flourish. "The
kind of nationalism that Billy Bragg talks of is a patriotism of radical
Englishness, of class solidarity and anti-racism. This speaks to me."

Fripouille welcomed the idea that "being English" is something to cherish:
"Absolutely! Many Scottish people not only feel like they are Scottish, they are
proud of it. The same goes for many Welsh and Irish people too, and so much the
better. That's how things should be. So what could possibly be wrong with me
feeling English and being proud of it too?" Many others agreed.

But some noted that our sense of national identity is often enhanced and
exaggerated when abroad, something the English have long been accustomed to.
"I'm never more English than when visiting New York," noted Hermionegingold.

If you would like to comment on any of the stories in G2, or just want to join
in the debates, go to guardian.co.uk/g2 to add your comments, tweet us
@guardiang2 or email us at g2feedback@guardian.co.uk The most interesting
feedback will be printed on these pages on Fridays.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday

G2: Suzanne Moore I'm not alone in feeling English, not British. But that has
nothing to do with racism or Ukip

BYLINE: Suzanne Moore

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 950 words


'My mother was half-English and I am half-English too," sings Billy Bragg on
England, Half English. He has more idea about what he is than I do. My father
was American, my grandad Cherokee, my mother adopted, so really I don't know.
She had olive skin and black hair. Jewish? Italian? English? It didn't matter,
anyway. Everyone always said how much I looked like my grandma. People see what
they want to see. Or perhaps I really did look like her, though we had no
genetic connection. Perhaps love runs thicker than blood. That's what I felt.

Lately, though, I feel very English, if such a feeling exists. That's right:
English, not British. I see England speaking of itself once more and I am not
surprised. Old and new Englishness abounds and it is not connected with racism
or with Ukip. But it will be if it cannot be heard.

On the day the verdicts of the Lawrence trial came in, the BBC, in trying to
explore "race relations" (a term way past its sell-by date in every sense),
referred to last summer's riots as "the English riots". Did my heart swell with
new-found patriotism? Not exactly. But the Scots, Welsh and Irish did not riot.
Then people online started talking about the English Defence League's reaction
to the Lawrence verdict. What was highlighted on many of the threads was the
obvious disarray and ignorance of the EDL. We have been told it is in decline,
yet I would not be so complacent about that when suspect groupings such as
Casuals United are going strong. The last time I wrote about how the EDL were
aping the language of inclusivity, I was automatically accused of being racist,
as if to look at such material is to endorse it. But seeing, for instance, Ted
Hughes's poetry co-opted by the EDL is indeed unsettling. This attempted
rebranding of the far-right has not been a success, but it is early to dismiss
it as a total failure.

This is why it matters that we talk about Englishness, and now even more so in
our post-European "isolation". Again, there have been parallel worlds: one in
which we are all assumed to be pro-European EasyJetters, the other where the
majority are uneasy about what "Europe" means. It is hardly small-minded to
worry about democratic accountability or to simply observe; those of us with
family in Ireland watched the European money flow into that country, and then
flow out again.

The anti-Europeanism that upsets the bien pensants is pragmatic. But if we pull
back from Europe, will we look further inwards? Devolution means a shoring up of
some identities, while others are in flux. The kind of nationalism that Billy
Bragg talks of is a patriotism of radical Englishness, of class solidarity and
anti-racism.

This speaks to me. When I was very young and travelling in India, I had arranged
to meet a friend in a huge city and she found me simply by going to the cheapest
flop houses and looking through their books. When she saw a name with "English"
and not "UK" beside it in the nationality box she knew it was me, for even then
I could not bear the term United Kingdom. She laughed at me a lot, because her
father knew something about Englishness: he was EP Thompson, author of The
Making of the English Working Class.

If my clinging to Englishness was making a statement about class, then I came
home to a place where Britishness had become the default for anyone who wanted
to say something, or perhaps nothing, about race. Thus, many people identify
themselves as Black-British rather than, say, Sikh-Scots. This hybrid works if
the centre can hold. But the centre has shifted. Englishness is not the preserve
of the right. The cultural canaries sing. Thus Jez Butterworth writes Jerusalem
and PJ Harvey has been singing of her connection to the white chalk of Dorset
and now to the blood and bones of England itself. "I live and die through
England, it leaves a sadness." Her England is of the past and the future; the
dead of the Empire's wars are not denied. Then, of course, Patrick Chukwuemeka
Okogwu, AKA Tinie Tempah, does Englishness in a totally different way. "Yeah,
they say hello, they say ola and they say bonjour" leads to the very funny "I've
been to Southampton but I've never been to Scunthorpe."

The scuppering of Englishness as any kind of ethnically pure or white identity
is happening: listen to the way kids talk. The problems come when Britishness,
or Europeanism, feels enforced rather than organic. This is often what people
are really complaining about when they say multi-culturalism has "failed".

This loss is replaced by Englishness as nostalgia. Orwell, always the reference
point, got most things right. But he described the essential qualities of
Englishness as "gentleness" and "privateness". He clearly hadn't seen Big
Brother.

Some say anxiety about Englishness can lead us only backwards; others say look
to it for its anti-establishment credentials. And I would. It could be more than
anti-Catholicism and morris dancing. We could have greater expectations. My
loyalty is to no flag and no king, and I fully understand why many prefer the
term British. But where I live, where I hear so many tongues and see so many
faces, where many worlds collide, where I may be a citizen and as awkward as I
like, is actually England.

This week:

Suzanne was on a journey from Kent when she wondered "how much just putting
'international' at the end of a name makes it so. To boldly go from Ashford
International to Ebbsfleet International to Stratford International made me want
to change my name to Suzanne Moore International. But then someone reminded me
of Dana International, 'that transexual Eurovision star', so I'm not convinced".

Captions:

PJ Harvey . . . 'I live and die through England, it leaves a sadness'

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday

Lib Dem voters dump party after coalition stitch-up

BYLINE: Rory MacKinnon

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 159 words


Pollsters YouGov found that a crushing 67 per cent of Lib Dem voters would no
longer back the party. This compares with a 5 per cent drop in Tory support and
a big 24 per cent boost for the Labour Party. Most Lib Dem voters have turned to
Labour following a series of capitulations to their Conservative coalition
partners. The latest of those was their complete collapse over a financial
transaction tax - a manifesto promise. Leader Nick Clegg even disappeared from
the Commons when Prime Minister David Cameron rejected plans for an EU-wide
"Robin Hood" tax, arguing that it would have a "massively disproportionate
impact" on City financiers. Around 4 per cent of former Lib Dem voters said they
no longer planned to vote at all, while 11 per cent opted for smaller parties -
5 per cent to Ukip, 3 per cent to Scottish and Welsh nationalists, 2 per cent to
the Green Party and 1 per cent to the far-right British National Party.

rorym@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EU CITY TAX DASH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 141 words


FRANCE and Germany look set to speed up plans to impose an EU-wide banking tax
that could hit the City of London.

French minister for European affairs Jean Leonetti said a financial transaction
tax would be in place this year. He told French TV: "Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela
Merkel have decided on this."

European leaders will discuss the move - aimed at raising cash for struggling
eurozone nations - at a summit later this month. David Cameron has repeatedly
argued the levy should be applied worldwide to prevent firms moving elsewhere.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "It will be immensely damaging and cannot be
allowed to happen."

Meanwhile, senior Lib Dems backed Tory desires to see powers devolved from
Brussels to Britain. Party president Tim Farron and ex-leader Sir Menzies
Campbell blasted a directive limiting trainee docs to 48-hour weeks.

7

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Secrecy surrounding train deal is no surprise to me;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 140 words


THE revelation that Siemens wants no details of its bid for the Thameslink
contract to be made public comes as no surprise to me ("German train deal 'needs
to be secret' ", January 3).

Indeed, the Daily Express and its readers will not be surprised by the news,
bearing in mind some of the stories your newspaper has featured on Siemens and
the Thameslink contract over the last few months.

I was concerned about this contract from the start. Why is the Government not
looking into Siemens' refusal to divulge financial details of its bid?
Bombardier has lost out and must make do with smaller contracts such as the one
for Southern Rail.

The company really needs the Thameslink contract, as does the county of
Derbyshire where it is based, and the UK manufacturing sector desperately needs
the boost too.

Derek Clark, UKIP MEP for East Midlands

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 4, 2012 Wednesday

Eurozone crisis: Pound hits one-year high against the euro

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2760 words

ABSTRACT

Euro loses ground after latest economic data reinforces recession fears, and
German debt auction leaves nearly (EURO)1bn of bonds unsold

FULL TEXT

2.35pm: Time to hand over to my colleague Alex Hawkes. Thanks for reading and
the comments (once I remembered to turn 'em on)

2.26pm: As the graph below shows, it's barely three years since the pound and
the euro were almost at parity ((EURO)1 reached 98p on 29 December 2008).

Even at today's one-year low, the euro is still strong against the pound in
historic terms (having traded between 60p and 72p to the pound for most of the
last decade, before rising towards near-parity once the financial crisis began).

1.45pm: Just in -- sterling has hit a one-year high against the euro.

The euro just fell below the 83p mark for the first time since early January
2011, hitting a low of 82.99p. That means one pound is worth (EURO)1.2049.

The word in the foreign exchange markets is that traders are shifting out of the
euro and back into "safer assets". This morning's economic data - which strongly
suggested that the eurozone is heading into recession - has added to the
pressure on the euro.

As Gary Jenkins, analyst at Swordfish Research pointed out this morning:

The most likely scenario is that a lack of growth and the large debt levels in
Europe will lead to investors approaching some of the peripheral bond markets as
one might approach a hungry lion. That is, very carefully, if at all.

1.11pm: The sticky issue of a financial transaction tax reared its head again
earlier today, prompting a furious blast from the gang at the UK Independence
Party.

France's Europe Minister, Jean Leonetti, told French TV that the levy (often
dubbed a Robin Hood Tax) would be in place by the end of 2012 - earlier than
previously thought.

Leonetti told LCI television that:

This is on the programme for the next European summit [on January 30]. Nicolas
Sarkozy and Angela Merkel have decided on this and it will be put in place
before the end of 2012.

The notion that Europe might rush the FTT forward was met robustly by UKIP
leader Nigel Farage.

Farage said UK David Cameron must veto the plan to protect the City.

It comes as no surprise that France and Germany are in full agreement on this
tax. Why wouldn't they agree to raid Britain to fund their own failures?

David Cameron has to block this proposal. It is not in Britain's interests, it
will be immensely damaging and cannot be allowed to happen.

12.53pm: Today's alarming events in Hungary have just pushed the forint down to
a record low against the euro (at 318 forints to the (EURO)1).

Currency traders say that the cancelled debt auction put new pressure on the
Hungarian currency.

Another factor is that one of the Hungarian officials negotiating a credit line
with the IMF has reportedly said today that it "wouldn't be a tragedy" if the
talks collapsed.....

Those talks are meant to restart on January 11.

12.33pm: We flagged up this morning (8.45am) that shares in Unicredit had been
suspended after the troubled bank admitted that its (EURO)7.5bn rights issue
will be priced at a bigger-than-expected discount.

Jill Treanor, our banking expert, says the Unicredit cash call is the first big
test of Europe's banking sector. After all:

Stephen Hester, the chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, remarked last
year that investors thought it was "dumb" to invest in banks. Over the next few
months, it will become clearer if his remarks are correct as banks across Europe
race to plug the (EURO)106bn ([#xfffd]88.2bn) shortfall that regulators believe
they need to survive the eurozone crisis.

More here.

12.09pm: My colleague Helen Pidd is in Hungary, and says there is growing
concern that the country will fail to negotiate a new loan from the IMF.

She reports that:

There is definitely panic in the air in Budapest right now as the economic
situation worsens along with Hungary's international reputation. With another
bond sale cancelled today, opposition to the ruling party, Fidesz, is getting
ever louder. On Monday at least 30,000 people gathered outside the Budapest
Opera House to protest the new constitution, accusing the government of carrying
out what today's Financial Times said amounted to a "constitutional coup".

Helen spent an hour this morning talking to P[#xfffd]ter Krek[#xfffd], research
director of Political Capital. This thinktank is known to be critical of the
current government, but his pessimism was still striking.

Krek[#xfffd] said that prime minister Viktor Orb[#xfffd]n was committing
"political suicide" by being so hostile to the EU and IMF, despite knowing full
well that his country really needs the euro 15bn loan it was negotiating over
until talks were broken off in December.

As Krek[#xfffd] warned:

I don't think the government - or Hungary - can survive without the IMF/EU loan.

The future of this country is bound up with that loan. Not accepting it,
whatever conditions may be imposed, would be political suicide. In the short
term, maybe six months or so, we'd be ok. But after that, Viktor Orban cannot
survive.

11.37am: A senior Hungarian politician has just denied that the country will
default, following the surprise cancellation of its debt sale today (see
11.26am)

Janoz Lazar, the group leader of the ruling Fidesz party in parliament, has told
local media that Hungary would repair its relations with the European Union and
the International Monetary fund. However, not without a fight.

As Lazar put it:

I am sure we will come to an agreement, but we will exchange a few punches in
the meantime.

Hungary's relationship with the EU and the IMF has broken down over PM's Viktor
Orb[#xfffd]n's insistance on making changes to the Hungarian central bank -
effectively putting more political appointees onto its board.

This means the talks over a new credit line for Hungary worth up to (EURO)20bn
has stalled.

The situation is now escalating rapidly -- with public protests against
Orb[#xfffd]n'snew constitition on the streets of Budapest this week.

11.26am: More drama in the government bond markets -- Hungary just cancelled a
sale of short-term debt.

In the second such cancellation in less than a week, the Hungarian debt agency
said it had pulled the sale because its bond yields have risen so sharply in
recent days.

As an example, Hungarian five-year bonds were changing hands at an interest rate
of 10.7% this morning. That level implies a strong risk that the debt will be
'restructured'.

11.12am: While the City were digesting Germany's debt sale, Portugal slipped out
the results of its own auction. And the sale appears to have gone OK.

Unlike German, Portugal found buyers for the full (EURO)1bn of three-month
treasury bills on offer. It also managed to sell the debt at lower interest rate
than at the previous auction, with yields dropping to 4.346% versus 4.873%.

That's actually the lowest yield paid by Portugal since April 2011.There was
also more demand for the bills, with the bid-to-cover ratio rising to 2.4 versus
2.0 (where 1.0 means the number of bids equalled the amount of debt on sale).

11.01am: City analysts say that today's German bond auction is an improvement on
November's sale of 10-year Bunds (when a third of debt was unsold), but nothing
to cheer about.

Peter Chatwell of Credit Agricole said it was "much better than November's
auction, but not particularly great either".

Michael Leister of DZ Bank agreed, saying:

It's not a good auction, but it's not a surprise. For a good auction we need a
pronounced flight to quality environment which we didn't get in the past couple
of days.

And Marc Ostwald of Monument Securities pointed out that the yield of just 1.93%
means that people who bought the debt will see their returns comprehensively
eroded by inflation:

For all that Germany it is a safe-haven, the fact of the matter is inflation is
in the high 2s still and a yield of 1.93% over 10 years doesn't get you anything
in real terms.

10.39am: Germany's debt auction has also just concluded --- and the breaking
news is that it has sold just over (EURO)4bn of the (EURO)5bn of 10-year Bunds
on offer.

The Bundesbank reported that it sold (EURO)4.057 of 10-year Bunds. The yield (or
interest rate) on the debt fell slightly to 1.93%, from 1.98%, but this is the
second auction in a row where the German Finance Agency has been forced to
retain some debt.

We'd flagged up at 9.58am that there was a risk that the auction might not be
fully subscribed (David Schnautz of Commerzbank called the results very
accurately).

The result certainly isn't a disaster, and it would be wrong to suggest that
'the markets' suddenly don't trust German debt. Looking at the table of results
-- Germany actually received more than (EURO)5bn of bids, but presumably some of
the bids were unacceptably low.

10.36am: Here come the auction results -- with the British debt sale going
smoothly.

The UK Debt Management Agency just reported that it sold its [#xfffd]3.75bn of
five-year gilts at an average yield, or interest rate, of 1.106%. That's a drop
from 1.143% at the last auction of this kind.Will add reaction as it comes in.

10.16am: One to bookmark -- my colleague Heather Stewart has compiled a very
handy list of the main upcoming events in the Eurozone crisis this month:

Eurozone crisis: calendar of key events in January

It's going to be a hectic time -- with regular meetings of political leaders
punctuated by almost daily auctions of government debt. And as a climax --
January will end with the IMF/EU/ECB troika delivering its report on Greece.

10.06am: Eurozone inflation has fallen, bringing some relief to the region's
consumers. Eurostat reported that the consumer prices index dropped to 2.8% in
December, down from 3% in November.

I think that's all the economic data for the morning. Next up, those bond
auction results....

9.58am: Today's auction of 10-year German debt is particularly interesting as
the previous sale of this type of debt, last November, flopped -- with a third
of the bunds not sold.

David Schnautz of Commerzbank has predicted that the auction will go "reasonably
well", but that around 20% of the (EURO)5bn of debt on offer might not find
buyers.

An anonymous trader has also told Reuters that the sale could be "tricky".
That's partly because German debt is now so highly valued that it offers a very
low interest rate (the yield on 10-year bunds is trading around 1.93% this
morning). Simply put, there are better (but riskier?) returns elsewhere.....

9.42am: While the eurozone heads towards recession, the latest indication is
that the UK economy probably stagnated in the last quarter of 2011.

That's the suggestion from this morning's survey of Britain's construction
industry in December, which showed that growth in the sector picked up pace last
month (rising to 53.2 from 52.3 on Markit's index).

Markit (who have had a busy morning) said the data means the UK construction
sector probably grew in the last quarter, which should prevent Britain "sliding
back into contraction".

9.10am: The powerhouse German economy continues to outpace weaker rivals,
according to new economic data that also suggests the eurozone is heading into
recession.

Markit has reported that Germany's service sector picked up pace in December,
with activity (as measured by its PMI survey) rising to 52.4 from 50.3 in
November [so well above the 50-point mark that seperates expansion from
contraction).

That, Markit said, means Germany's private sector returned to growth last month.

There was also good news for France, whose services sector expanded slightly in
December with a PMI of 50.3.

The picture in other European countries was darker, though, with the eurozone's
overall services sector shrinking again for the fourth month running (with a PMI
of 48.8). Italy and Spain both saw their services sectors shrink sharply -- to
44.5 and 42.1 respectively.

As Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, put it:

Economic weakness is most evident in Italy and Spain, where domestic demand has
been particularly hard hit by deficit-fighting austerity measures and growing
uncertainty about the outlook. Recession is already looking inevitable in Italy,
and is a growing possibility in Spain as well.

Other economists agreed that the data reinforces fears that the eurozone economy
shrank in the last quarter of 2011.

Howard Archer, chief UK + European economist at IHS Global Insight, said:

While the December Eurozone services purchasing managers' survey showed
improvement for a second month running, it still indicated a fourth successive
month of contracting activity and the likelihood is that Eurozone GDP declined
significantly in the fourth quarter of 2011.

8.45am: Trouble in Italy, where shares in Unicredit -- the largest Italian bank
by assets - have just been suspended after tumbling 10% since trading began at
8am.

The trigger is the news this morning that Unicredit's emergency (EURO)7.5bn cash
call is going to be priced at an even deeper discount than feared. The bank,
which needs the funds to shore up its capital reserves, is selling shares at a
43% discount to their market value.

Details of the rights issue spooked investors, who had been braced for a 43%
discount at the worst.

This Reuters story (written before the pricing was announced) has a good
background explanation of the situation at Unicredit.

8.31am: A very subdued start to trading in London, with the FTSE 100 up just 14
points at 5711. Most European markets are showing small losses.

8.14am: Lord Wolfson's warning that Next's pre-Christmas sales suffered from the
euro crisis reminds us that he is offering a [#xfffd]250,000 prize to the
economist who can devise the best way for a country to make an "orderly exit"
for the euro.

The Conservative peer set the task in October, through his sponsorship of the
Wolfson Economics Prize. He argued that:

There is now a real possibility that political or economic pressure may force
one or more states to leave the euro. If this process is mismanaged it could
threaten European savings, employment and the stability of the international
banking system.

This prize aims to ensure that high quality economic thought is given to how the
euro might be restructured into more stable currencies.

If you've got a great idea, it's not too late to submit it as the deadline is
January 31st. More details here.

7.52am:Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise,, the chief executive of retailer Next, has
blamed Europe's financial crisis after reporting 'disappointing' high street
sales in the run-up to Christmas.

In the last few minutes, Simon Wolfson said the Eurozone debt crisis was
"impacting UK consumer behaviour". He was speaking after Next reported a 2.7%
decline in high street sales between 1 August and 24 December, compared with
last year.

In a trading statement released to the City at 7am, Next also warned
shareholders that trading in 2012 would suffer from:

Continuing difficulties in the Eurozone and its adverse effects on business
confidence and the UK banking sector.

Next is the first major UK retailer to report results since Christmas, and is
seen as a decent bellwether of the sector. If it's feeling the chill from
Europe, weaker rivals must also be shivering.

I wonder, though, whether UK shoppers are really being affected by the twists
and turns in the euro crisis, or whether Britain's own economic problems are the
main factor. If you're facing a pay freeze or struggling to keep pace with UK
inflation, then the fate of the euro may slide down your list of priorities...
What do you think?...

7.42am: Here's an agenda of today's main events:

[#xfffd] Eurozone Services PMI - 8.58am GMT (9.58am CET)[#xfffd] UK construction
PMI - 9.30am GMT (10.30am CET)[#xfffd] Eurozone inflation for December - 10am
GMT (11am CET)[#xfffd] UK auction of [#xfffd]3.75bn five-year gilts - from
10am[#xfffd] German auction of (EURO)5bn of 10-year bunds - from 10.30am[#xfffd]
Portuguese auction of (EURO)0.75bn-(EURO)1bn of three-month bills - from 10am

7.30am: Good morning, and welcome to another day of rolling coverage of the
Eurozone debt crisis.

It's going to be quite a lively morning, with Germany, Portugal and the UK all
holding debt auctions. While Lisbon is aiming to shift short-term bills
repayable in just three months, London and Berlin are both selling long-term
bonds (five-year gilts and 10-year bunds). That should be a test of investor
appetite as 2012 gets into full swing.

There is also plenty of economic data to tickle the appetite, including eurozone
inflation for December, and a healthcheck on Britain's construction sector.

Elsewhere, Greece's warning yesterday that it might quit the euro in three
months has ratcheted up the tension -- we'll be watching for further
developments in Athens.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Ten years of the euro: the sceptics got it wrong too

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2188 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: While eurosceptics can claim to be correct about the wisdom of
Britain not joining the euro, their suggested alternatives are rarely any more
coherent

FULL TEXT

Throwing out piles of mouldering print as part of my annual new year
rubbish-cleansing ritual I came across an upbeat pamphlet called EU:2010: An
Optimistic Vision of The Future. Written in 2000 by Charles Grant, director
(then and now) of the Centre for European Reform, it set out a vision of a
resurgent Europe into which he hoped the second Blair government would take us
around about 2005.

Ten years this week after the eurozone's notes and coins were finally launched -
on 1 January2002 amid much excitement and optimism - Grant's pamphlet looks a
trifle out of synch. Angela Merkel, Nicolas Sarkozy and David Cameron have all
been forced to whistle in the dark with new year messages that seek to balance
grim realism today with hope for a better tomorrow.

So the Europe: 2010 pamphlet is easy to mock with hindsight. But that is not my
purpose, quite the reverse. Grant is a clever and sensible fellow whose booklet
makes a number of smart predictions.

Some of them have come true - he even refers to the then-uninvented EU foreign
and security minister as a "Ms CFSP" long before most voters had heard of Lady
Cathy Ashton - and notes the growing need for budgetary co-ordination and
discipline within the eurozone. How true, Charles!

The eurosceptics (I admit to mild contagion on the currency issue) have had a
field day with such writing and can claim to be correct about the wisdom of not
joining sterling to the eurozone.

But are their alternatives any more coherent or credible? No. Some want Britain
to become a "nuclear-armed Switzerland" (ho,ho) on the EU periphery; others to
join Nafta, the US-led trade block with Canada and Mexico (ho, ho, ho); some to
revive the Commonwealth connection (ho,ho, ho, ho), though India is quite well
placed to manage without us now. A few still hanger after a protectionist siege
economy, perhaps because North Korea has done so well.

In fairness to Tony Blair, Peter Mandelson and the yes camp they always said
they would want to join a "successful" euro. So did cautious Gordon Brown and
Alistair Darling, though Ed Balls was always more sceptical and deserves a round
of applause - he won't get it - for those "five tests" of sterling/euro
convergence that kept our currency safe from mistakes in the euro's design and
implementation.

As for all those Lib Dem politicians who were most passionate about joining at
the time, they have mostly kept their heads down. Nick Clegg has blustered about
not joining any time soon and Danny Alexander has said things would have been
better if we had joined at a more realistic exchange rate.

Paddy Ashdown recently took a kicking from Times readers for suggesting that
British presence inside the eurozone from day one would have stopped the Germans
and French from breaking their own rules on budget deficits (not more than 3% of
GDP for more than three years) - which they did long before Greek misconduct
came unstuck.

Few such enthusiasts have admitted error. One who did is ex-FT editor Andrew
Gowers who wrote last year that "the model was flawed and appallingly managed"
though he also made the useful point that the Germans were very reluctant to
give up their mighty Deutsche Mark. It was France that pushed the single
currency to curb the power of the newly-reunited Germany. The euro was created
to hide German strength and French weakness, as remains the case today.

The sceptics, rooted in warm (but safely) distant memories of victory in the two
world wars, tend to ignore such awkward facts in preference for seeing a German
plot, always much more fun. The use of David Low's defiant cartoon of 1940
("Very well, alone") after David Cameron's Brussels veto in December is not the
only explicit comparison.

Last summer, around the time that Andrew Duff MEP, another ardent pro-European
federalist, was polishing his earnest, technocratic prose ("a proper federal
budget of the European Union will serve to reduce fiscal pressure by lowering
costs") in a pamphlet favouring greater EU integration (including Britain), Tory
journalists Peter Oborne and Francis Weaver were busy too. They were researching
a rival pamphlet for the Thatcherite Centre for Policy Studies (CPS).

Bearing the catchier title, Guilty Men, it sought to do to the pro-Europeans in
every party what the best-selling pamphlet of the same title - co-authored by
Michael Foot - did to pro-appeasement politicians in the summer of 1940 when
Neville Chamberlain's government - the "Men of Munich" - had finally been
replaced by Churchill's cross-party coalition (the last one before 2010)
determined to fight Hitler.

Hastily written, hyperbolic in tone and not always accurate, 1940's Guilty Men
was also simplistic in playing down painful choices, public opinion's ardent
desire for peace, Labour's misplaced faith in the "collective security" of the
League of Nations, not to mention Churchill's own erratic record. But Foot's
version became the conventional wisdom for over 20 years. It was expedient
simply to dump on the appeasers. In 2012 that is the current narrative too.

Oborne and Weaver's account has not resonated much beyond the euro-sceptic
citadels of Fleet St and Westminster, though it is lively stuff too. Promoting
the romantic notion that the opponents of the single currency were a beleaguered
minority, marginalised and abused like the Churchillians in 1938, the authors
single out for vituperation pro-European institutions like the Financial Times,
the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and the BBC - against which the Mail
on Sunday took another crack for its euro-enthusiasm in 2001 only this week.

As well as leading Labour and Lib Dem targets of the last 15 years, Oborne and
Weaver savaged Tory politicians like Chris Patten (when a pro-European becomes
chairman of the BBC Trust it counts as a bonus); his BBC deputy Diane Coyle (a
pro-euro journalist formerly at the Independent); and Sir Richard Lambert who
went from his "slow-witted editorship" of the FT to run the fat-cat CBI and to
claim (on "very flimsy" evidence) that small businesses wanted the euro too.

Adair Turner, currently running the Financial Services Authority (FSA) was
placed in the Guilty Men tumbril. So were columnists such as the FT's Philip
Stephens, the Observer's Will Hutton, the Times's David Aaronovitch, the Indy's
Johann Hari, and the late Hugo Young of the Guardian.

All had embraced what has now been shown to be the greatest political
misjudgment of our times, culminating in what Oborne calls "the most complete
and crushing victory" for the persecuted eurosceptics, the people who foresaw"
with lucid, prophetic accuracy exactly how and why the euro would bring with it
financial devastation and social collapse.

Leaving aside the awkward fact that such a euro-Armageddon has not yet happened
and that most of the main newspaper groups, the Tory frontbench and other
opinion formers have long since switched sides, is it actually true?

Were the eurosceptics really so accurate in their analysis and rival
prescriptions? Then or now? Or are Charles Grant and Anthony Duff still in with
an outside chance if Merkel and Sarkozy finally pull off their long-promised
rescue?

It was John Major, who does not get much credit either (not a kosher
eurosceptic), who tried hardest to square the British euro-circle. At the
Maastricht summit of December 1991 he skillfully negotiated a British opt-out
from the proposed single currency and - at the behest of those cabinet
colleagues he privately dubbed the "bastards" - from the provisions of the new
"social chapter" to protect workers rights.

What was seen as "social solidarity" to continental Catholic conservatives, a
Rhineland economic model that had served the Bonn Republic well, was seen as
closet-socialism to insular British Tories.

Only six Tory MPs, including the veteran John Biffen but not 2012's arch-sceptic
Bill Cash, voted against the pre-Maastricht statement of Commons support for
Major in 1991. After the summit compromise and opt-outs the Tory press joined
widespread praise for Major's "consensual instinct with more than a touch of
steel," so Hugo Young noted in This Blessed Plot, his 1998 history of Britain's
tortured relationship with Europe since 1945.

"A copybook triumph for Mr Major," noted the Telegraph's Brussels correspondent,
one Boris Johnson, a former pro-European now brilliantly making a career from
peddling Euro-myth stories back home. "An emphatic success,'' declared the
Murdoch Times. The euro might one day be a currency "worth having", conceded the
Mail.

Yet within a year they were all denouncing Major. What had happened? First he
won the 1992 election against the odds. Sensibly enough he had also refused to
rule out membership of the euro for all time. Then the Danes voted against the
Maastricht treaty (with minor concessions they later voted yes) and uncorked the
genie of Britain's own referendum movement - backed by Thatcher and by her old
chum Jimmy Goldsmith's money.

Nowadays it comes complete with routine accusations of "betrayal" against those
who argued that parliamentary sovereignty means just that - that parliament
decides specific issues, not voters in the kind of plebiscites an earlier
generation (Thatcher as well as Attlee) had linked with prewar fascism. Blair
and Brown, already fearful of the power of the Tory press, were increasingly
reluctant to stand up to it on Europe - as on much else.

The referendum campaign finally bore in the European Union Act (2011), promoted
by William Hague himself, to guarantee a referendum ballot on any future EU
treaty which transfers powers from Britain to Europe.

But Hague and Cameron have found themselves where opposition parties usually do
when back in office: they want referendums on past decisions (Hague did not
support one on Maastricht in 1992) and future ones, but never on current ones.

If the Lib-Con coalition has to help Merkel strengthen the EU's central powers
to save the euro in 2012 it will not risk a referendum now, not after decades of
using Europe as a scapegoat for what are mostly domestic disappointments of
Britain's own making has made even an in/out referendum on basic EU membership
an uncertain one. No one in Brussels stops British exporters trading with China:
the Germans manage it quite well.

It is not that the sceptics were wrong on the central judgment. On the
desirability and practicality of a one-size-fits-all currency zone from Donegal
to Athens they were right. Clumsily constructed, more a political than an
economic concept, the euro was flawed from the start, though few predicted that
sovereign debt - theoretically impossible under those Maastricht rules on 3%
maximum deficits - would be the trigger of the euro's present existential
crisis.

Some understood this at the time. Labour's former foreign secretary, turned
breakaway SDP leader, now crossbench peer Lord Owen, has long been pro-European,
but anti-euro. The speeches of Tory sceptics like Peter Lilley stand up well.
"There has never been a currency in the history of the world which has not had a
government to run it," he once wrote.

In other words a currency union needs a central government to transfer money
from rich regions and individuals to poorer ones in hard times - as Washington
does from Texas to Massachusetts and vice versa. But neither leftwing
socialists, New Labour euro-sceptics nor Tory free marketers have created a
model which has resolved the underlying problems facing an ageing Europe
increasingly challenged from Asia.

Blair and Brown presided over an unsustainable bank-driven boom and bust,
lightly regulated in the way so many Tory sceptics wanted - in contrast to what
they saw as the heavy hand of Brussels.

The European Central Bank in Frankfurt and the US Federal Reserve made many
similar mistakes and are paying the price too. Britain has retained its control
over its own currency, but the stronger eurozone economies in 2001 - most
conspicuously Germany - remain stronger in 2012.

Our problems of deficit and debt, sluggish growth and a democratic deficit, may
be our own, but they look remarkably similar to theirs. The euro may break up
over Berlin's self-defeating insistence on ever-deeper austerity, but its core
states may adapt and fulfil its early promise.

In urging the eurozone to save itself by greater integration around Germany as
Cameron and George Osborne now do, they find themselves endorsing an outcome
which British statesmen have resisted for 500 years: the creation of a single
dominant European power across the channel.

In which case the Tory eurosceptics and their outliers in Ukip and beyond will
still face all the familiar dilemmas and hard choices about Britain's
relationship with its nearest neighbours - and the wider world - questions they
are yet to answer convincingly.

Far from insular triumphalism in which blame for failure is all heaped on one
side - the pro-Europeans - a little humility all round may be prudent this
uncertain new year.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 3, 2012
                                 First Edition

Forget that veto, Europe is still Cameron's nightmare;
FreeView from the editors at i

BYLINE: Amol Rajan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 439 words


By using Britain's veto in the EU shortly before the Christmas break, David
Cameron showed courage and great statesmanship in defending the national
interest. His poll ratings justifiably soared, his strained relationship with
Tory backbenchers was permanently improved, and his emotional contract with the
British people, unsettled since the May 2010 election, was fulfilled the mutual
benefit of both.

A version of the above paragraph cursed almost every round-up of the Westminster
scene, looking back on 2011 and forward to 2012, in our media over the past few
weeks - especially the Europhobic portion, which is to say, the majority. That
this assessment is wilfully myopic, and blind to the lessons of the past, has
been no impediment to its ubiquity.In fact, history shows that Europe is the
most toxic of all issues for the Tories. There is no reason to suppose this time
will be different.

There are three main ways in which Europe will damage the Tories. First, by
putting an unbearable strain on the Coalition. Several reliable Tory
propagandists, and a few unreliable ones, suggested in December that Cameron
should capitalise on his poll numbers and call an election. More sober and
shrewd observers, like Paul Goodman of conservativehome.com, point out that
Cameron has no choice but to stick with the Coalition.

The public wouldn't forgive a snap election, and women and voters in the North -
two groups the Tories need for a majority - have yet to be won over. Europe is
the issue on which the gulf between Tories and Liberal Democrats is biggest and
most irreconcilable. It is going to grow as an issue, not shrink. That will make
coalition government much harder, from which only Labour will benefit.

The second way in which Europe does damage to the Tories is by exposing Cameron
and Steve Hilton's rebranding and detoxification exercise as hollow. They wanted
to govern as social reformers. But Europe and the economy give the Tory grip on
power a familiar feel.

And third, as this column has noted before, Ukip is emerging as a considerable
threat to the solidity of the centre-right vote. Regularly polling 7 or 8 per
cent, this party of pinstriped patriots will cost Tories precious votes in
marginal seats with their clear, uncompromisingly conservative positions on
Europe, crime and immigration.

For these reasons, Europe is about to turn from a dream to a nightmare for the
Prime Minister. And the man who will loom larger in his and national
consciousness, and indeed the man to watch in 2012, is Ukip's increasingly
impressive leader, Nigel Farage.

Ukip is emerging as a considerable threat to the centre-right vote

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 3, 2012 Tuesday 6:56 AM GMT

Amol Rajan: Forget that veto, Europe is still Cameron's nightmare;


BYLINE: Amol Rajan

SECTION: HEI-FI-VIEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


By using Britain's veto in the EU shortly before the Christmas break, David
Cameron showed courage and great statesmanship in defending the national
interest. His poll ratings justifiably soared, his strained relationship with
Tory backbenchers was permanently improved, and his emotional contract with the
British people, unsettled since the May 2010 election, was fulfilled to the
mutual benefit of both.

A version of the above paragraph cursed almost every round-up of the Westminster
scene, looking back on 2011 and forward to 2012, in our media over the past few
weeks - especially the Europhobic portion, which is to say, the majority. That
this assessment is wilfully myopic, and blind to the lessons of the past, has
been no impediment to its ubiquity. In fact, history shows that Europe is the
most toxic of all issues for the Tories. There is no reason to suppose this time
will be different.

There are three main ways in which Europe will damage the Tories. First, by
putting an unbearable strain on the Coalition. Several reliable Tory
propagandists, and a few unreliable ones, suggested in December that Cameron
should capitalise on his poll numbers and call an election. More sober and
shrewd observers, like Paul Goodman of conservativehome.com, point out that
Cameron has no choice but to stick with the Coalition.

The public wouldn't forgive a snap election, and women and voters in the North -
two groups the Tories need for a majority - have yet to be won over. Europe is
the issue on which the gulf between Tories and Liberal Democrats is biggest and
most irreconcilable. It is going to grow as an issue, not shrink. That will make
coalition government much harder, from which only Labour will benefit.

The second way in which Europe does damage to the Tories is by exposing Cameron
and Steve Hilton's rebranding and detoxification exercise as hollow. They wanted
to govern as social reformers. But Europe and the economy give the Tory grip on
power a familiar feel.

And third, as this column has noted before, Ukip is emerging as a considerable
threat to the solidity of the centre-right vote. Regularly polling 7 or 8 per
cent, this party of pinstriped patriots will cost Tories precious votes in
marginal seats with their clear, uncompromisingly conservative positions on
Europe, crime and immigration.

For these reasons, Europe is about to turn from a dream to a nightmare for the
Prime Minister. And the man who will loom larger in his and national
consciousness, and indeed the man to watch in 2012, is Ukip's increasingly
impressive leader, Nigel Farage.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 2, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SCANDAL OF 'OPEN DOOR' FOR FOREIGN STUDENTS;
'Human Rights Act has to go so we can regain control'

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 684 words


THOUSANDS of foreign students could find it easier to stay in Britain after a
landmark decision backed their human rights to a new life here.

In the latest blow to the Government's bid to reduce the scale of immigration, a
judge decided that a cricket-playing migrant could stay because he had made
friends and it would be distressing for him if he was sent home.

Politicians and campaigners last night said they fear the test case could open
the floodgates to other foreign students hoping to settle in this country after
finishing their courses. They claim the court ruling, secured by 23-year-old
trainee accountant Abdullah Munawar, could lead to a wave of similar appeals as
the Home Office battles to limit the numbers settling in Britain.

Critics said the case highlighted the urgent need for reform of controversial
human rights laws which are increasingly being used by foreign criminals and
over-stayers to avoid deportation. The Bangladeshi student won his case because
he argued that he had established a social life by playing cricket and making
friends.

The courts ruled that Mr Munawar, whose initial application was turned down by
the Home Office, could continue to enjoy a "private life" in this country under
Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights. But critics accused the
courts of undermining attempts to control Britain's borders, arguing that almost
every foreign student would be able to claim they have made friends.

Immigration Minister Damian Green said he was "disappointed" and was working to
change the rules on immigration to end farcical decisions.

And Lord Tebbit, the former Tory minister who once proposed a "cricket test" to
help identify whether immigrants had integrated into British life, described the
case as "absurd".

Mr Munawar, who came to Britain in 2008, told the Upper Tribunal of the
Immigration and Asylum Chamber in London that he should be granted a new visa
because he had partially completed his training and had a social life in
Britain. Judge Susan Pitt said he had shown he played cricket at weekends,
attended mosque regularly and had "formed friendships with fellow students and
work colleagues".

The judge ruled that the Home Office's refusal of a visa "amounted to a
disproportionate interference with private life that deserved respect".

Normally, foreign students are granted visas of up to three years and are
expected to leave the country once they are up. In the 12 months to June,
271,000 student visas were issued.

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader, said: "Making friends,
especially in a friendly country like Britain, is not exactly hard. The Human
Rights Act just has to go and soon if we are to regain both our sanity and
control over our borders."

Mr Munawar, a fast bowler for Southgate Cricket Club in north London, said his
playing of the sport in Britain helped to demonstrate that he was committed to
life in this country.

"Cricket is our national sport in Bangladesh. I've been playing since I was 10
or 11," said Mr Munawar, who lives in Limehouse, east London. "I haven't really
been following English cricket but now that I live in England I hope to get more
familiar with it."

He said he has applied for a work permit and intends to seek a job with a
medium-sized accountancy firm. He is also hoping to wed in an arranged marriage
after his imam suggested a potential partner last month.

Mr Munawar's legal adviser, Tamij Uddin, said he believed the appeal would set
an important precedent.

The case is the latest in a series of controversial decisions in recent months.
They include the example of Lionel Hibbert, a 50-year-old Jamaican criminal who
fathered three children by three mothers within four months and claimed he
should not be deported because of his "right to family life". British judges
agreed and overturned the Home Office's decision.

OPINION: PAGE 12

q Should foreign students stay in Britain for good?

YES: 0901 030 8338

no: 0901 030 8339

Yes text DXmonYES to 80088

no text DXmonno to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Damian Green 'disappointed' by ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               85 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 1, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Disaster lies ahead for the powers that be...

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 719 words


IT IS CUSTOMARY at this time to act like two-faced Janus, looking back at the
year that has passed while predicting what may happen in the one ahead. However,
from what we have seen of the two great political fantasies of our age, it is
now much easier to say what is likely not to happen. Each of these acts of
make-believe has got so out of hand that a violent collision with reality is
inevitable. But those who are in their grip are so locked in denial that it is
only safe to predict that nothing will bring them back to earth until that
nemesis intervenes.

A first prediction is that it is no longer conceivable that the sad little
nonentities who preside over the affairs of the EU will be able to find any
rational way out of the hole they have dug for themselves over the euro. Nothing
they did in 2011 went anywhere towards saving them and us from the consequences
of this folly. There was perhaps a time when they might have rescued their
currency by allowing those countries that should never have been allowed to join
in the first place to leave - those countries that have exploited its low
interest rates to run up debts they can never repay.

But this could not be allowed because the single currency was never designed as
an economic venture. It was a wholly hubristic political gesture, the supreme
symbol of the real agenda of the "European project" from its foundation: the
desire to lock all the nations of Europe indissolubly together in ever closer
political union. For any country to leave the euro would be a defeat too great
to be countenanced.

As a result they are all now completely boxed in. Even in practical terms, it is
too late for such a remedy. A country leaving the euro would find itself in a
worse mess than ever. Its regained national currency would be instantly
devalued, leaving it even less able to repay debts contracted in euros than it
is now. Defaulting banks and defaulting countries would send shockwaves through
the entire European economy and spread chaos in every direction.

So all that is left to those in charge of the "project" is to prattle on about
the need for "more Europe", as they belatedly attempt to set up some kind of
"fiscal union": that all-powerful economic government of the eurozone which
wiser counsels warned, as much as 30 years ago, was a necessary precondition of
launching a single currency - not a half-baked measure to be cobbled together
after the damage was done.

The only recourse now is to inflict such deflationary pressures on the debtor
countries of southern Europe that their economies are driven to collapse,
inflicting social misery on a scale unknown since the Second World War. We can
see this already in riot-torn Greece, where hapless families are driven to dump
their children on a bankrupt state because they can no longer afford to feed
them.

Just how the catastrophe will unfold from here, and what the consequences will
be for the future shape of the EU, no one can predict. Even the Commission
President, José Manuel Barroso, has suggested that a collapse of the euro would
inevitably call into question the survival of "the Union" itself.

One faint consolation in recent months has been the sight (as broadcast on
YouTube) of Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip and of the Freedom and Democracy group
in the European Parliament, repeatedly standing up in its front row to rub in
the inescapable realities of this disaster only a few feet from those currently
responsible for it - Barroso, President Van Rompuy and the leaders of the other
political groupings in the parliament. These deflated apparatchiks simply stare
ahead, deadeyed and stony-faced, knowing just how powerless they are in the face
of the unfolding tragedy.

We must not forget, however, that, when it comes to nations running up a debt
out of control, our own Government is still having to borrow an additional £2.5
billion every week, just to fund its own overspending - which, despite all talk
of "cuts", still races upwards. Any moment now, our national debt will top the
£1 trillion mark, having more than doubled in six years.

However damaging a disintegration of the euro may be to our economy in 2012, we
also face a crisis we have brought upon ourselves - one for which our Government
has no more of a real answer than do the impotent rulers of the eurozone.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Commission President José Manuel Barroso and Council President Herman
Van Rompuy contemplate the scale of the eurozone crisis
CREDIT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
