
                               1 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

TOO GRAND TO PAY TAXES. TOO ARROGANT TO CARE ABOUT DEMOCRACY. NO WONDER THE EURO
ELITE SNEER AT THE IDEA OF A REFERENDUM

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN GLOVER

LENGTH: 1120 words


Christine Lagarde is a perfect representative of the arrogant European elite
that has landed us in the mess we're in. The head of the International Monetary
Fund championed the euro during her four-year tenure as France's finance
minister, and throughout her previous political career.

Like her fellow members of the European elite, she thought it would be possible
to have monetary union without political union. Predictably, that has proved an
illusion, as the peoples of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain are
discovering at a terrible cost.

One might have thought that a modicum of contrition was called for, but Mrs
Lagarde isn't showing any. Over the weekend she laid into Greece, blaming its
economic plight on citizens who are trying to escape tax all the time'.

Non-payment of tax has obviously contributed to Greece's problems, as has wildly
excessive public spending. But what is breaking the country at the moment are
austerity measures imposed by Germany, as well as its inability to devalue
because it is locked into the euro.

At the best of times Mrs Lagarde's remarks would have seemed insensitive. They
turn out to be grossly hypocritical, too. As head of the IMF she is paid a
salary of £350,000 which wait for it is tax-free. Some Greeks do not pay tax.
Neither does she.

I'm sure she's not a bad person. She is stylish and intelligent and speaks
perfect English. Nonetheless, she embodies two characteristics typical of the
European political class: fat-cattery and a preposterous assumption of
superiority. The IMF may not be a European institution, but Mrs Lagarde is a
true specimen of her class.

What she has said will make Greeks see red literally. She will have boosted the
chances of the far-Left leader Alexis Tsipras in next month's elections. And do
you know what? If I were Greek, I might vote for his party. At least he isn't a
know-all fat cat, and can't be held responsible for Greece's predicament.

None of the Eurocrats stuffing themselves in Michelin-starred restaurants in
Brussels and Strasbourg, while paying themselves enormous salaries at a
specially low rate of tax, has apologised to the peoples of Europe for the
disastrous effects the euro is having on many of them. They don't suffer for
their mistakes.

Unfortunately, the European political elite doesn't stop at Calais. We have our
own representatives, though perhaps because the British Press is more vigilant
than its Continental counterpart, fewer of them are egregious fat cats. But, my
oh my, they make up for it with their conviction that they know what is best for
us.

That former Eurocrat Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg is one such example. My old
friend the Lib Dem MP Chris Huhne, who once wrote a book advocating our
membership of the euro, is another. A third is the Tory warhorse Ken Clarke:
usually amiable, often refreshing, occasionally wise, but always wildly and
unreasonably europhile.

His latest sally has been to assert that the only people demanding a referendum
on Europe are a few Right-wing journalists and a few extreme nationalist
politicians'. Can Ken really believe this? His remarks have a Lagarde-like
quality of detachment about them.

As a matter of fact, a succession of polls has suggested most voters want a
referendum on our membership of the European Union, though other issues such as
falling take-home pay no doubt loom larger in their minds. The polls also
suggest that a sizeable majority wants to leave the EU.

Moreover, several of Mr Clarke's fellow Cabinet members, some on the Labour
front bench including possibly Ed Miliband, and even a smattering of Lib Dems,
are in favour of a European referendum. Are they extreme nationalist
politicians'?

So Ken is splendidly and magnificently out of touch not that I expect to see him
eating humble pie. The truth is that for all his appearance of being a jolly man
of the people, he is a typical representative of the Euro elite in his
conviction that he knows what is best for them.

By the way, I was struck by his observation at the Leveson Inquiry yesterday
that when he entered politics, Parliament was more important than the Press but
now it is the other way around. It seems not to occur to him that if Parliament
has lost influence it is largely because it has handed over so many of its
powers to Europe. Ken won't like it, and nor will the European elite, but there
is a strong swing in Parliament towards a referendum on Europe, largely, though
by no means exclusively, in his own party. The question is how David Cameron
will respond.

He is reported to be consulting senior Conservatives over plans to promise a
referendum in the party's next election manifesto. Meanwhile, a poll this week
found 83 per cent of senior Tories want an in/out vote. Apart from all other
considerations, Mr Cameron is keenly aware that his increasingly plausible rival
Boris Johnson is openly backing such a vote.

The moral argument for a referendum is irresistible. Even as it stands, the
European Union far more closely resembles a superstate than was imaginable when
the British people were last asked for their opinion in 1975. The euro can only
survive if the eurozone becomes a federal state. The British people surely have
a right to decide our country's relationship to such an entity.

The political arguments for Mr Cameron advocating a vote on the issue are also
strong. It would help to see off Ukip, which threatens to attract many dissident
Tory voters at the next election, and bind Mr Cameron into the heart of his
party. It goes without saying that any promise to hold a referendum would have
to be seen as cast-iron, and resistant to any watering down by the Lib Dems in
the event of another coalition.

Does Mr Cameron have the courage to do it? The answer depends on whether he is,
in effect, a member of the Euro elite and a timid supporter of the status quo,
or whether he cares more than Mr Clarke about democratic accountability, and
places more weight on the views of his party and of Tory voters.

The Sir Humphreys of this world will continue to tell him that a referendum is
neither necessary nor practical but what they can no longer reasonably say with
Labour itself toying with the idea, and Europe in a state of tumult is that an
in/out vote would be a lunatic move.

No one can predict what the EU will look like even in a year's time, but it
seems likely that we are at some sort of historical crossroads, and the right of
the British people to have a say in their destiny can no longer be resisted.

I won't predict how David Cameron would vote in such a referendum, and it
doesn't matter now. All that matters is that there should be one in the
interests of his party, his prime ministership and, above all, his country.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Curb house price rises or face new meltdown Brussels tells Britain

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516 words


EUROPEAN Union chiefs yesterday ordered the Government to take drastic action to
stop Britain's house prices spiralling out of control.

A report on the eurozone crisis from the European Commission warned that
increasing property costs were threatening to massively increase household debt
levels and trigger a new economic meltdown.

The economic recovery was being put in jeopardy by "the destabilising impact of
high and volatile house prices and high household debt", the report said. It
added that ministers needed to act quickly to increase the supply of housing to
stop property prices soaring.

The report urged the Government to pursue further reforms to the mortgage and
rental markets, financial regulation and property taxation to prevent "excessive
volatility and distortions" in the housing market. Britain's long-term economic
growth was also being put at risk by the high number of school leavers with
"very poor" writing and numeracy skills, it added.

Ministers needed to "take measures to reduce the high proportion of young people
leaving school with very poor basic skills".

Treasury officials yesterday welcomed the report as a vote of confidence in
Chancellor George Osborne's drive to slash the Government's record deficit.

In a report on the performance of all 27 EU member states, the Commission said:
"The high levels of household debt accumulated over the past decade are linked
closely to high house prices and represent an important imbalance in the UK
economy."

Highly indebted households were "vulnerable to rises in interest rates or
unemployment, with potentially destabilising effects on the economy at large".

It warned: "While there are few indications that housing demand or interest
rates would surge in the near future, the insufficient and rigid supply of
housing in the UK exposes the country to higher and volatile house prices."

The report said Britain's "noticeable under-performance" regarding external
competitiveness and export developments deserved attention. And, turning to
skill levels, it added: "There is a persistently large number of functionally
illiterate and innumerate adults in the UK, usually with no qualifications." It
also criticised the lack of "high-quality affordable childcare".

A Treasury spokesman said: "The European Commission said the UK should fully
implement the budgetary strategy for 2012/13 and reinforce the budgetary
strategy for 2013/14 and beyond." He said this showed its backing for Britain's
plans to deal with its debts.

But critics of the EU were infuriated by the Commission's latest attempt to
meddle in the British economy.

Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "When you start
taking economic advice from the European Commission, you may as well check
yourself into the funny farm. We should not be taking orders from these people."

Rachel Reeves, Labour's shadow chief secretary to the treasury, added: "Without
urgent action to get our economy moving again, the Government will cause
long-term damage and won't succeed in getting the deficit down."

'We should not be taking orders from these people'

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Confidence' in George Osborne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 31, 2012 Thursday 4:47 PM GMT

Bang! The Tory leadership race has started, and Osborne's trailing in third
behind Boris and Michael Gove

BYLINE: NIGEL JONES

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1149 words


While all eyes may be fixed on the runners and riders at the London Olympics
later this summer, the roar of the crowd might have drowned out the crack of
another sort of starting gun to launch a very different kind of race: the sprint
to be the next Tory leader.

Bang! The first shot of the pistol was fired as Boris Johnson won re-election as
London's Mayor, and came out smiling on a dismal day for his unpopular party -
the only Tory in the land to be a proven vote winner, even in the Labour leaning
capital.

Hardly had the bubbles in the Mayor's victory Champagne turned flat when Crack!
Boris followed up his success at the polls with a newspaper article advocating a
referendum on whether Britain should or should not remain a member of the
increasingly troubled European Union.

Boris's piece was, of course, distinctly and deliberately unhelpful to his old
school and university chum David Cameron, who would like nothing more than for
the whole issue of Europe to be swept under the carpet and forgotten. But with
the EU coming apart at the seams as first Greece and now Spain find the strain
of being part of the Euro unendurable, and more and more Britons waking up to
the unfolding disaster that our membership of the EU has proved to be, Europe is
an issue whose time has come - with a vengeance.

As ever responsive to the public mood, canny old Boris had put his finger
unerringly on to the sore spot that, more than any other, both irritates Dave
and wrings the withers of the Tory party members who will choose the next
leader. (A Channel 4/Conservative Home poll this week found that three out of
four Tory members want  an In/Out referendum).

Ever alert to the Mayor's manoeuvres, the next Tory to get his spikes onto the
running blocks was George Osborne. The Chancellor, still smarting under the
lashing his woeful Budget received from the general public and economic pundits
alike, strove to disguise the U-turns he has been forced to make to correct his
Budgetary errors, by getting his minions in the Press and party to put the story
about that he is 'considering' getting a pledge to hold an EU referendum into
the Tory manifesto at the next General Election. (When he is not moonlighting as
part-time Chancellor, your see, George's day job is to be Tory election strategy
supremo - and what a fine job he is making of it too!)

There are several problems with this strategy. They include a) Since Dave
already gave what he called a 'cast iron guarantee' to hold a referendum before
the LAST election - and then welshed on the pledge - who is going to believe it
the second time around? As the old adage has it, 'fool me once; shame on you.
Fool me twice; shame on me'.

b) The rise and rise of UKIP. The anti-EU party has already hoovered up
thousands of  formerly loyal Tories  and looks set fair to become the largest
party at 2014's elections to the EU's rubber stamp European Parliament (they are
already the second largest). Osborne's ploy would look like a panicky response
to the threat from a real true blue conservative party, rather than the
quivering pink jelly it has become under Cameron and himself.

Finally c) events will make Osborne's idea dead in the water before it has even
been floated. The Euro may well implode, leaving the EU itself resembling an
Emperor minus his clothes, bereft of its sole reason for existing. Labour may
well snatch the Chancellor's own clothes by pipping him first with their own
pledge to hold a referendum. But, most fatally of all for Osborne's previously
high hopes of succeeding Dave as leader and PM, if he continues to make a
Horlicks of his task of rescuing the economy, and the Government continues to
fiddle and fumble, he will go down with the sinking ship, as fatally tied to his
Prime Minister as a previous Chancellor, Ken Clarke was to the Titanic wreck
that was John Major's Government in 1997.

So with Osborne out of the race, before Boris began to burnish his victory
speech, a still small voice spoke out this week at the Leveson inquiry. That
voice, with its soft Scottish burr, made an eloquent defence of press freedom
(at the same time putting the puffed up inquiry firmly back in its box) - that
won universal plaudits from the practitioners of that freedom: the ladies and
gentlemen of the press  themselves. The voice belonged to Education Secretary
Michael Gove.

Gove had already won golden opinions among commentators for being about the only
Coalition minister - (apart from the dry and spinsterish Philip Hammond, and IDS
who has already had his turn at being leader) - who has not made a complete hash
of his job. His stubborn policy of creating Free Schools for bright youngsters
against the frenzied opposition of the left-wing educational establishment has
been one of the few bright spots in the Coalition's otherwise abysmal
performance.

And make no mistake. Gove's tart remarks to Leveson - like Boris's referendum
article - were not a coincidence. Beyond their ostensible audience, they were
aimed at a specific constituency: Tory MPs and the dwindling ranks of party
members. What they were both saying, was 'Hey! Look at me! Unlike Dave, I'm a
real Conservative and I support our freedom and liberty! When the time comes for
you to elect a proper Tory leader (and it might be quite soon) vote for me!'

If the contest to succeed Dave, however he finally founders, comes down to a two
horse race between Boris and Gove, who will finally mount the winner's rostrum
to take gold? Both men have their faults, as well as their plus points.

In Boris's case these seem only too obvious: his tendency to play the buffoon,
his extra-marital dalliances, and his slightly slippery habit of telling people
what they want to hear. (He is not, for example, as anti-EU as his rhetoric
suggests, firmly backing the admission of his ancestral homeland, Turkey, which
would potentially allow some 70 million Anatolian peasants to stream across
Europe's already porous borders).

Gove, apart from resembling the school swot, and sharing Boris's habit of using
Latin phrases that few understand to demonstrate what clever clogs they are, was
tarnished by the expenses scandal,  is also tainted by his membership of the
catastrophic Coaliton, and has yet to demonstrate that he has Boris's
vote-pulling power.

For me, its an especially tough choice. I owe both men a favour. Early in my
journalistic career, when they were editors on the Spectator (Boris)  and Times
(Gove) respectively  and before they had begun their meteoric political ascents,
I sold them both articles purely on the strength of hurried phone calls before
they had even met me. I'm grateful for that leg up. But it proved something
else: both men are risk takers, willing to take a punt on a hunch. In our
increasingly serious situation we need to take risks - apart from anything else
its the mark of a true Tory. So Boris or Govey: who's it to be?

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

WILL PM OFFER AN EU REFERENDUM?

LENGTH: 654 words


POLL MAY BE PROMISED IN TORY ELECTION MANIFESTO

BY JASON GROVES AND TIM SHIPMAN

DAVID Cameron is consulting senior Conservatives over plans to promise a
referendum on Europe in the party s next manifesto.

The development emerged as a survey found that 83 per cent of grassroots Tories
want an in/out referendum to be included in the 2015 manifesto. Seven out of ten
said they would vote for Britain to leave the European Union.

But the poll of 1,600 party members - conducted by the ConservativeHome website
on behalf of Channel 4 News - found that almost half of those demanding a
referendum wanted ministers to first attempt to renegotiate Britain s terms of
EU membership.

The mooted referendum proposal is designed to galvanise Tory voters, distance
the party from its Liberal Democrat coalition partners and see off the growing
challenge from the UK Independence Party.

Chancellor George Osborne is believed to be encouraging senior ministers to make
their views known on the issue.

But Justice Secretary Ken Clarke faced an angry backlash from Tory MPs yesterday
after suggesting the only demand for a referendum came from  a few right-wing
journalists and a few extreme nationalist politicians .

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond warned in Cabinet last week that the economic
crisis was likely to strengthen the case for a vote.

Mr Hammond said it would be almost impossible to argue that Britain s relations
with Europe remained unchanged if eurozone countries pursue a closer fiscal
union to shore up the ailing single currency.

A senior Government source said the Prime Minister was inviting views on whether
to promise a referendum.  We are thinking a lot about Europe and wanting to hear
Conservative views,  they said.

David and George are pretty much as one on this. We are not about to announce a
referendum but we are not ruling one out. We are thinking about exactly what to
do and how we might do it.  Mr Osborne is said to be concerned that London Mayor
Boris Johnson - seen by many as a future leadership rival to the Chancellor -
has already backed an in/out referendum.

Tory high command is also worried that Labour could be first to promise a
referendum.

However, ministers remain divided on the precise form any poll should take.
While some are pushing for a straight in/out question, others are arguing for
the party to focus on renegotiating Britain s membership of the EU, with a
referendum held on the outcome.

Prominent Eurosceptic MP Douglas Carswell argued that only an in/out referendum
would satisfy public demand.

We previously had a cast-iron guarantee of a referendum that turned out not to
be worth the paper it was written on,  he said.  If we are to restore any
credibility then only an in/out referendum will do.

The ConservativeHome survey found that 36 per cent believe Britain will be out
of the EU in ten years  time, while 38 per cent said the UK would remain a
member but on renegotiated terms.

Just 26 per cent expect the relationship to remain unchanged.

Mr Clarke, one of the few remaining pro-EU Conservative ministers, dismissed
calls for a referendum.

The nation is extremely worried about present events, as well we might be,  he
said.  We all feel insecure, we all feel worried, we are hoping that a strong
government will take us through and some difficult measures are required.

[But] the idea that they are all demanding a referendum on the European Union
would be regarded as ridiculous, it would be out of sight as a public priority.
It is the demand of a few right-wing journalists and a few extreme nationalist
politicians.

Tory MP Stewart Jackson, who quit his government post last year to pursue a
referendum, responded:  Ken is consistent on this, but he is consistently wrong.

He needs to move with the times and understand that the days of a political
elite telling the public that they know what s best on Europe are over.

Comment - Page 14

We re thinking about what to do

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

"HULK SMASH GM CROP" - the angry Green menace to science

BYLINE: Martin Robbinsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1591 words

ABSTRACT

The Rothamsted protest was an embarrassment for the Green Party, and a sad
reminder of the anti-science attitudes that still infest both the party and the
broader environmental movement.

FULL TEXT

"I've come for an argument," former and future Lib Dem MP Evan Harris told
police officers as we marched through Harpenden, ready to fight the War on
Science. Arriving in the vast expanse of Rothamsted Park we found two enemy
camps divided by a vast expanse of grass. On the anti-GM side "Take the Flour
Back", a few dozen scruffy people with wheelbarrows and implements camped under
a tree, singing 'Kumbaya' and handing out baked goodies to the cops. On the
anti-anti-GM side a couple of dozen geeks tapped away on iPads and smartphones,
while the lizard people of Sense About Science cynically bribed reporters with
ice cream. An MEP for UKIP - a comedy spoof of the Tory party that got way out
of hand - wandered up and started banging on unhelpfully about the demonization
of CO2.

Innocent civilians walked their dogs and threw frisbees in No Man's Land,
apparently oblivious to the mild peril that surrounded them. Most locals in the
park seemed supportive of GM, and bemused by the claims of the protestors that
they were trying to defend local communities - particularly given the large
proportion of 'rent-a-hippies' bused in from France and Bristol for the
occasion. Tensions were high - a Twitter mob could have broken out at any
moment.

The anti-GM crowd failed to get anything like the turnout they had hoped for.
Faced with a massive police presence, it was estimated that they would have
needed around 2,000 people to storm the Rothamsted fields and trash the
aphid-resistant GM wheat they objected to - in the end they mustered less than a
tenth of that figure. Instead they set up camp under a tree and settled down to
an afternoon of speeches. After a while, bored of Evan's seemingly endless
supply of organic carrots, we wandered over to steal their bread and see what
was going on.

It's said that much of the controversy surrounding genetically-modified crops
stems from the fact that 'GMO' is 'OMG' backwards. Arguments on display here
were of a similar standard. Ducking under a sign ("But what will the aphids
eat?"), the first speaker I saw was a farmer, held up as evidence that farmers
don't want GM crops (aside from obviously the 16-odd million who grow them). He
patiently explained to the hardline environmentalists that he didn't need GM
technology for pest resistance because, "I've got a wide selection of pesticides
I can use," while a palm-shaped bruise formed on my nose.

Talk of 'Frankenfoods' was rife, though as Storm animator DC Turner pointed out
on Twitter, "'Frankenfood' cracks me up - Frankenstein's monster was unfairly
demonised; hounded by an ignorant, torch-wielding mob."

Other speakers invoked vast conspiracies to rationalize the inexplicable support
for GM research in the scientific and political establishment. Why would
scientists agree on something if the BBSRC, research institutions, corporations
and politicians weren't all somehow working in cahoots? Sense About Science came
in for specific criticism for their "Weird libertarian Frank Furedi agenda," and
were apparently orchestrating the global reptilian conspiracy to make our food
unfit for mammals and insects.

As The Geek Manifesto author Mark Henderson pointed out, "The whole question of
being pro- or anti-GM food is in many ways a bad one. The better question is
what crop, with what modification, for what purpose, made by whom?" There are
plenty of legitimate concerns among the public about biotechnology: as I walked
away with The Pod Delusion's James O'Malley, we agreed that when it came to
control of the food chain, GM patents and many other issues, geeks, scientists,
and protestors were not that far apart.

Indeed, the irony is that public trials like those at Rothamsted are vital to
challenge some of the claims made by companies like Monsanto about the success
of their research. Trashing them is a perverse act that raises costs, making it
harder for public research to thrive, and driving the technology further into
corporate hands.

Most of the protestors weren't there to represent the public though, or to
address legitimate concerns. Nor did they want to listen to any scientists: an
attempt by researcher Jules Bristow to ask for a right of reply was met with
"we've heard it all before," after which she was loudly shushed. (After I'd left
apparently a few people came over for a more constructive chat, but they seem to
have been very much in the minority.) Debate was unwelcome for the most part,
scientists were just another part of the conspiracy, and placards took absolute
positions like "Nature does it better" - try telling that to plague victims, or
anyone with wisdom teeth.

Several people have suggested that we shouldn't describe these protests as
'anti-science'. In a moment of supreme unintentional irony, Jack Stilgoe
remarked that the term is unhelpful, writing that the only person he met who fit
the label was someone who: "thought that all of human progress since the
invention of agriculture was a massive collective error." At Rothamsted we
listened to speakers explaining how modern agriculture caused cancer, while the
crowd egged them on.

The protests were organized to prevent science from taking place, by people who
refused to speak to scientists on multiple occasions before and during the
event. As Adam Rutherford said in a comment that far outclassed the article it
was appended to: "I think it is society's problem to ensure that a public
discourse can take place about neutral technologies. [...] IMHO ... most
representatives of GM opposition are not interested in that conversation taking
place. They are viscerally opposed." When people aren't interested in the
results of science, don't want science to happen, and threaten acts of violence
to prevent science from happening, anti-science seems like a pretty fair
description of their attitude.

Worryingly, the Green Party's London Mayoral candidate, Jenny Jones, was happy
to turn up and support the protestors even knowing that their stated aim was to
commit crimes against a publicly funded research institution. In a weasel-worded
blog post she said that she was only coming for "the picnic on Sunday, not
destroying the crop," adding: "I strongly support Non Violent Direct Action and
disown damage to property." I'm sure that's true, but this simply isn't good
enough: support the protest or don't support the protest, but don't turn up to
party with an angry mob and then claim you've got nothing to do with it when the
pitchforks rise and the torches spark into flame.

Also troubling has been the response of some pro-science types who should know
better. Writing in New Statesman, the usually excellent Michael Brooks offered
this odd, victim-blaming advice to scientists: "Think about what you're doing
for the public perception of science. If your experiment needs a steel fence and
a police cordon, it just doesn't look good.[...]To the casual observer, a field
of wheat being protected by police officers just seems sinister." Seriously?

Sunny Hundal has taken a similar stance, with a string of questionable articles
in recent days. Writing in The Guardian last week he declared: "The challenge
for scientists isn't to merely focus on what the evidence says. It is also to
convince the public that their suggested course of action is the right one, even
when the public is sceptical for perfectly valid reasons. Ignoring those
concerns and calling them "luddites" just doesn't work." He followed that up at
Liberal Conspiracy with: "If scientists want to ignore public opinion or deny
it's also their job to assuage public concern, they'll lose the battle on GMO
like last time."

Firstly, scientists have not lost "the battle on GMO", with public opinion
steadily shifting as the technology becomes more common. Secondly, and much more
importantly, the Rothamsted protests had sod all to do with public opinion in
the first place - I'd be willing to bet that most people didn't know the
protests were happening, and most of the rest didn't give a crap. Sunny - like
numerous other commentators - has implied a level of conflict between science
and the public that doesn't exist. The conflict here was between scientists and
a few dozen anti-corporate hard-liners, in which the latter came out looking a
bit silly.

The most important part of this story for me isn't the debate over GM; it's that
a group of people were prepared to use threats and violence to intimidate
scientists and destroy their work. The police responded to this admirably, with
a friendly but overwhelming show of force sending the clear message that such
actions are not acceptable in modern Britain. Scientists also came out of this
looking good, having recognized that the greatest enemy of fear is information,
and put a lot of effort into public engagement in the last ten years.

On the other hand the response of the green movement has been craven at best,
and as an environmentalist that makes me incredibly sad. Whatever your views are
on GM crops, for a politician of any party to endorse a group making threats to
destroy research is completely unacceptable, and the Green Party have been
stained by their association with Take the Flour Back. Three years after they
were first challenged on science, after some promising signs of progress, the
Greens seem to have fallen right back where they started.

Follow me on Twitter: @mjrobbins

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 30, 2012 Wednesday 3:39 PM GMT

It's not just 'frenzied eurosceptics' and 'extreme nationalists' who want an
in/out referendum on Europe

BYLINE: ADRIAN HILTON

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 870 words


Kenneth Clarke has held almost every senior Office of State. He has been Health
Secretary, Education Secretary, Home Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer.
He is presently Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice.

You'd think, with all this experience, that his political antennae would be
finely attuned to the will of the demos. But decades of cigars and scotch in
smoky jazz clubs seem to have dulled his judgment. Either that, or he never had
any - at least where 'Europe' is concerned.

According to a ConservativeHome/Channel 4 poll, 83 per cent of Conservative
Party members want in In/Out referendum on the UK's membership of the EU.

This doesn't, of course, tell us anything about the likely replicability in the
wider country: the validity and reliability of the ConHome/C4 data is
questionable, not least because participants are not randomly selected and
respondents tend to be those who favour change from the status quo.

There are better methods of designing social inquiry than canvassing the biased,
but the poll comes as a fillip to those of us who agitate for liberation from
the EU.

Undoubtedly, if such a pledge were to be included in the 2015 Conservative Party
manifesto, it would put the requisite clear blue water between them and the
Liberal Democrats, and so signal the end of the era of coalition compromise. It
would also fertilise the etiolated and faded grassroots in local Conservative
associations, which are haemorrhaging members to UKIP (and even more to apathy).

An In/Out referendum would help to unite a party fractured after years of
coalition tensions and divided about a leader who is not quite as Conservative
as he first appeared. Especially now Mayor Boris has come out in favour of the
idea.

As someone who stood for the Referendum Party back in the general election of
1997 (and, I must boast, one of the few to break through the 2000-vote
threshold), I'd be delighted if the Conservative Party were to take the lead on
this - before they're bounced into it by a similar pledge from a frustrated and
power-hungry Labour Party.

Yes, I know the Conservative Party hasn't got much eurosceptic form (after all,
they gave us the EEC, the Single European Act and the Maastricht Treaty), and a
manifesto commitment would need to be rather more credible and persuasively
genuine than Cameron's previous 'cast-iron guarantee' over the Lisbon Treaty
(aka the 'Constitution for Europe').

But, for good or ill (for, with much of the media and the entire Establishment
ranged against the 'Outs', a referendum may easily be lost), there seems to be a
sense of inevitability that the Day of Judgment is near.

And 2015 would be the 40th anniversary of the 1975 referendum, so it has a
generational neatness to it. All reasonable and rational people - pro and anti -
can see that the EU is not the same beast as the EEC: national sovereignty is
manifestly negated when subsumed to an overarching and ever-increasing corpus of
diktats and directives. The case for a plebiscite is unanswerable.

But not for Kenneth Clarke.

According to him, those who are concerned about UK/EU constitutional tensions
and the erosion of our traditions of law and customs are just 'frenzied
eurosceptics'.

He spluttered: 'I cannot think of anything sillier to do than hold a referendum.
I'm not keen on referendums, I see no case for this referendum.'

An In/Out referendum is, according to him, simply 'the demand of a few
right-wing journalists and a few extreme nationalist politicians'. And so he
dismissed the plea and berated those of us who 'keep believing that European
bogeys are under the bed any time we get into any problems' because he 'cannot
think of anything sillier to do than to hold a referendum'.

The only bogeys I'm concerned about are the euro-fanatics who, far from cowering
under the duvet, are grotesquely sprawled naked all over it, bloated belly and
shrivelled genitals shamelessly displayed for all to see. The only thing sillier
I can think of than an In/Out referendum are the absurd, senseless and
pretentious pronouncements of misguided buffoons like Ken Clarke. A referendum
is not merely the cry of 'right-wing journalists' or 'extreme nationalist
politicians': it is increasingly the majority view of the entire country (latest
polling suggests some 70 per cent support the idea).

And so far 71 MPs from the four corners of the United Kingdom have signed up to
the People's Pledge campaign, which seeks to bring about the desired referendum.
These include Anne-Marie Morris MP (Newton Abbott), Mike Freer MP (Finchley &
Golders Green), Nick De Bois MP (Enfield North), John Redwood MP (Wokingham),
John Cruddas MP (Dagenham and Rainham), Tom Harris MP (Glasgow South) and Rosie
Cooper MP (West Lancashire). Renowned 'extreme nationalist politicians' all, I'm
sure.

Kenneth Clarke should keep his extreme pro-European, anti-State,
anti-individualist, socialist, federalist Bilderberg beliefs to himself. There
are very many intelligent, reasoned and discerning people who want a referendum
because we've never been asked. And those who us who were asked were manifestly
lied to.

Silly or not, this is the mother and father of all political bogeys, and it
isn't going to go away.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 29, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

'Deported' hate cleric can stay in Britain to make another appeal

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 491 words


HATE preacher Abu Qatada cannot be kicked out of Britain for at least another
six months.

The Islamist cleric was told yesterday that he will not find out until November
if his latest bid to beat deportation is successful.

But a judge refused to let him out of prison on bail after hearing that watching
Qatada would tax already over-stretched security services during preparations
for the Olympic Games.

Home Office barrister Robin Tam told the Special Immigration Appeals Commission:
"If Abu Qatada was to abscond, resources would have to be diverted to find him
or the task of finding him would have to be accorded a lower priority than
should be the case."

After hearing the legal argument and looking at secret-service evidence during a
closed session, Mr Justice Mittings told the hearing he was not prepared to take
"such a risk" and allow the radical cleric out on bail.

Curfew The decision came despite pleas from Qatada's barrister Edward Fitzgerald
QC, who said his client could not abscond because he would be the most monitored
man in the country.

He even asked for Qatada to be placed under a 24-hour curfew.

Mr Fitzgerald told the hearing that Qatada ought to be bailed because of the
"unprecedentedly long period" he has spent in jail awaiting deportation already.

Earlier the judge granted the radical cleric a chance to appeal against Home
Secretary Theresa May's decision to send him back to Jordan where he is wanted
on terror charges.

Qatada's lawyers confirmed they would stretch out his publicly funded legal
battle if the ruling went against him and would take his fight against
deportation back to European courts.

Qatada was not present as Mr Justice Mitting told the hearing in London of his
frustration that the case had taken so long.

He said: "It must be brought to a conclusion one way or another."

Gerard Batten, home affairs spokesman for the UK Independence Party, said: "This
case could go on for years.

"Qatada's lawyers will continually throw up barriers as part of the human rights
industry and milk the taxpayer at the same time.

"The Government ought to put him on a plane or give up altogether."

Repeated failed attempts by UK governments over the last 10 years to deport the
radical cleric have cost nearly £1million in legal fees, official figures show.

No figures have been given for how much Qatada has received in legal aid and
some estimates put it at more than £3million.

That includes the legal costs of the fight to deport him - the amount to keep
him in the UK, either in a high-security jail or closely monitored under strict
conditions outside.

Since 2001, when fears of the domestic terror threat rose in the aftermath of
the 9/11 attacks on America, he has challenged, and ultimately thwarted, every
at -tempt by the Government to detain and deport him.

OPINION: PAGE 12

'His lawyers will throw up barriers as part of the human rights industry. It's
time to put him on a plane or give up the case' GERARD BATTEN

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa May wants Qatada sent to Jordan
Qatada has resisted deportation attempts for 10 years

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 29, 2012 Tuesday

Politics live blog: Tuesday 29 May

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5168 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen

FULL TEXT

3.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] Charities have renewed their call for the government to drop its plan
for a cap on tax relief on charitable donations in the light the U-turns over
the pasty tax and the caravan tax. Peter Kyle, of the Association of Chief
Executives of Voluntary Organisations, told the World at One that he was
concerned by signs that the Treasury was unwilling to compromise on this issue.

[The Treasury] told us they would keep us in the loop on things and really they
haven't. Now we are left here aghast, thinking now we know what the government's
priority is: it's about looking after business, and it's about looking after the
people who scream the loudest and the people who get to the front pages. They
have turned something that was clearly a mistake into a series of insults
against the sector. The government seems to have backed itself into a corner
that it is very reluctant to back its way out of.

[#xfffd] Michael Gove has told the Leveson inquiry that Rupert Murdoch is "one
of the most impressive and significant figures of the last 50 years".There are
more details on our Leveson live blog.

I'm wrapping up early today. Thanks for the comments.

2.54pm: Here's an afternoon reading list.[#xfffd] Paul Goodman at
ConservativeHome says the government was wrong to abandon the pasty tax.

The Telegraph claims this morning that the pasty tax would raise roughly
[#xfffd]100 million. Mr Osborne has executed his U-turn with the required
combination of low cunning (the Commons isn't sitting) and gritted teeth ("I've
listened to Sun readers and others and I'm glad we've got a solution that's
fair"). None the less, tens of millions not taken from a pasty tax are tens of
millions that must be taken elsewhere - unless the Chancellor gives up on
deficit reduction or scales spending back further.

And [#xfffd]100 million is a lot of money. (Other estimates come in at
[#xfffd]50 million: still a lot of money). Where will Mr Osborne find it now? I
am not, repeat not, against all U-turns: everything depends what the turn is
about. For example, there is a very good case for reviewing the cap on charities
announced in the budget - which, to be fair to Ministers, they were committed to
doing in any event. But there should be a strong presumption against them in
politics. They can make Ministers look weak - and sometimes expose the fact that
they are weak.

And they invariably make backbenchers look ridiculous: why, many Conservative
MPs will ask themselves this morning, did I trust to Ministers' resolve and send
out the Government line - the PRU letter, as it's known in the trade - to
constituents in defence of the tax? Why didn't I join the rebels who voted
against the pasty tax in the Commons? (And the caravan tax, over which there is
also to be a climbdown.)

[#xfffd] Mark Easton on his BBC blog tries to explain why the monarchy remains
so popular.

In Accrington earlier this month, I watched a down-to-earth, no-nonsense town go
slightly mad for the Queen. Thousands lined the streets, hung out of windows,
climbed lamp-posts to catch a glimpse of their monarch.

They stood for hours in a chilly wind wearing daft hats - a metaphor for the
attitude of their country. Times are tough, the challenges are great and we
respond by cheering an aspect of our culture that, for all its irrationality, is
uniquely ours.

The British have always chosen the quirks of our history against foreign
rationalism. The Romans brought us straight roads and decimalisation. As soon as
they left, we reverted to impossibly complicated Imperial measures and winding
country lanes.

[#xfffd] James Kirkup at the Telegraph says George Osborne seems to be behind
Tory calls for a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

Here's the story, as recounted by my anonymous friends: the Chancellor is
worried. He's worried about the fall in his own share price post-Budget, and
he's worried about Boris. He sees the Mayor of London re-elected and
reinvigorated, using his weekly Telegraph column to burnish his eurosceptic
credentials at the Government's expense. (See this for a pretty obvious pop at
DC + GO, for instance).

That being so, Mr Osborne has "let it be known" among a select group of
colleagues that actually, he's pretty jolly hot on this whole European scam too.
These last few weeks, for instance, "friends of" Mr Osborne have been talking of
his growing exasperation at the way fellow European finance ministers are (not)
dealing with the eurozone crisis. That sort of talk inevitably leaves some
colleagues wondering if the Chancellor is starting to think that Britain would
be better served by taking a step away from the whole sorry mess.

[#xfffd] Jill Rutter at the Institute for Government says tax reliefs are not
properly scrutinised.

If Defra gave a subsidy of [#xfffd]105m a year to bakers who put their pasties
in an oven and then leave them on a shelf or the Department of Transport spent
[#xfffd]35m every year subsidising the owners of static caravans we would laugh
at them. The Treasury would be first in line demanding these absurdities be cut
- and the Sun - today claiming a pasty victory - would be right behind them.

Yet instead, today the former have climbed down and the latter are claiming
victory. But the decision not to levy the full rate of VAT on these items means
all the rest of us have to pay a bit more in other taxes - or sack a few more
teachers or nurses to achieve the government's fiscal targets.

These sorts of special tax treatments are the missing part of the fiscal
consolidation conversation - so-called 'tax expenditures'. They do not appear in
the public spending numbers or any departments' budget. As a result they are
subject to none of the usual scrutiny or values for money considerations. Indeed
the tax expenditure line is one which is rising - as tax rates go up (like VAT
to 20%), the value of special treatment increases. Indeed it is now [#xfffd]97bn
(against total public spending of some [#xfffd]700bn) in 2011-12 (up from
[#xfffd]77bn the year before!).

[#xfffd] Mark Damazer at Comment is free says it can be counter-productive for
spin doctors like Craig Oliver to complain to the BBC.

In 1992, during the highly fought Major-Kinnock campaign - both sides phoned the
extended 9 O'Clock News, which I was editing at the time, more or less every
night. (They sometimes phoned while the programme was on air - demanding
apologies and/or corrections before its end.) One night they both phoned after
the programme to complain about the same piece on the NHS - each side claiming
bias. For a few seconds I put the two phones together to let the spinmeisters
hear each other - but then my courage deserted me and we all went back to polite
BBC mode. It was a brief cathartic moment.

There are, I am sure, some senior politicians who complain very rarely. When
they do - you know it is more likely you have made a mistake. Ken Clarke was a
serial non-complainer. He did write once - complaining that we had said he had
drawn his curtains to avoid seeing a miners' lobby outside his house when, he
said, he was hundreds of miles away. By the time I got to paragraph two of his
letter, I was composing the BBC apology. Less is sometimes more.

[#xfffd] Emma Purnell at Total Politics says the Labour party is divided into
three camps on the subject of how it can win the next election: the
triangulaters, the mobilisers and progressive majoritarians.

[#xfffd] Anthony Wells at UK Polling Report says today's Independent poll on
public support for a "Plan B" does not tell the whole story.

If you take a broad overview of all the polling evidence you end up with quite a
mixed picture - certainly opinion seems to be moving in the direction of more of
an emphasis on growth and less on the deficit, but the public remain quite
evenly split. Looking at other polls people are opposed to the cuts, and they
want to see more emphasis on growth. But they also want to see the deficit
reduced, and think the cuts are necessary in order to do that. Ask them if they
want to have their cake they say yes, ask them if they'd like to eat it they
also say yes. Taking just a single polling question doesn't give this broad
picture at all - and indeed, depending on what the question was could produce
entirely contradictory pictures.

2.16pm:William Hague (pictured), the foreign secretary, has been speaking about
the expulsion of the Syrian charge d'affaires and the expulsion of Syrian
diplomats from other Western countries. I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

All our effort are going into supporting the Annan plan to try to bring about a
peaceful transition and increasing the pressure on the Assad regime to implement
that plan. These expulsions express our horror at the behaviour of the regime
and increase the international pressure on them to implement the commitments
they've entered into.

2.12pm: Michael Gove, the education secretary, is giving evidence to the Leveson
inquiry now. You can follow the proceedings on our Leveson live blog. A former
Times journalist, he's giving Leveson a rather erudite lecture on the nature of
journalism.

1.37pm: On Twitter readers have suggested two additions to the list of U-turns I
posted earlier (see 11.33am.)They are compensation for churches hit by VAT on
listed buildings repairs and Michael Gove's new school building programme. They
are both questionable as proper U-turns because the budget said there would be
compensation for churches (although the details were not announced until later)
and because the Gove programme is arguably a replacement programme, not a U-turn
on Buidling Schools for the Future. But I'll mention them anyway.

1.15pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] The Syrian charge d'affaires is being expelled from Britain amid
mounting condemnation of attacks on civilians by the Assad regime. As the Press
Association reports, two other diplomats are also being told to leave but the
embassy in London is not being closed. The move, mirrored by several other
western countries, follows more than a year of unrest and worldwide revulsion
over the recent massacre at Houla. Britain cannot expel the Syrian ambassador
because he left the country some time ago.[#xfffd] Kenneth Clarke has admitted
plans to allow evidence to be given in closed proceedings in cases where it
affects national security are "less than perfect". But he insisted the only
alternative would be "silence". HoweverLiberty said the justice and security
bill published today was "even worse than first imagined".[#xfffd] Clarke has
said that holding a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union
would be a "total irrelevance". Although the idea is tipped for inclusion in the
next Conservative manifesto, Clarke said: "I cannot think of anything sillier to
do." (See 8.47am.)

[#xfffd] Campaigners in Cornwall have welcomed the government's decision to
scrap the pasty tax.

[#xfffd] David Ruffley, a Tory MP, has said that the government is going to back
down over its plans to impose a cap on tax relief for charitable donations.
[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has claimed that the British establishment is "broken".He
made the comment at a seminar with democracy campaigners in Westminster.

My view, hardened by two years on the inside, is that Britain is not broken at
all. It is the British establishment that is broken. It is the institutions at
the top that have let down the people. As political leaders, David Cameron, Ed
Miliband and I all have to step up, and make sure we seize this moment. I really
think if we can't tackle these deep problems in the established institutions of
our country now, you'd have to wonder if we ever can. It is now or never. We
have to show real courage.

After two years in government, I'm even more determined than ever. We are at a
critical, precious moment - we must seize it. I am more determined than ever to
reform the broken institutions of this country. Unless, we do, we will never be
the nation we could be. There is a better Britain bursting to escape the
shackles of an old, tired, failed establishment.

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has told the Leveson inquiry that
draft guidelines that would stop police officers accepting lunches, dinners or
drinks from journalists would not have a "chilling effect" on the media. "The
important thing is for officers to know where the line is drawn between who they
are able to speak to and what they are able to say in those conversations," she
said. There are more details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Boris Johnson has said that he would "die in the ditch" to prevent a
third runway being built at Heathrow. Although he wants to expand airport
capacity in the south east, the London mayor told Newsnight a third runway at
Heathrow would be the wrong solution. "I think it is very difficult for a
government to go against the wishes of the population by greatly expanding an
airport slap bang in the middle of London suburbs," he said.

[#xfffd] Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, has said that he is backing gay
marriage partly because of the memory of his late uncle. "Twenty years ago my
uncle came out in his 50s as gay and he died, I'm afraid, before he and his
long-term partner could have a civil partnership," Balls said in a statement for
the Out4Marriage campaign. "But actually in our family we would have liked him
to have gone further and to have got married. It's what he would have wanted, I
believe." A video of the Balls statement is on the Out4Marriage YouTube page.

[#xfffd] The Department of Health has said that the number of abortions in
England and Wales has risen slightly for the second year running. As the Press
Association reports, there were 189,931 abortions performed for women resident
in England and Wales in 2011, a 0.2% rise on the 189,574 figure in 2010 and 7.7%
more than the 176,364 total in 2001.

12.36pm: The Press Association has just snapped this.

The Syrian charge d'affaires in London is being expelled in the wake of mounting
condemnation of attacks on civilians.

11.33am: The Labour party have also been doing a coalition U-turn count this
morning. They've beaten Guido Fawkes (who only found 27 - see8.40am) and they've
got their tally up to 32.

For the record, here's the Labour list.

1. Rape anonymity2. Selling off the forests3. Vanity photogapher on the public
payroll4. School sports5. Scrapping free milk6. Cutting Bookstart7. Cutting debt
advice8. Cutting housing benefit for long-term jobseekers9. Coastguard cuts10.
Circus animal bans11. BBC World Service cuts12. Enshrining the Military Covenant
in law13. Cutting support for disabled people in care homes14. Automatic prison
sentences for carrying a knife15. Immigration target policy reduced to an
"ambition16. 50% sentence reductions for an early guilty plea17. Scrapping the
office of chief coroner18 Scrapping the Youth Justice Board19. Scrapping
domestic violence protection orders20. Unannounced Ofsted inspections21. Child
benefit22. Video games tax relief23. Granny tax24. NHS targets25. Armed forces
capability cuts26. Joint Strike Fighter27. Recalling MPs28. International aid -
0.7% target29. Scottish referendum timing30. Pasty tax31. Caravan tax32. Secret
inquests

I did my own list of government U-turns on my blog in February last year (see
3.11pm) and I reckon Labour have missed out at least three: NHS Direct, the 55%
threshold for a dissolution of parliament and letting ministers vote at the 1922
committee (a Conservative party U-turn, not a government one, but worth
mentioning because it involves David Cameron).

But, by my count, only 25 of the items on the Labour list count as fully-fledged
U-turns. There are seven items on the list that would not fit my definition:
pre-election promises that are not being implemented (automatic prison sentences
for knife crime, and getting immigration below 100,000 as a target, not an
aspiration); partial U-turns (the concessions on child benefit, and delaying
some armed forces cuts because of Libya); broken promises (freezing the age
related allowance, when the 2011 budget said it would be updated in line with
inflation for the rest of this parliament); and straightforward delays to
legisation (recall of MPs and the 0.7% aid target).

However you count, it's still a large number. Does it matter? Probably not as
much as people think. Governments should listen to public opinion and it is
often better to suffer 24 hours of embarrassment than weeks, months or years of
unpopularity over a particular issue. In an interview this morning Kenneth
Clarke made the case rather persuasively for "going out and asking people and
then modifying what you've done". (See8.47am.)

But there are two exceptions to this general rule. First, a government ends up
making too many U-turns, it will acquire a reputation for being either weak or
incompetent. These labels, once acquired, tend to stick. This government is
already starting to get bogged down in this territory.

Second, if a government has to perform a U-turn on its core economic strategy,
then it's all over. This happened to two of the three past Conservative prime
ministers: Edward Health, when he abandoned his attempt to curb union power and
embraced incomes policies that he previously resisted, and John Major, when he
was bounced out of the ERM. The coalition hasn't got to that stage yet although,
as today's Independent poll shows, pressure for a fully-fledged economic U-turn
is growing. (See 10.55am.)

11.09am: The Press Association has filed an early story from Theresa May's
evidence to the Leveson inquiry this morning.

Here's an extract.

New guidelines that will bring "common sense" to relationships between the
police and media have been drawn up, Theresa May told the Leveson Inquiry.The
home secretary has received guidance from police chiefs that recommends officers
should not accept gifts, gratuities or hospitality "except if it is of a trivial
nature".May said it was important officers did not put themselves in a position
where "people could feel that they are being influenced by the receipt of such
gifts".The Acpo (Association of Chief Police Officers) new guidance will bring a
"clearer" set of rules for meetings between the police and journalists, she
added."I think it's trying to apply common sense to the relationship the police
should have with the media," she said.

10.55am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some stories and articles that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Lance Price in the Independent says Tony Blair was wrong to tell the
Leveson inquiry yesterday that Rupert Murdoch did not shape government policy.

Mr Blair wanted Britain to join the euro; Mr Murdoch did not. We didn't join. Mr
Murdoch thought a referendum on further European integration was essential as a
matter of principle; Mr Blair did not. But he agreed to one.

Mr Murdoch used any opportunity to speak out against the euro, and had his
papers campaign to keep the pound. He didn't care what Mr Blair thought. Mr
Blair spoke in favour of the euro only occasionally and very tentatively. He
cared very much what Mr Murdoch thought. One man was unelected and didn't even
have a vote in Britain; the other was Prime Minister with the largest majority
in living memory.

[#xfffd] Rachel Sylvester in the Times (paywall) says Tony Blair is advising the
government on public service reform.

Ed Miliband recently let it be known that he meets the former Prime Minister
"every so often" - the two men are due to appear together at a fundraising event
in July. More interesting is the fact that Mr Blair - never a Labour tribalist -
has also privately been advising the Government. His discussions with Mr Cameron
often stray beyond the official agenda of the Middle East into more political
territory. I am told that he has also met ministers and Downing Street
strategists to discuss public service reform and Whitehall. The former heads of
Mr Blair's policy unit, Matthew Taylor and Geoff Mulgan, have been consulted by
the current No 10 team. The recent determination to stand up to the Civil
Service is based in part at least on senior Tories' conversations with the
Blairites.

"His influence is very firmly felt," says a senior Tory. "He's like the
footballer Cristiano Ronaldo - gone but still greatly admired."

[#xfffd] Andrew Grice in the Independent says a poll suggests 72% of people want
the government to adopt a "Plan B" on the economy.

Seven out of 10 people want George Osborne to adopt a "Plan B" on the economy to
give priority to growth rather than spending cuts, according to a poll for The
Independent.

ComRes found that 72 per cent of the public believe it is time for the Coalition
to perform a U-turn so that its policy is focused more on promoting growth and
less on cuts, while 17 per cent disagree and 11 per cent don't know.

Significantly, 64 per cent of people who voted Conservative at the 2010 general
election and 68 per of those who backed the Liberal Democrats want a change of
course. So do 86 per cent of people who voted Labour.

[#xfffd] Kiran Stacey and George Parker in the Financial Times (subscription)
say the Lib Dems will stick with the coalition for the full five years.

Nick Clegg's closest allies have vowed the Liberal Democrats will stick with the
coalition for the full five-year term, fearing a backlash from voters and the
markets if the party backs out early.

The deputy prime minister's team dismissed as "absolute madness" speculation
that the party could bail out of the coalition months before the 2015 election
and leave a minority Conservative government to struggle on until polling day.

Interest in the party's intentions was heightened by comments over the weekend
by Vince Cable, the business secretary, who talked about a process of
"disengagement" with the Tories before the election.

[#xfffd] Jason Beattie in the Daily Mirror says the combined wealth of the
cabinet is more than [#xfffd]70m.

10.41am: The People's Pledge, the campaign for a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU, has put out a statement in response to Kenneth Clarke's
claim that having a referendum would be silly. (See8.47am.) Here's an extract.

[Clarke's] attitude on a referendum is unusually discourteous to his fellow
citizens since polls show that 70% of us would like one. His colleague Jackie
Doyle-Price MP, with her wafer thin majority of 92, won't thank him for his
intervention either. In her constituency of Thurrock last month 13,111 people
voted for a national referendum in the People's Pledge poll held there. The
turnout was higher than the local council elections. Does Ken Clarke think all
those people in Thurrock are "silly"?

There are three categories of people on this issue. First, there are some
Europhiles like Ken Clarke who are frightened that the British people will vote
to leave the EU; second, there are some Eurosceptics who are frightened that the
British people will vote to stay in the EU. And then there are the rest of us
who want a referendum because we don't want to second-guess the British people.
We want us all to have a say on this important, generational issue in order to
gain popular consent for our relationship with our European neighbours, whatever
that is to be.

10.10am:Here's the full statement from the CPS explaining the decision not to
charge Amelia Hill and the unnamed police officer.

10.06am: The Crown Prosecution Service has announced that it will not charge the
Guardian journalist Amelia Hill and an unnamed police officer in relation to
allegations about the leaking of information relating to the phone hacking
investigation.

10.05am: Theresa May is giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry now. You can
follow the proceedings on our Leveson live blog.

9.48am: There are two polls around today. Here are the figures.ComRes in the
Independent

Labour: 42% (down 1 from ComRes last month)Conservatives: 34% (up 1)Lib Dems:
11% (no change)

Labour lead: 8 pointsYouGov for the Sun

Labour: 44% (up 1 from YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 33% (up 2)Lib
Dems: 8% (no change)Ukip: 7% (down 1)

Labour lead: 11 points

Government approval: -39

8.47am:Kenneth Clarke (pictured) was on great form on the Today programme this
morning. Not only has he earned the heartfelt gratitude of Westminster lobby
journalists by getting the Tory Euro war (part 1,793) up in the headlines again
on a slow news day, he has also provided (as usual) a masterclass in how to
sound like a self-confident politician able to think independently and
communicate clearly. (It should be easy, but most politicians are so
pre-occupied remembering the "line to take" that they can't do it.)

Ian McKenzie, the Labour former special adviser who now runs the People's Pledge
campaign for an EU referendum, has taken to Twitter to express his admiration

Ken Clarke is wrong about an EU referendum but my, what a class act! If the
Tories could cloned him a dozen times, Labour would never win.

- Ian McKenzie (@iMcKenzied) May 29, 2012

Here are the key points from the Today interview, and another interview Clarke
has given to BBC News. I've taken some of the quotes from PoliticsHome.

[#xfffd] Clarke said the government would lose an election if it were held now.
But he did claim that government has suffered worse problems mid-term, and he
claimed that the public understood the need for tough decisions.

I have seen, mid-term, much greater turmoil than this. I've been in governments
having much more trouble than this. I'm amazed that the government is retaining
the support it is ... There's not a government in Western Europe could win an
election at the moment. Strong governments have to do unpopular thing. I think
it's a credit to the public, actually. They realise we have to do unpopular
things.

[#xfffd] He said that holding a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU
would be silly and a "total irrelevance". David Cameron is not proposing one
now, but there is increasing speculation that he will propose one in the next
Consevative manifesto. Clarke made it clear he thought this would be barmy.

The idea that because we've having a rough old time ... that you turn to a total
irrelevance, a referendum on our membership of the European Union, where you
create turmoil on a great subject, you throw absolute confusion over our
continued involvement in the European Union, I cannot think of anything sillier
to do.

He said that Britain had a referendum in 1975 and that one problem with
referendums was that those who lost - the anti-Europeans, in that case - just
ignored the result.

It would settle nothing. Particularly it would settle nothing with the more
frenzied Eurosceptics who keep believing that European bogeys are under the bed
every time we get into any problem.

He also said there was no public support for a referendum.

[If you were to consult voters] the idea that they are all demanding a
referendum on the European Union would be regarded as ridiculous. It would be
out of sight as a public demand, a public priority. It's a demand of a few
rightwing journalists and a few extreme nationalist politicians.

[#xfffd] He said it was silly to accuse the government of peforming U-turns on
secret courts and the budget.

Public consultation is public consultation - I rather approve of it. We're going
through a rather silly, clich[#xfffd] phase where every time the government
modifies proposals it's been consulting on, it's accused of having a shambles
and a U-turn ... Personally I rather like the process of going out and asking
people and then modifying what you've done.

[#xfffd] He claimed that the changes to the secret courts bill amounted to a
clarification.

What I've done is clarify what I've always argued, that this applies to spies
and national intelligence. No country in the world allows them to give evidence
in court; you'd have terrorists in the public gallery, lining up making notes.

[#xfffd] He said his secret courts plans would allow claims for damages against
the intelligences services to be tested in court. At the moment the intelligence
services often settle because they judge that preferable to having their
intelligence revealed in open court.

The reason I'm on the side of the argument I am - and I think a few million
pounds being paid out when the defendant is still saying these claims are
unfounded is a bit worrying - is the reputational thing. I would like to know,
like to see, the intelligence agencies clear their reputation and win a case. As
a member of the public, I would like to know what the judge's opinion is. He's
heard the plaintiff, and he's heard the intelligence services explanation. We
can't have a massive judicial inquiry in every case; we can in some cases. And
I'd quite like a court, a judge, in a civil action, to listen to what the
argument for the defence is.

[#xfffd] He joked about the picture of himself on the front page of today's
Guardian apparently sleeping at Trent Bridge. "My young friends me tell me its
callled chillaxing," he said, referring to the recent reports about Cameron's
expertise at chillaxing. "I've not encountered that before."

8.40am: Misfortunes come in threes, according to the old saying. And so to
government U-turns. Over the last 12 hours, as the Guardian reports in its
splash, ministers have announced a pasty tax climbdown, a concession on the
caravan tax and a retreat on plans to include inquests in the secret courts
bill. On his blog Guido Fawkes has helpfully published a list of those
government U-turns in full. He's got it up to 27.

As Nick Robinson pointed out on the Today programme, the latest U-turns don't
just involve the dropping of unpopular policies. They also show the government
openly kowtowing to the conservative tabloid press. The Sun describes the repeal
of the pasty tax as "a spectacular victory" for its own campaign on the issue
and quotes George Osborne, the chancellor, saying that he listened to Sun
readers. And Kenneth Clarke, the justice secretary, has writtenan article for
the Daily Mail saying that its campaign against his proposal for inquests to be
included in the secret courts bill was "a service to the public interest".

Clarke was on the Today programme at 8.10 explaining his plans. It was vintage
stuff, with Clarke admitting that the government would lose an election now and
describing calls for a referendum on EU membership as "totally irrelevant". I'll
post a full round up soon.

Later today Clarke is publishing his justice and security bill. Nick Clegg, the
deputy prime minister, is speaking at a seminar on constiutional reform. And
Michael Gove, the education secretary, and Theresa May, the home secretary, give
evidence to the Leveson inquiry.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow@gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 29, 2012 Tuesday

G2: Our politicians are revolting!: Believe it or not, this parliament is the
most rebellious yet. Michael White explains why Twitter, rolling news and
coalition angst mean the modern backbencher is far more likely to defy the whip

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2357 words


'We're bracing ourselves for a major rebellion tomorrow on the firearms bill.
There could be 50 or more who defy the whip - so many that there's nowt we can
do, except accept it, pretend it hasn't happened and move on. Since we'll secure
the business with opposition support, we're hoping no one will notice."

So wrote Gyles Brandreth, showbiz trouper turned Conservative politician, in his
gossipy diary for 4 December 1996. In the event, his pessimism was warranted.
The number of MPs who revolted against John Major's virtual ban on private
ownership of handguns - prompted by the Dunblane massacre that spring - turned
out to be 63, mostly rightwing Tories seeking improved compensation for
gun-owners.

It made a change from Tory rebels' favourite target in the accident-prone
parliament of 1992-97: trying to wreck Major's unheroic middle-of-the-road
policies on Europe. The next day Brandreth noted: "If it weren't so
heartbreaking it would be funny. We are disintegrating, we're in a massive hole
and we can't stop digging. Today's Gallup poll puts Labour on 59% and us on 22.
We're heading for wipe-out - and we seem determined to make it worse."

Sound familiar? It could easily be an entry from David Cameron's diary as he
struggles to sustain his centrifugal Lib-Con coalition until 2015. Only this
weekend Nick Clegg took a prod at him for allowing Tory MPs a free vote on gay
marriage. Or such thoughts could have been penned by Labour prime ministers such
as Jim Callaghan (1976-79) or Gordon Brown (2007-10), both trying to hold
together an increasingly fractious and demoralised regime in the back half of a
parliament, knowing that defeat looms at the end of it. When the political wind
shifts you are pretty helpless, as Callaghan later confessed.

Not much change in the revolting backbenchers department, then? No, actually:
lots of change. The sort of omnishambles that confronted Major from assorted
rebels (cabinet "bastards" included) would have horrified earlier PMs - but not
later ones. Contrary to the saloon-bar view that MPs nowadays are time-serving
creeps and lobby fodder who do their whips' bidding, the modern backbencher is
programmed to be constantly revolting.

The habit of rebellion has been growing for 20 years, accentuated by the
tensions of coalition and the temptation to grandstand on 24/7 rolling news,
Facebook or Twitter. Since 2010 there have been coalition rebellions in 44% of
parliamentary votes: Tory MPs breaking ranks in 28% of them, Liberal Democrats
in 24%. And this in the normally ultra-loyal first session of a newly elected
government. So far the biggest revolt remains 25 October 2011, when 81 Tory MPs
(plus Lib Dem Adrian Sanders) defied a three-line whip to back an EU referendum;
the biggest Lib Dem revolt (21) was over tuition fees. More timid colleagues
abstained on both nights.

Number one rebel so far? Step forward Philip Hollobone, MP for Kettering since
2005. He is an ex-banker, frugal self-publicist (boasting the lowest expenses)
and a supporter of the "Better Off Out" (no prize for guessing out of what)
campaign. In total, no fewer than 153 coalition MPs - including 119 of the 305
Conservatives - have rebelled. Many were old lags of the Hollobone tendency, but
ominously many were new MPs, their parliamentary virginity hastily lost.

Eight of the new parliament's top 10 rebels are Tories, some out-rebelling
recidivist leftwing rebels such as Jeremy Corbyn (400 revolts since 1997) and
Dennis Skinner. History shows that, once acquired, the revolting habit grows. It
can only get worse - and it will. The experts predict this will be the most
revolting parliament of modern times.

Put it another way, as Philip Cowley and Mark Stuart, Britain's leading academic
analysts of Westminster rebellions often do, there were more rebellions in the
long 2010-12 parliamentary session that has just ended than there were in the
six entire parliaments elected between 1945 and 1966. Those 21 years saw six
prime ministers - including three-in-a-row Tory Etonians - the turbulent
creation of Labour's welfare state, the leftwing Bevanite revolt, the Tory right
in uproar over the dismantling of the empire and all sides furious over the
botched 1956 invasion of Suez. The two-party system then commanded more than 90%
of votes cast and war-hardened MPs were more disciplined. So were voters.

By contrast, most of the 239 rebellions by coalition MPs in the 2010-12 session
rarely warranted more than a flick of media attention. So what has changed? One
obvious but little understood reason is basic parliamentary maths. The Lords,
where the crossbenchers and the bloody-minded older peers can subvert the
coalition's majority, are unpredictable. There have been 48 coalition defeats
there.

Less volatile is the Commons. Everyone knows that no party won an outright
majority - 326 of the 650 MPs - in 2010, but many forget that Cameron's rose
garden compact with Nick Clegg's Lib Dems added 57 more MPs to the Tory tally of
306. That now provides a formal majority of 76, larger than all but seven of the
18 general elections since 1945.

On top of the 76 are assorted Irish absentees (plus often-busy-elsewhere George
Galloway), Speaker Bercow and his non-voting deputies. In effect, the coalition
has a working majority of around 100. Even on paper it would need 39 coalition
MPs (half 76 plus 1) to revolt - on the same issue too - to win a Commons vote,
and only then if all opposition MPs were present and voting the same way.

It barely needs adding that rightwing Tory rebels and leftwing Lib Dem ones are
trapped in mutual loathing inside the coalition, but rarely agree on anything:
gay marriage an obvious example. So the average rebellion is eight when it's
Tory-only, three if it's a Lib Dem solo effort. Cowley and Stuart call them the
coalition's "two wobbly wings", which don't wobble simultaneously.

Little wonder that a defeat in the Commons has happened only once - on the
economy in early December 2011. Then Labour MPs hid in their offices and staged
an unexpected 10pm ambush after Patrick McLoughlin, Cameron's burly ex-miner of
a chief whip, had gone home early on what seemed a "quiet" night.

Ah, ambushes - those were the days. In the crisis-strewn mid-70s, Callaghan's
cabinet, without a Labour majority for two years, struggled from day to day to
impose its will on the Commons. Its designated "lavatory whip" had to peer under
doors to make sure the Tories weren't planning an ambush. When defeat seemed
unavoidable the whips would "pull the rug" by sending Labour MPs home: defeat by
300 to 0 mattered less than by 300 to 299. When Cameron or Clegg grant their MPs
a free vote the same impulse lurks: to minimise the impact of defeat.

Though it broke with the postwar economic consensus, the Thatcher era suffered
fewer revolts. Unlike Ted Heath, who had the temerity to take Britain into
Europe and faced revolts on one vote in every five, the new prime minister was
herself a rightwing populist, in tune with the revolt-prone Tory right, a leader
after their own romantic hearts.

Thatcher ran against Whitehall and the government as if she weren't part of it.
She also neutralised Europe as a core issue for Tories, the kind of
blood-and-soil identifier that instinctively stirs the romantic right. On
free-market reforms, unions and social issues (the Falklands war an unplanned
bonus) she gave them red meat. Ironical then that it was a shadowy backbench
revolt, invisible on TV, that overthrew her once the "poll tax" made her a
liability in 1990. Collectivist Labour has never ditched a leader so ruthlessly,
the Conservatives often.

Social and economic justice has always been the hard stuff of Labour revolts,
against their own as well as Tory governments, more so than civil liberties
where New Labur deliberately played to the law-and-order instincts of many MPs
and voters. On 18 March 2003, a record 139 Labour MPs defied a three-line whip
to vote against war in Iraq. Yet Blair prevailed - as he did on foundation trust
hospitals, academy schools and other public sector reforms - with Tory support.
Only when Labour rebels joined forces with the opposition on issues such as
90-day detention could Blair's majorities be blocked.

Before the rise of the party machine to marshal mass Victorian electorates,
faction fights in the Commons could be pretty unpredictable too. Now that the
two-party system is creaking again and instability is creeping back into the
system, academics are paying more attention. Hull University's Philip Norton,
now the Tory peer Lord Norton of Louth, did pioneering work in the 70s. Cowley
and Stuart, who both teach at Nottingham University, stumbled into the territory
in the New Labour days and became addicted. Their frequently updated
nottspolitics.org has become the Wisden of rebellions, a shrine for politics
junkies and reporters (including this one) who want the gritty detail. The pair
struggle for funding.

More theoretical data analysts such as London University's Giacomo Benedetto and
Simon Hix have noted that parties long in power accumulate a pool of
ex-ministers and disappointed wannabes who stoke revolt and cannot be
disciplined by the promise of a job. The more heterogeneous a government the
more likely that "ideological outliers" - of left and right - will have an
incentive to engineer defeats that change the cabinet to their liking, but
without triggering a hazardous election. The more localised and
candidate-centred the electoral system the more likely it is that rebellious MPs
will be rewarded by voters and protected from punishment.

That sort of language translates into a description of the present era of
coalition politics and fragmented party loyalties. Cameron, Clegg and Ed
Miliband may seek to discipline their MPs and control the candidates their local
activists pick, but Twitter offers an outspoken MP such as Nadine "posh boys"
Dorries (not a notable voting rebel) a platform and protection while the
Bradford West byelection reminds us how a powerful populist such as George
Galloway can exploit disaffection.

And what else is the coalition doing to foment the stirrings of conscience and
egotism that fuel revolt? It is reducing the size of the Commons from 650 to 600
MPs, thereby setting them against each other to stay in the lifeboat, perhaps by
revolting noisily over secret courts, Lords reform, internet surveillance and
(for Lib Dems) regional pay: all tempting targets in the new session. And when
it is over, if the coalition survives until 2015, each new MP will be about 8%
more self-important as a result.

Rebel MPs: The least obedient parliamentarians - and yes, they're mostly Tories:

1 Philip Hollobone:

(Con, Kettering)

(106 rebellions)

Privately educated, the former Oxford Monday Club activist has worked both as a
Baptist missionary in Honduras and as an investment banker. First elected in
2005 - he is now 48 - he emerged as the MP with the lowest expenses (at £47,737
one third the average) in 2009, a scourge of Hamas and the EU. Ukip did not
stand against him. He once made six Commons speeches in a day to boost his
constituency profile - some of "only two or three sentences". His recent defeat
in an election to a key Commons committee was deemed a major victory by Cameron
whips and loyalists.

2 David Nuttall

(Con, Bury North)

(74 rebellions)

Now 60, the Sheffield-born solicitor finally won his seat at his fourth attempt
in 2010, promising in his maiden speech to be "a strong and indepdendent
advocate" for Bury. When he made his mark by launching the EU referendum debate
that triggered the biggest Tory revolt (81 MPs) so far, he blamed the Brussels
curb on excessive hours for closure problems at his local hospital.

3 Philip Davies

(Con, Shipley)

(68 rebellions)

An ex-bookie and Asda manager, Davies, now 50, is proud to be the populist voice
of his party's libertarian wing, albeit a prescriptive libertarian. Keen to
attack political correctness on race, gender and sexuality, as well as the
public smoking ban and development aid, he supports the TaxPayers' Alliance,
wants to scrap the Human Rights Act and quit the EU. He is often quoted in the
Sun.

4 Peter Bone

(Con, Wellingborough)

(56 rebellions)

An MP since 2005, Essex-born Bone (59) is best-known for quoting the
breakfast-table remarks of his wife ("Mrs Bone") to David Cameron at PMQs, as
representing the solid good sense of Middle Britain. A company accountant who
once paid a teenager 87p an hour, he also said the NHS would "not be out of
place in Stalin's Russia" - but supports homeopathy and an abortion limit of 12
weeks. He was seen as one of the "mostly cantankerous old farts" on the
backbench 1922 committee, but he lost his seat in this month's elections.

5 Christopher Chope

(Con, Christchurch)

(48 rebellions)

Older (65) and socially grander than most hardcore rebels, the barrister son of
a judge shares their local councillor background and Euro-sceptic outlook. A
Thatcherite MP since 1983 and junior minister who helped steer the "poll tax"
through parliament, he lost a nearby seat in 1992, but got back in 1997. A
critic of debt cancellation and climate change politics, he also lost the
joint-secretaryship of the backbench 1922 committee two weeks ago.

6 Mike Hancock

(Lib Dem, Portsmouth South)

(44 rebellions)

The only Lib Dem in the top six, the bearded MP has ousted Andrew George as the
most rebellious backbencher in his party. More interesting is his enthusiasm for
Putin's Russia and for female eastern European assistants, one of whom was
alleged to have been a Russian spy (wrongly, a court decided). Aged 66, the
former engineer and councillor left Labour for the SDP and won his seat at a
byelection in 1984; after losing it to the Tories by 205 votes in 1987, he got
back 10 years later. He too supports homeopathy on the NHS.

The Bumper Book of Coalition Rebellions by Philip Cowley and Mark Stuart is out
now.

Captions:

Since 2010 there have been rebellions by coalition politicians in 44% of votes

John Major's government collapsed following a string of voting rebellions

Right: Leading rebel Philip Hollobone

Below: Nadine Dorries rebels on Twitter but not in the chamber

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 29, 2012 Tuesday 5:41 PM GMT

'You're smoking crack', peer who doubted Obama's birth status is told

BYLINE: Rob Hastings

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 338 words


His theories are so unorthodox that the American DJ interviewing him thought he
must be an eccentric "fake Lord" who had simply bought his title and had been
"smoking crack". But Lord Monckton is indeed a real peer - and he really does
believe that Barack Obama faked his birth certificate to become US President.

Christopher Monckton, 3rd Viscount Monckton of Brenchley and a former deputy
leader of the UK Independence Party (Ukip), has waded into America's "birther"
controversy - backing the widely discredited conspiracy argument that Mr Obama
is ineligible for the presidency because of suspicions he was born outside of
the US.

Taking part in a radio interview last week with the WABC station in New York,
Lord Monckton said that he had made "independent investigations" and had
"discovered that there are clear irregularities" in Obama's status.

The claim was enough for the disbelieving host of the show, Geraldo Rivera, to
interrupt and say that Monckton and his allies were "all smoking crack
together".

The peer, who was an adviser to Margaret Thatcher when she was Prime Minister,
is perhaps best known for his denials that climate change is caused by humans.

He also recently joked about his birther belief when appearing at a press
conference hosted by the Heartland Institute - a notorious think tank whose
recent billboard campaign linked the belief in climate change to such publicly
hated figures as Osama Bin Laden, the mass murderer Charles Manson, and the
so-called 'Unabomber' Ted Kaczynski.

Commenting that it was hard to enter the climate change debate without a
scientific qualification, the Viscount reportedly said: "I have concluded what
one needs to have is a freshly minted Hawaiian birth certificate."

Lord Monckton also visited a deeply conservative Tea Party organisation in
Texas, being photographed in a cowboy hat while saying that they were "doing
outstanding work".

A spokesman for Ukip said last night that Lord Monckton's insistence in the
birther argument " is certainly an eccentric view".

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 29, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

'You're smoking crack', peer who doubted Obama's birth status is told

BYLINE: Rob Hastings

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 171 words


His theories are so unorthodox that the American DJ interviewing him thought he
must be an eccentric "fake Lord" who had simply bought his title and had been
"smoking crack". But Lord Monckton is indeed a real peer - and really does
believe that Barack Obama faked his birth certificate to become US President.

Christopher Monckton, 3rd Viscount Monckton of Brenchley and a former deputy
leader of the UK Independence Party (Ukip), has waded into America's "birther"
controversy - backing the conspiracy argument that Mr Obama is ineligible for
the presidency because of suspicions he was born outside of the US. In a radio
interview last week, Lord Monckton said he had made "independent investigations"
and had "discovered that there are clear irregularities" in Mr Obama's status.
The claim was enough for the host, Geraldo Rivera, to say Monkton and his allies
were "all smoking crack together".

The peer was an adviser to Margaret Thatcher when she was Prime Minister. Ukip
was unable to comment at the time of going to press.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 29, 2012 Tuesday 11:51 PM GMT

Will PM offer an EU referendum? Poll may be promised in Tory election manifesto

BYLINE: JASON GROVES and TIM SHIPMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


David Cameron is consulting senior Conservatives over plans to promise a
referendum on Europe in the party's next manifesto.

The development emerged as a survey found that 83 per cent of grassroots Tories
want an in/out referendum to be included in the 2015 manifesto. Seven out of ten
said they would vote for Britain to leave the European Union.

But the poll of 1,600 party members - conducted by the ConservativeHome website
on behalf of Channel 4 News - found that almost half of those demanding a
referendum wanted ministers to first attempt to renegotiate Britain's terms of
EU membership.

The mooted referendum proposal is designed to galvanise Tory voters, distance
the party from its Liberal Democrat coalition partners and see off the growing
challenge from the UK Independence Party.

Chancellor George Osborne is believed to be encouraging senior ministers to make
their views known on the issue.

But Justice Secretary Ken Clarke faced an angry backlash from Tory MPs yesterday
after suggesting the only demand for a referendum came from 'a few right-wing
journalists and a few extreme nationalist politicians'.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond warned in Cabinet last week that the economic
crisis was likely to strengthen the case for a vote.

Mr Hammond said it would be almost impossible to argue that Britain's relations
with Europe remained unchanged if eurozone countries pursue a closer fiscal
union to shore up the ailing single currency.

A senior Government source said the Prime Minister was inviting views on whether
to promise a referendum. 'We are thinking a lot about Europe and wanting to hear
Conservative views,' they said.

'David and George are pretty much as one on this. We are not about to announce a
referendum but we are not ruling one out. We are thinking about exactly what to
do and how we might do it.' Mr Osborne is said to be concerned that London Mayor
Boris Johnson - seen by many as a future leadership rival to the Chancellor -
has already backed an in/out referendum.

Tory high command is also worried that Labour could be first to promise a
referendum.

However, ministers remain divided on the precise form any poll should take.
While some are pushing for a straight in/out question, others are arguing for
the party to focus on renegotiating Britain's membership of the EU, with a
referendum held on the outcome.

Prominent Eurosceptic MP Douglas Carswell argued that only an in/out referendum
would satisfy public demand.

'We previously had a cast-iron guarantee of a referendum that turned out not to
be worth the paper it was written on,' he said. 'If we are to restore any
credibility then only an in/out referendum will do.'

The ConservativeHome survey found that 36 per cent believe Britain will be out
of the EU in ten years' time, while 38 per cent said the UK would remain a
member but on renegotiated terms.

Just 26 per cent expect the relationship to remain unchanged.

Mr Clarke, one of the few remaining pro-EU Conservative ministers, dismissed
calls for a referendum.

'We previously had a cast-iron guarantee of a referendum that turned out not to
be worth the paper it was written on'

'The nation is extremely worried about present events, as well we might be,' he
said. 'We all feel insecure, we all feel worried, we are hoping that a strong
government will take us through and some difficult measures are required.

'[But] the idea that they are all demanding a referendum on the European Union
would be regarded as ridiculous, it would be out of sight as a public priority.
It is the demand of a few right-wing journalists and a few extreme nationalist
politicians.'

Tory MP Stewart Jackson, who quit his government post last year to pursue a
referendum, responded: 'Ken is consistent on this, but he is consistently wrong.

'He needs to move with the times and understand that the days of a political
elite telling the public that they know what's best on Europe are over.'

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 29, 2012 Tuesday 6:16 PM GMT

Sack Warsi and bring on Gove, it's the only way the Tories will win the next
General Election

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 596 words


I predict Gove will be next deputy chairman of the Tory party and then
Conservative leader and PM.

After Michael Gove's excellent performance at the Leveson Inquiry today, Cameron
should be fearful of his leadership. Gove appeals to the Tory grassroots,
parents and school children are grateful for his very Conservative ideological
education reforms, he is loyal, an excellent media performer, a non-spinner (he
doesn't have to as his politics and policies are sound) and he is a darling of
the right.

At party conferences, he is one of the most sought-after speakers, often only
appearing at the more right-centred events.  He was one of the architects of the
Direct Democracy movement in the party, with other right-thinking and
Conservatives such as Dan Hannan and Douglas Carswell.  Cameron adopted some of
their policy ideas - directly elected police chiefs and education reform.

Born in Scotland, adopted by a Labour supporting family, he initially went to a
state school and then won a scholarship to an independent school and later went
onto read English at Oxford.  He was also President of the Oxford Union.

When interviewed on the Today programme he cannot be wrong-footed and is in
charge of his brief.

What a contrast to the Baroness. I have campaigned with them both. Gove has
intellect, compassion, is interesting and personable. Warsi is light-weight,
shallow, loves a sound-bite and is rarely on top of her brief. Her only claim to
adulation by the Tory party was her attack on the BNP's Nick Griffin on Question
Time. She claimed electoral fraud after the 2010 election when she said at least
three seats were lost due to Asian electoral deception.

She has made a number of very public gaffes that have embarrassed her party. She
claims that Islamaphobia is the new dinner party chat. She also called UKIP
supporters closet racists by suggesting that UKIP were successful because the
number of BNP candidates had declined.

This loose talk - whether it is authorised by Central Office or not - is a
disgraceful attempt to slur the third party of politics because the Tories are
so scared of UKIP's gaining popularity. She should look to her home area of West
Yorkshire, where I stood as a Tory candidate at the last election, in my seat
the BNP gained 4,500 votes and allowed the sitting Labour MP to slip back in. I
repeatedly told her that the Tories had to get to grips with the Muslim vote. I
appealed to her to help me engage with her community but she wasn't very popular
- and it was nothing to do with her being brown or female as she claims.

Her appalling media appearances are legend.  The morning after the Bradford
Spring election she was on the Today programme, presumably because the Tory
spin-meisters thought she would know her brief.  Not so.  She couldn't remember
the percentage that the Tories lost by and kept talking about the Labour defeat.

  It was toe-curlingly embarrassing.

There have been a number of commentators in the political and media world who
have suggested there should be an alliance of the right, bringing UKIP and the
Tories together to form a coalition.  Indeed, many Tory activists would welcome
this move.  This cannot and will not happen under Cameron.  Farage has ruled it
out until the Tories commit to a referendum.  Under Gove's leadership the Tories
would have a Conservative leader, the media would have nothing to gripe about,
the grassroots would feel energised and motivated to campaign, the UK would get
the leader they yearn for.  And, despite his seemingly neutrality on Europe, we
would get our referendum.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 29, 2012 Tuesday 4:24 PM GMT

David, George, Boris and a story of European intrigue

BYLINE: By James Kirkup

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1169 words


In the Age of Cameron, there is no thought-crime greater than to suggest a
difference, no matter how fractional, between the Leader and his best beloved
Chancellor. David Cameron and George Osborne are one indivisible entity, a
conjoined soul sharing two mortal bodies. They agree, full stop. And woe shall
befall any Westminster gossip or idle scribbler who suggests otherwise.

That being so, everything that follows must be quite untrue, wilfully
orotherwise. Nevertheless, I feel duty-bound, as a servant of higher truth, to
pass iton, so that fellow citizens can appreciate the sickening calumnies that
somedesperate, dissident elements are willing to hurl at the blessed duumvirate.

Something is happening on the European front. No, I don't mean that whole pesky
eurozone-collapse-financial-apocalypse thing. I'm talking about the far more
important issue of Conservative Party policy.

In essence, the natives are restless. A number of Conservative people are
chuntering about Britain's relationship with the EU, and wondering whether that
relationship should not - you guessed it - be recast, recalibrated, remade and
reconsidered. Their preferred method of achieving that aim is - you guessed
again - is another "re"-word, a referendum.

This is an old hat, but it's being hung on a new peg: a Greek exit from the
euro. The theory goes that the fundamental changes in the single currency
rulebook that would follow - remember, there are no rules for members leaving
the club - would change the UK's relationship with the European Union too. And
depending on who you talk to, that would either trigger a referendum under the
European Union Act, or present HMG with an unmissable opportunity to threaten to
hold such a vote voluntarily, unless the rest of the EU agreed to various
long-standing Conservative demands, like the repatriation of social and
employment powers.

For what it's worth, Mr Cameron doesn't seem to be very keen on any of this
stuff. Asked about it in Chicago last week, he made clear he's not
over-enthusiastic about the more creative ideas his colleagues are putting
forward.

"I favour having a referendum if there is a proposal to transfer power to
Brussels. That is a sensible position," he said. In short, the PM feels he's got
quite enough on his plate without getting involved in another domestic/European
kerfuffle.

But others don't feel that way. From the backbenches to the Cabinet table, some
Conservatives are trying to put pressure on Mr Cameron over Europe.

The reasons are varied, and almost all are well-rehearsed. One reason is Ukip
and its recent polling numbers. Another is some short-term positioning by the
Labour Party on Europe. One is the long-standing unhappiness at the Cameron
leadership felt by some Tories (including a couple of senior ministers), for
whom Europe is something of a proxy. And the background is the abiding truth
that the modern parliamentary Conservative Party is a pretty sceptical body of
men and women.

But I wonder, is there something else going on here too? Something new and
really rather interesting?

Here are two things that two very different, but equally impeccably-connected,
people have said to me in recent days about the latest round of Conservative
Euro-grumbles.

Person 1:"The odd thing about all of this is that it all leads back to one man,
but no one is saying so."

Person 2:"Someone is behind all this. It's not really about Europe, it's about
positioning and long-term ambitions. Someone is stirring this up, because
someone is worried about being outflanked on the issue."

All very mysterious. Who can this enigmatic figure be? (Drumroll, please.)
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you: Mr George Osborne.

Here's the story, as recounted by my anonymous friends: the Chancellor is
worried. He's worried about the fall in his own share price post-Budget, and
he's worried about Boris. He sees the Mayor of London re-elected and
reinvigorated, using his weekly Telegraph column to burnish his eurosceptic
credentials at the Government's expense.(See this for a pretty obvious pop at DC
+ GO, for instance).

That being so, Mr Osborne has "let it be known" among a select group of
colleagues that actually, he's pretty jolly hot on this whole European scam too.
These last few weeks, for instance, "friends of" Mr Osborne have been talking of
his growing exasperation at the way fellow European finance ministers are (not)
dealing with the eurozone crisis. That sort of talk inevitably leaves some
colleagues wondering if the Chancellor is starting to think that Britain would
be better served by taking a step away from the whole sorry mess.

And while Mr Osborne may not be able to deliver a sea-change in European policy
during this Parliament (those damned Lib Dems, you know. Remember Dave's failure
in 2010?), just wait until you see the Conservative manifesto he'll deliver come
2015: it'll be packed full of George's true-blue Tory treasures, including -
potentially - a new referendum promise. Now beat that, Bozza.

You can see the logic to this: some of the Conservative people speaking out on
Europe would be unlikely to do so if they believed that doing so would make Mr
Osborne unhappy. Mr Osborne, constrained by his place in Cabinet, has none of
the freedoms enjoyed by the crowd-pleasing Mayor. Discreetly showing his
colleagues a bit of Eurosceptic leg would be sensible politics for a Chancellor
with ambitions to outlive his boss. And it's hardly unprecedented for a
Chancellor to succeed a Prime Minister by appealing to party's base on core
issues.

Exciting stuff, eh? Maybe too exciting. Maybe it stretches your credulity,
gentle reader.

After all, to believe that Mr Osborne is doing a little bit of kite-flying on
Europe, you'd have to believe that the Chancellor's prime ministerial ambitions
are such that he's prepared to put himself - very subtly - in a position
somewhere to the Right of his dear friend Mr Cameron on this most emotive of
core Tory issues.

And as we established at the beginning, such things are quite, quite
unbelievable. So I'm not going to commit thought-crime by suggesting that Mr
Osborne is behind Mr Cameron's European troubles. But for some reason, some
people think that that is just what is going on.

UPDATE:Several nice people who know all about these things have been in touch to
make a few points about this, all of which I am happy to pass on:1 - There is no
question of a difference of view between No 10 and No 11 about Europe. Or
anything else. Ever.2 - There is a "conversation" taking place at the top of the
Conservative Party about European policy. It is amicable and consensual.3 -
There is another explanation for Mr Osborne's actions.  As the party's chief
election strategist, his No. 1 priority is a Conservative majority in 2015.  And
if, as seems likely, the economy remains weak as the election approaches, the
party must make a different appeal to voters; a more stridently euroceptic
position could form a central plank of that platform.4 - Fair point about Boris.
The swine.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 29, 2012 Tuesday 11:00 AM GMT

Ken Clarke: we would not win a general election now;
Ken Clarke, the Tory Justice Secretary, has said that he is "amazed" that the
Government is not more unpopular and admitted it would still lose a general
election held at the moment.

BYLINE: By Richard Alleyne

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


Mr Clarke said that the government was currently forced to do "unpopular things"
and it was a "credit" to the public that they realised this and remained loyal.

Speaking on the BBC Radio Four Today programme, he said that he had been in
governments "having much more trouble" than this during the midterm.

"I have seen, midterm, much greater turmoil than this," he said.

"I've been in governments having much more trouble than this. Actually I am
amazed that the Government is retaining the support it is."

He said the Coalition like all other western European governments would struggle
to be re-elected if a vote was taken now.

"There is not a government in western Europe could win an election at the moment
because strong governments have to do unpopular things," he said.

"It's a credit to the public actually - they realise we have to do unpopular
things."

He dismissed MPs calling for a referendum on Britain's membership of the
European Union as "a few extreme nationalist politicians".

He said there was little public demand for an in-out vote and insisted voters
are not as deeply eurosceptic as critics of Brussels suggest.

Tory backbenchers have been increasing pressure on Prime Minister David Cameron
to promise a referendum in a bid to blunt the challenge of the UK Independence
Party.

Dozens have signed up to the People's Pledge campaign, which is staging votes
around the country to gauge support - with the first showing 89.9 per cent in
favour.

But Mr Clarke, among the most pro-European Tories, said it was a "ridiculous"
idea that would do nothing to end the complaints of "frenzied" Euro-sceptics.

Asked if he accepted that voters were deeply eurosceptic, he said: "The nation
is a bit eurosceptic.

"The nation is extremely worried about present events, as well we might be. We
all feel insecure, we all feel worried, we are hoping that a strong government
will take us through and some difficult measures are required.

"The idea that they are all demanding a referendum on the European Union would
be regarded as ridiculous, it would be out of sight as a public priority.

"It is the demand of a few right-wing journalists and a few extreme nationalist
politicians."

A referendum would "throw absolute confusion" over the UK's involvement in the
EU, undermining efforts to retain the faith of the markets in the economy, he
suggested.

"I can't think of anything sillier to do."

After the last referendum - in 1975 - opponents of the EU immediately ignored
the "yes" result, he said.

"It would settle nothing," he said.

"Particularly it would settle nothing with the more frenzied Euro-sceptics who
keep believing that European bogies are under the bed.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 29, 2012 Tuesday 10:29 AM GMT

David, George, Boris and a story of European intrigue

BYLINE: By James Kirkup

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1036 words


In the Age of Cameron, there is no thought-crime greater than to suggest a
difference, no matter how fractional, between the Leader and his best beloved
Chancellor. David Cameron and George Osborne are one indivisible entity, a
conjoined soul sharing two mortal bodies. They agree, full stop. And woe shall
befall any Westminster gossip or idle scribbler who suggests otherwise.

That being so, everything that follows must be quite untrue, wilfully or
otherwise. Nevertheless, I feel duty-bound, as a servant of higher truth, to
pass it on, so that fellow citizens can appreciate the sickening calumnies that
some desperate, dissident elements are willing to hurl at the blessed
duumvirate.

Something is happening on the European front. No, I don't mean that whole pesky
eurozone-collapse-financial-apocalypse thing. I'm talking about the far more
important issue of Conservative Party policy.

In essence, the natives are restless. A number of Conservative people are
chuntering about Britain's relationship with the EU, and wondering whether that
relationship should not - you guessed it - be recast, recalibrated, remade and
reconsidered. Their preferred method of achieving that aim is - you guessed
again - is another "re"-word, a referendum.

This is an old hat, but it's being hung on a new peg: a Greek exit from the
euro. The theory goes that the fundamental changes in the single currency
rulebook that would follow - remember, there are no rules for members leaving
the club - would change the UK's relationship with the European Union too. And
depending on who you talk to, that would either trigger a referendum under the
European Union Act, or present HMG with an unmissable opportunity to threaten to
hold such a vote voluntarily, unless the rest of the EU agreed to various
long-standing Conservative demands, like the repatriation of social and
employment powers.

For what it's worth, Mr Cameron doesn't seem to be very keen on any of this
stuff. Asked about it in Chicago last week, he made clear he's not
over-enthusiastic about the more creative ideas his colleagues are putting
forward.

"I favour having a referendum if there is a proposal to transfer power to
Brussels. That is a sensible position," he said. In short, the PM feels he's got
quite enough on his plate without getting involved in another domestic/European
kerfuffle.

But others don't feel that way. From the backbenches to the Cabinet table, some
Conservatives are trying to put pressure on Mr Cameron over Europe.

The reasons are varied, and almost all are well-rehearsed. One reason is Ukip
and its recent polling numbers. Another is some short-term positioning by the
Labour Party on Europe. One is the long-standing unhappiness at the Cameron
leadership felt by some Tories (including a couple of senior ministers), for
whom Europe is something of a proxy. And the background is the abiding truth
that the modern parliamentary Conservative Party is a pretty sceptical body of
men and women.

But I wonder, is there something else going on here too? Something new and
really rather interesting?

Here are two things that two very different, but equally impeccably-connected,
people have said to me in recent days about the latest round of Conservative
Euro-grumbles.

Person 1:"The odd thing about all of this is that it all leads back to one man,
but no one is saying so."

Person 2:"Someone is behind all this. It's not really about Europe, it's about
positioning and long-term ambitions. Someone is stirring this up, because
someone is worried about being outflanked on the issue."

All very mysterious. Who can this enigmatic figure be? (Drumroll, please.)
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you: Mr George Osborne.

Here's the story, as recounted by my anonymous friends: the Chancellor is
worried. He's worried about the fall in his own share price post-Budget, and
he's worried about Boris. He sees the Mayor of London re-elected and
reinvigorated, using his weekly Telegraph column to burnish his eurosceptic
credentials at the Government's expense.(See this for a pretty obvious pop at DC
+ GO, for instance).

That being so, Mr Osborne has "let it be known" among a select group of
colleagues that actually, he's pretty jolly hot on this whole European scam too.
These last few weeks, for instance, "friends of" Mr Osborne have been talking of
his growing exasperation at the way fellow European finance ministers are (not)
dealing with the eurozone crisis. That sort of talk inevitably leaves some
colleagues wondering if the Chancellor is starting to think that Britain would
be better served by taking a step away from the whole sorry mess.

And while Mr Osborne may not be able to deliver a sea-change in European policy
during this Parliament (those damned Lib Dems, you know. Remember Dave's failure
in 2010?), just wait until you see the Conservative manifesto he'll deliver come
2015: it'll be packed full of George's true-blue Tory treasures, including -
potentially - a new referendum promise. Now beat that, Bozza.

You can see the logic to this: some of the Conservative people speaking out on
Europe would be unlikely to do so if they believed that doing so would make Mr
Osborne unhappy. Mr Osborne, constrained by his place in Cabinet, has none of
the freedoms enjoyed by the crowd-pleasing Mayor. Discreetly showing his
colleagues a bit of Eurosceptic leg would be sensible politics for a Chancellor
with ambitions to outlive his boss. And it's hardly unprecedented for a
Chancellor to succeed a Prime Minister by appealing to party's base on core
issues.

Exciting stuff, eh? Maybe too exciting. Maybe it stretches your credulity,
gentle reader.

After all, to believe that Mr Osborne is doing a little bit of kite-flying on
Europe, you'd have to believe that the Chancellor's prime ministerial ambitions
are such that he's prepared to put himself - very subtly - in a position
somewhere to the Right of his dear friend Mr Cameron on this most emotive of
core Tory issues.

And as we established at the beginning, such things are quite, quite
unbelievable. So I'm not going to commit thought-crime by suggesting that Mr
Osborne is behind Mr Cameron's European troubles. But for some reason, some
people think that that is just what is going on.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 28, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A Eurovision humbling as Britain gets the hump;
The weekend on television

BYLINE: Michael Deacon

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 742 words


A suggestion for UKIP. Put to one side, just for a moment, the demands for an
in/out referendum on the European Union. The long-suffering British citizen has
a more urgent priority. We need an in/out referendum on the Eurovision Song
Contest.

Once again, poor old Royaume-Uni was crushed. This shouldn't feel embarrassing.
Britain produces nearly all the best and most commercially successful pop acts
in Europe. We just don't enter them for Eurovision. Adele, Coldplay and Take
That aren't going to represent us some giddy May evening in Riga, Bucharest or
Helsinki. But that's OK, isn't it? We don't care about winning Eurovision. It's
just a bit of fun. We only watch it to laugh at the funny foreigners. Oh those
funny foreigners! They actually take this nonsense seriously! At least, we
assume they do, because only we British get "irony", right?

But then the big night rolls around and we get drunk on our sofas and no one
votes for us and we finish 198 points behind the Faroe Islands and we start
shouting WHO WON THE BLOODY WAR ANYWAY and we're reduced to sulkily reminding
ourselves that Britain produces nearly all the best and most commercially
successful pop acts in Europe so we could easily win if we wanted to we just
don't ALL RIGHT.

This year's contest, broadcast as ever on BBC One, was held in Azerbaijan - "the
most easterly venue of the Eurovision Song Contest ever!" chirped Graham Norton.
Norton is very good at Eurovision. Playful, dry, witty, yet affectionate - much
like his longserving predecessor, Terry Wogan. Both Wogan and Norton, of course,
are Irish. You know what this means. Not only are we unable to find a decent
British entrant, we're unable to find a decent British commentator. (We once had
an empire that stretched across the globe. Seriously: how did that happen? Did
we win it in a raffle?)

Our man, Engelbert "The Hump" Humperdinck, was up first. This fact worried
Norton. Singing first, he said, meant that by the time viewers came to vote they
might have forgotten our song. Frankly, that sounded like our best hope.
Actually The Hump's song wasn't too bad, but it was hard to see what genre its
writers were aiming at. ("A camp version of Johnny Cash! This is exactly what
the world's been waiting for!")

Maybe that didn't matter. It was hard to see what genre most of the other acts
were aiming at either. Russia had a gaggle of tone-deaf grannies. Albania had a
squawking Bjork-alike who "found my plane on the lightless runway of your soul".
Ireland had Jedward, the disturbingly doll-like X Factor twins. They sang about
falling in love with a girl. No viewer expects to escape the Eurovision Song
Contest without some degree of psychological scarring but the idea of Jedward as
sexual beings will be difficult for all but the hardiest to recover from. Soon
you'll see them sleeping rough, or stumbling into rehab clinics and soup
kitchens: people who watched Jedward at Eurovision 2012 and were never able to
readjust to normal life.

Iceland had a male-female duo. At last, you thought, something nice and
conventional. Then you heard them sing. Probably the aim was harmony, but in
practice it sounded as though they were singing two very different songs that by
some inexplicable coincidence had the same lyrics.

Then came outrage. Germany's song, Norton informed us, had been cowritten by
Jamie Cullum. Yes, that Jamie Cullum. The jazz musician. The BRITISH jazz
musician. Cullum - regarded until now as a blameless enough sort of chap - stood
revealed as a traitor, a quisling, a collaborator, a musical Lord Haw-Haw. And
in the year of Her Majesty's Diamond Jubilee, too. The treasonous swine deserves
to be stripped of his passport or at the very least his piano.

Eventually it was time for each country to reveal how its citizens had voted.
The answer was: for everyone except Britain. We ended up with a grand total of
12. This was 360 behind Sweden, the winners. Only Norway had the common courtesy
to score fewer points than we did and save us from finishing last. Belgium,
Latvia, Estonia and Ireland were the sole countries to give us anything.

We British pride ourselves on our tolerance and good grace, but if the Europeans
think we're going to forget about this humiliation they're in for an unpleasant
surprise the next time they come knocking on our door for bail-out money.

"Hello, Brussels! This is London calling! To Italy, we award... £8! To Spain...
£10! But the maximum goes to Greece: £12!"

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A camp Johnny Cash: Engelbert Humperdinck failed to impress in the
singing contest

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 28, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farmer offers to he 'guinea pig' to test GM crops

BYLINE: Hannah Furness

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 275 words


A FARMER who accused anti-GM protesters of "horrible threats" as they targeted a
trial site in Hertfordshire has offered himself as a "human guinea pig" to prove
there are no long-term health dangers from the crops.

Stuart Agnew, 62, a Ukip MEP, said he was one of 60 farmers who "had the guts to
grow GM" after testing a sugar beet crop at his farm in 2002. He has offered his
support to researchers at Rothamsted Research, after they were targeted by
protesters who wanted to pull their plants from the ground. "One of my friends
who was going to do it had his farm vandalised," said Mr Agnew, of Fakenham,
Norfolk. "These are the horrible threats these protesters carry out. I don't
believe there are long-term health dangers of GM foods. And I will offer myself
as a human guinea pig to test them."

His offer came as several hundred protesters from the campaign group Take the
Flour Back (TTFB) gathered at the research site yesterday afternoon, with a
police operation to contain them estimated to have cost more than £100,000.

About 150 officers on horseback and foot were said to have blocked them from
entering the site, as a police helicopter circled overhead.

Two people were arrested by Hertfordshire police for public order offences
within the confines of the Rothamsted Research site yesterday and are being
questioned. TTFB said "sadly" it had "not been possible" to fulfil its aim of
removing the crop.

Eleanor Baylis, 27, said: "The world is watching and Europe is saying 'no' to
GM. We think what the scientists are doing is violent and colonial."

Jenny Jones, 62, of the Green Party, added that she was "concerned" about the
"misjudged" trial.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police blocked several hundred protesters from entering a GM research
site in Hertfordshire yesterday. Some demonstrators wanted to pull the trial
crops from the ground
AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 28, 2012 Monday

Lady Warsi: is it really all about expenses?

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1439 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: The scandal may be down to her perceived unsuitability for the
Tory chairman role

FULL TEXT

Over the weekend Lady Warsi has joined Jeremy Hunt in the dockat the permanent
tribunal of inquiry which Fleet St runs to keep public figures (especially those
unlikely to sue them) on their toes. Its activities greatly outshine those of
Sir Brian Leveson, though their procedures are not always so fastidious.

The fate of the culture secretary still hangs in the balance. Clearly he has
shown poor judgment, at the very least, as last week's email revelations
underline. But his survival depends on his own performance before Lord Justice
Leveson and on how much David Cameron values him, both as a trusted colleagueand
as a shield. Current attacks on George Osbornemake the latter calculation
ever-more important.

But what of Sayeeda Warsi, an altogether less significant figure? From what I
have read in yesterday's Sunday Times [paywall] and elsewhere I cannot feel too
outraged about the overnight allowance money she claimed - around £12,000, we
read - in the capital over the six months which followed her appointment as a
life peer in mid-2007.

It's complicated - as it usually is - and there's a subplot whereby she
apparently failed to register the rent from a flat she bought in north-west
London around that time and rented out after her circumstances changed in 2011.
Since Warsi declared it to the Cabinet Office and - more importantly - to the
tax man, her failure to put it in the Lords register strikes me as the kind of
"oversight" any of us might make in busy lives. Yes?

But the nights she stayed in a house in Acton, west London - and charged the
Lords for overnight expenses - are more problematic. The system of allowances -
you can read it here - has changed a great deal since the MPs expenses row of
2008 engulfed the Lords and led to the suspension, or even jailing, of several
MPs and peers.

Just reading a little about how it works underlines how complicated it is. To
make matters yet more complicated, Warsi - the co-chair of the Tory party as I
type - was using a bedroom loaned by Naweed Khan, a friend (an employee of Tory
HQ, he later became her special adviser) who was in turn living there himself
rent-free.

Lady Warsi and Khan both say she made appropriate contributions on the nights
she stayed there rather than at a hotel - charging the taxpayer the then rate of
£165.50 a night when she was in London on Lords business. The trouble is that
the Acton house is actually owned by Dr Wafik Moustafa, who says the Tory
chairman was his guest, restaurants meals included; indeed that she felt
sufficiently at home there to criticise him for keeping whisky in the house and
eating non-halal meat.

She even threatened to smash his liquor bottles, so the generous GP now says.
But he too is an active Tory of 30 years standing, an Egyptian whose
Conservative Arab League has not been recognised by party HQ despite his efforts
on their behalf. Hark, I think I hear the sound of grinding axes. Dr Moustafa
has since fallen out with Lady Warsi. Neither she nor Khan paid me, he says.

Is this getting us far? I'm not sure it is. Families and friends have such
difficulties over money or politics. I barely know Warsi but would make a couple
of gentle points in her defence. One is that peers are not paid and that their
allowances, however you dress up the words, are designed to cushion that fact.

I'm sure some peers sign on each day without pulling their weight, in order to
claim useful sums of cash, plenty of others work very hard, though are often
quite elderly. Some even claim nothing. The same problem bedevilled the MPs
expenses row. Plenty of honest MPs of all parties have told me that they were
taught to regard the money as an allowance ("you're not claiming enough",
officials told them) rather than an out-of-pocket expense.

Anyone who knows this political world will recognise the importance of the
distinction. One of the disservices the Daily Telegraph did the country in its
very thorough exposé of the MPs' arrangement was to fail to explain that point.

It's also noticeable that those MPs and peers who got into trouble tended either
to be Labour ones of modest background or of different ethnic origin, precisely
the kind of outsiders least equipped to navigate these tricky waters and hardest
to prosecute. More worldly Tories, Cameron and Osborne spring to mind, simply
maxed up their allowances on second home mortgages, clean and simple, and (apart
from a bit of wisteria trimming) emerged unscathed.

So I imagine Warsi, then a 36-year-old Dewsbury solicitor and a failed wannabe
parliamentary candidate, the unprivileged daughter of working-class Pakistani
immigrants (who moved from factory work to successful furniture manufacture),
was both flattered and bewildered when Cameron spotted her potential as a symbol
of his detoxed Tory party: an articulate Muslim woman of modest parentage.
Perfect !!

But there are always risks on plucking people from obscurity and putting them
under the spotlight without an apprenticeship. Her life thoroughly disrupted
(she was obtaining a divorce from her arranged teenage marriage about this
time), Warsi came to London and probably did what others advised her to do. By
Christmas that year she and Labour's Lord Ahmed were dashing to the Sudan to
rescue a British teacher from the teddy-bear-blasphemyaffair, so foolish a row
that I will not revive it here.

I can see quite easily why she might have got things wrong, not least in
treating expenses as allowances at a time when she must have been losing income
and acquiring extra costs in a wholly new and scary world. It was common enough
at the time when MPs and peers could see the vast salaries and bonuses being
paid to some of their committee witnesses from the pre-bust City. Some of them
felt a bit hard done-by.

You don't need to sympathise, but you might understand. Other times, other
morals, as the old saying goes in French.

So why is it out now? That's more interesting. The Sunday Times has long run a
sideline on politicians expenses and done some good work, though I have always
felt its talents would have been even better deployed on News International's
and its parent body's complex tax affairs. But the knives are also out for Warsi
for being what some Tory MPs and activists see as a liability rather than an
asset as Tory chair.

In today's Mail, Andrew Pierce handily sums up the complaints of the grassroots
with his usual expedient efficiency. The Sunday Telegraph seems to have switched
its splash story to pick up the Sunday Times's investigation - not something a
Sunday paper likes doing. There may be a whiff here of prejudice, though it's
always tricky.

A few weeks ago the Sunday Tel splashed on claims that Archbishop John Sentamu,
then favourite to move from York to Canterbury when Dr Rowan Williams steps
down, was the victim of racist mutterings. Is it more offensive to entertain
racist mutterings against a candidate or to mutter claims that others are
muttering (if you see what I mean)?

The fact is that, just as Dr Sentamu is seen by some as too impulsive and
emotional to head the Anglican communion in these dangerous times, so Warsi is
seen as too lightweight to be unleashed on Radio 4's Today programme and TV
spots where the chairman is expected to perform. In both cases the hostility is
reinforced by what we might call cultural conservatism on core issues such as
gay rights/gay marriage. Warsi also stuck her neck out - even redtop man, Kelvin
McKenzie was impressed - when she said, rightly I think, that the Lancashire
grooming casesspring from the attitudes of some Pakistani men.

That should all have pleased culturally conservative British Tory activists who
are reported to be pretty cross over the gay marriage issue. But life is such
that they are more likely to remember Lady Warsi's threat to Dr ("I'm an
Egyptian Muslim, we are not so strict") Moustafa's scotch bottles and use it to
justify a hunch that the party needs a new chairman who is more in touch with
their feelings and interests. By that they usually mean Norman Tebbit who flirts
perilously close to the Ukip line.

We shall see. But whatever the rights and wrongs of her expenses claims, she's
not a good enough chairman for such dangerous times as the coalition now faces.
So Lady Warsi should brace herself for a new job when David Cameron finally gets
round to the long-predicted, long-postponed reshuffle that is now needed to stop
his regime from shipping water. If she manages to last that long.

· Please note, comments have been switched off for legal reasons.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 28, 2012 Monday

The Guardian profile: Claire Perry: Swearing loyalty, or simply swearing: the
new brand of Tory 'iron lady'

BYLINE: Jane Martinson

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1636 words


Imagine, just for a moment, Margaret Thatcher pondering aloud whether she had to
give the Speaker a blow job in order to get a hearing. Or leaning over during a
parliamentary session to tell a particularly disagreeable Tory colleague to
"fuck off and join Ukip". Not even last year's Oscar-nominated biopic could
provide such delicious vignettes.

Yet Claire Perry, recently dubbed one of the Conservative party's new cohort of
"Iron Ladies" by a political thinktank, not only made those comments about the
Speaker of the House of Commons, but later discussed oral sex at a Conservative
party fringe meeting. Few of the party faithful can remember blow jobs being
discussed openly from a Tory platform before.

The MP for Devizes is as good an example as any of the new generation of Tory
women trying to change the image of the party, despite the fact that she entered
parliament just six years ago. Credited with persuading the government to review
internet porn earlier this month, involved in this week's putsch of the
influential 1922 backbench committee and frequently in trouble for her
shoot-from-the-lip behaviour, it is clear that Perry has no trouble being
noticed in Westminster without any need to bestow sexual favours.

Increasingly tipped for a cabinet post despite her newbie status, the former
banker and stay-at-home mother is deemed by thinktank Demos to be one of 2010's
intake of women "helping to reshape the Conservative party" with a mix of fiscal
conservatism and social liberalism.

Fiercely loyal to George Osborne, she is frequently derided as one of "Giddy's
gang" after getting her first job in politics working for the then shadow
chancellor (christened Gideon). Yet having shown no previous commitment to
Conservative politics - she is believed to have flirted with the Labour party as
a student - she is far from easy to pin down ideologically. Max Wind-Cowie, head
of the Progressive Conservatism project at Demos, says: "She has very little
time for ideologues either of the right or left. She just wants to get things
done and gets very frustrated with dogma."

Her greatest triumph to date has undoubtedly been the campaign for better
safeguards on internet pornography, which would make consumers "opt in" if they
wished to access adult services. Earlier this month, the government backed
Perry's campaign, which she spearheaded as chair of an independent inquiry into
online child protection, by calling for a full review of the issue - despite
protests from internet service providers.

That success is key to understanding Perry's politics and modus operandi. Amber
Rudd, also part of the 2010 intake featured by Demos, calls the campaign a
"remarkable" achievement. "Claire quite wisely worked out how to get it done and
got cross-party support for it," she says, adding that her friend and colleague
"is much more comfortable with coalition politics" than some more established
politicians.

A former banker and McKinsey analyst, Perry is also credited with encouraging
TalkTalk to see the commercial benefits of offering families with young children
an "opt-in" porn option. One of the smaller internet service providers, TalkTalk
recently announced that more than 350,000 customers were using its free HomeSafe
service.

Perry's style wins cross-party support as well as criticism. Crossbench peer
Lady Howe said: "She is an extremely good, new, young(ish) MP," while Liberal
Democrat MP Jo Swinson said: "The media always like to deal with stereotypes but
I've always found her warm, straightforward and easy to get on with." Perry has
also won support from women's rights campaigners for her clear and forthright
stance on the damage done by easily available pornography, saying: "Pornography
is a poor sex educator."

She has not impressed everyone, of course. Sue Buxton, secretary to the Devizes
constituency Labour party, dismisses her as "a self-publicist (who) likes to be
seen out and about cutting ribbons" while writing a weekly column in the local
newspaper that largely ignores "important local issues".

After the Mail on Sunday reported that she had told the Tory Eurosceptic MP
Douglas Carswell to go and join another party, commentators on the
ConservativeHome website made their disapproval known, calling her a "lapdog"
and a "sycophantic outrider (who) sums up the intellectual depth of the party
leadership".

Despite her evident energy and enthusiasm - and her popularity with many
journalists, who like her outspokenness - Perry's media performances have been a
hit-and-miss affair.

One low point was a row with Andrew Neil on his Daily Politics show, for which
the presenter says she subsequently apologised. Last November, I watched her
misread a dinner designed to introduce female journalists to members of the
Conservative Women's Forum and convince them that David Cameron didn't really
have a "women problem" - despite what the polls said - with a meal-ending
table-thumper that sounded more like a party political broadcast. Wind-Cowie
says Perry is unusual in that she is both a loyalist and outspoken: "Usually the
noisiest people are the most disgruntled. Claire isn't like that. She's
shoutily, swearily loyal."

Perry has apologised for her swearing, which she has blamed on her former career
in the City. Of the blow job comment, she said: "There is really no excuse for
it. I am a relatively new MP and I am still learning the ropes."

A key characteristic of the 2010 intake of Tory women is that they have rarely
led political lives, typically forging careers elsewhere. Perry, who is 48,
worked in the City, but also gave up work for seven years to look after her
children, now aged between nine and 15 and all at boarding school.

Born in Worcestershire, Perry is eerily close to the "Worcester woman" fought
over by both Tories and Labour since 1997 - a middle-aged working mother with a
middle income, living in middle England. Although she has never said so, few in
the party would be surprised if she had, like her fellow MP Louise Mensch, toyed
with a Labour vote.

Indeed Mensch, who calls Perry a "kindred spirit", believes Perry's relatively
late entry to the party should be "embraced" as a refreshing change. "I like
that she is prepared to say 'sod it' . . . She speaks her mind and everybody
likes it about her." There is a telling passage in Perry's essay for Iron Ladies
in which she writes of the "terribly feminist old-school thinking that might
have made sense to me when I was my college women's representative, spending
hours discussing the merits of being called 'womb-en' and putting up Reclaim the
Night posters".

Perry graduated with a degree in geography from Brasenose College, Oxford, the
summer before David Cameron arrived. With her two Oxford blues for rowing, it
would be easy to see the loyalist MP as part of the old school tie club that
unites so many of the cabinet. Yet, as she points out on her own website, Perry
attended a comprehensive school and was the first of her family to stay on at
school past 16.

After Brasenose she went to Harvard Business School and worked at McKinsey and
Credit Suisse, and married her New Zealander husband, who is still a fund
manager. Her tweets as @claire4devizes sometimes suggest she is still living the
life of the Wiltshire wife, with talk of homemade quiches and the occasional
"home in time for pub quiz with Mr P who is usually team Hans Solo on Tuesday
nights".

The story of how, after giving up paid work, Perry became political adviser to
Osborne suggests she simply turned up and impressed him so much with her energy
and enthusiasm that he gave her a job. She was elected to a safe seat and enjoys
a majority of more than 13,000.

Perry has described the 40 or so members of the Conservative Women's Forum as
"critical friends" of the government, but they are more important than that. Not
only does the forum contest the suggestion that equality is a numbers game in
which Cameron - with women representing just five cabinet posts and 16% of all
Tory MPs - looks like a loser, it provides role models for the sort of women
whom the prime minister needs votes from if he is ever to win a proper majority
in parliament.

Her very existence both reminds the party faithful of their most successful
prime minister in living memory and suggests the great strides that have been
made for women since 1979, with or without the Conservative party.

As Wind-Cowie says: "The next female leader of the Conservative party will
perhaps be someone like Claire Perry, but the interesting or novel thing about
her is not that she is a woman. She is an unusual yet modern MP."

Potted profile:

Born 3 April 1964, Worcestershire

Career to date From Oxford and Harvard Business School she went on to a career
in banking, working at McKinsey and Credit Suisse, before setting up her own
company offering financial advice for women. Took time out of paid work when her
children were small. In 2007, she became a political adviser to the then shadow
chancellor, George Osborne. In 2010, she was elected as MP for Devizes.

High point Winning government support for her plans to force internet service
providers to offer "opt-in" for porn. In October 2011, she was appointed
parliamentary private secretary to Philip

Hammond, the defence secretary.

Low point Her rant after the Speaker, John Bercow, failed to pick her to speak
in a Commons debate ("What have I got to do to be called by the Speaker? Give
him a blow job?"). She later apologised.

She said "(I'm) reading that I suggested some malcontent colleagues put a sock
in it. A view expressed by me and approx 297 other Conservative MPs."

They say "I like that she is prepared to say sod it . . . She speaks her mind
and everybody likes it about her." Fellow Tory MP Louise Mensch

Captions:

Original photograph by Richard Saker. Digital retouching by GNM imaging

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 28, 2012 Monday 9:58 AM GMT

Gay marriage debacle shows how governing elite of all parties are out of touch
with the rest of the country

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 849 words


More than half a million people have signed the petition opposing gay marriage.

On Sunday, a ComRes poll of MPs found that the issue comfortably topped their
postbags and emails and that three in four of their correspondents were opposed
to it or strongly opposed.

Tens of thousands more have responded to the Home Office consultation on
redefining a human institution that has been us since the dawn of time. As one
wag put it: 'It's Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve.'

Gay marriage divides the public, most of whom have better things to worry about.
More to the point, it is anathema to many people - social conservatives - who
feel we play with the building blocks of human society at our peril.

But this is not the view of the governing elite. The leaders of all three main
parties support gay marriage. Almost all Labour MPs and Lib Dems back it. The
only debate is inside the Conservative Party. If same sex marriage comes to a
vote in the Commons, the elite will have its way.

It is a commonplace to observe that the 'arrogant posh boys' in Downing Street,
Dave and George, are out of touch with the public.

But that does not just apply to gay marriage. Take some other key controversies.
The public wants tough controls on immigration and Dave promised to reduce it
from its current 250,000 a year to tens of thousands.

At the weekend, against the background of unchanged immigration levels two years
later, Home Secretary Theresa May took time out from making her gay marriage
video to observe that work in this area is ongoing.

Don't hold your breath. The governing elite does not want to reduce immigration.
Where would they get their nannies, cleaners and chauffeurs from?

Take Europe. Two people in three want a referendum on British membership of the
EU. The governing elite does not want a referendum. Barring a political
earthquake, we won't get one.

Events have killed off the elite's enthusisam for abolishing the pound and
joining the euro. Its more notable supporters once included Tony Blair, Peter
Mandelson, Kenneth Clarke, Chris Patten, Michael Heseltine and every Lib Dem
leader you care to think of. But it has taken the biggest financial crisis in
Europe for 60 years to shut them up.

The public wants the Government to repudiate the European Court of Human Rights
so that we can regain the right to govern ourselves and deport foreign
terrorists with murderous intent. The elite says No.

Take a string of other things. The public wants grammar schools, firm discipline
in schools, an end to spend, tax and borrow economics, proper protection for our
troops fighting foreign wars, longer sentences for criminals and an end to
liberal measures like early release. It has wanted the return of capital
punishment for more than 30 years. The elite says No.

The public believe that welfare should not be an alternative to work. The elite,
nervous of appearing nasty, presides over an unaffordable £100 billion plus
system of handouts that enables unemployed families to live in mansions that the
grafters can only dream of.

It has taken Welfare Secretary Iain Duncan Smith (not an elite politician) to
bring some sense to this madness with his housing benefit and welfare caps.

Who are the elite? Once upon a time, the three main political parties,
especially the Tories and Labour were led by and made up of people of strikingly
different backgrounds with strikingly differing views.

But now they are increasingly alike. A lot went to private schools and worked in
quasi-political jobs like research and PR, public sector and quango management,
the more flexible and inconsequential end of the law, trade union office jobs,
and the media.

Like Cameron, Osborne, Miliband, Balls, Clegg, Hague and many others, they
secured safe seats young and became professional politicians. They have
interchangeable backgrounds and interchangeable views.

The self-made businessmen and hard-boiled manual workers who once stiffened the
sinews of the Conservative and Labour parties are a vanishing breed.

There is no place for them in the politically correct, judgement-free,
risk-averse world of today's amorphous governing class.

Dave may yet be persuaded that gay marriage is a bridge too far and that it will
cost him too much in terms of backbench dissent, lost members, increased support
for UKIP and a donor rebellion. But don't bet on it.

As for the so-called free vote concession, it would have been unthinkable for
the bien pensants to have whipped MPs to vote against their conscience on such a
primal matter.

More likely is that the elite will get its way. Just as it did over shutting
down the Catholic adoption agencies who refused to bow the knee to its demands.

But every trend has its price. The more the three parties come to resemble one
another, the harder it is to justify bothering to vote. If you are a natural
Tory voter, what does it matter if Labour forms the government - and vice versa?

Trust in politicians declines further, democracy is debased, fewer people bother
to vote and the gulf between those who govern and the governed grows wider
still. It is not a happy state of affairs.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  May 27, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Guido Fawkes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 609 words


THE good weather has arrived just in time for MPs who broke up for another two
weeks' holiday on Thursday. Well, the poor darlings have been back at work for
over two weeks since the Queen's State Opening of Parliament, following the last
long holiday.

THE other day Ed Miliband stood awkwardly grinning at the beginning of a speech,
bantering with the Press that he had spoken to David Davis, the Prime Minister's
one-time rival for the Tory leadership. Miliband mischievously claimed he was
agreeing with Davis more and more in their views about the Prime Minister. Such
a backroom chat would have been a coup for Ed at a time when Tory
traditionalists like Davis are growing increasingly irritated with the
leadership. Guido had a drink with Davis later in the week and he confirmed he
had indeed spoken to Ed. Just the once though. In New York. Four years ago. Nice
bit of spinning there, Ed.

THOSE "cash for access" revelations are a perpetual embarrassment in politics.
Labour didn't hold back any punches when the Tories' chief fund-raiser was
caught blabbing about the Downing Street suppers he could get potential donors
for £250,000. So you would think Labour would be discreet, instead of openly
advertising dinner with Ed Miliband and former Prime Minister Tony Blair. If you
want to sit at the back squinting, a table will set you back a mere £5,000. For
that special access up front, the cost soars to £12,500. You would have to pay
Guido to go.

DAGENHAM MP Jon Cruddas is definitely one to watch. He lost out standing
alongside David Miliband on a "dream ticket" for the Labour leadership in 2010.
The winning brother Ed Miliband has now appointed him to a policy role in the
party. Just a month ago Cruddas gave a speech in which he declared Middle
England was "mythical". This was despite Ed having spent the last two years
trying to reach out to the "squeezed middle". Cruddas combines brains with a
tendency not to mince his words or back down, so expect some fireworks.

LABOUR'S MP for Bristol, Kerry McCarthy, has a terrible habit of saying absurd
things on Twitter, so what did her party do? Make her their "Twitter Tsar" of
course. After receiving a caution from the police for illegally tweeting postal
voting results before they were officially counted, the self-proclaimed social
media guru has managed to stay out of trouble for a while. Until Friday.
Apparently, the man drinking beer on her train should be killed before he could
"breed". How many apologies will it take before Labour wake up and realise Kerry
is a walking tweeting disaster? ANOTHER move up for the Eurosceptic UKIP party.
Now level pegging nearly every day with the Liberal Democrats in the polls, they
seem to be beefing up their press team. Sky News producer Katie Snape will be
joining their media team as a spinner. She's the daughter of Labour peer Lord
Snape - the chairman of Stockport FC. UKIP got more than 13% of the vote at the
local elections earlier this month and though traditionally seen to attract
disaffected Tory voters, Labour will need to watch their backs as well.

ANOTHER spinner on her way up is Susie Squire, above - she is leaving Cabinet
Minister Iain Duncan Smith's side to go to Tory HQ to head their press team.
Easy-onthe-eye ex-model Susie is a quick thinker. Unable to shake off a
pestering drunk admirer at a party during the Conservatives' annual Conference,
she accepted his proffered hotel key. When another amorous hopeful chatted her
up later, she gave him the key with a wink and told him to come to her hotel
room after midnight. What happened when the two randy drunk men rendezvoused in
the hotel room can only be imagined.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BORDER FARCE

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 288 words


DURING the last General Election campaign, David Cameron promised to bring down
net immigration to "tens of thousands".

That hasn't worked out so well, has it, Dave?

This week we learned that net immigration in the year to September 2011 was
252,000.

To be fair, the Government have cut immigration if you compare that figure to
the previous year. Problem is, it's only by 3,000. Damian Green, the immigration
minister, claims the Government are on the right track, pointing out that in the
first three months of 2012 the number of student visas being issued fell by 62
per cent.

Meanwhile, behind the scenes, Conservative ministers are quick to blame their
Lib Dem colleagues.

If only we weren't in a coalition, they say, we would be cutting immigration
much faster.

Sorry, but that won't wash. If this Government can't do anything about net
immigration of a quarter of a million every year, the Tories don't deserve to
win the next election.

Must try harder, Dave.

I SPOKE to Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, this week.

He's unconvinced by talk of the Conservatives including a commitment to an
In/Out EU referendum in their next manifesto.

"I don't trust 'em," he said. "Never have, never will."

The only thing that could persuade UKIP not to oppose Tory candidates in
Conservative marginals, he told me, is if individual Conservative associations
agree to field candidates on behalf of his party and theirs.

In other words, a groundlevel electoral pact between UKIP and the Tories.

Will it happen? Given the current strength of UKIP - who are now consistently
outpolling the Lib Dems - I wouldn't be surprised.

I know one thing. If there were a joint UKIP-Conservative candidate in my
constituency, I'd vote for him.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISTRUST ... Farage
'RIGHT TRACK' ... Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MPs rely on betting sites to predict their fortunes;
Politicians are increasingly using online odds rather than polls to gauge their
electoral prospects, says Mark Hookham

BYLINE: Mark Hookham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1095 words


FOR years politicians relied on pollsters to tell them the pulse of the nation.
But now they are turning to online bookmakers to help them predict their
political fortunes.

Many believe that keeping a close eye on the fluctuating odds on political
betting websites is the most accurate way of predicting election results.

Bookmakers brag of a string of victories where they claim to have been more
accurate than the polls, including forecasting the number of Conservative seats
won in the 2010 general election and foreseeing Ed Miliband's victory in the
Labour leadership contest.

The views of "betting pundits" are increasingly being listened to by Tory
cabinet ministers desperate to win a majority at the next election.

One of Westminster's most influential commentators is Mike Smithson, the editor
of politicalbetting.com.

David Cameron is thought to use his iPad to check the site, which provides
analysis on polling trends and changes in the political betting odds.

Smithson, a former journalist who established the site in 2004, has an uncanny
knack for getting it right. He put money on George Galloway winning the recent
Bradford West by-election on the day the Respect leader announced his
candidature - more than three weeks before polling. "I got 33-1 when I tipped
him. I made a bit of money on it," he said.

In comments that will cheer the prime minister, Smithson's latest analysis is
that UKIP's success in the polls - which has seen the right-wing party soar to
up to 9% - is overstated.

"The rise of UKIP is very much a phenomenon of online polling. The telephone
pollsters - Mori, ICM and Populus - have been showing them on a much lower
level."

Other MPs keep an eagle eye on the political betting odds offered by bookmakers
such as William Hill, Ladbrokes and Paddy Power.

Amber Rudd, a Conservative MP, said bookmakers forecast her victory in Hastings
and Rye at the 2010 election more accurately than the opinion polls. "The time
when politicians follow them avidly is before elections. As somebody who was
going for a marginal seat in 2010 I did follow them very carefully to see where
the odds were on winning it. They were more accurate than the polls."

Rudd, who used to work in banking, has compared the poll ratings of Boris
Johnson and Ken Livingstone during the London mayoral election with their
betting odds.

While some polls showed a "bounce" for Livingstone at one stage of the campaign
that had him leading by two points, Johnson remained a clear favourite with the
bookmakers throughout.

Precisely why gamblers could be better at guessing political outcomes is not
really known. But the most obvious explanation is because people are more honest
when they are betting with their hard-earned money.

"Whilst opinion polls are often a tick-box exercise and there is no incentive to
be truthful, political betting requires you to put your money where your mouth
is, and people are a lot more honest when it's their own money at stake," said
Richard Royal of Ladbrokes. It sets political odds by looking at polling data
and then examining media reports, Twitter and blogs to assess how a contest is
shaping up.

The bookmaker was this weekend offering odds of 7-4 on Nick Clegg being replaced
as Liberal Democrat leader before the next election and odds of 1-2 on Jeremy
Hunt, the embattled culture secretary, being the next cabinet minister to lose
his job.

Bookmakers are increasingly seeing the arrival of professional gamblers placing
sums on politics. Ladbrokes took a £10,000 bet at 1-20 on the Conservatives to
win the most seats during the 2010 election campaign. Paddy Power took a £10,000
bet on the Tories to win Chesham and Amersham at 1-100, despite the fact that it
netted the winning gambler only £100.

Campaign strategists say they keep a close eye on political betting websites
because such big bets can generate their own political momentum.

"It can become s e l f -fulfilling," said one Tory party source.

"If someone puts a heavy bet on someone, it will get reported in the press and
then the public will think 'aha'."

Many betting experts believe the most accurate websites are so-called exchanges
such as Betfair, where customers can either place bets or act as the bookmaker
and accept other people's bets.

Leighton Vaughan Williams, a professor at Nottingham Business School, said
because large numbers of people can participate in individual betting markets,
accurate predictions can be generated by "the wisdom of the crowd".

During the 2008 American election Betfair and Intrade, another betting site
where punters buy or sell fluctuating "shares" in whether an event will take
place, accurately predicted the outcomes in 49 of 50 states.

The betting exchange markets also instantly adjust to a faux pas or policy
announcement.

Vaughan Williams said betting markets in America adjusted downwards their
prediction of President Barack Obama winning this year's US election after he
backed gay marriage.

"Some of the opinion polls moved towards Obama and some couldn't see much impact
at all but the betting markets were fairly clear - it actually reduced Obama's
probability of winning by just a few points."

In America, betting markets have even become a source of breaking news. Vaughan
Williams said punters started piling money on Saddam Hussein being captured in
December 2003, hours before any news was released that he had been found.
"Anyone who followed the markets knew he had been captured," the professor said.
"What had happened, it seems, is that the information had leaked but not to the
news agencies.

"If I want to get my news first I look up the betting markets."

Traditional pollsters remain sceptical about the accuracy of bookmakers and
betting markets.

"The people who bet are watching the polls. If you didn't have the polls, the
odds would almost certainly be very different," said Peter Kellner, president of
YouGov.

The smart money is going here, Mr Cameron, Amber Rudd, Think Tank, page 25

Latest odds

Who will form the next government?

Labour majority 7-4

Conservative majority 2-1

Labour minority 5-1

Lab-Lib Dem coalition 5-1

Con-Lib Dem coalition 11-2

Conservative minority 6-1

(Paddy Power)

Will Scotland achieve full independence by January 1, 2020?

Yes 7-1

No 1-16

(William Hill)

Next politician to leave the coalition's cabinet Jeremy Hunt 1-2 Baroness Warsi
7-1 Andrew Lansley 12-1 Theresa May 16-1 (Ladbrokes)

Ed Miliband to be PM before 2020 Y

es 5-4 (Ladbrokes)

Next Tory leader Boris Johnson 4-1 George Osborne 7-1 Michael Gove 9-1 Priti
Patel 9-1 Nadine Dorries 119-1 Jacob Rees-Mogg 120-1 Francis Maude 199-1
(Betfair)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Betting sites have closely monitored recent elections involving George
Galloway, above, Boris Johnson, top centre, and the Miliband brothers, top left
ROSS PARRY/ANDREW PARSONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MPs rely on betting sites to predict their fortunes

BYLINE: Mark Hookham

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 857 words


FOR years politicians relied on pollsters to tell them the pulse of the nation.
But now they are turning to online bookmakers to help them predict their
political fortunes.

Many believe that keeping a close eye on the fluctuating odds on political
betting websites is the most accurate way of predicting election results.

Bookmakers brag of a string of victories where they claim to have been more
accurate than the polls, including forecasting the number of Conservative seats
won in the 2010 general election and foreseeing Ed Miliband's victory in the
Labour leadership contest.

One of Westminster's most influential commentators is Mike Smithson, the editor
of politicalbetting.com.

David Cameron is thought to check the site, which provides analysis on polling
trends and political betting odds.

Smithson, a former journalist who established the site in 2004, has an uncanny
knack for getting it right. He put money on George Galloway winning the recent
Bradford West by-election on the day the Respect leader announced his
candidature - more than three weeks before polling. "I got 33-1 when I tipped
him. I made a bit of money on it," he said.

In comments that will cheer the prime minister, Smithson's latest analysis is
that UKIP's success in the polls - which has seen the right-wing party soar to
up to 9% - is overstated.

"The rise of UKIP is very much a phenomenon of online polling. The telephone
pollsters - Mori, ICM and Populus - have been showing them on a much lower
level."

Amber Rudd, a Conservative MP, said bookmakers forecast her victory in Hastings
and Rye at the 2010 election more accurately than the opinion polls. "The time
when politicians follow them avidly is before elections. As somebody who was
going for a marginal seat in 2010 I did follow them very carefully to see where
the odds were on winning it. They were more accurate than the polls."

Rudd, who used to work in banking, has compared the poll ratings of Boris
Johnson and Ken Livingstone during the London mayoral election with their
betting odds.

While some polls showed a "bounce" for Livingstone at one stage of the campaign
that had him leading by two points, Johnson remained a clear favourite with the
bookmakers throughout.

Precisely why gamblers could be better at guessing political outcomes is not
really known. But the most obvious explanation is that people are more honest
when they are betting with their hard-earned money.

"Whilst opinion polls are often a tick-box exercise and there is no incentive to
be truthful, political betting requires you to put your money where your mouth
is, and people are a lot more honest when it's their own money at stake," said
Richard Royal of Ladbrokes.

It sets political odds by looking at polling data and then examining media
reports, Twitter and blogs to assess how a contest is shaping up.

The bookmaker was this weekend offering odds of 7-4 on Nick Clegg being replaced
as Liberal Democrat leader before the next election and odds of 1-2 on Jeremy
Hunt, the embattled culture secretary, being the next cabinet minister to lose
his job.

Bookmakers are increasingly seeing the arrival of professional gamblers placing
sums on politics. Ladbrokes took a £10,000 bet at 1-20 on the Conservatives to
win the most seats in the 2010 election. Paddy Power took a £10,000 bet on the
Tories to win Chesham and Amersham at 1-100, despite the fact that it netted the
winning punter only £100.

Campaign strategists say they keep a close eye on political betting websites
because such big bets can generate their own political momentum.

"It can become s e l f -fulfilling," said one Tory party source. "If someone
puts a heavy bet on someone, it will get reported in the press and then the
public will think 'aha'."

Many betting experts believe the most accurate websites are so-called exchanges
such as Betfair, where customers can either place bets or act as the bookmaker
and accept other people's bets.

Leighton Vaughan Williams, a professor at Nottingham Business School, said
because large numbers of people can participate in individual betting markets,
accurate predictions can be generated by "the wisdom of the crowd".

Traditional pollsters remain sceptical about the accuracy of bookmakers and
betting markets.

"The people who bet are watching the polls. If you didn't have the polls, the
odds would almost certainly be very different," said Peter Kellner, president of
YouGov.

The smart money is going here, Mr Cameron, Amber Rudd, Think Tank, page 25.

For a more conventional poll by YouGov, go to thesundaytimes.co.uk/politics
Latest odds Who will form the next government? Labour majority 7-4 Conservative
majority 2-1 Labour minority 5-1 Lab-Lib Dem coalition 5-1 Con-Lib Dem coalition
11-2 Conservative minority 6-1 (Paddy Power) Will Scotland achieve full
independence by January 1, 2020? Yes 7-1 No 1-16 (William Hill) Next politician
to leave the coalition's cabinet Jeremy Hunt 1-2 Baroness Warsi 7-1 Andrew
Lansley 12-1 Theresa May 16-1 (Ladbrokes) Next Tory leader Boris Johnson 4-1
George Osborne 7-1 Michael Gove 9-1 Priti Patel 9-1 Nadine Dorries 119-1 Jacob
Rees-Mogg 120-1 Francis Maude 199-1 (Betfair)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Betting sites have closely monitored recent elections involving George
Galloway, above, Boris Johnson, top centre, and the Miliband brothers, top left
ROSS PARRY/ANDREW PARSONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 26, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Is Cameron on the right track?

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1554 words


ARE WE there yet? Most of us have been asked that question at some point when we
are at the wheel during a long and complicated journey. When the drive is taking
longer than planned and no signpost has been sighted for a while passengers can
usually be relied upon to pipe up with: "Are you sure we are going the right
way?" Or even: "Just admit it. You're lost, aren't you?" Pressure is sometimes
put on the driver to stop and ask for fresh directions. We men in particular are
notorious for our reluctance to do this. On sighting some local wise guy sitting
on a bench we might even snap: "I have no intention of listening to that
muttering idiot."

The secret is to give off an air of confidence about our general direction while
secretly scanning the horizon for clues. "We are on the right track" is a good
phrase in such circumstances - not so specific as to invite detailed
cross-examination but usually persuasive enough to quell mutinous thoughts among
the passengers. So no wonder it is the phrase of the moment in Downing Street.

After a shambolic few months and in particular the catastrophe of George
Osborne's Budget, David Cameron's team seems to have brought a halt to the own
goals.

There is suddenly a new clarity about ministerial utterances. The journey they
are taking us on is being described plainly: getting rid of Labour's deficit,
rebalancing the economy so the wealth-creating private sector becomes larger and
the public sector smaller, reforming education and welfare to enable more
Britons to make a meaningful economic contribution.

Care is being taken to highlight fragments of good news along the way - that
Britain is a net exporter of cars for the first time in 35 years, that our
exports overall rose by 12 per cent last year, that there are 600,000 net new
jobs in the private sector since the last election.

HELPFUL backbenchers (often those desperate for promotion) are being encouraged
to raise such points in Prime Minister's Questions. This week Sajid Javid
(Bromsgrove) said his constituents would be "relieved to learn that the
Government has already cleared one quarter of the record, irresponsible deficit
left by the Labour Party".

Jeremy Lefroy (Stafford) mentioned new manufacturing investment in his
constituency, while Christopher Pincher (Tamworth) was even more upbeat,
concluding his question with: "Does the Prime Minister agree that, although
times are tough and much still needs to be done, this Government and this
country are on the right track?" Eric Ollerenshaw (Lancaster and Fleetwood)
talked about falling local unemployment and concluded: "Does that not show that
things are moving in the right direction in Lancashire?" Mike Weatherley (Hove)
reminded MPs that the Government has just made squatting a criminal offence,
meaning the police finally have a duty to intervene on the side of homeowners
whose properties are invaded. This allowed Mr Cameron to reply: "It is very
important that home-owners have proper protection from people, in effect,
stealing their property, which is what squatting is. It is a criminal act and it
is now a criminal offence." The vast majority of voters will approve.

None of this means that a recovery in Conservative political fortunes is
imminent, just that the PM's team has succeeded in halting the impression of a
regime in freefall. In fact there is still a lot of bad news about as well, with
poor retail sales and output figures for the first quarter showing the economy
was deeper in recession than first thought.

One set of figures that really stood out was obtained by the Tory MP Andrew
Stephenson about average weekly earnings in his Pendle constituency.

In 2008 they were £420, in 2009 £385, in 2010 £384 and in 2011 just under £379.

So the average working person in Pendle is earning some £40 a week less than
four years ago, despite the cost of living having increased markedly. If this
basic pattern was repeated across the country - and there is little reason to
suppose that it has not been - then the impact of the disastrous contraction of
the economy is clear: living standards have fallen far and fast for most working
people and are still doing so. Such circumstances are hardly auspicious for the
prospects of the governing parties.

Mr Osborne this week heralded an inflation rate of three per cent as "good
news". It may not feel like that to people whose wages are not keeping pace.

So no, we are not there yet. We're about a quarter of the way. And to be honest
we are not even certain we are going via the right route.

But the car is no longer bunny hopping all over the carriageway. And after the
nightmare spring the Government has endured that must count as progress.

ken clarke's causing a law and order shambles KEN CLARKE was once described by
his old Cabinet colleague Douglas Hurd as "the kind of politician who would
cross a road in order to get into a fight".

This week the Justice Secretary picked one with the popular press - blaming us
for the prison population being higher than he would like. Well, if our
collective efforts have led to more villains being locked away then we're guilty
as charged and proud of it.

But seeing as Mr Clarke raises the issue, it would be neglectful not to note
that his Ministry of Justice is a shambles. Were it not for the over-riding
dominance of the economy as the top political issue we would by now be in the
middle of a major outcry about it. Every week new evidence emerges that the MoJ
is heading in the wrong direction. A series of written answers from the
department this week to Tory law and order campaigner Priti Patel MP has
revealed a new multitude of sins.

For example the number of foreign prisoners from the rest of the EU who have
been returned to serve their sentences has fallen from 102 in 2007 to just 22
last year. At this rate of decline Clarke's indolent team will reach zero by the
next election.

Or what about the number of offenders receiving more than one community sentence
within a single year? That's at an all-time record 52,812. These are people
who've been let off once, failed to mend their ways on a community sentence,
been convicted again and then given another let off.

Ms Patel's research has also revealed, almost unbelievably, that there is one
offender who has been given 20 community sentences. Every time he serves one he
just carries on committing crime. As Ms Patel argues: "Community sentences
should be given as a final chance for offenders to rehabilitate in the
community.

"But these damning figures show that too many criminals who are let off lightly
continue to break the law and cause misery to the law-abiding majority.

"Instead of handing down soft sentences the courts should be sending these
criminals to jail."

The truth is that the prison population is not too high but too low. If Mr
Clarke wishes to pick a fight he really should first make sure the facts are on
his side.

GRAEME LEACH, the highly respected chief economist at the Institute of
Directors, has an update on the shambles over the withdrawal of child benefit
for those earning more than £50,000. He says: "Lots of IoD members are in
negotiation with employees to pay them less to get them under the threshold for
receiving child benefit and then whack up their pension entitlements instead."

So as well as being politically toxic and administratively nightmarish,
Osborne's scheme will save a lot less than the £1.8billion predicted.

NOT a glorious performance by rookie 30-year-old Treasury Minister Chloe Smith
on Newsnight this week. First she was outed for refusing to debate with Labour's
Rachel Reeves and then she confused reducing the deficit with paying off the
national debt. Some Tory MPs were not wholly regretful about her latest
embarrassment. "Over-promoted," hissed one.

MILD-mannered Foreign Aid Minister Stephen O'Brien was unfairly upbraided this
week by Labour's Helen Goodman about the high incidence of female genital
mutilation in Egypt - as if he has any power to stop the barbaric custom.

She told the poor fellow: "I am sure that if the proposal was to chop off part
of men's genitalia, the minister would put this issue at the top of his agenda."
Ouch.

IS Nick Clegg planning to stand down as an MP at the next election or even
before? A ministerial source whispers that he is convinced Clegg has already
done a deal with David Cameron to become a European Commissioner.

But would the Tory grassroots put up with another Euro-fanatic representing
Britain in Brussels? Clegg this week also refused to rule out becoming a peer.
It doesn't sound to me like he will be the MP for Sheffield Hallam for all that
much longer.

NIGEL FARAGE has been making mischief by floating the idea of joint
Conservative/UKIP candidates at the next election. Canny Farage knows sitting
Tory MPs with slim majorities yearn to win over UKIP voters and that he has a
bigger following among the Tory grassroots than do half the Cabinet. David
Cameron will hate him advertising that fact.

IT IS extraordinary that David Cameron has exempted judges from having to up
their pension contribution rate of just two per cent when the rest of the public
sector is paying much more.

Cameron told MPs: "Judicial pensions have always been treated separately because
of what judges do for our country." I wonder what nurses and police officers
will think about that?

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT: The Prime Minister must give the Government a
sense of direction
Picture: Lefteris Pitarakis/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 26, 2012 Saturday

Am I a geek?

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 595 words

ABSTRACT

Jon Butterworth: Do I fetishise evidence? Will I ever vote Green again? Have I
read the right books?

FULL TEXT

Well, I'm a scientist and I have read Mark Henderson's book. To be honest Mark's
use of the word geek grated on me slightly, but not as much as the UCL Science
and Technology Studies attempt to introduce the word "Geekocracy". It's nice
that the STS Observatory have noticed a phenomenon and made a pretty pigeonhole
with a label on it, but I'm not sure it's going to be a very productive
discussion trying to decide who's in and who's out. I do have three things I
want to say, though.

The first is this. As others have before them, the STS people say that geeks
fetishise evidence-based policy-making. Well, I don't do that. I treat evidence
like shoes. I wear them every day, I use them to get places and to protect
myself from unpleasant foot-related experiences, but I do not "attribute
attractive sexual qualities to shoes or other footwear as a matter of sexual
preference, psychosexual disorder, and an alternative or complement to a
relationship with a partner." As with shoes, so with evidence. Essential to safe
progress, but that's as far as it goes with me and evidence.

The second thing is: this has come to the fore just around the time a scientific
experiment is about to be deliberately vandalised in Harpenden. This is a
controversy which might have been designed to crystalise some of the issues Mark
discusses in his book. The Green party, particularly their London Mayoral
candidate Jenny Jones, encourage the protest. Though Jones has now said her
position is to "disown damage to property", the Green Party webpage is still
advertising the protest as a "picnic and mass decontamination" which sounds like
damage to me. Anyhow, several people, including me, who have voted Green in the
past are disgusted at the destruction of legal, publicly-funded research. I'm no
GM evangelist, and don't expect a political party to agree with me on everything
(otherwise I would never vote) but this does feel like a line has been crossed.

It's sort of funny to see this manifestation of political activity criticised
immediately, I think mainly because a) the Greens are left wing and not as bad
as UKIP and b) global warming is a bigger issue than GM food. Both might be
true, but that's no reason not to let the Greens know your opinion, surely? I'm
with Sunny Hundal though when he says:

The divide is not between "pro-science" and "anti-science" political parties at
all. Rather, politicians and parties will always side with science when it suits
their constituency or aligns with their interests.

This is rather the point. It makes it even more important that parties are held
to account, issue by issue, based on how they engage with evidence, when
evidence exists. Or with research which may lead to evidence. I don't expect a
political party to have a grab-bag of ready-made answers to every issue. I
expect it to think, occasionally, and even change its policy sometimes when more
facts are learned. And I may vote for a party or not (or even join or leave one)
based on my take on the balance of its attitudes to issues I consider important.
This will go way beyond science, but is unlikely to include parties that
willfully ignore or destroy evidence on critical issues, since even if I agree
with their ideals, they will fail to achieve them if they ignore reality.

The third thing is this: my ATLAS colleague Tony Weidberg is a hero. Read Mark's
book and find out why.

I guess I answered my own question. Yes. For a given value of geek.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 25, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No let-up in migration despite Tories' pledge

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 276 words


NET migration to the UK last year remained at over 250,000 - leaving the
Government flailing after its pledge to cut it to the "tens of thousands".

The number of people coming into Britain outstripped those leaving by 252,000.
About 343,000 non-EU migrants came here last year. Of those less than a third
have left.

Yesterday's figures from the Office for National Statistics showed net migration
in the year to September 2011 was 3,000 down on 2010, but still more than double
the amount Prime Minister David Cameron has vowed to achieve by 2015.

Sir Andrew Green, of Migration-Watch UK, said: "You cannot expect to repair 15
years of mismanagement in 15 months, but it is worrying.

"There is no sign of any reduction from the huge numbers that developed under
Labour."

Paul Nuttall, Ukip MEP, said: "We have to face facts - with open doors to the EU
on one hand, and our own courts and the European Court of Human Rights on the
other, the Government was never going to be able to keep its promises on
migration." Immigration Minister Damian Green said last night that new rules had
resulted in a 62 per cent drop in the number of student visas issued to
non-Europeans in the first three months of this year compared to the same period
in 2010.

Work and family visas were also down, he said, adding: "As these policies start
to bite we are seeing an end to the years when net migration was consistently on
the rise."

OPINION: PAGE 14

Q Should we halt all immigration?

Yes: 0901 792 5308

No: 0901 792 5309

Yes text DXFRIYES to 86611

No text DXFRINO to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.
Lines close at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 25, 2012 Friday

Though Greens sometimes get their science wrong, they're better than most

BYLINE: Sunny Hundalguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 671 words

ABSTRACT

Sunny Hundal: Some have threatened to quit the party for its stance on GM food,
but scientists need to learn to engage with politics

FULL TEXT

On a regular basis I see someone complaining they won't be supporting the Green
party because it's "anti-science". This isn't true of course. After some
well-deserved criticism, party activists have taken steps to change those
stances.

Yet some scientists keep attacking them. Yesterday, the Green London assembly
member Jenny Jones said she was planning to attend the "Take the Flour Back"
protest at Rothamstead Research, which is against genetically modified foods.
Naturally a mini-storm of criticism on Twitter followed.

Hi @mark_lynas The Green Party isn't supporting destruction, but I am supporting
the protest. GM is oversold by corporate interests.

- Jenny Jones (@GreenJennyJones) May 24, 2012

Green supporter Tom Chivers at the Telegraph vowed to stop voting Green and
several people resigned from the party.

"Take The Flour Back" are opposed to GM wheat. They aim to visit Rothamsted
Park, where it is being grown as part of an experiment, and destroy the crops.
In an unusual step, the scientists involved have tried to engage with the
protesters too, to little avail.

In this case I'll agree with the scientists that many of the assertions made
about the GM trial are false. The Greens should accept that, even if they remain
opposed to GM foods more broadly.

But some of the criticism is unfair.First, the Conservatives and Ukip are far
more scientifically illiterate than the Greens. They are actively trying to
sabotage the debate on how to deal with climate change, and most deny it is even
taking place.

Given that scientists are utterly failing to engage or lead the debate on
climate change - why not spend more time dealing with that bigger problem than
attacking Greens over small things? Our planet is dying thanks to global warming
and some scientists think this GM outrage should be a top priority? Really?

Second a newsflash for scientists: none of the major political parties will take
on board all your recommendations. If you want one, then vote for the minuscule
Science party. Every political party has to weigh up a range of interests that
sometimes conflict with each other.

Last night I attended a talk entitled "Science Communication and Political
Divides" (Storifyed here) and I was relieved to hear one scientist admit:
"Scientists are not very good at doing politics." She went on to say: "Evidence
has to be considered in a public light," which is exactly right. They were
referring to drugs policy in that context (Prof David Nutt and his firing around
drugs policy), but the point was the same: don't expect politicians and the
public to formulate policy merely on the basis of scientific evidence.

Science has real world results. In the case of GM foods, the industry has become
concentrated in the hands of a few companies that have started patenting and
exploitingfarmers and consumers from developing countries.

The divide is not between "pro-science" and "anti-science" political parties at
all. Rather, politicians and parties will always side with science when it suits
their constituency or aligns with their interests.

Conservatives and Republicans will side with scientists when big corporations
benefit (GM foods, nuclear power) and oppose it when big corporates are losing
out (renewable energy). Greens support the science on climate change, but oppose
GM food research and development for economic and sustainability reasons.
Whether scientists like it or not, voters are also swayed by those concerns.

The challenge for scientists isn't to merely focus on what the evidence says. It
is also to convince the public that their suggested course of action is the
right one, even when the public is sceptical for perfectly valid reasons.
Ignoring those concerns and calling them "luddites" just doesn't work. Perhaps
this is why scientists are failing to get faster action on climate change.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 25, 2012
                                 First Edition

UKIP/TORY ALLIANCE?;
The Opinion Matrix COMMENT FROM HOME & ABROAD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 109 words


Nigel Farage offers a pact for election

New Statesman

Farage's angling for a pact of some kind is a sign of weakness not strength. He
can disrupt the Tories by provoking their visceral hostility to the European
Union and prodding other nerves along the way. What he cannot do is field a
bunch of credible candidates to be MPs. Ukip's strong performance in European
elections has produced some fairly dodgy MEPs. (Rafael Behr)

ConservativeHome

Mr Farage's suggestion of Conservative/UKIP candidates at the next election is a
tease - or, perhaps, a clever piece of psych-ops designed to divide and confuse
Tory activists, and set them chattering. (Paul Goodman)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 25, 2012 Friday 1:29 PM GMT

Greek eurozone exit 'would spark a UK referendum on pulling out of the EU'

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 699 words



     ·    'Senior Government sources' claim EU treaties would have to be
          rewritten if Greece leaves
     ·    Clegg warns against UK using its veto to block treaty negotiations
     ·    'Grexit' widely predicted for January 1, 2013


Senior government sources claim David Cameron will be forced to hold a
referendum on Britain's place within Europe if Greece leaves the single
currency, it has been reported.

A Greek departure, which is widely expected to take place on January 1, 2013,
would require the remaining members of the EU to redraw the various treaties
which govern the union.

This in turn would spark calls from Tory MPs to hold a referendum to redetermine
Britain's place within the EU and to decide whether to remain in the social
chapter.

The coalition have already pledged to hold a referendum should the EU treaty be
changed resulting in further powers be passed from Parliament to Brussels.

However many believe Brussels would be wary of the fact that major changes to
the treaty would spark a UK referendum, something they would be keen to avoid.

UKIP's Nigel Farage said: 'I don't believe a word of it. I cannot see the
government giving a referendum.

'Nor do I believe that Brussels is going to trigger anything that will have a
major impact on our relationship with Europe.

'The last thing they want is for Britain to withdraw from the EU. '

This week a senior economist at the world's second-largest currency trading bank
predicted Greece will leave the single currency eurozone at the beginning of
next year.

Citigroup's Michael Saunders said the likelihood of Greece leaving the euro in
the next 12 to 24 months was now between 50 to 75 per cent - and assumed there
would be a 'Grexit' at the start of next year.

The firm based its case on the belief that Greece would fail to form a
government capable of implementing austerity measures after its next set of
elections on June 17.

This would 'accentuate' the stalemate between the nation and its creditors.

Mr Saunders said: 'We assume Grexit occurs on January 1, 2013, with Greece
staying in the EU and receiving external loan support [to mitigate risks of
social unrest and collapse of civil society].

'We expect that Grexit will be followed by a series of policy responses aiming
to prevent a domino-style collapse of the banking system and escalating economic
disruption.'

Mr Saunders said Greece's new currency would fall in value immediately by 60 per
cent - and unleash a massive, yet manageable, wave of contagion across Europe.

The claim came as stock markets across Europe remained stable today despite
increased fears of Greece's chaotic exit - and a growing rift between France and
Germany on plans to save the single currency.

According to the report in the Times it remains unclear whether a treaty change
following a Greek exit would trigger the requirement for a referendum as Britain
is outside the eurozone.

Yesterday Nick Clegg warned that the UK should not block any future EU treaty
negotiations by using its veto.

The Deputy Prime Minister said: 'Of course we should not as a non-eurozone
member stand in the way.

We have a huge strategic self-interest in the UK to do everything we can to be
co-operative to ensure the eurozone is successful.

The coalition government has committed to holding a referendum if treaty changes
force the UK to yield any more powers to the EU.

Although it is not yet clear if a Greek exit from the Eurozone would force
bureaucrats to rewrite European treaties.

Mr Clegg added: 'If that proved to be the case, of course any rational British
government, certainly any British government of which I am a member, will not
stand in the way because it would be cutting off our nose to spite our face if
we did so.'

The euro is at a 22-month low following the biggest slump in private sector
business across Europe for nearly three years.

The dire news sent the euro tumbling against the dollar to $1.25 - its lowest
level since July 2010. Against the pound it was worth little more than 80p.

The latest gloom came against a backdrop of a continuing sense of crisis over
Greece as Berlin and Paris remained at loggerheads on what to do, despite the
emergency Brussels summit that ended in the early hours of yesterday morning.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

As the uK Independence Party [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 133 words


AS the UK Independence Party continues to outdo the Liberal Democrats in the
latest opinion polls its leader Nigel Farage tells The Spectator that he would
be willing to countenance joint Ukip-Tory candidates at the next general
election.

"There are Conservative associations up and down the country who think this
could be a way forward," he says.

Farage smokes, likes a drink and wears a pinstripe suit - all of which seems to
render him somehow risible to the mainstream parties, who are terrified of
presenting anything other than the most assiduously cultivated PR image.

But with the imminent collapse of the eurozone threatening to turn an awful lot
of political assumptions and orthodoxies on their head who's to say he isn't a
man whose time is about to come? E-mail me at: hickey@express.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday

Politics live blog: Thursday 24 May 2012

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6510 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's poltical developments
as they happen, including reaction to Adam Smith and Fred Michel's evidence
about Jeremy Hunt at the Leveson inquiry

FULL TEXT

5.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] The Leveson inquiry has been told that Jeremy Hunt drafted a memo for
David Cameron in late 2010 saying it would be "totally wrong" to give in to
those opposing News Corporation's bid for BSkyB. The document was written about
a month before Hunt took responsibility for the bid and, in it, Hunt said: "If
we block [the bid] our media sector will suffer for years." Robert Jay, the
inquiry counsel, read out extracts from the memo as Adam Smith, Hunt's former
special adviser was giving evidence. Smith revealed that he had had no contact
with those opposed to the bid, even though he had been in regular contact with
News Corp about it. Hunt's aides have been playing down the significance of the
memo, pointing out that in it he said - as he always had done - that plurality
issues would have to be addressed for the bid to be allowed. There are more
details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Michael Gove has claimed that he used private emails to discuss
official business because his official email would not work properly. Speaking
on the World at One, he said: "I sent personal emails simply because the one
thing that did frustrate me in the Department for Education was its IT and its
software which I could never get the hang of. The computer and - what's it
called - the BlackBerry that I had, I just didn't find congenial so I cracked on
with my own Apple." Gove's department is contesting a Freedom of Information
ruling saying he should release some of these emails. He said this was because
the department did not accept all its implications.

There needs to be a space where civil servants can talk frankly to ministers and
advisers can talk frankly to ministers about policy and they can run through
things. The only way that we can get good policy is by having people encouraged
to be radical, not being worried they will be laughed out of court for it.

[#xfffd] Gove has rejected claims that the closure of grammar schools has been
to blame for the decline in social mobility.

Selection isn't a magic bullet. If you look across the world at those countries
that have successful education systems, yes, some of them are selective, like
Singapore. Others, Finland, South Korea, Japan, aren't. So it's not the case
that you need to have selection in order to have a successful education system
which advances social mobility.

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has issued a strong statement in
support of gay marriage. She did so in a YouTube video for the Out4Marriage
campaign.

I believe in marriage. I believe marriage is a really important institution,
it's one of the most important institutions we have. Marriage binds us together,
it brings stability, I think marriage makes us stronger. But I believe also in
commitment and in fidelity in marriage, I think these are good things and we
should enable them to flourish.

That's why I believe if two people care for each other, if they love each other,
if they want to commit to each other and spend the rest of their lives together
then they should be able to get married and marriage should be for everyone and
that's why I'm coming Out4Marriage.

[#xfffd] Sir George Young, the leader of the Commons, has told MPs that the
government is considering increasing the penalties for metal theft. "This is
something that the government is actively considering to see whether we can take
further steps in order to increase the penalties and have a better regulatory
regime of scrap metal in order to avoid the distressing incidences that you have
just referred to," he said. He was responding to a question from the Tory MP
Gavin Barwell, who said somone had stolen a plaque marking his father's grave in
Beckenham cemetary.

[#xfffd] Caroline Spelman, the environment secretary, has said that sustainable
agriculture should be the UK's key objective for Rio+20.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

4.32pm: Here's what Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian's editor, is saying on
Twitterabout the Hunt/Cameron secret memo about News Corp's bid for BSkyB. (See
4.23pm.)

Wapping 2 (multi-platform, from paper to web to tv to digital) is just what News
Corp denied was aim w Sky bid ‪#Leveson

Memo reveals that Cam knew Hunt was passionate supporter of Sky bid just before
he appts him in place of Vince #Leveson

4.23pm: Robert Jay, the counsel inquiry, has read out extracts from a memo that
Jeremy Hunt prepared for David Cameron in late 2010, before he took
responsibility for the News Corportation bid for BSkyB. Jay said there were two
drafts of this memo in the bundle and that the one that was sent to Number 10
"did not go quite in this form". But it shows that, at that stage, Hunt was
clearly in favour of the bid being allowed.

Here's what the memo said, as read out by Jay. At one point he said he was
paraphrasing, but mostly he seemed to be reading it out verbatim. He said it was
dated 19 November 2010.

James Murdoch is pretty furious at Vince's referral to Ofcom ... He doesn't
think he will get a fair hearing from Ofcom. I'm privately concerned about this
because News Corp are very litigious and we could end up in the wrong place in
terms of media policy. Essentially what James Murdoch wants to do is to repeat
what his father did with the move to Wapping and create the world's first
multi-platform media operator, available from paper to web to TV to iPhone to
iPad. Isn't this what all media companies have to ultimately? And, if so, we
must be very careful that any attempt to block it is done on proper plurality
grounds and not as a result of lobbying by competitors. The UK has the chance to
lead the way. But if we block it our media sector will suffer for years. In the
end, I'm sure sensible controls can be put into any merger to ensure there's
plurality. But I think it would be totally wrong to cave into the Mark
Thompson/Channel 4/Guardian line that this represents a susbtantial change of
control given that we all know Sky is controlled by News Corp now anyway. What
next? Ofcom will issue their report saying whether it needs to go to the
Competition Commission by 31 December. It would be totally wrong for the
government to get involved in a competition issue which has to be decided at
arms length. However, I do think you, I, Vince and the DPM should meet to
discuss the policy issues that are thrown up as a result.

Jay said that Hunt had drafted the memo himself, and sent it to Adam Smith for
advice.

Earlier Smith told the inquiry that he thought Hunt had an open mind about the
bid. But Jay put it to him that this memo showed that Hunt was in favour. In
reply, Smith said that at this point Hunt did have no objection to the bid.

3.56pm:Fred Michel's second witness statement is now on the Leveson website
(pdf).

3.40pm:Adam Smith is starting his evidence to the Leveson inquiry. It won't
necessarily be the most single more riveting piece of political drama of the
year, but it's not often that you start listening to a witness in a hearing like
this knowing that what he says over the next two hours or so could destroy a
career. That's because Smith's declaration that he acted "without authorisation
from the secretary of state" is all that stands between Hunt and resignation.

That said, I would be very surprised if Smith does say anything intended to
bring down his former boss. Partly that's because Smith has already admitted
being at fault, and he would look daft if he retracted that concession. But
partly that's because politics often generates peculiar loyalties, which can
survive traumas such as losing one's job.Here's a profile of Smith by my
colleague Rajeev Syal.

And here's the full text of Smith's resignation statement.

While it was part of my role to keep News Corporation informed throughout the
BskyB bid process, the content and extent of my contact was done without
authorisation from the Secretary of State. I do not recognise all of what Fred
Michel said, but nonetheless I appreciate that my activities at times went too
far and have, taken together, created the perception that News Corporation had
too close a relationship with the department, contrary to the clear requirements
set out by Jeremy Hunt and the permanent secretary that this needed to be a fair
and scrupulous process. Whilst I firmly believe that the process was in fact
conducted scrupulously fairly, as a result of my activities it is only right for
me to step down as special adviser to Jeremy Hunt.

3.35pm: Back at the Leveson inquiry, we've learnt a bit more detail about the
indirect message of support that David Cameron sent to Rebekah Brooks after she
resigned as News International chief executive. We knew there was a message, but
we did not know who the intermediary was. Robert Jay, the inquiry counsel, said
Fred Michel sent a message to Gabby Bertin, Cameron's press spokeswoman,
thanking her for the message she sent to Brooks around that time. Jay says this
is a reference to the message of support Bertin sent Brooks on behalf of
Cameron.

3.25pm:David Cameron is urging 30,000 National Citizen Service volunteers to
spend time in care homes working with people with dementia.Full details of the
annoucement, which was made to coincide with Dementia Awarness Week, are on the
Downing Street website.Here's a statement from Cameron.

Dementia is a terrible, heart-breaking disease - and tackling it is a personal
priority of mine. Two months ago I promised that we'd lead an all-out, national
fight-back against dementia - and it's happening. We're putting more money into
research and more thought into dementia care.

This is a whole-society problem and it needs a whole-society response. That's
why we are connecting thousands of socially engaged young graduates from
National Citizen Service with opportunities to make a difference with old people
in their community.

3.05pm: Turning away from Leveson for a moment, David Willetts (pictured), the
science minister, is announcing a [#xfffd]250m investment for the Biotechnology
and Biological Sciences Research Council. In a speech, he says the money will,
among other things, fund a new agricultural revolution.

I am announcing today very substantial grants from the BBSRC worth [#xfffd]250
million to our leading research institutes. They include [#xfffd]14.5 million
for the world-class Genome Analysis Centre here in Norwich. Here is an example
of what this is all about. At the moment we can grow just over 12 tonnes of
wheat on a hectare of land in the most productive and efficient parts of the
country. The BBSRC have set the challenge of getting that up to 20 tonnes of
wheat by 2020. It really will be the next Agricultural Revolution. The research
we are funding will help make this happen.

The BBSRC may not be a thrilling subject but Willetts ranges quite broadly in
the speech, which is titled "What's the good of government?"and starts with a
reflection on inter-generational fairness. If you enjoyed his book The Pinch,
you'll find it interesting. Here's an extract.

The classical political tradition assumes a static world without economic
growth. But if there is growth you can argue that the next generation is going
to be better off than us and so our obligation to help them is weakened. We can
load more obligations onto future generations confident they can take the
burden. I do not agree with this approach. Disraeli was right when he criticised
a opponent because "He seems to think posterity is a pack-horse, always ready to
be loaded." Politics falls into disrepute when citizens think Governments are
just shifting problems out into the future and never tackling them today: this
Coalition can be proud of our long term reform agenda.

We can hope that future generations will be richer than us but this does not
excuse us from our obligation to them. We enjoy the fruits of investment by
earlier generations who were poorer than us and we have a similar obligation to
generations coming after us. The Victorians did not build their sewers and
public buildings out of cheap plaster because we would be richer than them and
could afford to do our own rebuilding. Instead they built for future generations
despite hoping that future would be richer than them. As the African proverb has
it, "The world was not left to us by our parents. It was lent to us by our
children.

2.34pm: Labour are saying that evidence that has been heard at the Leveson
inquiry today shows that Jeremy Hunt has misled parliament.

In April Hunt told MPs that he had not had any unofficial contact with Fred
Michel while News Corporation was bidding for BSkyB.

Throughout the bid process, when I got responsibility for it, the contact that I
had with Fred Michel was only at official meetings that were minuted with other
people present.

But, as Michel's witness statement makes clear (pdf), Hunt exchanged text
messages with Michel at some points during these period. The witness statement
contains two replies he received from Hunt.

Good to see u too. Hope u understand why we have to have the long process. Let's
meet up when things are resolved J.

Merci hopefully when consultation over we can have a coffee like the old days!

Labour say this is prima facie evidence of Hunt misleading parliament.

1.40pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Fred Michel, the News Corporation lobbyist, has told the Leveson
inquiry that he thought Jeremy Hunt sometimes knew what his adviser, Adam Smith,
was telling Michel. "There was two or three events where I had the impression
some of the feedback I was given was discussed with the secretary of state
before it was given to me," Michel said. The issue is important because Hunt has
accepted that Smith gave New Corp too much inside information, but claims that
Smith did so without Hunt's permission. Michel has been giving evidence for two
hours and generally he has been supportive of Hunt. When he was asked, "Is it
your evidence that Mr Hunt was keeping an open mind, he was impartial, and would
decide the bid on its merits at the appropriate time?" Michel replied: "Yes."
But the inquiry has heard new evidence about the full extend of News Corp's
contacts with Hunt's office. Michel made 191 telephone calls and sent 158 emails
and 799 texts to Hunt's team between June 2010 and July 2011. Most of those
contacts were directed at Smith. Smith sent 257 text messages to Michel between
November 2010 and July 2011. There are more details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Sir Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary, has said there could be a
full Whitehall investigation into Jeremy Hunt after he gives evidence to
Leveson. Speaking to the Commons public adminstration committee, where he was
asked why there had not been a Whitehall inquiry yet, Heywood said: "We just
took the view it was better to leave it to the Leveson Inquiry. In the light of
that if something comes up on this day of evidence that warrants further
investigation or bears on his adherence to the ministerial code then we may have
to take some further action at the point." Bernard Jenkin, the Tory chairman of
the committee, said he felt the "greatest sympathy" for Adam Smith, who had to
resign as Hunt's adviser because his contacts the News Corpt went too far. "I
rather suspect he thought he was doing what was expected of him," Jenkin said.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has said that "no rational person" could support Greece
leaving the euro. In a speech in Berlin, he also condemned the EU response to
the euro crisis as woefully fragmented and damaging to public confidence. He is
in Germany for a round of vital meetings with German ministers designed to
persuade Berlin to adopt a less cautious approach. Martin Callanan, the leader
of Conservative MEPs, said Clegg was wrong about Greece.

I think the reality is increasingly across Europe...an increasing number of
people are accepting Greece is going to leave the euro. They can't put up with
another eight more years of grinding austerity, and even then they'd only end up
with a debt pile the same as Italy.

[#xfffd] The Office for National Statistics has said that Britain's economy
shrank by 0.3% in the first three months of 2012 - not 0.2% as originally
thought. A further revision will be published in due course. Chloe Smith, a
Treasury minister, said the figures would not make the government change its
deficit-reduction strategy. "We need to stick to our path. It would not be
acceptable to fail to deal with our debts," she said.

[#xfffd] Carina Trimingham, Chris Huhne's partner, has lost her high court claim
for damages for alleged breach of privacy and harrassment against the Daily
Mail.

[#xfffd] The ONS has said that annual net migration to Britain remains at over
250,000 a year despite the declared ambition of the home secretary, Theresa May,
to reduce it below 100,000 by the time of the next election.

[#xfffd] Michael Gove, the education secretary, has announced a [#xfffd]2bn
school building programme.

[#xfffd] Liam Byrne, the shadow work and pensions secretary, has accused Iain
Duncan Smith of being "asleep at the wheel" following the revelation that a
whistleblower claims that a firm paid to find work for the unemployed is engaged
in a "multi-billion pound scandal". Byrne was responding to claims in today's
Daily Telegraph. (See9.38am.)

There is something very off going on because the Department for Work and
Pensions, Iain Duncan Smith's department, is refusing to publish any of the
information about which contractor is getting paid what and how they're doing
actually getting people back to work. We then had the extraordinary news this
week that this whistleblower was forced by Conservative members of the committee
to give his evidence in secret. So we have secrecy around performance of these
contracts, we have Conservative MPs demanding that evidence is given in secret,
I'm afraid something is not right and Iain Duncan Smith has got to move very
very quickly now to get a grip of this multi-billion pound programme.

[#xfffd] Lord Brooke, the Conservative former cabinet minister, has suggested
that Kenneth Clarke, the justice secretary, might leave government soon. Giving
evidence to the Leveson inquiry, Brooke said: "I had dinner with him (Mr Clarke)
quite recently, and he did say he was finding red boxes at night slightly more
trying than he had done in his youth. So how long he will be willing to be in a
frontline position, I don't know." Clarke is 71.

[#xfffd] The Ministry of Justice has said that the proportion of serious
offenders with a criminal record is at an all-time high.

[#xfffd] The MoJ has said the company tasked with providing translators to
courts and tribunals will be monitored daily after failing to meet targets. As
the Press Association reports, Applied Language Solutions (ALS) was 8% off
target from January to April this year after recently landing the contract. ALS
was set a 98% success rate - measured on an interpreter turning up to the job
and completing it. MoJ figures released today showed the firm had increased its
success rate from 65% in February to 90% in April. [#xfffd] The Department for
Education has said the number of young people not in school, work or training
(NEETs) has edged closer to a million. As the Press Association reports, over
950,000 people aged between 16 to 24 in England are now considered "NEET".
Today's statistics showed that 954,000 young people were classed as NEET in the
first three months of the year, compared to 925,000 in the same quarter a year
ago.

[#xfffd] David Cameron will allow Conservative MPs a free vote on gay marriage,
it has emerged.

[#xfffd]Two of the government's flagship academy schools are facing legal
challenges over their refusal to admit children with statements of special
needs.

12.17pm: The Cabinet Office has posted on its websitethe text of the speech that
Nick Clegg (pictured) is giving in Berlin today.Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Clegg said "no rational person" could support Greece leaving the euro.

Let me challenge the fashionable assumption being whispered behind cupped hands
- that for some countries, leaving the Euro wouldn't be that bad. That actually,
a Greek exit now would be in everyone's best interests.

My own view is that that wildly underestimates the unpredictable, irrevocable
damage that could be done to a monetary union when it is shown not to be
permanent.

No rational person interested in the wealth and wellbeing of Europe's citizens
could advocate taking such a risk: not with Greece's future, or our own.

[#xfffd] He said EU leaders were "undermining public confidence" by failing to
come up with a comprehensive response to the eurozone crisis.

The way we take decisions is undermining public confidence. Every few weeks
European leaders sit down to yet another crisis summit, where another temporary
solution is agreed. The tree is falling, and we are pruning one leaf at a time.
It is piecemeal politics; endless tactics with no strategy.

So we must gather these overlapping problems together and solve them as one.
This is a European crisis. It must be solved at the European level.

[#xfffd] He said a solution had to involve four ingredients. They were: greater
eurozone integration ("Europe must either share common debt, or change the way
money is transferred"); more intervention from the European Central Bank, which
should "intervene aggressively to suport demand"; a stronger firewall and bank
recapitalisation; and structural reform.

[#xfffd] He said a eurozone crisis could encourage xenophobia and extremism.

There is a bigger danger here. The combination of economic uncertainty and
political disillusionment is a perfect recipe for an increase in xenophobia,
populism, and extremism.

11.52am: Back at Leveson, Fred Michel is running into some difficulty. Earlier
he said that he did not know what Jeremy Hunt thought about the News Corporation
bid for BSkyB. But Robert Jay, counsel for the inquiry, has just asked him how
that squares with the email he sent earlier, on 15 June 2010, saying that he had
had a chat with Hunt's adviser and that he "believed the UK government would be
supportive throughout the process". Michel claimed there was a difference
between knowing the views of the government generally and knowing the views of
individual ministers.

11.46am: Turning away from the Leveson inquiry for a moment, Sadiq Khan, the
shadow justice secretary, has accused the government of making "a prize mess" of
the forthcoming justice and security bill.

Khan was responding to a story in today's Times (paywall) saying that the bill
has been delayed.Here's an extract.

Ministers are split over whether to include powers for secret inquests in
measures to go before Parliament next week. Publication of the Justice and
Security Bill, which was due today, has been delayed because of wrangling over
how far the proposals for closed trials should go.

A key issue is whether inquests as well as trials should be included. The Bill
would allow for closed hearings where material involving national security had
to be disclosed.

Khan says this is shambolic.

If there were a book on how not to run a government, the shenanigans overthe
Justice and Security Bill would make a great chapter. Last Sunday, thejustice
secretary spent the day on TV and radio trailing publication ofthe bill, telling
us it would appear this week. But now, mysteriously, itlooks like it's not
materialising after all. The way this Tory-led government has dealt with this
sensitive issue shows what a prize mess it is making.

11.17am: Fred Michel has told the inqury that when he attributed something to
"JH" in his emails, "for me it meant the office of the secretary of state".

Robert Jay, counsel for the inquiry, pressed him on this. "In one sense there's
no difference between them," he replied. "They are all within the envelope of
the secretary of state, and the label JH covers the secretary of state himself,
covers his officials and covers his special advisers." Michel said he agreed.

Jeremy Hunt's defence relies upon his claim that his special adviser, Adam
Smith, was effectively "freelancing" - going beyond what was allowed - when he
gave inside information to Michel.

But Michel is arguing that there was no real distinction between Hunt and his
adviser.

11.15am: Here is Fred Michel's first witness statement to the Leveson inquiry
(pdf).

And here is an annex to his witness statement, containing an analysis of his
contacs with Adam Smith (pdf).

11.02am: The News Corporation lobbyist Fred Michel is giving evidence to the
Leveson inquiry now.

You can follow the proceedings in detail on our Leveson live blog. But I'll be
monitoring the hearing too, and any reaction to what he says.

My colleague Nicholas Watt has a lengthy profile of Michel in today's paper.

10.58am: And here's some Press Association copy on the Carina Trimingham ruling.

MP Chris Huhne's partner Carina Trimingham has lost her privacy and harassment
claim against Associated Newspapers.Her affair with the former secretary of
state for energy and climate change became public in June 2010, with Mr Huhne
leaving his wife of 26 years.The 44-year-old PR adviser sued for compensation
and an injunction over 65 "highly unpleasant and hurtful" articles which have
appeared since then.Last month, her lawyers told Mr Justice Tugendhat, at
London's High Court, that they constituted a "cataclysmic interference" with her
private life.Associated contested the case on the basis that there was an
important public interest.Trimingham's counsel, Matthew Ryder QC, said the Daily
Mail had a right to freedom of expression but not to abuse her repeatedly under
the guise of exercising that freedom.The articles referred to the "life and very
different loves of the PR girl in Doc Martens" and described her as a "comedy
lesbian from central casting".Trimingham was in court today but showed no
emotion as her claim was dismissed by the judge.He said: "Ms Trimingham was not
the purely private figure she claims to be. Her reasonable expectation of
privacy has become limited."Outside court, Trimingham said: "I am extremely
disappointed by this judgment. There is a ray of light, however."Thankfully, the
court has accepted today that repeated mocking of a person by a national
newspaper by reference to their sexual orientation would almost inevitably be so
oppressive as to amount to harassment."However, the court did not appreciate
that when newspapers make repeated irrelevant references to sexuality -
particularly in the context of pejorative and stereotypical references to
appearance - it amounts to the same type of mocking which the court has
confirmed is unacceptable."This is confused, and I think wrong. I am very
concerned that this judgment may become a blueprint for bullies and bigots. I
intend to appeal."Trimingham, who is insured, was ordered to pay [#xfffd]250,000
on account of Associated's estimated [#xfffd]410,000 costs within 14 days.

10.55am: Here's a link to the Carina Trimingham judgment.

Here's the judgment in the Trimingham v Associated Newspapers Ltd bit.ly/KcNJBa

- Maya Wolfe-Robinson (@mwolferobinson) May 24, 2012

10.50am: The BBC's Robin Brant has been tweeting from Sir Jeremy Heywood's
session with the public administration committee.As you can see from reading his
Twitter feed, there are various interesting lines coming out, but these are
particularly relevant to Jeremy Hunt and today's Leveson hearing.

prob for heywood over adma smith: cab sec tells MPs 'completely unaware' of
comms with news int 'as was his perm sec'...

- Robin Brant (@robindbrant) May 24, 2012

in spite of the DCMS perm sec saying he was 'aware and content' with the
arrangement for smith to be conduit

- Robin Brant (@robindbrant) May 24, 2012

10.41am:Ed Balls (pictured), the shadow chancellor, has issueda statement about
the revised growth figures. Here's an extract.

Our complacent and out of touch prime minister and chancellor have spent the
last week claiming their plan is on track, but these figures show that Britain's
double-dip recession is even deeper than first thought.

What more evidence can David Cameron and George Osborne need that their policies
have failed and that they now need a change of course and a plan B for growth
and jobs?

Not only has our economy now shrunk in the last six months by 0.6 per cent, it
has actually shrunk by 0.4 per cent in the year and a half since the spending
review. And it is families and businesses that are paying the price with incomes
being squeezed, companies going bust and long-term unemployment at a 16 year
high.

It's now clear that this is a recession made in Downing Street by this
government's failed policies. Despite all the problems in the euro area, France,
Germany and the eurozone as a whole have so far avoided recession and only
exports to other countries stopped us going into recession a year ago. The
result is that Britain is now in a weaker position if things get worse in the
eurozone in the coming months.

10.35am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some articles that are particularly
interesting.

[#xfffd] Oliver Wright in the Independent says Adam Smith has been given access
to government legal aides to help him prepare for his appearance at the Leveson
Inquiry today.

The Department of Culture said it had offered Mr Smith legal advice on what to
expect at the hearing as well as access to departmental documents relating to
his time in office. However, it insisted the advice would not extend to
"prepping" Mr Smith for his appearance, using trained lawyers to play the role
of Lord Leveson and the council for the inquiry, Robert Jay, QC.

Observers who watched the evidence given by Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson this
month said it seemed clear they had used "role play" to prepare. The
Conservative Party is understood to have lined up a team of lawyers to advise
David Cameron, Jeremy Hunt and other Tory ministers on their appearances before
the Leveson inquiry.

The lawyers, who will be paid from party funds, are on stand-by to provide help
as ministers spend hours preparing to answer questions about their links with
newspaper groups.

[#xfffd] Peter Oborne in the Daily Telegraph says Vince Cable is the moral
centre of this coalition.

The four members of the so-called "Quad" who run the Coalition and get on so
well - Cameron, Clegg, Osborne, Alexander - are all in their early to mid 40s.
Mr Cable was president of the Cambridge Union in 1965, before any of them was
born ...

There was a time when age was an advantage in British public life. It was
recognised that the old possessed qualities that were unattainable for the
young. This respect for human longevity helps explain why William Ewart
Gladstone, the greatest prime minister of the 19th century, did not enter No 10
until he was 58, and enjoyed three terms of office thereafter. That time may yet
come again. Mr Cable is now in that very interesting place: he is the moral
centre of gravity for the Coalition and of British public life. If Nick Clegg,
as widely expected, steps down as Lib Dem leader before the general election, Mr
Cable - should he decide to run - is highly likely to replace him. His best
years may lie ahead.

[#xfffd] Sam Coates and Jill Sherman in the Times (paywall) say David Cameron
faces a summer of discontent from the Tory grass roots.David Cameron is facing
increasing pressure from grass roots Conservatives who believe that Downing
Street is becoming out of touch with the issues they are hearing about on the
doorstep.

Mike Whitby, the former leader of Birmingham Council which the party lost to
Labour at this month's local elections, said the petrol crisis, Europe, the
abolition of the 50p tax rate and spending cuts were causing voters to desert
the party ...

There is panic among some [Conservative donors] at what they view as the
disarray in No 10, the compromises being made with the Lib Dems and poor poll
ratings which put the Tories on course for defeat."The frustration is that this
Government keeps making mistakes, making a Conservative government less likely
after 2015," said one.

The donor added that the mood at recent fundraisers had changed. It was clear
there was now a "fear that shows in people's eyes at the alternative on offer
from Labour".

Another was critical of how Whitehall departments which hand out big private
sector contracts, such as the Home Office, are still in chaos two years after
the coalition came to power.

A party source said: "There is no doubt that corporate donors feel extremely let
down. Many are spitting with anger. They thought this Government would come in
and open up government but it hasn't happened."

10.25am: Here's what the Press Association has filed about the Ministry of
Justice court statistics out this morning.

The number of hardened criminals reoffending is at a record high while the
number of first-time offenders has dropped in England and Wales.The latest
criminal justice statistics show nearly a third (31.2%) of defendants convicted
of serious offences (crown court offences) last year had 15 or more previous
convictions or cautions.The number is the highest since 2001 when it was 17.9%
and has risen steadily.The Ministry of Justice's quarterly update also said
10.1% of offenders convicted of indictable offences in 2011 had no previous
criminal offences.The figures added that the 31.2% figure with 15 or more
previous offences was an increase of 13.3% since 2001.

10.18am: Fred Michel will be giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry from about
11am. Adam Smith will follow. The inquiry is now hearing from Lord Brooke, the
former national heritage secretary.You can follow the proceedings on our Leveson
live blog.

10.12am: The Press Association has just snapped this.

MP Chris Huhne's partner Carina Trimingham has lost her High Court privacy and
harassment action against Associated Newspapers.

9.38am: There's a cracking story in the Daily Telegraph today. Louisa Peacock
and Rowena Mason have got hold of the written evidence submitted to the Commons
public accounts committee by Eddie Hutchinson, former head of audit at A4e, the
firm paid by the government to get unemployed people into work. He says an
"unethical culture" led to "systemic fraud" at the company.

An auditor with 30 years' experience, Mr Hutchinson's statement discloses that
despite his discovery of an "ever-increasing volume of frauds", with two or
three new allegations arising on some days, the company failed to act. It
cultivated a culture that discouraged employees from revealing improper
practices, the document states.

"I encountered unethical behaviour or wrongdoing that fell way below standards
that should be expected of organisations funded by significant sums from the
public purse," he wrote.

The repeated incidents of malpractice in the sector have led to a "multi-billion
pound scandal", he claimed in his statement. In his evidence, Mr Hutchinson, who
worked at A4e from October 2010 until May last year, alleges:

[#xfffd] A bonus scheme for employers "drove inappropriate behaviour" by staff
willing to commit fraud.

[#xfffd] Staff acted in the belief that if their irregularity was discovered,
they could resign in the knowledge no further action would be taken.

[#xfffd] Two years on from a 2009 audit report warning fraud was not confined to
one part of the country, fraud was still "systemic".

A4e told the paper Hutchinson's allegations don't stand up. And the Department
for Work and Pensions said these were "unproven allegations" about schemes
operatiing in the past and that current controls were strong.

9.30am: The ONS is saying the economy shrunk by 0.3% in the first quarter of
2012, not 0.2% as previously thought.

That means that the double dip recession is even deeper (but only marginally)
than we thought.

Here'sthe Office for National Statistics news release and here'sthe ONS
statistical bulletin with the full details (pdf).

9.22am: For the record, here arethe latest YouGov GB polling figures.

Labour: 42% (down 1 from Tuesday night)Conservatives: 32% (no change)Lib Dems:
9% (up 1)Ukip: 9% (no change)

Labour lead: 10 points

Government approval: -36

9.00am: It's crunch day for Jeremy Hunt. The culture secretary has been floating
in a version of ministerial limbo for the last few weeks, ever since his special
adviser, Adam Smith, resigned after it was revealed at the Leveson inquiry that
Smith had given the News Corporation lobbyist, Fred Michel, inside information
about Hunt's handling of the News Corp bid for BSkyB. Hunt was supposed to be
acting in a quasi-judicial capacity - ie, impartially - but it is hard to read
the Smith/Michel emails and texts without concluding that News Corp were getting
special treatment. Labour have been calling for Hunt's resignation, while David
Cameron has been defending Hunt, yet also insisting that Hunt needs to be
allowed to tell his side of the story to Leveson. We're expecting to hear from
Hunt next week. But today we will hear from Michel and, crucially, Smith, who
will be asked if Hunt fully authorised his extensive communications with News
Corp, including his decision to provide News Corp with commercially sensitive
information before it was announced to parliament.

Inhis resignation statement Smith said: "The content and extent of my contact
[with News Corp] was done without authorisation from the secretary of state."
This is the phrase that is providing Hunt with the political cover that he
needs, and explains why he hasn't resigned. Today we'll find out how robust this
defence actually is.

I won't be covering the hearing minute by minute - you'll find all that, as
usual, on our Leveson live blog -but I will be keeping a close eye on it, and
providing analysis and reaction.

Otherwise, it's a relatively quiet day. Here's the agenda.8.45am: The Ministry
of Justice releases statistics about trends in sentencing.9.30am: Sir Jeremy
Heywood, the cabinet secretary, gives evidence to the Commons public
administration committee on the work of the cabinet secretary.

9.30am: The Office for National Statistics publishes its revised growth figures
for the first three months of 2012. The initial figures showed that the economy
shrank by 0.2%, meaning the UK was technically in recession.

10am: Adam Smith, Jeremy Hunt's former special adviser, and Fred Michel, the
News Corporation lobbyists, give evidence to the Leveson inquiry. Lord Brooke,
national heritage secretary in John Major's government, is also giving evidence.

At some point there's also a speech from Nick Clegg, who is on a visit to Berlin
with Vince Cable. Clegg is going to say that "no rational person" should support
a Greek exit from the euro.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday

No quick fix in Athens

BYLINE: Kenny Coyle

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1326 words


Greece heads for yet another round of elections on June 17 after the
inconclusive May 6 poll and the inability of any of the three main parties - the
conservative New Democracy (ND), the euro-leftist Syriza and social-democratic
Pasok - to form a coalition. Since no party's vote succeeded in reaching even
the 20 per cent mark a multiparty coalition - not merely a bipartisan agreement
- would have been needed to achieve a majority government resting on at least
151 of the Greek parliament's 300 seats, or very close to that to achieve at
least a working majority. The refusal of the Communist Party of Greece (KKE) to
consider joining a Syriza-led coalition has provoked critical comments from some
sections of the left. Much of it has come from currents traditionally hostile to
the communist movement in Greece and everywhere else for that matter, but also
from more sympathetic critics who cannot understand why the Greek left cannot
simply put aside its petty differences and create a new government. As we will
see, some of this is based on a simple misreading of the May election results
and much more is based on an unrealistic and utopian projection of what will
happen in June.

Current opinion polls forecast that Syriza, led by the charismatic Alexis
Tsipras, will emerge greatly strengthened in June - perhaps achieving 20-25 per
cent of the vote and probably taking first position and thereby receiving an
extra 50 seats on top of whatever constituencies it wins. The Communists will
find themselves tightly squeezed but show no signs of backing down from their
belief that a Syriza-led government will simply be "a leaking lifeboat,"
maintaining illusions that the Greek crisis can be solved by simply annulling
the debt with the troika - the European Union, European Central Bank and
International Monetary Fund - and yet still allow Greece to remain within both
the eurozone and the EU itself. By contrast, the KKE's vision is one of a
radical rupture with these institutions. But aren't these simply tactical
issues, as some imply? Shouldn't the KKE swallow its pride and opt for a "united
front" to establish a "workers' government" or indeed a "revolutionary
government," as one letter-writer to the Morning Star urged? Let's leave aside
the rhetoric and first look at the hard realities that the KKE faced following
the May polls. The Greek electoral system's complicated voting process produced
numerous anomalies. Right-wing New Democracy came top, winning 18.85 per cent of
the vote, down from 33.4 per cent in the 2009 election. Yet the conservatives
actually increased their number of seats. They rose from 91 to 108 due to the
top-up system that gives the front-runner an extra 50 seats. Runner-up Syriza,
by contrast, took 16.8 per cent of the vote yet won only 52 seats, less than
half ND's tally. The biggest loser Pasok took 13.2 per cent of the vote and held
41 seats. Voters deserted Pasok in droves - the party dropped 30 percentage
points. The main beneficiaries to its left were Syriza (an acronym for its full
title Coalition of the Radical Left), which won more than a million votes, and
the smaller newly created Democratic Left with 6.11 per cent of the vote and 19
seats. Given its herculean efforts in the mass extra-parliamentary struggles
against the austerity programme, the KKE's vote also increased nationally - but
only marginally, by just under 1 per cent nationwide, giving it five more seats
or 26 in total. In five out of six key urban constituencies in Athens, Piraeus
and Thessaloniki the KKE vote actually dropped marginally, unquestionably due to
the momentum built up by Syriza. Support for the two pro-austerity parties, ND
and Pasok, fell by an astonishing 3.5 million votes, reaching just 33.5 per cent
of the total vote. Yet despite their electoral slide the establishment parties
together held 149 seats, just two short of an outright majority. On the right
New Democracy lost votes to a new formation, the Party of Independent Greeks
(Anel), formed by anti-troika ND MPs. Humiliated by the violation of Greek
sovereignty that the troika-imposed programmes symbolise and aware of the
catastrophic results of austerity on domestic capitalist interests, Anel took 33
seats delivered by voters of the traditional right. The rise of the neofascist
Golden Dawn with 7 per cent of the vote and 21 seats is also a sign that
austerity is fuelling the re-emergence of aggressively racist and anti-left
sentiments. The previous far-right party in the Greek parliament was Laos,
formed by former ND leaders and allied at EU-level with the Italian Northern
League and Britain's Ukip, although comparison with the French National Front
might be closer to the mark. However in late 2011 Laos participated in the
short-lived pro-EU austerity "national unity" government of Lucas Papademos
before pulling out four months later, and it seems this taint was sufficient to
see its vote halve in the general election, losing all its seats. Given these
facts can we reasonably assume that the KKE is solely responsible for the
impasse of the left, as some seem to suggest? The truth is at once both simpler
and more complex. First, there is the straightforward problem of arithmetic: add
the seats won by Syriza, KKE and Democratic Left (52+26+19) and we have just 97,
far short of a working majority. A "workers' government" or "united front" would
not have been possible even if Syriza had included pro-austerity Pasok (41
seats), a party socialist in name, historically social-democratic in outlook and
in recent years nakedly neoliberal in practice. KKE general secretary Aleka
Papariga is not the only Greek politician capable of simple sums. So the KKE
regarded the week-long process of party-to-party discussions and presidential
roundtable interventions in the full glare of the media as "a mockery, a
travesty," as Papariga put it. In the KKE's eyes new elections were inevitable
from the start and talk of left unity governments - at one point Tsipras even
suggested tongue-in-cheek that Papariga might serve as prime minister - was
cynical grandstanding. The second factor was more deeply political. While more
than 60 per cent of the Greek people voted against the pro-austerity parties,
this is not a monolithic vote. For example, while it might just be conceivable
for the left to create a temporary tactical bloc with Anel to reject the EU-IMF
programme, given Anel's clear right-wing outlook longer-term co-operation is
neither likely nor desirable. In any case, for the partisans of the "united
front" even a tactical alliance would be unacceptable. For example in their
joint article on the SocialistUnity.com blog Andrew Burgin and Kate Hudson
stated that "any co-operation between Syriza and the bourgeois parties should be
opposed but it is not currently on the agenda." A quick reread of Lenin's
Left-Wing Communism - an Infantile Disorder on that very principle might be
worthwhile, but Syriza has in fact merely ruled out co-operation with the
pro-bailout parties, a rather different position. Tsipras is a wilier operator
than Burgin and Hudson imagine. For example, in deciding who would act as
caretaker prime minister until June, Syriza first supported former Pasok
minister Gerasimos Arsenis, whose wife just happens to head the small
anti-bailout but pro-EU Pasok splinter party Social Agreement for Greece in
Europe. When Pasok objected, Tsipras then announced he was backing Lucas
Papademos, the troika-imposed caretaker premier until the election and
previously the governor of the Bank of Greece and vice-president of the European
Central Bank. This was rejected for obvious reasons by both KKE and Anel and so
senior judge Panagiotis Pikrammenos has taken the role in line with the
constitution. The next few weeks will see a hectic election campaign but looming
large will be the focus on Syriza's promise that the austerity package can
somehow be rejected without leaving the euro.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 24, 2012 Thursday 8:23 AM GMT

A deal with UKIP is preferable to one with the LibDems

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 545 words


Ask the typical Conservative activist whether, if there must be a coalition,
she'd prefer one with the LibDems or with UKIP. Most Tories accept the
mathematics of the 2010 general election result; but it hasn't changed their
view of their coalition partners. They know the LibDems of old. They think of
them as dirty campaigners and sanctimonious hypocrites. (As a matter of fact, I
can name plenty of honourable LibDems, and was an early enthusiast for the
coalition, but I'm very much in the minority.)

UKIP, by contrast, is viewed with a kind of exasperated regret. Few
Conservatives disagree with UKIP policies. Sixty-two per cent of Tory voters and
78 per cent ofparty memberswant a free trade deal with the EU rather than full
membership. Most look just as kindly on Nigel Farage's domestic agenda: tax
cuts, grammar schools, localism, withdrawal from the ECHR. Their complaint is
that, by standing candidates at local and parliamentary level, UKIP, without
winning seats itself, keeps allowing Leftie Europhiles to be elected. The
polling evidence suggests that this problem is getting far worse.

It ought, though, to be remediable. A little over a month ago, I set out the
case for some sort of Conservative-UKIP accommodation, modelled on the alliance
between the Canadian Tories and the Reform Party. It's true that such a
rapprochement is unlikely before the Conservatives offer a referendum on EU
membership, and I'm not suggesting that my party adopt such a referendum in
order to win back votes. An In/Out referendum, rather, is right in principle;
the electoral premium would be a happy side-effect, a reward for doing the
correct thing.

With Labour moving inexorably toward such a commitment, getting there first is,
in narrowly partisan terms, a no-brainer. The number of voters who have switched
to UKIP is now considerably greater than the entire non-white electorate. But
whereas Conservatives are making strenuous efforts to appeal to ethnic
minorities, little effort has been made to win over the electorally more
significant anti-EU block.

If, as seems likely, the Conservatives commit themselves to a referendum, the
door is open to a deal. 'Deal' is, of course, a very broad term, covering
everything from local pacts to a full merger. Nigel Farage has seized on the
possibility, offered under a barely noticed change in election law, of having
joint candidates in some constituencies. This isn't as unthinkable as some
commentators believe. At the last general election, UKIP endorsed four
Conservative candidates. All of them secured swings that were well above the
national average.

The precise nature of the eventual entente would obviously be a matter for
negotiation. What is surely clear is that the splintering of the anti-Brussels
vote is disastrous: it means that an essentially Eurosceptic electorate keeps
returning essentially Euro-integrationist Parliaments. Every Conservative who
defects to UKIP - and the losses have been especially severe among our younger
and more libertarian members - retards the day when the Conservative Party
embraces secessionism, without taking his energies to an alternative party of
government. One way or another, we need to get to the point where Conservative
and UKIP voters can back the same candidates.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 24, 2012 Thursday 8:23 AM GMT

A deal with UKIP is preferable to one with the LibDems

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 545 words


Ask the typical Conservative activist whether, if there must be a coalition,
she'd prefer one with the LibDems or with UKIP. Most Tories accept the
mathematics of the 2010 general election result; but it hasn't changed their
view of their coalition partners. They know the LibDems of old. They think of
them as dirty campaigners and sanctimonious hypocrites. (As a matter of fact, I
can name plenty of honourable LibDems, and was an early enthusiast for the
coalition, but I'm very much in the minority.)

UKIP, by contrast, is viewed with a kind of exasperated regret. Few
Conservatives disagree with UKIP policies. Sixty-two per cent of Tory voters and
78 per cent ofparty memberswant a free trade deal with the EU rather than full
membership. Most look just as kindly on Nigel Farage's domestic agenda: tax
cuts, grammar schools, localism, withdrawal from the ECHR. Their complaint is
that, by standing candidates at local and parliamentary level, UKIP, without
winning seats itself, keeps allowing Leftie Europhiles to be elected. The
polling evidence suggests that this problem is getting far worse.

It ought, though, to be remediable. A little over a month ago, I set out the
case for some sort of Conservative-UKIP accommodation, modelled on the alliance
between the Canadian Tories and the Reform Party. It's true that such a
rapprochement is unlikely before the Conservatives offer a referendum on EU
membership, and I'm not suggesting that my party adopt such a referendum in
order to win back votes. An In/Out referendum, rather, is right in principle;
the electoral premium would be a happy side-effect, a reward for doing the
correct thing.

With Labour moving inexorably toward such a commitment, getting there first is,
in narrowly partisan terms, a no-brainer. The number of voters who have switched
to UKIP is now considerably greater than the entire non-white electorate. But
whereas Conservatives are making strenuous efforts to appeal to ethnic
minorities, little effort has been made to win over the electorally more
significant anti-EU block.

If, as seems likely, the Conservatives commit themselves to a referendum, the
door is open to a deal. 'Deal' is, of course, a very broad term, covering
everything from local pacts to a full merger. Nigel Farage has seized on the
possibility, offered under a barely noticed change in election law, of having
joint candidates in some constituencies. This isn't as unthinkable as some
commentators believe. At the last general election, UKIP endorsed four
Conservative candidates. All of them secured swings that were well above the
national average.

The precise nature of the eventual entente would obviously be a matter for
negotiation. What is surely clear is that the splintering of the anti-Brussels
vote is disastrous: it means that an essentially Eurosceptic electorate keeps
returning essentially Euro-integrationist Parliaments. Every Conservative who
defects to UKIP - and the losses have been especially severe among our younger
and more libertarian members - retards the day when the Conservative Party
embraces secessionism, without taking his energies to an alternative party of
government. One way or another, we need to get to the point where Conservative
and UKIP voters can back the same candidates.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PRISONERS TO BE GIVEN THE VOTE;
Fury at new ruling from meddling Euro judges ; Prisoner vote 'a slap in the
face'

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 556 words


TENS of thousands of prisoners will be given the right to vote after a ruling by
human rights judges provoked outrage yesterday. The meddling Strasbourg court
said a blanket ban on inmates in England and Wales voting was unlawful.

The Government now has to decide whether to comply with the controversial ruling
or defy the order and face paying out more than £150million in compensation to
convicts.

Yesterday's decision sparked fury among MPs who voted overwhelmingly last year
against lifting the 140-year-old blanket ban and prompted warnings against
caving in to the Strasbourg court's demands.

Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "This judgment shows why we must
withdraw from the jurisdiction of this court. It is simply intolerable.

"Parliament needs to pass a law showing that this foreign legal panel will have
no bearing on the laws of this country."

Mr Carswell warned the Coalition against complying with the order. He added: "If
this Government wants to be able to look the voters in the eye it is going to
have think very carefully about what it does now.

"This judgment is not just about prisoners getting the vote, it is about which
party gets the vote. A lot of my core voters simply won't put up with it."

Dominic Raab, a lawyer and fellow Conservative MP, said: "The Strasbourg court
is like a drunk that can't walk in a straight line. Every time it looks at
prisoner voting it decides something different. One thing is clear, the judges
want to give more prisoners the vote despite this being a novel right they have
made up." Tory MP David Davis, who led the political campaign against prisoner
votes, said: "This regrettable decision is an infringement of the UK
Parliament's right to decide on matters which are fundamental to the British way
of life, and which are not appropriate to judicial intervention." Ukip MEP Paul
Nuttall said: "This is a bad judgment from a Mickey Mouse court. It is a slap in
the face to the British democratic process and again signals the UK cannot
escape this European Court of Human Rights judgment because we are signed-up
members of the EU."

A six-month deadline was issued yesterday. after the court ruled against an
Italian murderer who had been denied the vote because he was serving more than
three years. Franco Scoppola had argued his ban on voting due to his life
sentence was unlawful. Last autumn, junior justice minister Mark Harper said the
Coalition "reluctantly" accepted the UK had a legal obligation to fall in line.
But a day later David Cameron told MPs: "It makes me physically ill to
contemplate giving the vote to prisoners. They should lose some rights,
including the right to vote." But yesterday's ruling restates the court's
judgments and demands ministers change the rules. The Prime Minister now faces
having to legislate for prisoner votes - but the ruling does not mean all
inmates must be given voting rights. Ministers are likely to set a sentence
length at which rights are automatically withdrawn. Any attempt to introduce a
law will be seen as a further power-grab by the unelected judges of the
controversial court by already enraged MPs. Britain is among a handful of
European countries - including Armenia, Bulgaria, Estonia, Hungary and Romania -
that remove voting rights automatically from sentenced - not remanded -
prisoners. OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday

PMQs and Cameron statement on G8 and Nato summits: Politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6757 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all today's political developments
as they happen, including David Cameron and Ed Miliband at PMQs and Cameron's
statement on the G8 and Nato summits

FULL TEXT

9.00am: We'll be hearing a lot from David Cameron today. He's got PMQs, and then
he's giving a statement in the Commons about the recent G8 and Nato summits in
the US. The G8 summit seems to have been one of the least productive in recent
years, but, with the eurozone on the brink of collapse, MPs will have plenty to
ask Cameron about. And there are at least three stories in the news today that
are likely to come up in some form.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has told the Financial Times (subscription) that the
government is planning a "massive" increase in state-backed investment in
housing and infrastructure. It sounds suspiciously like Plan B. Here's an
extract.

In an interview with the Financial Times, the deputy prime minister sounded a
new tone on economic policy, when he said the government's "absolute priority"
was to use the government's strong balance sheet to inject credit into the
economy.

Mr Clegg said the coalition was looking at "massively amplifying the principle
of what we did on credit easing" - a reference to the Treasury's [#xfffd]20bn
scheme to support lending to small businesses.

[#xfffd] Adrian Beecroft, the Tory business adviser, has told the Daily
Telegraph that Vince Cable is a "socialist" who should not be running the
Deparment for Business.

[Beecroft] claims the Business Secretary's objections to the proposals are
"ideological not economic". "I think he is a socialist who found a home in the
Lib Dems, so he's one of the Left," Mr Beecroft says. "I think people find it
very odd that he's in charge of business and yet appears to do very little to
support business."

[#xfffd]The BBC has revealed that ministers have taken legal advice on how
Britain could, or could not, intervene in a war between Israel and Iran. This is
from Nick Robinson.

I have learnt that UK ministers are discussing not just the possibility of a
military confrontation but what role, if any, Britain might play and whether any
involvement would be legal.

Last week in London, the National Security Council discussed what would happen
if the latest set of negotiations with Iran failed and if Israel carried out its
threat to launch a military strike on Iran's nuclear facilities.

Ministers were told that this could trigger a wider war in the Middle East in
which Iran might respond not just by attacking Israel, but also by closing the
vital trade route - the Strait of Hormuz - through which more than a fifth of
the world's oil shipments are carried.

I understand that the government's law officers are now examining the legality
of any British involvement if this happen.

I expect we'll hear more on all three of these stories later today.

Here's the full agenda.

11am: BBC presenters Andrew Marr and Jeremy Paxman, the Tory MP Stephen Dorrell
and the Labour peer John Reid give evidence to the Leveson inquiry.

12pm: David Cameron and Ed Miliband clash at PMQs.12.30pm: Cameron makes to
Commons statement on the G8 and Nato summits.

2.05pm: The Commons transport committee takes evidence on transport and the
Olympics.

2.30pm: Kenneth Clarke, the justice secretary, gives evidence to the Commons
justice committee on the Ministry of Justice.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

9.13am: Is Ed Balls  (pictured) ever off the TV? He seems a constant presence on
the screens in my office, and he was on ITV's Daybreak this morning, with some
robust arguments to make. Here are the main points.

[#xfffd] Balls said that Labour would support the government if it opposed the
European court of human rights on prisoner voting. In fact, Balls sounded even
more gung-ho on this than some Tory ministers.

This is one of those times in politics where there is cross-party consensus. The
court first said this in 2004, that prisoners should be able to vote, and Labour
then said we disagree and we did not implement it. I am all in favour of
prisoners having the right kind of support and being rehabilitated but voting is
one of the things I think you give up if you go to prison. So we all agree that
this is the wrong thing ... If David Cameron's going to go out and fight this
one we'll be supporting him on that.

Yesterday Sadiq Khan's, the shadow justice secretary, also said Labour was
opposed to prisoners having the right to vote, but Balls's language is more
confrontational.

[#xfffd] He rejected suggestions that the IMF managing director Christine
Lagarde was criticising Labour yesterday when she talked about Britain's
economic position in 2010. Lagarde said: "When I think back to May 2010, when
the UK deficit was at 11%, and I try to imagine what the situation would be like
today if no such fiscal consolidation programme had been decided, I shiver."
Asked about this, Balls said Labour did have a plan to get the deficit down.

If there was no plan to get the deficit down, I would be shivering too, of
course. But there was a plan back then, our economy was recovering and George
Osborne in this Parliament is going to have a bigger deficit than the plans
Labour had.

[#xfffd] He said he disagreed with the IMF's call for interest rates to be cut
further.

There are lots of people in their 50s or 60s saving for their retirement worried
about interest rates being low. Actually, it's been important to have them low,
but making them even lower, I'm not sure that will make the difference.

I've taken some of the quotes from PoliticsHome.

9.42am: I've mentioned the Nick Clegg interview in the FT already (see 9.00am),
but it's worth looking at in detail because it seems to signal a significant
shift in government economic thinking. Here'sthe main story (subscription) and
here's the write-up inside (subscritiption).If Clegg's proposal isn't quite Plan
B, it's certainly Plan A version 2. Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Clegg says there will be a "massive" increase in state-backed
investment in housing and infrastructure. The coalition is "massively amplifying
the principle of what we did on credit easing", he says. David Cameron referred
to this briefly in his economy speech last week,but Clegg describes this much
more explicitly as a fresh government commitment.

From the top of government, a few weeks ago we decided this was the route we're
going to take. That's the instruction we've issued to the Treasury.

Clegg is talking about the government using its balance sheet to inject credit
into the economy by issuing lending guarantees. As I understand it, this does
not increase public sector net borrowing directly. But it does create a
contingent liability, and could leave ministers vulnerable to the charge of
"off-the-books" borrowing.

[#xfffd] He suggests that some Treasury officials are opposed to the plan. "I
think there are people about who will be nervous - even neurotic - about any
kind of innovation in this area for fear that it somehow would be criticised by
people in the markets," he says.[#xfffd] He denies that this amounts to a Plan
B.

[#xfffd] But he accepts that the government needs to cut its austerity rhetoric.
At the beginning the coalition had to set out the challenge facing the UK "in
very lurid terms", he says. But "that kind of language over a prolonged period
of time can have a dampening effect on mood, which is very important in an
economy."[#xfffd] He welcomes the election of Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande as French
president. "I personally massively welcome the arrival of Hollande on to the
scene," he says.

[#xfffd] He says the Lib Dems are "not in a great place". But he says that
eventually voters may be "much more receptive to that mix of credibility on the
economy and social fairness that I think is unique to us".

10.14am: And while we're on the subject of the Lib Dems being "not in a great
place", here are the YouGov GB polling figures from last night.

Labour: 43% (down 1 point from Monday night)Conservatives: 32% (no change)Ukip:
9% (up 1)Lib Dems: 8% (up 1)

Labour lead: 11 points

Government approval: -35

10.27am:The Daily Telegraph's full interview with Adrian Beecroft (pictured) is
also worth reading. The paper has splashed on his comments about Vince Cable
being a "socialist",but he's also quite critical of David Cameron and George
Osborne.

I'm constantly struck by how un-robust the prime minister and the chancellor are
when it comes to pushing back. Nick Clegg [is] always threatening to go nuclear
and dissolve the whole thing if he doesn't get his way with this, that and the
other. Which you'd think actually must be a hollow threat. Therefore, why can't
the government be more robust? I don't know what the answer is. But it is
disappointing.

Incidentally, Beecroft's comment about Cable being a socialist has been deemed
as a gross insult - to socialists. Here's the author and commentator Owen Jones
on Twitter.

Tory class warrior Adrian Beecroft calls Vince Cable a 'socialist'. An
outrageous smear on the good name of socialism

- Owen Jones (@OwenJones84) May 23, 2012

10.59am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, I've already covered Nick Clegg's interview in
the Financial Times and Adrian Beecroft's interview in the Daily Telegraph. Here
are two other articles that are interesting.[#xfffd] Jill Sherman in the Times
(paywall) says that Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, is
announcing a clampdown on civil servants being paid through private companies.

Up to 3,000 civil servants are employed via private firms to keep their tax
bills down, with some on contracts for ten years, Danny Alexander will disclose
today.

The Chief Secretary to the Treasury will announce a series of measures to clamp
down on tax avoidance in Whitehall which could be costing the country millions
of pounds.

Under these contracts thousands of officials avoid paying national insurance
contributions and can minimise tax overall by staying off the Whitehall payroll.
In future anyone who has been employed on a civil service contract for more than
six months will have to prove they are paying full income tax and national
insurance.

[#xfffd] Matthew Taylor in the Financial Times (subscription) says it is hard to
see what the Lib Dem pitch to the voters will be in 2015.

For the Lib Dems, not just the route but the destination for 2015 is unclear.
Two of Nick Clegg's biggest assets from last time - his image as an outsider and
honest broker - have gone up in smoke. It is very difficult to see how the Lib
Dems can credibly maintain a position of "wait and see" in relation to their
response to another hung parliament.

11.09am: There's a meeting of the joint ministerial committee, the body bringing
together ministers from the UK government and the devolved governments, in
Westminster today. Carwyn Jones (pictured), the Welsh first minister, is
attending and, before he arrived, he issued a statement saying he would be
complaining that Wales will be hit disproportionately by the coalition's welfare
cuts.

We have consistently made the Welsh government's position clear - we feel Wales
will be hit disproportionately compared to the rest of the UK by the welfare
reforms currently on the table.

The principle of welfare reform is fine as long as it provides genuine support
to individuals to help them find and keep work. But the current proposals will
really hit parts of Wales and the JMC is an opportunity for us to raise our real
concerns.

11.17am: Prospect has got an interesting interview with the Labour MP Tom Watson
(pictured), and Prospect's James Macintyre has written up the highlights in a
lengthy post on his blog.Watson says the hacking scandal is far from over and
that revelations about computer hacking which may come out in future may turn
out to be far more serious than the allegations that have been made about phone
hacking.

We are not through this scandal yet. Computer hacking is next and it may dwarf
what we have seen so far ... I have seen evidence that strongly suggests
computer hacking was more widespread across a number of industries. By this I
mean the use of "Trojan" devices used to illicitly disclose the content on hard
drives. The police inquiry has quite a long way to go before the full scandal is
revealed.

There's quite a lot more in the interview. I particularly liked Watson's
description of News International titles "the ultimate floating voters-with
menace". And I was intrigued to see Watson admit that he likes the Daily Mail.

See, I like the Mail. I would disagree with half the things it stands for but
it's a well-written paper and you know where you stand with it. They kind of
pretty much treat all MPs with an equal amount of contempt.

11.35am:Maria Miller, the disabilities minister, has announced a wage incentive
scheme to encourage employers to take on young disabled people. They will
receive up to [#xfffd]2,275 if they recruit young disabled people throught the
work choice programme.

11.41am: The retail sales figures for April were very poor. My colleague Zoe
Wood has all the details here.

Here's a comment from Cathy Jamieson, a shadow Treasury minister.

These are very disappointing figures which show just how much last year's VAT
rise has backfired. Retail sales are not only down in the last month, but down
compared to a year ago. And even stripping out petrol sales, which were pushed
up at the end of March when the government needlessly created panic at the
pumps, retail sales are still down.

11.52am: PMQs is coming up soon. And there's a good chance that we'll hear about
David Cameron's Fruit Ninja habit at some point in the next 30 minutes. For
those of you who missed it, Fraser Nelson brought this to the attention of the
nation in his Telegraph column last week. He later wrote this about it at Coffee
House.

In my Telegraph column yesterday, I quoted a senior adviser to the Prime
Minister saying that he 'spends a crazy, scary amount of time playing Fruit
Ninja' on his iPad. It seems No.10 has been denying it - telling The Times
([#xfffd]) that 'the real culprit' is 'his six-year-old son'. Now, all fathers
will immediately recognise this transparent defence ... but it doesn't wash.

12.00pm: Karen Bradley, a Conservative, asks David Cameron if he "shivers" at
the thought of Labour's economic plans.

Cameron says it is worth listening to Christine Lagarde on this. (See 9.13am.)

12.02pm: Ed Miliband says Adrian Beecroft wants the law changed to allow people
to be fired at will. Vince Cable says it's a bad idea. Who does Cameron agree
with?

Cameron says the government wants to make it easier for firms to expand. The
Beecroft report had some excellent ideas. The government is consulting on no
fault dismissal for micro-businesses.

Miliband says Lib Dem MPs think it's a bonkers idea, while Tory MPs think it's a
great idea. Who does Cameron support?

Cameron says the government has a "call for evidence" on this for
micro-businesses. It is not taking it forward for other businesses. No wonder
Miliband is worried about being fired at will. He's useless.

Miliband asks Cameron if he agrees with Beecroft that this would be a price
worth paying.

Cameron lists some of the pro-business measures the government is taking.
Miliband cannot support these measures because "he is in the pocket of the trade
unions".

12.05pm: Miliband says Cameron believes in sacking workers, but giving second
chances to people like Andy Coulson. And Cameron is giving people like Beecroft
a tax cut.

Cameron says the government commissions reports, and accepts the idea that it
agrees with. Miliband takes orders from the unions.

12.06pm: Miliband says this is not about the unions. It is about millions of
people afraid for their jobs. Cameron sounds "out of touch" when he says things
are moving in the right direction.

Cameron says this is about the unions. Miliband is getting [#xfffd]900,000 from
Unite, and they are threatening a bus drivers' strike during the Olympics. The
coalition is acting in the national interest, Labour is acting in the union
interest.

Miliband says Cameron cut taxes for millionaires, and then donations to the
Conservative party rolled in.

The nasty party is back.

Cameron says the government has cut taxes for 24m working people. Only Labour
think the solution is more debt.

12.09pm: Snap PMQs Verdict: Lively stuff, but probably a score draw.

12.10pm: Labour's John Mann says the number of young people unemployed or
underemployed in his constituency has greatly increased. A taskforce is being
set up in his constituency. Will the government support it?

Yes, says Cameron. The work experience progamme is particularly helpful.

12.11pm: Gary Streeter, a Conservartive, says NHS waiting times are falling.

Cameron says the number of patients waiting more than 18 weeks has reached a
record low.

12.12pm: Labour's Gisela Stuart says only five firms have benefited from an
export guarantee scheme launched by the government.

Cameron says that scheme was rolled into a larger one.

12.13pm: Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative, asks about giving support to parents
bonding with their new children.

Cameron praises Leadsom for the work she has done on this.

12.14pm: Nigel Dodds, a DUP MP, asks about prisoner voting.

Cameron says he has always believed that when you are sent to prison, you lose
the right to vote. And he believes this is a matter for parliament. Parliament
has made its decision. He completely agrees with it.

12.15pm: Labour's Jack Dromey says Cameron promised to give English cities a
seat at the heat of government. Labour took control of Birmingham. Will Cameron
meet a delegation from the city?

Yes, says Cameron. He says he hopes the new council will match the record of the
previous Conservative/Lib Dem council.

12.17pm: Paul Maynard, a Conservative, says the law on child neglect dates from
1933. Isn't it time to get the Law Commission to look at this again?

Cameron says he will consider this point. The recent child neglect case in
Blackpool was "unfathomable". Just passing a law will not address the problem,
he says.

12.18pm: Labour's Stella Creasy asks when the government will impose caps on
payday lending interest rates.

Cameron says the new financial regulators have to address this problem.

12.20pm: Labour's Ian Wright asks if the government is responsible for
unemployment going up in his constituency.

Cameron says people on temporary employment schemes were excluded from Labour's
unemployment figures. Under this government, they are included. If you look at
like-for-like youth unemployment, it is down since the general election, he
says.

12.21pm: Cameron says police budgets would be cut whoever was in power. The key
to getting officers on the streets is to cut the paperwork and reform police
pensions.

12.22pm: Cameron welcomes the fact that the government has made squatting a
criminal offence. Squatting is theft, he says.

12.23pm: Labour's Keith Vaz asks Cameron to condemn the [#xfffd]3.5m bonuses
paid to Border Force staff.

Cameron says he agrees that bonuses should not be paid routinely. More staff
have been hired to deal with passport checks at Heathrow. But Cameron suggests
he still thinks more needs to be done.

12.24pm: Cameron says Labour have not wanted to talk about the IMF report. The
IMF compared Britain to other countries that did not address their deficits. If
the coalition had not done this, Britain would be in jeopardy.

12.25pm: Cameron says there is a difference between donations to the
Conservative party from individuals and donations to Labour from the unions. The
unions decide Labour's policies, sponsor their MPs and choose their leader. They
own Labour "lock, stock and block vote".

12.26pm: Cameron refers to the "muttering idiot sitting opposite me". I think
that's a reference to Ed Balls.

John Bercow asks him to withdraw the word idiot.

Cameron says he will replace it with "the man who left us this enormous
deficit".

(So, Cameron was talking about Balls.)

12.28pm: Labour's Sheila Gilmore asks why the rate of jobs growth has fallen so
much since the election.

Cameron says she should welcome the fact that more jobs are being created.

12.29pm: Labour's Frank Field asks about the work of Food Bank. By the next
election, they think they wil be fooding 500,000 people. Will Cameron consider
why more people need their support?

Cameron pays tribute to the work done by Food Bank. He has visited one, he says.
He says the government has increased tax credits for the poorest.

12.31pm: Philip Davies, a Conservative, says he and Cameron agree on one thing:
Davies should never be promoted. He also says judges contribute just 2% to their
pensions, while the taxpayer contributes 33%. Will Cameron change that?

Cameron says judicial pensions have always been treated separately. But public
sector pensions are being cut generally.

On Davies's first point, Cameron says he has plans for Davies.

12.33pm: John Bercow, the Speaker, is making a short statement.

He says Aung San Suu Kyi, the Burmese opposition leader, has agreed to address
both Houses of Parliament on 21 June at 3pm.

12.34pm: David Cameron is making his statement about the G8 and Nato summits.
They reached important agreements about economic stability and national
security.

On the economy, G8 leaders all agreed on the need to cut deficits and promote
growth. France will cut its deficit more quickly than the UK.

He says he will be going to an informal EU summit tonight where he will discuss
measures to promote growth in Europe.

Greece is a risk to the world economy, he says. It is for the Greeks to decide
what is best for them.

The Greek election should be a choice between staying in the eurozone or "taking
a different path". The EU needs to prepare for both eventualities.

Cameron says he also wanted to encourage the good work of the G8 on development,
and to encourage the Arab Spring.

On development, the G8 pushed forward an inititive on food security. Cameron
says he will be building on this with an event on food hunger during the
Olympics.

Britain is honouring its aid commitments. Others are not. They should. Next
year, when Britain chairs the G8, a report will be published showing which
countries are and are not meeting their commitments.

On Nato, Cameron says some people write it off as a relic of the past. But
Cameron does not see it like that. He sees it as essential.

The Nato coalition has to complete the final build up of Afghan forces.

The summit marked "a turning point", he says. Almost $1bn was pledged to support
Afghan forces.

Three years ago three quarters of serious terrorist threats to the UK originated
from Afghanistan or Pakistan. Now that is down to half.

He pays tribute to the contribution made by British troops.

12.42pm: Ed Miliband is speaking now.

He says he wants to see British troops come home.

He asks Cameron to confirm the timetable for the withdrawal of British troops.
And he asks Cameron how many will be left in the country.

What new steps are being taken to secure a political settlement?

On the G8, he says the world desperately needed a plan for growth. Cameron
entertained Labour by describing Francoise Hollande as "his new best buddy". But
Cameron endorsed Nicolas Sarkozy. Miliband quotes a Foreign Office source quoted
in the papers as saying that Cameron was advised not to do this.

Cameron is on the wrong side of the economic argument, he says.

And Cameron did not quote what the IMF said about growth being too low and
unemployment being too high.

We have the irony of a prime minister who has delivered a double dip recession
lecturing other people on growth.

Last year Cameron signed a communique saying countries would take action to
stimulate demand if conditions worsened. But conditions have worsened. Cameron
is not stimulating demand because he does not believe in it.

Last week George Osborne said speculating about the eurozone breaking up would
be harmful. But then a few days later Cameron did just that.

Miliband says Cameron cannot be part of the solution on the economy because he
is part of the problem.

12.49pm: Cameron says Miliband did not offer any plan in his speech.

He acknowledges that Miliband had some fun at his expense about Sarkozy. But he
says he would rather have a reputation for being loyal to his friends than for
kniving his brother.

On Afghanistan, he says some troops will remain after 2014. But they won't be
involved in combat operations, he says.

On President Hollande, he says Hollande said something Miliband should accept.
Hollande said the national debt was "the enemy of the left" and "the enemy of
France". Hollande also said more borrowing could not be the answer.

Nobody in Europe supports Miliband's call for an extra [#xfffd]200bn of
borrowing. That would wreck the economy, he says.

12.53pm: Sir Peter Tapsell, a Conservative, asks if anyone at the G8 recognised
that the single currency, not the Greek debt, was at the heart of the crisis.

Cameron says a single currency requires an activist central bank behind it.

12.54pm: Alistair Darling, the former Labour chancellor, asks if the German
position has changed. There is no sign it will change before the Greek election.

Cameron says there are some signs that the German position is changing.

12.56pm: Labour's Sir Gerald Kaufman asks Cameron to deplore President Obama's
"offensive discourtesy" to the president of Pakistan.

Cameron says he would not put it like this. He urges partners to show "patience
and understanding" towards Parkistan. Pakistan needs to know that its friends,
like Britain, will not abandon it when the Afghan war is over.

1.08pm: Labour's Dennis Skinner asks Cameron to accept that he needs a plan for
growth.

Cameron says that he was too abrupt in his last exchange with Skinner (the one
when he told Skinner to retire). Skinner is an ornament to the Commons, Cameron
says.

1.32pm:The full text of Cameron's statement is now on the Downing Street
website.

2.15pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has told MPs that Greek voters should treat next month's
election as a referendum on their membership of the euro. He made the
declaration in a statement to the Commons on the outcome of the G8 and Nato
summits at the weekend.

The future of Greece is for the Greek people to determine. It is for them to
decide what is best for their country. But we can't afford to allow this issue
to be endlessly fudged and put off.

The Greek election should in effect be a straightforward choice between staying
in the Eurozone - with the responsibilities that entails or taking a different
path. The eurozone - and Europe as a whole - needs to have contingency plans in
place for both eventualities.

In response, Ed Miliband said the G8 summit showed that the the West was
"divided between those who believe we must have a decisive shift towards growth
and those who believe the answer lies in more of the same". And he said Cameron
was on the wrong side of the argument.

For two years you have been the high priest of austerity, you have been telling
the world that austerity alone is the answer. But now the recognition has dawned
that it isn't working and you find yourself on the wrong side of the argument.

[#xfffd] Cameron has indicated that he will resist calls from the European court
of human rights to allow prisoners in the UK to vote. Speaking at PMQs, he
suggested that the government would ignore yesterday's ruling from the ECHR.

I have always believed when you are sent to prison you lose certain rights and
one of those rights is the right to vote. Crucially, I believe this should be a
matter for parliament to decide, not a foreign court. Parliament has made its
decision and I completely agree with it.

Earlier Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, said Labour was also opposed to Britain
allowing prisoners to vote. "If David Cameron is going to go out there and fight
this one, we will be supporting him on that," Balls told ITV.

[#xfffd] Cameron has been rebuked by John Bercow, the Speaker, for calling Balls
a "muttering idiot" during PMQs. Later, on Twitter, Balls said: "For the record,
I was simpy [sic] asking the Prime Minister, as he boasted the economy was on
track: 'Tell us about the recession'..." But later, during the statement,
Cameron apologised to Dennis Skinner for being rude to him in a recent exchange
when he said Skinner should retire. "My last response to him was a bit more
sharp than it should have been and I hope he will accept my apologies," Cameron
said.

[#xfffd] Miliband has accused the Conservatives of reverting to their "nasty
party" image. During his PMQs exchanges with Cameron, he focused on the Beecroft
report, and challenged Cameon to say whether he agreed with Tory MPs who were in
favour of its no fault dismissal plan, or Lib Dem MPs who thought it was wrong.

When it comes to ordinary workers he wants to make it easier for employers to
sack them. When it comes to Andy Coulson and the culture secretary [Jeremy Hunt]
it's all about second chances ... Tax cuts for millionaires, making it easier to
sack people, the nasty party is back.

Cameron said the government had rejected no fault dismissal for large firms, and
was still consulting on it for micro-firms. He said the Conservatives'
relationship with donors was better than Labour's relationship with the unions.

We commission a report, we accept the bits we agree with, we reject the bits we
don't agree with. What he [Miliband[ does is take instructions from his trade
union paymasters.

[#xfffd] Cameron has suggested that the threat to the UK from Afghanistan has
reduced as a result of the British operation there.

Britain has played a leading role in this alliance for reasons of our own
national security. Three years ago some three quarters of the most serious
terrorist plots against Britain had links to Afghanistan and Pakistan. I'm now
advised that figure has fallen to around a half.

[#xfffd] Cameron has welcomed the news thatBAE Systems, the arms firm, has
signed a [#xfffd]1.9bn deal to supply Hawk trainer jets to Saudi Arabia. This
was "more good news for British jobs, for British investment and British
Aerospace", Cameron said.[#xfffd] Cameron has said the government needs to do
more to address the problem of delays at Heathrow.

We have got a new control room opening at Heathrow this month, there are an
extra 80 staff for peak times at Heathrow, an extra 480 people will come on
stream during the Olympic period. But I am still not satisfied. We need to do
more, including more this week and next week to really get on top of this
problem.

[#xfffd] Cameron has said that he will stage an event on global hunger when
world leaders are visiting London for the Olympics.

[#xfffd]Nick Clegg has said that the coalition has plans for a "massive"
increase in state-backed infrastructure investment. But, in an interview with
the Financial Times, he denied that the fresh emphasis on growth represented a
"plan B". The prime minister's spokesman said Clegg's comments echoed comments
made by David Cameron in a speech he gave on the economy last week.

[#xfffd] Downing Street has declined to discuss the UK's contingency plans in
the event of a military confrontation between Israel and Iran amid reports that
ministers have asked lawyers to examine whether any British involvement would be
legal.

[#xfffd] Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, has told MPs that
new rules will be introduced to stop civil servants being paid through private
companies. In a statement to MPs, he said that more than 2,400 public sector
appointees had been paid in this way.

[#xfffd] The Office for National Statistics has said that retail sales fell by
2.3% in April.

[#xfffd]Leading addiction charities have expressed deep concerns over government
plans to cut the benefits of people suspected of suffering from alcoholism or
drug addiction who refuse treatment for their condition.

[#xfffd] Stephen Dorrell, the former Conservative national heritage secretary,
has told the Leveson inquiry that the last Conservative government did not try
to impose statutory regulation on the press partly because it thought it would
be impossible to get the legislation through the Commons. There are more details
on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Downing Street has said that collective cabinet responsibility will
apply to the legislation introducing gay marriage. But the prime minister's
spokesman refused to say whether MPs would be allowed a free vote. Yesterday it
emerged that Owen Paterson, the Northern Ireland secretary, has said he cannot
support the measure. Stewart Jackson, a Tory MP and Paterson's former PPS, told
PoliticsHome that applying a three-line whip on gay marriage would be "a
catastrophic error of judgement and would generate serious divisions".

[#xfffd] Alastair Campbell has taken a job with Portland, the PR company set up
by his former Labour and Number 10 deputy, Tim Allan.[#xfffd] The Commons
adminstration committee has saidin a report that tourists should be able to buy
tickets to visit parliament on Sundays.[#xfffd]Vince Cable, the business
secretary, has launched GrowthAccelerator, a programme designed to provide
entrepreneurs with expert advice on issues like securing finance.

2.58pm: Jeremy Paxman (pictured) has been giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry
- and it sounds as if Piers Morgan may have some explaining to do. Here's a
quote from Paxman's evidence.

I was really struck by something Piers Morgan said, I was sat between him on my
left and editor of Sunday Mirror on my right. Ulrika Jonsson was sat opposite.

Morgan said, teasing Ulrika, that he knew what had happened in conversations
between her and Sven Goran Eriksson and he went into this mock Swedish accent.

Now I don't know whether he was repeating a conversation that he had heard, or
he was imagining this conversation ... It was a rather bad parody.

I was struck by it because I am wet behind the ears, I didn't know this sort of
thing went on.

He turned to me and said have you got a mobile phone I said yes. He said, have
you got a security setting on the message bit of it .... I didn't know what he
was talking about.

He then explained that the way to get access to people's messages was to go to
the factory default setting and press 0000 and 1234 and if you didn't put your
own code in, his words were, 'you are a fool'.

I've taken the quote from our Leveson live blog, where you can read all the
details.

3.09pm: Here's the Guardian audio of PMQs.

It lasts for the full half hour.

3.44pm: Here's an afternoon reading list.[#xfffd] Iain Martin at the Telegraph
says David Cameron is on course to lose the next election.

It is not widely appreciated that Labour starts with a huge inbuilt advantage,
and I don't mean because of the boundary advantage that will be partially
corrected later in this parliament. No, I mean that shortly after Clegg joined
the coalition, Labour took delivery of another six or seven per cent of the
vote, with lefty Lib Dems who had abandoned Blair after Iraq etc going back
home. The party was under the 30 per cent mark at the last election. But it has
rebuilt its core vote. It starts any general election fight at somewhere around
36 per cent, and that's before it reaches out to disillusioned floating voters.

To stand a chance of countering this and getting north of 40 per cent Cameron
would have to offer bold and dramatic leadership, beginning with working out
what his vision of a revived Britain looks like. He needs to stake out a
position on Europe and a referendum that stands a serious chance of winning over
the Tories heading for UKIP. That party got over 900,000 voters last time, and
the polls suggest it could be higher next time without urgent action by the
Conservative leadership. Equally, he should be trying to tap into millions of
potential voters who are so scunnered with politics that they aren't voting. He
cannot win by making tiny little tactical moves on the chess board; he stands a
chance if he tries to rewrite the rules of the game.

[#xfffd] Paul Goodman at ConservativeHome says David Cameron has a five-point
plan for winning the next election.

Senior CCHQ sources tell me that plans for fighting the next election are
already being mapped out. These have less to do with policies or even delivery
(which are presumably covered elsewhere) than with "values" - presumably on the
ground that if uncommitted voters don't like or at least respect you, they won't
vote for you.

[#xfffd] James Forsyth at Coffee House says Ed Balls was "sledging" David
Cameron throughout PMQs, "asking him how many glasses of wine he had had today
and the like".

[#xfffd] Tim Farron tells Huffington Post in an interview that he was
disappointed with Labour's record in power.

If you're a Tory, we understand. You get into power to do Tory things. I'm cross
with Labour. There is a sense that they are like cousins and they've dishonoured
the family. They not only screwed up their reform package, they left people
worse off. I expect it of the Tories, I'm just crushingly disappointed by
Labour.

Farron also says the Lib Dems will miss not being in power when they eventually
returned to opposition.

If and when we find ourselves out of power, and it will be when - I'm not
predicting exactly when - but we will be in opposition one day, we will miss
this. We might not think we will, but we will.

4.20pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] The Leveson inquiry has revealed that Jonathan Stephens, permanent
secretary at the Department for Culture, will give evidence on Friday about
Jeremy Hunt's handling of the News Corporation bid for BSkyB.

[#xfffd] Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has told the Spectator in an interview
that he would consider running joint candidates with Eurosceptic Conservative
associations at the general election.

What I do know is there are Conservative associations up and down the country
who think this could be a way forward. All I would say to you is that in terms
of co-operation or deals or anything in the future, firstly it's some way off.
But secondly, I can see that there are associations thinking along these lines.
If they approach us, would I entertain and contemplate such ideas? Of course I
would.

[#xfffd] Jeremy Paxman has told the Leveson inquiry that Piers Morgan once told
him how to hack a mobile phone.There are more details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Labour have complained that the election registration and adminstration
bill, which is getting its second reading this afternoon, will benefit the
Conservatives. This is from Sadiq Khan, the shadow justice secretary.

The government know full well that the moment at which the electoral register
risks being the most vulnerable to a sharp fall in size is precisely when this
data will be used to shape new parliamentary constituency boundaries. As those
most likely to fall off the register are weighted towards urban areas, any
redrawing would lead to major upheaval and a skewing of political representation
in Westminster.

[#xfffd] Vince Cable has published the entreprise and regulatory reform bill.
Alexander Ehmann, head of regulation and employment policy at the Institute of
Directors, said: "Today's enterprise and regulatory reform bill offers little to
satisfy those in search of worthwhile deregulation. The changes to employment
tribunals are the closest that the government gets to the red meat of the issue.
Disappointingly, the bill signals another missed opportunity for the
government."

[#xfffd] Ed Miliband has said that being Jewish is a key part of his identity.
He discussed it in an article for the New Statesman in which he said: "For me,
my Jewishness and my Britishness are intertwined."

Like many others from Holocaust families, I have a paradoxical relationship with
this history. On one level I feel intimately connected with it - this happened
to my parents and grandparents. On another, it feels like a totally different
world.

When I was in my late twenties, I went back to Poland with my mother to visit
the town of Czestochowa, where she had spent so much of her childhood. As we
left a house in which she once sheltered, a man pointed at us, shouting: "The
Jews are coming to take back their property." That was another glimpse of the
world she had come from and an echo of the ancient hatreds that propelled my
family to Britain 70 years ago.

[#xfffd] The Public and Commercial Services union has voted to hold another
public sector strike at the end of June over cuts to pensions, pay and jobs.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2012 Wednesday 3:30 PM GMT

Want to see an end to the euro crisis and return to a profitable UK? Then don't
rely on a government which insists the EU has the answers

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 658 words


Tonight we have yet another EU summit in Brussels, called by my old friend
Herman Van Rompuy, where he will present yet another 'strategy for growth and
jobs'.

Don't expect it to contain any proposals which will genuinely stimulate
economies, for this man is the leader of an organisation to whom business
innovation is a stranger.

With mass civil unrest waiting in the wings and human suffering a daily event in
countries like Greece, we have an EU which is more intent on killing the patient
and saving the cancer than getting the continent out of this economic crisis.

Time and again we are given the same prescription of 'more Europe' yet let us
not forget that the single currency itself, the euro; the word which these days
is only followed by the word 'crisis', was itself a strategy for growth and
jobs.

And look where that has got us: even the UK which sensibly stayed out of
monetary union is liable for huge costs because of the banking sector's exposure
to Greek debt. But it's not just Greece where we have a crisis. Only last week
there were yet more protests in Madrid where unemployment is 24.4 per cent and
more than 50 per cent amongst the youth.

Bookmakers Paddypower have Greece at 3/10 to be the first to leave the single
currency. Quite frankly I am surprised they are still taking bets. EU leaders
and Greek politicians may have convinced the Greek people that leaving the
disastrous eurozone would be some kind of economic suicide but the reality is
that only a return to the Drachma will provide the required environment for the
growth which is, unsurprisingly, eluding most of the single currency area.

The simple fact is that business innovation is something the EU can't grasp.
They can talk about it, they can draft and vote on legislation which they say
will bring it about but their lack of business ion is telling in every single
motion, directive and speech which emanates from a Commission official or pro EU
MEP.

In Kent where I live, for example, we have a thriving business in the form of a
Winery called 'Chapel Down' who were told that because their latest produce, 'An
English Salute' was made with grapes from Argentina, they are unable to describe
it as 'wine'. Instead, they must us the term 'fruit derived alcoholic beverage
from produce sourced outside the EU'.

The reason for this, I discovered yesterday is that the European Commission
admitted that they hadn't considered the idea of wine made from non EU grapes.
As such, hapless EU bureaucrats wrote and voted for legislation which stops a
product that is quite clearly wine being described as wine.

While this seems another example of 'bonkers Brussels' it's much more than that
for the businesses who have to deal with endless reams of legislation and small
companies like Chapel Down who will incur additional costs and potentially lose
business because of this latest EU farce.

This whole situation has been brought about because of interfering eurocrats
who, because they have never been in business, can't imagine innovative business
ideas. It's these ideas which bring about growth and jobs and it's why the EU
will never develop a strategy that will actually work.

It's clear that their only role in commerce is to stifle it which is why we
should remove ourselves from this organisation as quickly as possible.

And don't think that because Brussels have confirmed that this has arisen from
another piece of ill thought out legislation that they will do anything about
it. Why should they?

MPs in Westminster are impotent to stand up for British businesses which means
that these regulations keep on hurting businesses at a time when we need them to
be profitable.

So if you want to see an end to the euro crisis and a return to profitable UK
PLC, don't rely on a government which insists that the EU has the answers.

Nigel Farage is the UKIP leader and MEP for the South East counties as well as
the Chairman of the EFD Group in the European Parliament

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2012 Wednesday 4:26 PM GMT

Nigel Farage offers Tories a deal on Europe: it's an opportunity and a pitfall
for Labour

BYLINE: By Dan Hodges

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 526 words


Ukip are preparing to offer Tory MPs a Faragian pact at the next election, with
the smaller party reportedly ready to stand down candidates against those
embracing its slightly eccentric brand of Eurosceptic nationalism, according to
tomorrow's Spectator. The news will have been greeted with two cheers by Ed
Miliband. There have been some tentative signs over the past week David Cameron
and his team are beginning to get to grips with their omnishambolic
administration, and he will welcome anything that helps continue to keep them
destabilised. He is also acutely aware of Europe's capacity to do serious and
lasting strategic damage to the Conservative party.

But Miliband is conscious too that he has his own European tightrope to walk,
and while he has done so confidently over the past month, he senses the wind
around him is starting to pick up. Labour has been having fun floating the
possibility of their own European referendum call, which they know would cause
short-term havoc within Tory ranks. But Labour's leader has to position himself
carefully to ensure David Cameron's little local difficulty doesn't suddenly
lurch closer to home.

Watching Labour's European kite flying over the past week I've been reminded of
Gordon Brown and the election that never was. That too started as a fun ruse to
keep the Conservatives off balance, but eventually got out of hand and ended up
dragging Brown off a political cliff.

One thing that worries Ed Miliband is the effect a referendum call may have on
his own personal brand. Miliband is keen to carve out a reputation as a Does
What He Says On The Tin politician; hence his constant references to
phone-hacking, which he believes demonstrates his willingness to put principle
before political advantage. Having so recently ruled out a referendum, he knows
a call for one would be perceived as political opportunism. Which is of course
precisely what it would be.

Miliband also has another problem; the fact he is a card-carrying pro-European.
At the moment he is revelling in his ability to court elements of the
Eurosceptic media with hints of outflanking Cameron, the great euro ditherer, on
the Right. But he knows that as soon as he came out with a referendum pledge
Cameron would have no option but to match it. At which point the debate would
shift from the principle of a referendum to the actual stances of the leaders
and their parties in any forthcoming campaign. And Miliband knows that however
much it may be to his political advantage, he will never be able to
out-Eurosceptic the Conservative party.

There is one other factor feeding heavily into his calculations; the Liberal
Democrats. Ed Miliband is convinced the path to Downing Street lies across Nick
Clegg's lawn, and is nervous about adopting any strategy that would unsettle the
huddled masses of Lib Dem refugees that decamped to Labour in the wake of the
Great Betrayal of 2010. Ed wants them to see his values, unlike those of Nasty
Nick, are not for sale.

Europe remains a big problem for the Tories, and Ed Miliband wants to exploit it
as much as he can. But he wants to make sure it remains David Cameron's problem,
not his own.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2012 Wednesday 4:26 PM GMT

Nigel Farage offers Tories a deal on Europe: it's an opportunity and a pitfall
for Labour

BYLINE: By Dan Hodges

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 526 words


Ukip are preparing to offer Tory MPs a Faragian pact at the next election, with
the smaller party reportedly ready to stand down candidates against those
embracing its slightly eccentric brand of Eurosceptic nationalism, according to
tomorrow's Spectator. The news will have been greeted with two cheers by Ed
Miliband. There have been some tentative signs over the past week David Cameron
and his team are beginning to get to grips with their omnishambolic
administration, and he will welcome anything that helps continue to keep them
destabilised. He is also acutely aware of Europe's capacity to do serious and
lasting strategic damage to the Conservative party.

But Miliband is conscious too that he has his own European tightrope to walk,
and while he has done so confidently over the past month, he senses the wind
around him is starting to pick up. Labour has been having fun floating the
possibility of their own European referendum call, which they know would cause
short-term havoc within Tory ranks. But Labour's leader has to position himself
carefully to ensure David Cameron's little local difficulty doesn't suddenly
lurch closer to home.

Watching Labour's European kite flying over the past week I've been reminded of
Gordon Brown and the election that never was. That too started as a fun ruse to
keep the Conservatives off balance, but eventually got out of hand and ended up
dragging Brown off a political cliff.

One thing that worries Ed Miliband is the effect a referendum call may have on
his own personal brand. Miliband is keen to carve out a reputation as a Does
What He Says On The Tin politician; hence his constant references to
phone-hacking, which he believes demonstrates his willingness to put principle
before political advantage. Having so recently ruled out a referendum, he knows
a call for one would be perceived as political opportunism. Which is of course
precisely what it would be.

Miliband also has another problem; the fact he is a card-carrying pro-European.
At the moment he is revelling in his ability to court elements of the
Eurosceptic media with hints of outflanking Cameron, the great euro ditherer, on
the Right. But he knows that as soon as he came out with a referendum pledge
Cameron would have no option but to match it. At which point the debate would
shift from the principle of a referendum to the actual stances of the leaders
and their parties in any forthcoming campaign. And Miliband knows that however
much it may be to his political advantage, he will never be able to
out-Eurosceptic the Conservative party.

There is one other factor feeding heavily into his calculations; the Liberal
Democrats. Ed Miliband is convinced the path to Downing Street lies across Nick
Clegg's lawn, and is nervous about adopting any strategy that would unsettle the
huddled masses of Lib Dem refugees that decamped to Labour in the wake of the
Great Betrayal of 2010. Ed wants them to see his values, unlike those of Nasty
Nick, are not for sale.

Europe remains a big problem for the Tories, and Ed Miliband wants to exploit it
as much as he can. But he wants to make sure it remains David Cameron's problem,
not his own.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 23, 2012 Wednesday 11:05 AM GMT

David Cameron is on track to lose the next election

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 843 words


One of the most senior cabinet ministers under Gordon Brown likes to recall how
during the run-up to to the 2010 general election he kept expecting one morning
to wake up, turn on the Today programme and discover that the atrocious campaign
the Tories had been running up until that point had been a feint, similar to
that organised before D Day to lull the enemy into complacency. The proper
campaign would then start. But the day never came and the Tories went into the
election without any clear and coherent offer to the country. David Cameron
should, says the Brown-era cabinet minister, have won by fifty seats.

In the 2010 election Cameron failed to connect with sufficient numbers of the
C1s and C2s. He didn't get through the crucial 40 per cent barrier with either
group, unlike Thatcher and Blair, who both talked the language of aspiration.
The former did so because she came from the striving classes, and the latter
because he grasped the importance of connecting with that vital group, even
though it wasn't his natural milieu, if he wanted to be Prime Minister.

Instead, the Cameroons relied on Gordon Brown, a ton of money directed at the
marginals and a vague "change" mantra. I remember a colleague asking one of the
architects of the Tory campaign: "what sort of election is it?" He looked as
though he hadn't give it much thought. Is it, said my colleague, a "pocket book"
election, or a national renewal election? In the end the best the friend of
Cameron could muster was: "it's a change election. They don't like Gordon Brown,
they quite like David Cameron. It's a change election."

Shortly before polling day, someone solidly Conservative, with a modern
disposition, but who doesn't obsess about politics, asked me to explain what on
earth the Tories were playing at. You have been to the TV debates, you've
written about this stuff for months, you know some of the people involved, she
said. So what the hell are the Tories trying to say? After mumbling something
about the Big Society, an invitation to join the government, a bit of localism
and a reference to the deficit, I concluded that they themselves weren't
remotely clear about what they were trying to say to the country other than:
"it's our turn."

It was notable that after the failure to win the election, newly ensconced in
Number 10, the Cameroons did not want to hear any of this. In part it can be
attributed to the PM's pride. He is ultra-competitive when playing Angry Birds,
politics or tennis. And here, in the most important tennis match of his life, he
had delivered a double fault. I suspect he hated it being pointed out and for
that reason refused to hold a proper post-mortem. Any mention of the
shortcomings of the campaign are still verboten.

It is a cliché because it is true, as someone once wrote. The failure to learn
history's lessons means that you are condemned to repeat your mistakes. Having
failed to work out why they didn't triumph in 2010, it seems that the Tory
leadership is opting for a rerun.

The excellent Paul Goodman has had a fascinatingly revealing briefing on the
Tory HQ's preparations for the 2015 election. The word thin doesn't quite cover
the "five-point plan" CCHQ has come up with. They will try to convince the
country that it is on the right track, talk up the government's NHS policy and
hold a lot of focus groups on how they can appeal to ethnic minority voters.

This is pathetically modest and inadequate when one considers the nature of the
challenge facing the country. That is to say nothing of the challenge
confronting the Tories. It is not widely appreciated that Labour starts with a
huge inbuilt advantage, and I don't mean because of the boundary advantage that
will be partially corrected later in this parliament. No, I mean that shortly
after Clegg joined the coalition, Labour took delivery of another six or seven
per cent of the vote, with lefty Lib Dems who had abandoned Blair after Iraq etc
going back home. The party was under the 30 per cent mark at the last election.
But it has rebuilt its core vote. It starts any general election fight at
somewhere around 36 per cent, and that's before it reaches out to disillusioned
floating voters.

To stand a chance of countering this and getting north of 40 per cent Cameron
would have to offer bold and dramatic leadership, beginning with working out
what his vision of a revived Britain looks like. He needs to stake out a
position on Europe and a referendum that stands a serious chance of winning over
the Tories heading for UKIP. That party got over 900,000 voters last time, and
the polls suggest it could be higher next time without urgent action by the
Conservative leadership. Equally, he should be trying to tap into millions of
potential voters who are so scunnered with politics that they aren't voting. He
cannot win by making tiny little tactical moves on the chess board; he stands a
chance if he tries to rewrite the rules of the game.

Instead, it looks like CCHQ has a five point plan which can be reduced to one
point. It will hold more focus groups.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 23, 2012 Wednesday 11:05 AM GMT

David Cameron is on track to lose the next election

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 843 words


One of the most senior cabinet ministers under Gordon Brown likes to recall how
during the run-up to to the 2010 general election he kept expecting one morning
to wake up, turn on the Today programme and discover that the atrocious campaign
the Tories had been running up until that point had been a feint, similar to
that organised before D Day to lull the enemy into complacency. The proper
campaign would then start. But the day never came and the Tories went into the
election without any clear and coherent offer to the country. David Cameron
should, says the Brown-era cabinet minister, have won by fifty seats.

In the 2010 election Cameron failed to connect with sufficient numbers of the
C1s and C2s. He didn't get through the crucial 40 per cent barrier with either
group, unlike Thatcher and Blair, who both talked the language of aspiration.
The former did so because she came from the striving classes, and the latter
because he grasped the importance of connecting with that vital group,even
though it wasn't his natural milieu,if he wanted to be Prime Minister.

Instead, the Cameroons relied on Gordon Brown, a ton of money directed at the
marginals and a vague "change" mantra. I remember a colleague asking one of the
architects of the Tory campaign: "what sort of election is it?"He looked as
though he hadn't give it much thought. Is it, said my colleague, a "pocket book"
election, or a national renewal election?In the end the best the friend of
Cameron could muster was: "it's a change election. They don't like Gordon Brown,
they quite like David Cameron. It's a change election."

Shortly before polling day, someone solidly Conservative, with a modern
disposition, but who doesn't obsess about politics, asked me to explain what on
earth the Tories were playing at. You have been to the TV debates, you've
written about this stuff for months, you know some of the people involved, she
said. So what the hell are the Tories trying to say? After mumbling something
about the Big Society, an invitation to join the government, a bit of localism
and a reference to the deficit, I concluded that they themselves weren't
remotely clear about what they were trying to say to the country other than:
"it's our turn."

It was notable that after the failure to win the election, newly ensconced in
Number 10, the Cameroons did not want to hear any of this. In part it can be
attributed to the PM's pride. He is ultra-competitive when playing Angry Birds,
politics or tennis. And here, in the most important tennis match of his life, he
had delivered a double fault. I suspect he hated it being pointed out and for
that reason refused to hold a proper post-mortem. Any mention of the
shortcomings of the campaign are still verboten.

It is a clich because it is true, as someone once wrote. The failure to learn
history's lessons means that you are condemned to repeat your mistakes. Having
failed to work out why they didn't triumph in 2010, it seems that the Tory
leadership is opting for a rerun.

The excellent Paul Goodman has had a fascinatingly revealing briefing on the
Tory HQ's preparations for the 2015 election. The word thin doesn't quite cover
the "five-point plan" CCHQ has come up with. They will try to convince the
country that it is on the right track, talk up the government's NHS policy and
hold a lot of focus groups on how they can appeal to ethnic minority voters.

This is pathetically modest and inadequate when one considers the nature of the
challenge facing the country. That is to say nothing of the challenge
confronting the Tories. It is not widely appreciated that Labour starts with a
huge inbuilt advantage, and I don't mean because of the boundary advantage that
will be partially corrected later in this parliament. No, I mean that shortly
after Clegg joined the coalition, Labour took delivery of another six or seven
per cent of the vote, with lefty Lib Dems who had abandoned Blair after Iraq etc
going back home. The party was under the 30 per cent mark at the last election.
But it has rebuilt its core vote. It starts any general election fight at
somewhere around 36 per cent, and that's before it reaches out to disillusioned
floating voters.

To stand a chance of countering this and getting north of 40 per cent Cameron
would have to offer bold and dramatic leadership, beginning with working out
what his vision of a revived Britain looks like. He needs to stake out a
position on Europe and a referendum that stands a serious chance of winning over
the Tories heading for UKIP. That party got over 900,000 voters last time, and
the polls suggest it could be higher next time without urgent action by the
Conservative leadership. Equally, he should be trying to tap into millions of
potential voters who are so scunnered with politics that they aren't voting. He
cannot win by making tiny little tactical moves on the chess board; he stands a
chance if he tries to rewrite the rules of the game.

Instead, it looks like CCHQ has a five point plan which can be reduced to one
point. It will hold more focus groups.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2012 Wednesday 9:46 AM GMT

George Monbiot: the new Christopher Hitchens?

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 989 words


Many of the most brilliant Right-wing politicians, journalists and polemicists
started out on the Left: Ronald Reagan, Christopher Hitchens, Peter Hitchens,
Paul Johnson, David Horowitz, Martin Amis, Toby Young, Clive James, Rod
Liddle... This isn't a route I've taken myself because I never went through an
egregiously stupid phase. But I quite understand and forgive those poor young
whippersnappers who did - and really don't blame them, especially if they were
only doing it as a cynical bid to get into the knickers of hot hippie chicks.

So three cheers for another trot - George Monbiot - who has finally seen the
light. Well, maybe one and a half cheers more like because our George still has
some way to go before achieving Delingpolean levels of immense and unimpeachable
soundness. But he's definitely heading in the right direction. Just read what he
says in his latest column for the Guardian's Komment Macht Frei.

First some context. Monbiot is greatly exercised by the position taken by some
members of the international Leftist brethren on the genocidal killing of 8,000
Bosniaks at Srebrenica in 1995 and of perhaps 800,000 Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994.
He is disgusted at the way they have tried to play the significance of these
massacres down, which he considers a betrayal of the kind of principles he
always thought Lefties believed in.

So attempts to downplay or dismiss this crime matter too - especially when they
emerge from the unlikely setting of the internationalist left. I'm using this
column to pursue a battle which might be hopeless, and which many of you might
regard as obscure. Perhaps I have become obsessed, but it seems to me to be
necessary. Tacitly on trial beside Mladic in The Hague is a set of ideas: in my
view the left's most disturbing case of denial and doublethink since the
widespread refusal to accept that Stalin had engineered a famine in the Ukraine.

I first raised this issue a year ago, when I sharply criticised a book by two
luminaries of the left, Edward Herman and David Peterson. The Politics of
Genocide seeks to downplay or dismiss both the massacre of Bosniaks at
Srebrenica in 1995 and the genocide of Tutsis committed by Hutu militias in
Rwanda in 1994. Their claims are extraordinary: that the cause of death of the
"vast majority" of the Bosniaks at Srebrenica remains "undetermined"; that
rather than 800,000 or more Tutsis being killed by Hutu militias in Rwanda, "the
great majority of deaths were Hutu, with some estimates as high as two million",
while members of the Hutus' Interahamwe militia were the "actual victims" of
genocide.

What has changed since then is that the movement to which I thought I belonged
has closed ranks: against attempts to challenge this revisionism, against the
facts, in effect against the victims of these genocides. My attempts to pursue
this question number among the most dispiriting experiences of my working life.

Monbiot feels especially let down by two men whom he considered to be heroes of
the Left:

I wrote to Noam Chomsky, a hero of mine, who provided the foreword to Herman and
Peterson's book, asking whether he had read it and whether he accepted the
accounts it contains of the Rwandan genocide and the massacre of Srebrenica.
Watching that brilliant mind engage in high-handed dismissal and distraction has
been profoundly depressing. While failing to answer my questions, he accused me
of following the Washington script (I have posted our correspondence on my
website).

John Pilger, who wrote a glowing endorsement of the book, volunteered this
response: "Chef Monbiot is a curiously sad figure. All those years of noble
green crusading now dashed by his Damascene conversion to nuclear power's
poisonous devastations and his demonstrable need for establishment recognition -
a recognition which, ironically, he already enjoyed." The leftwing magazine
Counterpunch cited my article as evidence that I am a member of the "thought
police", and that the role of the Guardian is "to limit the imaginative horizons
of readers".

Thus has this infectious idiocy spread through the political community to which
I belong. The people I criticise here rightly contend that western governments
and much of the western media ignore or excuse atrocities committed by the
United States and its allies, while magnifying those committed by forces deemed
hostile. But they then appear to create a mirror image of this one-sided
narrative, minimising the horrors committed by forces considered hostile to the
US and its allies.

Yes, George. Quite, George. This is why Nick Cohen wrote his brilliant book
What's Left. It's why Robert Conquest quit the Communist party in disgust and
denounced all those fellow travellers and useful idiots - from George Bernard
Shaw to Beatrice and Sydney Webb and Jean-Paul Sartre - who continued to support
the Soviet system long after its barbarities had become evident. Hello, George?
Duh, George! This is what the Left is like and always will be like. It's why
some of us are not on the Left, never have been on the Left and take an awful
lot of flak from the Left when we point these small details of fact out.

Empiricism, that's the thing. Things are either true or they're not true. And if
they're not true it is clearly wrong to go on believing in them for the sake of
ideological correctness. That's what Lefties are doing all the time and, as
you've rightly seen in this case, George - though sadly not yet on the issue of,
ahem, "Climate Change" - it's pernicious, corrupting and morally reprehensible.

Anyway, lecture over, dear Moonie Woonie. (I may call you Moonie Woonie, mayn't
I, now we're on the same team, sort of? Or would you prefer Mooners? Or did you
have a nickname at Stowe you'd rather I used instead?). Looking forward to
meeting you at the next Ukip conference. Maybe we could do a double-header on a
panel on - ooh, I dunno, let's pluck a subject at random from the ether. Energy
policy?

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2012 Wednesday 9:46 AM GMT

George Monbiot: the new Christopher Hitchens?

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 987 words


Many of the most brilliant Right-wing politicians, journalists and polemicists
started out on the Left: Ronald Reagan, Christopher Hitchens, Peter Hitchens,
Paul Johnson, David Horowitz, Martin Amis, Toby Young, Clive James, Rod
Liddle... This isn't a route I've taken myself because I never went through an
egregiously stupid phase. But I quite understand and forgive those poor young
whippersnappers who did - and really don't blame them, especially if they were
only doing it as a cynical bid to get into the knickers of hot hippie chicks.

So three cheers for another trot - George Monbiot - who has finally seen the
light. Well, maybe one and a half cheers more like because our George still has
some way to go before achieving Delingpolean levels of immense and unimpeachable
soundness. But he's definitely heading in the right direction. Just read what he
says in his latest column for the Guardian's Komment Macht Frei.

First some context. Monbiot is greatly exercised by the position taken by some
members of the international Leftist brethren on the genocidal killing of 8,000
Bosniaks at Srebrenica in 1995 and of perhaps 800,000 Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994.
He is disgusted at the way they have tried to play the significance of these
massacres down, which he considers a betrayal of the kind of principles he
always thought Lefties believed in.

So attempts to downplay or dismiss this crime matter too - especially whenthey
emerge from the unlikely setting of the internationalist left. I'musing this
column to pursue a battlewhich might be hopeless, and which many of you might
regardas obscure. Perhaps I have become obsessed, but it seems to me to be
necessary. Tacitly on trial beside Mladic in The Hague is a set of ideas: in my
view the left's most disturbing case of denial and doublethink since the
widespread refusal to accept that Stalin had engineered a famine in the Ukraine.

I first raised this issue a year ago, when I sharply criticised a book by two
luminaries of the left, Edward Herman and David Peterson. The Politics of
Genocide seeks to downplay or dismiss both the massacre of Bosniaks at
Srebrenica in 1995 and the genocide of Tutsis committed by Hutu militias in
Rwanda in 1994. Their claims are extraordinary: that the cause of death of the
"vast majority" of the Bosniaks at Srebrenica remains "undetermined"; that
rather than 800,000 or more Tutsis being killed by Hutu militias in Rwanda, "the
great majority of deaths were Hutu,with some estimates as high as two million",
while members of the Hutus' Interahamwe militia were the "actual victims" of
genocide.

What has changed since then is that the movement to which I thought I belonged
has closed ranks: against attempts to challenge this revisionism, against the
facts, in effect against the victims of these genocides. My attemptsto pursue
this question number among the most dispiriting experiences of my working life.

Monbiot feels especially let down by two men whom he considered to be heroes of
the Left:

I wrote to Noam Chomsky, a heroofmine, who provided the forewordto Herman and
Peterson's book, asking whether he had read it and whether he accepted the
accounts it contains of the Rwandan genocide and the massacre of Srebrenica.
Watching that brilliant mind engage inhigh-handed dismissal and distraction has
been profoundly depressing. While failing to answer my questions, he accused me
of following the Washington script (I have posted our correspondence on my
website).

John Pilger, who wrote a glowing endorsement of the book, volunteered this
response: "Chef Monbiot is a curiously sad figure. All those years of noble
green crusading now dashed by his Damascene conversion to nuclear power's
poisonous devastations and his demonstrable need for establishment recognition -
a recognition which, ironically, he already enjoyed." The leftwing magazine
Counterpunch cited my article as evidence that I am a member of the "thought
police", and that the role of the Guardian is "to limit the imaginative horizons
of readers".

Thus has this infectious idiocy spread through the political community to which
I belong. Thepeople I criticise here rightly contend thatwestern governments and
much of the western media ignore or excuse atrocities committed by the United
States and its allies, while magnifying those committed by forces deemed
hostile. But they then appear to create amirror image of this one-sided
narrative, minimising the horrors committed by forces considered hostile to the
US andits allies.

Yes, George. Quite, George. This is why Nick Cohen wrote his brilliant book
What's Left. It's why Robert Conquest quit the Communist party in disgust and
denounced all those fellow travellers and useful idiots - from George Bernard
Shaw to Beatrice and Sydney Webb and Jean-Paul Sartre - who continued to support
the Soviet system long after its barbarities had become evident. Hello, George?
Duh, George! This is what the Left is like and always will be like. It's why
some of us are not on the Left, never have been on the Left and take an awful
lot of flak from the Left when we point these small details of fact out.

Empiricism, that's the thing. Things are either true or they're not true. And if
they're not true it is clearly wrong to go on believing in them for the sake of
ideological correctness. That's what Lefties are doing all the time and, as
you've rightly seen in this case, George - though sadly not yet on the issue of,
ahem, "Climate Change" - it's pernicious, corrupting and morally reprehensible.

Anyway, lecture over, dear Moonie Woonie. (I may call you Moonie Woonie, mayn't
I, now we're on the same team, sort of? Or would you prefer Mooners? Or did you
have a nickname at Stowe you'd rather I used instead?). Looking forward to
meeting you at the next Ukip conference. Maybe we could do a double-header on a
panel on - ooh, I dunno, let's pluck a subject at random from the ether. Energy
policy?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Protect jobs by limiting migration from EU during recession, urges MP

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words


BRITAIN must stop letting in so many immigrants from Europe during the recession
because the jobs market is "flooded", Downing Street's poverty adviser has
warned.

Frank Field, the Labour MP for Birkenhead, said immigration from Europe was a
major reason that millions of people are struggling to find jobs.

He said it would be increasingly diffi-cult for unemployed Britons to find work
while the "market is flooded with overqualified applicants from Europe".

He said temporary restrictions would help give the Government's welfare reforms
a "fair wind", as ministers try to encourage the long-term jobless back into
work. "It's come to a head because I found out that one in five households has
never ever had work," he told The Daily Telegraph. "During the recession, the
Government just needs to tell Brussels that we just can't have free movement of
labour.

"How is Iain Duncan Smith [the Work and Pensions Secretary] going to get people
off benefits [and] into work if the market is flooded with over-qualified people
from Europe? There's a huge haemorrhaging of Tory support to Ukip. I would have
thought the leadership should look at an idea that would appeal to Tory and
indeed many Labour voters."

The Government dismissed Mr Field's suggestions as it could make it difficult
for Britons to get jobs abroad.

Damian Green, the immigration minister, said "closing off" the European market
would "badly impact" workers.

Earlier this month, Switzerland said workers from the Czech Republic, Estonia,
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia would have to seek
authorisation before arriving for work.

The country is not in the EU but it said immigration from the economic bloc
would now be subject to quotas.

Britain has already limited the arrival of unskilled workers from outside the
EU. However, free travel within the EU is a key principle of the union.

Four out of five on Work Programme still jobless

Only one person in five taking part in the Coalition's £1billion-a-year Work
Programme has managed to secure a job.

A survey has found that 22 per cent of the first 300,000 people to take part in
the scheme are in employment after spending nine months to a year on the
programme. It is too early to tell whether these posts will be permanent. The
Government is hoping that 36 per cent of people taking part in the scheme - in
which companies and charities are paid up to £6,000 for every person they place
in work - will get jobs. The new figures come from an unofficial survey of Work
Programme contractors by the Employment Related Services Association, a trade
body for the "welfare to work" industry.

Rowena Mason

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday

MPs debate culture committee report on phone hacking: Politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 9433 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen, including Nick Clegg's speech on social mobility and MPs
debating the culture committee report on phone hacking

FULL TEXT

8.45am: MPs are debating the culture committte report on phone hacking later
today. But, before that, we've got Nick Clegg delivering a speech on social
mobility. It has already been extensively trailed. In the Observer Toby Helm
revealed that Clegg would be saying that pupils at private schools are more than
three times as likely to get AAB in the key A level subjects as pupils at state
schools. In the Guardian on Monday Patrick Wintour said Clegg would be proposing
a student premium designed to guarantee financial help for all children on free
school meals entering higher education. And today Nicholas Watt reports that the
government will be publishing 17 "trackers" to assess progress in improving life
chances over the coming decades. This might seem like overkill, but this is one
of the great causes of our time. If you don't accept that, look at the charts
that Simon Rogers has posted on his data blog showing that the UK is far behind
many other countries on social mobility.

Here's the full agenda for the day.

9am: Nick Clegg delivers his speech on social mobility.

9.30am: Inflation figures are published.10am: George Osborne, the chancellor,
holds a press conference with Christine Lagarde, the IMF managing director. The
IMF is publishing a report on the UK economy.

10am: Alan Johnson, Lord Smith and Tom Watson give evidence to the Leveson
inquiry.

10am: Tim Loughton, the children's minister, gives a speech to mark the
publication of the Prof Eileen Munro's child safeguarding progress report.

10.30am: Sir Bob Kerslake, head of the civil service, gives evidence to the
Commons public adminstration committee about the honours system.

10.45am: Brian Moore, head of the UK Border Force, gives evidence to the Commons
home affairs committee.

11am: Theresa May, the home secretary, speaks at the Association of Chief Police
Officers annual conference.

12.30pm: Lynne Featherstone, the Home Office minister, gives evidence to the
Commons home affairs committee about private investigators.

1pm: Ed Davey, the energy secretary, publishes the draft energy bill. As Fiona
Harvey reports, a dash for gas, a major fillip for nuclear power and blows to
renewable energy are expected to be the key features.

2.30pm: Nick Clegg takes questions in the Commons.

2.45pm: Caroline Spelman, the environment secretary, gives a speech to the
Association of British insurers.

3.30pm: MPs debate a motion calling for the culture committee report on phone
hacking, which accused News International executives of misleading parliament,
to be referred to the standards and privileges committee.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

9.04am: Nick Clegg will be delivering his social mobility speech shortly.

The Cabinet Office has now published it's 52-page report Opening Doors, Breaking
Barriers: A Strategy for Social Mobility (pdf). It's an update on progress made
on social mobility since April last year.

9.08am: Nick Clegg is speaking now.

He starts with a some statistics about the scale of the problem.

One in five children are on free school meals; only one in a hundred Oxbridge
entrants were;

Only 7% of children attend independent schools, but public schools provide 70%
of high court judges and 54% of FTSE 100 CEOs;

One in five children from poorer homes achieve five good GCSEs, compared to
three out of four from affluent homes.

This is a legacy "we cannot afford", he says.

For liberals, this is core stuff. It gets to the very heart of our politics. We
are a party and a creed that is defined by our belief in a fairer, more open
society.

For me, it's the reason I do this job.

9.10am: Clegg says he does not denigrate anyone who sends their child to private
school because they want the best for them. "Indeed, that aspiration on behalf
of children is one of the most precious ingredients of parenthood," he says.

And he says that the fact that he went to a private school (Westminster) should
not stop him speaking about this subject.

If people like me who have benefited from the system don't speak up, we will
never get anywhere.

We have to fight for a society where the fortunes of birth and background weigh
less heavily on prospects and opportunities for the future.

9.12am: Clegg says he wants to tackle some myths about social mobility.

The first is that social mobility is just a product of income inequality.

According to this myth, mobility will follow automatically in the wake of
greater equality. And so it follows that the only thing we should worry about is
closing the gap between rich and poor.

Of course, reducing inequality is a good and laudable aim. But unfortunately
it's not the straightforward route to social mobility that its proponents
suggest.

In many ways, I wish it was. Life would be much simpler. Our goal would be
clear: redistribution of income would do the job.

The trouble is that, as this conference has been discussing, it is just not that
simple. The causal links are not that clear.

Of course if the gap is narrower you have less distance to travel. But the
uncomfortable truth is that nations with similar levels of income inequality
have dissimilar levels of social mobility. Why do Australia and Canada have UK
levels of inequality, but almost Scandinavian levels of mobility?

9.14am: The second myth is that governments can only promote social mobility in
times of prosperity, Clegg says.

Partly this myth comes from those who think our spending plans are dismantling
the state's capacity to help. That we are turning the clock back to the 1930s.

This is simply not true. At the end of this parliament, public spending will
still account for 42% of GDP.

Clegg also says a growing economy increases absolute social mobility: ie,
everyone gets richer. But it does not necessarily create relative social
mobility.

Clegg says in times of economic difficulty, social mobility becomes even more
important.

Just think how our economy might have responded to the crisis if everyone who'd
ever thought about starting a business could get on with it. If everyone who'd
ever hungered after the best education could go for it.

Wasted talent is always a moral crime: but it is increasingly an economic crime,
too. The Sutton Trust's own work has suggested that boosting poor educational
attainment up to the UK average would increase GDP by [#xfffd]140 billion by
2050, and increase long-run trend growth by 0.4 percentage points.

9.16am: Clegg says the third myth is that social mobility involves dumbing down.

Again, this is nonsense. Nonsense, I should add, which is usually peddled by
those who benefit from the status quo - and therefore want to keep things the
way they are.

Clegg says the government wants to encourage universities to recruit on the
basis of potential, not just on the basis of A-level results.

Now it may surprise the non-Brits among you to learn that in some quarters, the
idea of carefully taking into account the impact of background in assessing
university applications has been painted by some as a dangerous piece of
revolutionary socialism.

But far from dumbing down, it's about increasing opportunity to achieve
excellence.

There is compelling evidence that translation of ability into attainment is
affected by your social and educational background. A study at the University of
Bristol showed that state school educated children with top A-levels were 50%
more likely to get first-class degrees than privately educated children with the
same grades.

9.19am: Clegg says the government is putting in place mechanisms to ensure that
it makes progress on social mobility: indicators to measure progress, a
ministerial group on social mobility and a social mobility and child poverty
commission.

He also announces that there will be a social mobility sector transparency
board. (It's not the most exciting announcement he has ever made, he jokes.)

9.21am: Clegg is now talking about class.

We are a long way from being a classless society, he says. This covers not just
wealth, but attitudes.

Eighty years ago the historian Frank Harris said: "Snobbery is the religion of
England." There is some truth in this, Clegg says.

People at the top are brought up to believe the world is theirs.

But everyone should be brought up like this.

Parents at the top expect their children to become professionals. But, at the
bottom, only 20% of parents have these ambitions for their children, he says.

9.24am: Nick Clegg is taking questions now. But BBC News have decided it would
be more interesting to hear from Carole Walker instead.

9.33am: I'll come back to the Nick Clegg speech shortly. But, first, here are
the inflation figures which are just out.[#xfffd] The consumer prices index
(CPI) measure of inflation fell to 3.0% in April, from 3.5% in March.

[#xfffd] The headline rate of retail prices index (RPI) inflation fell to 3.5%
in April, from 3.6% in March.

[#xfffd] The underlying rate of RPI inflation fell to 3.5% in April, from 3.7%
in March.

And here'sthe full statistical bulletin from the Office for National Statistics
(pdf) with all the details.

9.47am: And here's the top of the Press Association story about the inflation
figures.

Inflation fell to its lowest level in more than two years last month, official
figures showed today, as high street discounting took the pressure off household
budgets.The consumer price index (CPI) rate of inflation fell to 3% in April,
compared with 3.5% in March, its lowest level since February 2010, the Office
for National Statistics (ONS) said.In further evidence that the weak economic
climate is forcing retailers to cut prices to draw in customers, clothing and
footwear prices rose by just 0.2% in the period compared with 1.4% last year.And
softer excise duty rises on alcohol and tobacco, as well as lower air fares due
to the timing of Easter, also helped keep a lid on the rising cost of
living.Bank of England governor Sir Mervyn King narrowly avoided sending his
10th "Dear chancellor" letter to explain why inflation is higher than the
government's 2% target, as at 3% it is now within one percentage point of that
goal. Inflation has fallen from 5.6% last September due to the waning impact of
the VAT hike at the start of 2011, falling energy, food and commodity prices and
a number of bill cuts from utility providers.However, it has not dropped as
quickly as the Bank of England expected after fears over increasing tensions
between the West and Iran pushed oil prices higher in March.The sharp decrease
in inflation in April is likely to bolster the case for the Bank to pump more
emergency cash into the economy through its quantitative easing programme.The
economy entered a technical recession in the first quarter of the year as gross
domestic product declined 0.2%, following a 0.3% drop in the final quarter of
2011.Chloe Smith, the economic secretary to the Treasury, said: "Inflation is
down and back within the target range for the first time since 2010, which is
good news and will provide some welcome relief for family budgets."The most
significant downward pressure on prices in April came from the transport sector,
which saw prices rise 1.2% compared with a 2.8% rise the previous year.The
largest downward effect came from air transport where the timing of Easter meant
fares rose 7.4% compared with a huge 29% surge last year.

10.07am:George Osborne is holding his press conference with Christine Lagarde,
the IMF managing director, now. He started by welcoming the fact that inflation
is now within its target range. It is the first time this has happened since he
became chancellor, he said. He also welcomed today's IMF report, which he said
endorsed his economic strategy.

But the IMF report does seem to make grim reading. Here's what the Press
Association have filed about it.

An escalation of the eurozone crisis would deliver a "substantial contractionary
shock" to the UK economy, setting back progress made towards recovery, the
International Monetary Fund warned today.In a report on the UK, the IMF
identified uncertainty over the future of the euro as the main danger to
recovery and warned: "Risks are large and tilted clearly to the downside."The
report recognised "substantial progress" towards balancing Britain's books
thanks to the coalition Government's deficit-reduction programme, but noted that
the economy remains "flat" and warned that the weak recovery may be "more
protracted than previously anticipated".Although recovery is expected to gain
pace from the second half of 2012, unemployment is "much too high" and much of
the UK's productive capacity could remain "idle for an extended period", said
the IMF.The fund called for further monetary stimulus, in the form of the Bank
of England printing money in another round of "quantitative easing" or a
reduction in the base interest rate from its record low of 0.5% to make
borrowing cheaper.There is scope for the government to boost growth through
higher spending on infrastructure projects, which would increase employment and
demand within the economy and could be funded within existing budgets by
imposing further public sector wage restraint or reforming property taxes, it
said.And if the UK recovery fails to take off, ministers must be prepared to use
temporary tax cuts and more infrastructure investment to give the economy a shot
in the arm, even if this means reining in the Government's austerity programme,
said the IMF.To retain credibility in this scenario, ministers would need to
deliver a new deficit-reduction programme to show how the books will be balanced
over a longer period.

10.13am:Christine Lagarde, the IMF managing director, has just told the press
conference that if the economic situation gets worse, the British government
should introduce a fiscal stimulus.

10.21am:Here's the full text of the IMF conclusions on the UK economy. And here
are the key points.

[#xfffd] The IMF broadly supports the government's economic stance.

Current policies are aimed at assisting economic rebalancing and financial
sector stability. Strong fiscal consolidation is underway and reducing the high
structural deficit over the medium term remains essential. The UK has made
substantial progress toward achieving a more sustainable budgetary position and
reducing fiscal risks. Bold monetary stimulus has helped support the economy, as
has the free operation of automatic fiscal stabilizers.

[#xfffd] But it says the economy has not grown in the way the government
expected.

But the economy has been flat. The hand-off from public to private demand-led
growth has not fully materialized. Much of this underperformance relative to
earlier expectations is due to transitory commodity price shocks and heightened
uncertainty following the intensification of stress in the euro area. However,
the weak recovery also indicates that the process of unwinding pre-crisis
imbalances is likely to be more protracted than previously anticipated, in part
due to persistent tight credit conditions.

[#xfffd] It says there are "substantial" risks to Britain from what is happening
in the eurozone.

Risks are large and tilted clearly to the downside. Setbacks in the euro area
are the key risk to economic prospects and financial stability in the UK as
trade and financial links are substantial. An escalation of stress in the euro
area could set off an adverse and self-reinforcing cycle of lower confidence and
exports, higher bank funding costs, tighter credit, and falling asset values,
resulting in a substantial contractionary shock. By contrast, a decisive and
durable resolution to stress in the euro area would aid the UK's recovery and
remove this downside risk.

[#xfffd] It says the government should consider new measures to promote growth.

Policies to bolster demand should help close the output gap faster. It needs to
be recognized that policy options in this regard come with risks, including
uncertainty about their effectiveness. However, these risks need to be weighed
against the risk of weak demand that leads to persistently slow growth and high
unemployment that become entrenched in decisions made by consumers and investors
...

There is scope within the current overall fiscal stance to improve the quality
of fiscal adjustment to support growth. The government has taken steps over the
past year to make consolidation more "growth friendly" through cuts in spending
on items with low multipliers (such as public employee wages) to fund higher
spending on items with high multipliers (such as infrastructure). However, the
scale of these adjustments has been modest and further budget-neutral
reallocations should be sought, recognizing inevitable implementation lags and
challenges.

There is more coverage on our eurozone crisis live blog.

10.32am: Tom Watson is giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry now. You can
follow it on our Leveson live blog.

11.03am: Back to Nick Clegg. In his speech said that the government would
publish a "powerful set of indicators" to show whether the government was making
progress on social mobility. It's easy to be sceptical about claims like this,
but I've just had a quick look at the social mobility progress report that the
Cabinet Office has published this morning (pdf) and the indicators are robust.
If the government carries on publishing these reports every year, then they are
going to provide a very good measure of whether the government is making
progress or not.

But they don't provide a particularly good measure yet. That's because, for more
than half the indicators, no information is available on progress since 2010.
And, even where data is available from 2010, it probably doesn't tell you much
about the impact of government policies because the 2010-11 outcomes will mostly
reflect the impact of decisions taken by Labour.

Still, for what it's worth, I calculate that the government are making progress
on five indicators - and going backwards on three.

Here is my summary of what the 17 indicators are - and whether or not they
record progress.

1. Chances of poor children being born with low birth weight - no information
since 2010.2. Chances of poor children having good child development - data not
available yet.3. Chances of poor children making good development in early years
- PROGRESS. Gap between the poor and average smaller in 2010-11 than 2009-10.4.
Chances of poor children being good at phonics reading - data not available
yet.5. Chances of poor children doing well at key stage two - PROGRESS. Gap
between the poor and the average smaller in 2010-11 than in 2009-10.6. Chances
of poor children doing well at GCSE - PROGRESS. Gap between the poor and the
average smaller in 2010-11 than in 2009-10 (but only very marginally).7. Chances
of schools with poor pupils doing as well as schools with rich pupils -
PROGRESS. Gap between schools with most deprived intake and least deprived
intake smaller in 2010-11 than in 2009-10.8. Chances of poor children well at
A-level - BACKWARDS. Gap between poor pupils and average larger in 2010-11 than
in 2009-10.9. Chances of state school children being more likely to get AAB at
A-level - BACKWARDS. Gap between state schools and private schools larger in
2010-11 than in 2009-10 (but only very marginally).10. Chances of poor children
being more likely to be not in education or training from 18 to 24 - data not
available from 2010.11. Chances of poorer children being less likely to be
unemployed from 18 to 24 - data not available from 2010.12. Chances of poorer
children being more likely to go to university - data not available from
2010.13. Chances of state school children being more likely to go to university
- data not available from 2010.14. Chances of graduates from poorer graduates
being more likely to get into "graduate" jobs - data not available from 2010.15.
Chances of people from poorer backgrounds being more likely to get into the
professions - data not available from 2010.16. Chances of low earners being able
to earn more over the course of a decade - BACKWARDS - Proportion not making
significant wage progression higher from 2002 to 2011 than it was from 2001 to
2010.17. Chances of adults who failed at school getting GCSEs or A-levels after
19 - PROGRESS - Figures higher from 2010-11 than they were in 2009-10.

11.15am: And here are some quotes from the Q&A that Nick Clegg did after his
speech. My colleague Juliette Jowit was there, and she's sent me this.

Clegg did not take many questions before officials cut him off with hand at
throat gesturing from the back of the room. But what he said was definitely with
hearing.

He appeared to put another decisive nail in the coffin of the "no fault
dismissal" idea that Downing Street is known to be keen to drop.

"I don't support them [the proposals] and I never have, for the simple reason I
have not seen any evidence that creating industrial level insecurity for workers
is a good way of creating new jobs," said Clegg.

He said he would take seriously any evidence that did emerge from the current
consultation, due to end in June, but continued to sound sceptical. "So far
there just is no evidence," he added.

In answer to another question, the DPM sympathised with a point made by the
Sutton Trust founder and chairman, Sir Peter Lampl, about the way America's top
Ivy League universities appear more prepared to take students from disadvantaged
backgrounds with lower grades if they see potential and a chance to "add value".
"It strikes most people outside Westminster as common sense," said Clegg.

Clegg also spoke with passion about how the class restrictions work both ways,
saying politicians from privileged backgrounds - like himself - had felt unable
or unqualified to talk about social mobility. "if you did that you wouldn't be
able to show compassion, show sympathy, to take collective decisions for the
common good," he said.

Another questioner tackled the Lib Dem leader on the coalition government's
manifesto-busting decision to raise tuition fees for universities to up to
[#xfffd]9,000 per student. Clegg said that to avoid putting potential students
from disadvantaged backgrounds off applying to university it was important to
"dispel some myths" about the new system.

Unlike under the previous Labour government, no student now had to pay any
up-front fees, students from poorer homes were now eligible for more grants (not
just loans), and new repayment terms meant all graduates would pay out less
every week when they reached a minimum income threshold to start repaying the
loans - "in effect a progressive graduate tax".

"There's not a single reason in the system why a young person from a
disadvantaged background, who wants to go to university, should not go," added
Clegg.

11.38am: There are three polls around this morning. Here they are.ICM for the
Guardian

Labour: 41% (no change since ICM last month)Conservatives: 36% (up 3)Lib Dems:
11% (down 4)

Labour lead: 5 points

As Anthony Wells says at UK Polling Report, ICM normally give the Lib Dems
higher ratings than the other pollsters and 11 points is their lowest rating in
an ICM/Guardian poll since 1997.

Populus for the Times (paywall)

Labour: 41% (down 1 from Populus last month)Conservatives: 33% (no change)Lib
Dems: 10% (down 1)

Labour lead: 8 points

YouGov for the Sun

Labour lead: 44% (up 1 point from YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 32%
(no change)Ukip: 8% (down 1)Lib Dems: 7% (down 1)

Labour lead: 12 points

Government approval: -35

12.10pm: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are three articles that are particularly
interesting.[#xfffd] Mary Riddell in the Daily Telegraph says that Ed Miliband's
decision to appoint Jon Cruddas to head Labour's policy review is a big gamble.

If appointing Mr Cruddas frightens the Tories, it also alarms some senior Labour
figures. "We don't really know what Jon Cruddas thinks," says one. Even those
who believe Tony Blair's manic modernising went too far are suspicious of the
"faith, flag and family" creed promoted by Blue Labour (Mr Cruddas dislikes the
name, but backs the message).

"We've had one Blue Labour guru, and look what happened," says a doubter,
recalling the furore over Lord Glasman's wish to halt virtually all immigration.
Others worry that Labour, instead of seizing the future, now risks clog-dancing
down dream-cobbled byways to electoral annihilation.

[#xfffd] Rachel Sylvester in the Times (paywall) says relations between Ed
Miliband and Ed Balls are characterised by mistrust.

Yet again the relationship between the two men at the top of the Labour Party is
characterised more by reciprocated mistrust than mutual respect. There is a
difference of personality as well as ideas. Mr Balls has never quite accepted
that the man he used to see as the junior partner when they both worked for
Gordon Brown has now become his boss. Mr Miliband is uncertain of his rival's
loyalty. According to one MP, the Shadow Chancellor likes to describe himself as
the "chief executive", with the leader as the "chairman" - an eerie echo of the
dismissive way in which Mr Balls used to talk about Mr Blair when he worked for
Mr Brown. But in the new double act, it's the Shadow Chancellor who is the
showman. When the two men go out campaigning together, Mr Balls dominates - he
has perfected a John Prescott meets John Maynard Keynes style of banter that
endears him to the party grassroots as the leader shrinks into his shell. "Ed B
is the one who holds the room," according to an MP.

At Westminster, Mr Balls can be overbearing. An attempt to oust Liam Byrne, the
Blairite Work and Pensions Secretary, from the Shadow Cabinet, which was
resisted by Mr Miliband, is blamed by some on the Shadow Chancellor's bovver
boys. "There's a gang within the gang," says an insider. "The punishment
beatings are back." One MP compares Mr Balls and his wife, Yvette Cooper, to the
Borgias who just can't help plotting.

[#xfffd] Philip Stephens in the Financial Times (subscription) says David
Cameron should remember Black Wednesday and change economic course.

The big mistakes in politics occur when leaders become prisoners of outdated
certainties. Mr Major's government was carried into those treacherous waters
where pride and stubbornness displace pragmatism.

Mr Cameron's vessel is still afloat, but it is fast taking in water. He would do
well to change course. The funny thing is that this prime minister should
understand better than most the need to navigate according to circumstance.

After all, at the time of the ERM debacle, he was serving as a young adviser to
the then chancellor Norman Lamont. The ERM humiliation, he has subsequently
remarked, was seared deeply into his consciousness.

Mr Cameron prefers electronic games, karaoke and "chillaxing" at Chequers to
deep study of political economy. Each to his own. In this instance, however, all
he need do is jog his own memory.

1.20pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd][#xfffd]Nick Clegg has claimed that there is too much class snobbery in
Britain. He made the suggestion at the end of a much-trailed speech on social
mobility which also marked the publication of a report identifying 17 indicators
that the government will use the measure whether social mobility is improving.

Too often, the question of class and class attitudes is left in the shadows of
the social mobility debate. Politicians are often reluctant to get into a
discussion about class especially if, like me, they have been fortunate in their
background, schooling and opportunities. But we can't ignore it. Class still
counts. We are a long distance from being a classless society. And I don't only
mean in the hard material facts - inequalities in income, health and wealth. I
also mean in terms of the attitudes and assumptions we carry around in our heads
- about ourselves and about others. Eighty years ago, the historian Frank Harris
declared that: 'Snobbery is the religion of England'. I think that statement
still has more than a ring of truth today.

Today's social mobility report contains some evidence that social mobility is
improving (see 11.03am), but the data does not provide a reliable picture of
what has happened since the coalition took power.

[#xfffd] Clegg has dismissed the proposal to allow "no fault dismissal". Asked
about the idea, set out in the Adrian Beecroft report published yesterday, Clegg
said: "I don't support [the proposal] and I never have, for the simple reason I
have not seen any evidence that creating industrial-level insecurity for workers
is a good way of creating new jobs." As Juliette Jowit and Nicholas Watt report,
Clegg's comments reinforce reports that Downing Street has already decided to
bury the idea.The Daily Telegraph quotes one government source as saying: "No
one really has any idea what went on with this report, it was very much Steve
Hilton's project. The whole thing is a bit dodgy and we wish it had never
happened."No 10 has also denied reports claiming that the Beecroft report was
"doctored" by the government before it was published.

[#xfffd] The International Monetary Fund has said the government should prepare
a Plan B, featuring temporary tax cuts and more infrastructure spending, in case
the eurozone collapses or the economy fails to recover. "If the economy turns
out to be significantly weaker than forecast, fiscal easing should be
considered," said IMF managing director Christine Lagarde. "Measures should be
focused on supporting growth and employment." As the Press Association reports,
the IMF also said that further easing of monetary policy, by printing money or
even cutting the 0.5% base interest rate, was "required" now to inject some
vigour into a flat economy. Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, said the IMF report
vindicated Labour's stance on the economy.

The IMF is right to call for action to boost the British economy and to stop
slow growth and high unemployment causing long term damage to our economy. A
year ago the IMF warned that if economic growth undershot expectations, the
government should boost the economy with temporary tax cuts and greater
infrastructure spending - as Labour has called for in our five point plan for
jobs and growth.

But George Osborne, the chancellor, said the IMF were backing his position.

The IMF couldn't be clearer today. Britain has to deal with its debts and the
government's fiscal policy is the appropriate one and an essential part of our
road to recovery. I welcome the IMF's continuing support for the UK deficit
reduction plan. They agree that, in their words 'reducing the high structural
deficit remains essential' and make clear in their statement that they consider
the current pace of fiscal consolidation to be appropriate.

[#xfffd] Inflation has fallen by more than expected. It came down from 3.5% on
the consumer prices index (CPI) measure from 3.5% in March to 3% in April.

[#xfffd] Ed Davey, the energy secretary, has said that the draft energy bill
being published today will not introduce public subsidies for new nuclear
plants. Full details of the draft bill areon the Department of Energy's website.

[#xfffd] The Labour MP Tom Watson has told the Leveson inquiry that Labour
ministers were too worried about maintaining the support of the Sun.

As a minister when I discussed issues and policy there was always a conversation
about how this would play out in The Sun. There was a sense that there was a
mystique about the News International stable, that they had unique access to
Downing Street, and as a minister that was important, and the way you were
portrayed in News International papers was important and they factored that into
their thinking.

I have no hard evidence there was a craven understanding between politicians and
senior executives at News International, but I do believe that is the general
view of the public and we need reforms that ensure public confidence in those
relationships is restored.

There are more details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has unveiled details of her plans for
new measures to tackle anti-social behaviour.[#xfffd] Sir Hugh Orde, the
president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, has said that police
structures need radical reorgansiation. In a speech to the Acpo conference, he
said police forces have been left dealing with 21st century threats with a
system designed before colour television was invented.

We will get on with the job, but collaboration is not as efficient or consistent
as amalgamation. The obvious risks are a patchwork quilt of sub-optimal
solutions which don't provide the public with consistency or value for money. We
are having to make things work in spite of, and not because of, the current
structure.

Whilst Scotland presses forward with a single command, based on a clear
political decision to strip out separate organisational overheads and
amalgamate, we will continue to deal with 21st Century threats with a model of
policing designed in 1962 before colour television was invented. That simply
cannot be right.

[#xfffd] The Electoral Commisison has revealed that donations to political
parties rose to just under [#xfffd]9m in the first quarter of 2012 - up
[#xfffd]1.9m on the previous three months. As the Press Association reports, the
Conservatives continued to receive the most at [#xfffd]4,086,097 but Labour was
close behind, bringing in [#xfffd]3,452,441. Money given to the Liberal
Democrats totalled [#xfffd]606,724.

[#xfffd] The Ministry of Defence has awarded contracts worth [#xfffd]350m to UK
companies to design the next generation of nuclear submarines. As the Press
Association reports, most of the work on the Trident system will go to BAE
Systems, which said it will sustain the jobs of 1,000 workers at its site in
Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria. The first Successor submarine is due to delivered in
2028, replacing the Vanguard class vessels which currently carry Trident. A
decision on the final design and build will not be made until 2016, but the MoD
said detailed work has to take place now.

[#xfffd] The British Medical Association has said that the NHS is heading
towards "operational and financial meltdown" due to a financial squeeze,
misguided government policies and rising demand from patients. As Denis Campbell
reports, family doctors are so disillusioned by changes being foisted on them
and the direction of the NHS that the health service could "run out" of GPs, Dr
Laurence Buckman, chairman of the British Medical Association's GPs committee,
said.

[#xfffd] The shadow cabinet has been meeting at the Olympic Park.

2.02pm: Theresa May's white paper on anti-social behaviour is now on the Home
Office website.

And here's the news release explaining the plans.

2.41pm:Nick Clegg is taking questions in the Commons.

He has just told Labour's Sadiq Khan that he expects to publish the House of
Lords reform bill "well before the summer recess".

2.43pm:Ed Miliband took the shadow cabinet to the Olympic Park today. While he
was there, he urged trade unionists not to go on strike during the Games.

I don't want to see industrial action during the Olympics. The Olympics are a
great thing for London and a great thing for Britain. We have the chance to
inspire young people into sport. There may be extra strain on public sector
workers. What's really important is that there isn't industrial action.

Earlier this month Unite said it would ballot London bus drivers on strike
action over the Olympics. The union is demanding extra payment for its members
to compensate for the extra workload created by the Games.

3.15pm: Here's an afternoon reading list.

[#xfffd] Jill Rutter at the Institute for Government says Beecroft is a good
example of how not to conduct a government review.

[The Beecroft report] delivered in October but finally published this week does
nothing to persuade people who might be sceptical of its proposal. There is no
evidence, or modelling of potential effects. Its process was closed. The
commissioning process was unclear. There was a single reviewer representing only
one side of the argument. Unlike the Brown reviews, it lacked an effective
champion within government - indeed the Business Secretary has gone out of his
way to dismiss it. And the Telegraph has revealed that No.10 excised some of the
more controversial proposals before official publication. So far, the main
effect of Beecroft has been to entrench pre-existing views ...

But the government needs to learn an important process lesson from Beecroft.
There is a world of difference between a good review and a bad review. A good
review opens issues up, engages people and confronts the real choices policy
makers face - rather than hide them. It uses rigorous evidence to expose issues
- and to build a new consensus if rebalancing is necessary. And a public review
allows the government to distance and promote public discussion.

[#xfffd] John Redwood on his blog says Labour and the government should be able
to reach agreement on the need for labour market reform.

Sensible Labour contributors agreed that to be competitive the UK needs a
flexible workforce, and claimed that the last Labour government had recognised
that. Sensible Coalition MPs said that employees need rights: the aim should not
be to return to all powerful employers who can fire on whim or exercise unfair
discrimination.

There is plenty of scope to reach some agreement on how to make the employment
of new workers by small companies more attractive to employers. It would be
helpful in promoting recovery.

I asked how much extra GDP we might get from the full Beecroft. The government
said it did not know. I suspect it would be mildly positive, but it is unlikely
to be the game changer that tips us into fast growth on its own. That still
requires action on issues like banks, credit and energy prices.

[#xfffd] Greg Rosen at the Guardian's social network hub says the Co-operative
party is the fourth largest party in parliament.

In recent decades the Co-operative party has excelled in hiding its light under
a bushel. It had never embraced the "statism" that beguiled other parts of the
Labour movement. When, during the 1980s, it was accused by Labour's Bennitte
left-wing of insufficient commitment to their particular brand of socialism, the
Co-operative defended itself like the best of tortoises and withdrew into its
shell.

But with the Bennite hare having run out of puff, the Co-operative tortoise is
winning the race to find Ed Miliband a "big idea". Moreover, with 29 MPs and 15
peers, it is now the fourth largest political party in Parliament.

Unlike Labour, which reconfigured its "party chairman" as a "leader" during the
1920s, the Co-operative never changed its original structure, with the result
that the role of general secretary is more important than in that of any other
mainstream UK political party. With the retirement of Michael Stephenson
(general secretary since 2008), Miliband and the Opposition shadow cabinet will
be keeping a close eye on the "runners and riders" - not least because several
of the shadow Cabinet, including Ed Balls and Stephen Twigg, are Co-operative
party MPs.

3.22pm: The debate on the Commons culture committee report will start soon. It
should be relatively low-key; MPs are only deciding whether or not to refer the
matter to the standards and privileges committee, this is almost certain to go
through on the nod and the whole debate is only expected to last about 90
minutes. It is unlikely to be a full-blown parliamentary attack on News
International.

Here's the motion being debated.

That this House notes the conclusions set out in chapter 8 of the 11th report
from the culture, media and sport committee, session 2010-12, on News
International and phone hacking, HC 903-I and orders, that the matter be
referred to the committee on standards and privileges.

And here's the culture committee report.

3.34pm:John Whittingdale, the Conservative chairman of the Commons culture
committee, is opening the debate. He says he is proposing the motion on behalf
of all members of the committee.

The motion is unusual, if not unprecedented in modern times, he says.

Select committees rely upon witnesses giving evidence honesty.

And so the finding in the committee's report, that the committee was misled by
three News International executives, is important.

The standard and privileges committee has to establish if the culture committee
was misled.

More importantly, it needs to decide what parliament should do about it, he
says.

3.36pm: Whittingdale is going into the background to his committee's inquiry.

He says Les Hinton, the News International executive chairmann told his
committee, after the conviction of Glenn Mulcaire for phone hacking, that there
was no evidence that phone hacking went any wider at the News of the World. But
Whittingdale says his committee had suspicions that it had gone further.

Then, in 2009, the Guardian published a story about the News of the World's
payment to Gordon Taylor to settle a phone hacking claim. The Guardian also
produced evidence including the "For Neville" email. This seemed to show that
hacking did go further than Mulcaire.

The committee took evidence from several News International executives.

Tom Crone, the legal manager, said he became aware of the fresh phone hacking
allegations in 2008. But he told the committee that these allegations did not
amount to much.

Hinton said no evidence was presented to him suggesting that phone hacking went
beyond Mulcaire.

3.44pm: Whittingdale is still speaking.

He says it was originally suggested that the "For Neville" email could have been
going to "any old Neville" at News of the World. But the committee established
that there was only one Neville there - Neville Thurlbeck, the chief reporter.

The committee published a report saying the News of the World had not
investigated phone hacking properly.

After that, more evidence emerged. The police re-opened their investigation,
there was a fresh debate in the Commons and James Murdoch said statements given
to parliament had been wrong. At that point the committee re-opened its inquiry.

During this inquiry, three crucial documents emerged. None came from News
International. They all came from lawyers from some of the individuals involved.

The first was the letter sent by Mulcaire to Hinton objecting to his dismissal.
Muclaire said phone hacking had been discussed at News of the World editorial
conferences.

The second was an email from Crone to Colin Myler, the former News of the World
editor. Crone said the the "For Neville" email was very damaging, and proved
that the News of the World had accessed lots of voice mail. It was written
almost a year before Crone told the committee that the "For Neville" email was
of no real significant.

The third was a document was legal advice from Michael Silverleaf, a QC, telling
News International that there was serious evidence that phone hacking had gone
on at the News of the World.

The committtee concluded that it had been misled by Hinton, Crone and Myler.

Philip Davies, a Conservative member of the committee, asks Whittingdale to
confirm that the committee was unanimous on this point.

Whittingdale says that's right.

The committee took evidence from other witnesseses, some of whom have been
arrested. But it decided not to publish conclusions about them. It reserves the
right to return to them at a later point, he says.

These are serious matters, he says. The conclusions bear profound consquences.

I'm not entirely clear what the consequences are.

The individuals should have a right to rebut the charges, he says.

Therefore the committee decided it was best to refer the matter to the standards
and privileges committee.

3.54pm: Tom Watson, a Labour member of the committee, is speaking now.

These are very serious matters, he says. The affair began when Chris Bryant
asked a question at a committee hearing about News International paying police
officers.

The committee wants the three people involved to receive some form of
parliamentary justice, he says.

It does not want to interfer with the police inquiries.

3.56pm:Sir George Young, the leader of the Commons, is speaking now.

He says it is right for this matter to be referred to the standards and
privileges committee.

The integrity and effectiveness of the system relies on the truthfulness and
completeness of the written and oral evidence submitted.

3.58pm: Angela Eagle, the shadow leader of the Commons, is speaking now.

She pays tribute to the work of the culture committee.

MPs are constrained in what they can say today, she says. But MPs will have a
chance to debate this more widely.

Select committees mainly use informal powers to get the information they need,
she says. The select committee system works well.

But it would not if witnesses felt they could mislead a committee without
consequence.

Attempting to mislead a committee is a contempt of the House, she says.

That's why this matter should be referred to the standards and privileges
committee.

4.04pm:Therese Coffey, a Conservative member of the committee, is speaking.

She says one of the lawyers working for News International, Julian Pike, told
the committee that he knew News International executives were misleading the
committee the moment he heard them give evidence.

Lawyers should be more willing to insist that their clients act honestly, she
suggests.

4.08pm: Chris Bryant, a Labour member of the committee, is speaking now.

He says we may just have witnessed the tip of an iceberg. Some 40 people have
been arrested. There may be more arrests. This is "one of the most flagrant
examples of contempt of parliament in parliament's history", he says.

People were lying to protect their company's commercial interests.

And News International turned the police into a "partially-owned subsidiary", he
says.

Bryant says the government has published a paper on parliamentary privilege. Sir
George Young was suggesting that the standards and privileges committee should
be wary of recommending a punishment.

But, under the Scotland Act, lying to a committee of the Scottish parliament is
an offence punishable by three months in prison.

Perjury is an offence punishable by up to seven years in prison, he says.

Parliament needs to exercise powers in this area, he says.

Until this investigation, a Commons committee had never heard from the Murdochs.
But they are the most powerful people in the British media. They should have
been giving evidence to select committees.

4.17pm: Bryant is still speaking.

The Commons should consider whether the three individuals should be fined.

It should consider whether they should be fined, he says, not least because
parliament has incurred considerable expense.

And the Commons should consider jailing these people. It is claimed they might
flee abroad. (Hinton lives in the US.) But, in 1880, when parliament last used
its power to lock someone up, the individual involved fled to France. That did
not stop the Commons arresting him when he returned to the UK.

4.21pm:Damian Collins, a Conservative member of the culture committee, is
speaking now.

The News International executives were "undone" by information released from
people not working for the company, he says.

We were given consistently false reassurances about the rigour of internal
investigation.

Parliament was misled over a long period of time, he says.

The committee will want to return to this matter when legal proceedings are
over.

4.27pm:Paul Farrelly, a Labour member of the culture committee, is speaking now.

The committee found it "inconceivable" in 2009 that the News of the World single
"rogue reporter" story was true.

But, on the basis of the same evidence, the Press Complaints Commission
concluded that the News of the World was telling the truth. Instead the PCC
decided to shoot the messenger - the Guardian newspaper.

He says he hopes the committee's conclusion about "wilful blindness" resonates.

The committee decided it would not be right to just blame two executives.
Instead, the committee decided that the corporate culture was to blame.

He refers MPs to the final sentence of paragraph 275.

In failing to investigate properly, and by ignoring evidence of widespread
wrongdoing, News International and its parent News Corporation exhibited wilful
blindness, for which the companies' directors-including Rupert Murdoch and James
Murdoch-should ultimately be prepared to take responsibility.

4.34pm:Louise Mensch, a Conservative member of the committee, says the sentence
mentioned by Paul Farrelly (see 4.27pm) was not agreed by all members of the
committee.

She says it should be assumed that when someone gives evidence to a select
committee that they are telling the truth. It should not be necessary to get
them to give evidence on oath.

There could be problems with parliament jailing people for lying to a committee,
she says.

But in the US people can be prosecuted for lying to a congressional committee. A
case of this kind is underway at the moment, involving the baseball star Roger
Clemens.She says it would be better for prosecutors to take on these cases,
rather than parliament itself, so that people have confidence that the procedure
is fair.

4.41pm:Kevin Barron, the Labour chairman of the standards and privileges
committee, says his committee is willing to take this up. He urges MPs not to
ask members of his committee questions about its inquiry as it goes on.

4.43pm:Philip Davies, a Conservative member of the culture committee, is
speaking now. He says the lies told by the News International executives were
not "little white lies".

They were deliberate attempts to mislead the committee.

The standards and privileges committee needs to consider why people were lying.
Were they trying to protect themselves, or to protect colleagues?

People who came to the committee came with "a corporate game plan", he says. It
was that nobody knew anything, and nobody knew anybody who did know anything.

Davies says he asked Hinton if he received coaching.

Those three individuals "palpably lied to the select committee", he says. It
would be good to know how that came about, Davies says. He thinks they were told
to lie.

Davies says he would be sympathetic to the committee looking into whether other
individuals lied to it "if the legal situation allowed".

4.52pm: Labour's Kevin Brennan says he feels "uneasy" that the only option
available to the Commons is a referral to the standards and privileges
committee.

Bernard Jenkin, the chairman of the public administration committee, says he has
been asked by the liaison committee to look into what can be done about select
committee witnesses who commit a contempt of parliament.

4.54pm:John Hemming, a Lib Dem MP, says he agrees with most of what Chris Bryant
said. Parliamentary privilege is there not just to protect MPs, but to protect
the rights of people who elect MPs, he says.

4.56pm:Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, says there is no point having a
select committee system unless there is a way of punishing people who do not
obey the rules.

He says he is not just worried about the behaviour of individuals; he is
concerned about what News International was doing as a company. Big companies
should not be above the law, he says. "Corporate responsibility must be
accepted."

5.00pm: The debate is over. The Commons agrees by acclamation to refer the
matter to the standards and privileges committee. There is no oppositon.

5.04pm: There were no suprises there. It was effectively a procedural debate -
referring the phone hacking issue from one committtee to another, or from a
parliamentary equivalent of a lower court to the parliamentary equivalent of a
court of appeal - and it was generally subdued. But it showed that MPs are
starting to think quite seriously about what can be done toughen up the powers
of select committee and the conventional wisdom - "there's nothing much
parliament can do" - is crumbling. Commons officials often suggest that there is
no realistic prospect of parliament using the ancient powers it has to fine or
imprison members of the pubic who commit an offence of parliament. That used to
strike me as quite a realistic position. But Chris Bryant - who made the most
impressive speech of the debate - pointed out that witnesses who lie to Scottish
parliamentary committees can be banged up for three months, under legislation
passed less than 15 years ago. (See 4.08pm.) And Louise Mensch pointed out that
this happens in the US, where a high-profile case of this kind is going through
the courts now. (See 4.34pm.)

5.45pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] Labour's Chris Bryant has said that the law should be changed to ensure
that people who lie to Commons select committees can be fined or jailed. There
was some support for his call, which came during a debate which saw MPs agree
unanimously that the Commons standards and privileges committee should look into
the culture committee report saying three News International executives lied to
parliament and that it should propose appropriate sanctions. In recent years
select committees have been uncertain what powers they have to deal with
witnesses who are uncooperative or dishonest, but the debate suggests that there
is strong support in the Commons for toughening up the rules in this area.
Bryant said parliament had to assert its power.

Surely to god, it is time that we asserted the freedom of parliament - in fact,
the rights of parliament. Not for our own sakes - it's irrelevant for our own
sakes - but quite simply because if parliament is lied to we cannot do our job
on behalf of our constituents, and if parliament is lied to there is impunity
thereafter, people will do it again, and then the democratic process unfolds.

[#xfffd] The European court of human rights has reaffirmed its declaration that
prisoners in the UK should be given the right to vote. As Owen Bowcott reports,
the appeals section of the Strasbourg court reaffirmed its decision that blanket
disenfranchisement of all those serving time is illegal and imposed a fresh
timetable for Britain's delayed compliance with similar past rulings. The keenly
anticipated ruling on Scoppola vs Italy brings some political relief in
confirming there is significant leeway allowed in how the rights are granted,
meaning that individual countries may choose to exclude certain groups of
serious offenders, such as murderers and rapists. Responding to the decision,
Downing Street said:

This is a judgment affecting Italy, but clearly we need to consider the
implications of that judgment on the issue of prisoner voting for the UK. The
position for the UK is that the attorney general has argued that the issue of
social policy, including prisoner voting, is a matter for parliament and it is
for Parliament to judge whether and which prisoners should have the vote, and
that the court should not interfere with that judgment unless it is manifestly
without reasonable foundation.

[#xfffd] Owen Paterson, the Northern Ireland secretary, has become the first
cabinet minister to say he opposes gay marriage. As PoliticsHomereports, he sent
a letter to a constituent saying: "Having considered this matter carefully, I am
afraid I have come to the decision not to support gay marriage."[#xfffd] Nick
Clegg has said that, even though legislation has not been passed changing the
laws of succession, a first-born girl born to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge
would become Queen. During questions in the Commons, he said the new rules were
already in place.

If the birds and bees were to deliver that blessing to the Duke and Duchess of
Cambridge, and indeed the nation, then that little girl would be covered by the
provisions of these changes of the rules of succession because they operate from
the time of the declaration of the Commonwealth summit last October. It is very
important to remember that the rules are de facto in place, even though they
have yet to be implemented through legislation in the way that I have described.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has declined to rule out accepting a peerage himself.

[#xfffd] The Welsh government has published a "[#xfffd]15bn infrastructure
investment plan for growth and jobs".

[#xfffd] An Old Bailey judge, Peter Thornton QC, who oversaw the inquest into
the death of Ian Tomlinson, has been appointed as the first chief coroner of
England and Wales.

That's all for today. Thanks for the comments.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 22, 2012 Tuesday 6:08 PM GMT

Defending the realm, Rochdale scandal and Jubilee injustice;
Letters from The Telegraph Weekly World Edition, Issue 1,087.

LENGTH: 1350 words


Defending the realm

SIR - The defence cuts, which involve scrapping entire infantry and armoured
units, could have serious consequences regarding Scottish devolution (report,
Issue 1,086).

If two or three of Scotland's regiments are axed as part of the manpower
reduction in the Armed Forces later this month, Alex Salmond, the Scottish First
Minister, will use it to his advantage.

Mr Salmond is playing a careful game with Westminster, and is using
Machiavellian tactics to put pressure on the Prime Minister regarding Scottish
independence. If the cuts go ahead and Scottish regiments are seen to lose out,
more Scots will follow the popular cause and support a break with Westminster,
thus further undermining the United Kingdom.

Iain Stewart, Hornchurch, Essex

SIR - Regiments have been amalgamated in the past, but there comes a time when
some historic identities, the traditional focus of loyalty and fighting
efficiency, have to be maintained.

The about-turn on jump jets has shown this Government's muddled thinking on
defence, based as it seems to be on little real understanding of the Armed
Forces.

In this area, their accountants know the price of everything but the value of
nothing that matters to the people at sea or on the front line.

Commander Alan York RN (retd), Sheffield, South Yorkshire

SIR - Philip Hammond shadowed five ministerial jobs in opposition and was made
Secretary of State for Transport in the Coalition.

A few months later, because of the debacle over Liam Fox, the former defence
secretary, he was hastily put in charge of the department, an area he knows
little about. He seems determined to carry on with the drastic cuts in our Armed
Forces started by Labour.

We need a defence secretary whose priority is the defence of the realm.

Edward Huxley, Thorpe, Surrey

A troubling speech

SIR - The Government's main aim is to cut the deficit and promote economic
growth, but two major items in the Queen's Speech (report, Issue 1,086) will
have the opposite effect on growth.

Ring-fencing retail banking will cost the industry up to £7 billion a year,
potentially reduce GDP by up to £1.8 billion and make banking more expensive for
customers.

Transferring parental leave from the mother to the father sounds fair, but there
is a physical limit on how often a woman may claim maternity leave, whereas
feckless men could be on almost permanent paternity leave.

Reform of the House of Lords may be a worthy subject to debate, but at this
moment Nero fiddling comes to mind.

Jane O'Nions, Sevenoaks, Kent

No care in Rochdale

SIR - I wonder what standards of "care" those young girls were under when they
were lured away by the predatory gang in Rochdale (report, Issue 1,086).

I was brought up "in care" from the age of six to 16, within the National
Children's Homes, now Action for Children, in Edgworth and Harpenden. If any one
of us had gone missing from our homes there would have been an all-out alert. I
shudder to think what level of "care" there is in children's homes today.

Patricia Ive, Bournemouth, Dorset

SIR - The case of the Rochdale girls prompts the thought: "Is this part of the
cost of the Macpherson report into the Stephen Lawrence murder?" I was not happy
about the widely publicised comment from the report that the Metropolitan Police
was institutionally racist. The reaction from this appears to have resulted in a
situation where agencies cannot pursue a particular type of suspect because they
could lay themselves open to charges of racism.

Surely that was not the intention.

Brian Peirce, London SE3

Jubilee injustice

SIR - My husband and I are coming to Britain to attend celebrations associated
with the Queen's Diamond Jubilee.

We are upset that Commonwealth citizens were unable to enter the ballot to
obtain tickets to attend the concert. Surely this is unfair and hardly a true
reflection of the Queen's role in the Commonwealth.

Jennifer Gallagher, Melbourne, Australia

Listen to the experts

SIR - Whilst agreeing with most of James Dyson's excellent report on research
and engineering (Comment, Issue 1,085), I must question whether our politicians
have the ability or will to assess the merits of engineers' recommendations, let
alone to act wisely thereon.

Their decision to install wind turbines and conventional uranium-fuelled nuclear
power plants proves the point. As a retired consulting electrical engineer, I am
appalled that Britain has not at least followed the examples of South Korea,
India and China in devoting funds towards the research and the building of safer
and less costly thorium-fuelled nuclear power stations.

I wonder how many politicians even know about South Korea's massive tidal power
station, or are aware that thorium fuel was rejected 40 years ago only because
it doesn't produce atomic bomb material as a by-product.

Robert Kidd, Bearsden, Scotland

Inspiring obits

SIR - Every week I read the obituaries and of the often fascinating lives and
achievements of those concerned. Many have come from very ordinary backgrounds
and have overcome major adversities, often with stories to tell that can only
attract the greatest admiration - or with a few - condemnation.

I would propose that these be printed out each week and hung on the walls of the
local Jobcentre, where they just might encourage those queuing there and
demonstrate to them that there is a future given initiative and hard work. I am
certain that most would not read them in their paper of choice.

Ian Allan, Simon's Town, South Africa

Watch out for Granny

SIR - I agree that the Criminal Records Bureau's checks have gone too far
(report, Issue 1,084). In Australia, volunteers over 18 have to hold a "blue
card" if they are to have contact with children.

We are soon to host a school student from Japan. The whole family will need blue
cards. This includes Grandma, aged 92. As far as I know, she has no criminal
record, though she did once get a speeding ticket.

She is not given to violence, but I suppose she could do some damage with her
walking stick.

Roseanne Schneider, Yeronga, Queensland

EU referendum

SIR - Calls for a national referendum on Britain's continued membership of the
EU have been going on for years, but with the eurozone in disarray, and the
situation growing worse, these calls have become more strident.

Apart from Ukip, several other organisations are now campaigning for action,
either in the form of a referendum or another debate in Parliament. Yet our
two-headed Government continues to gaze in the opposite direction. Arguments in
support of a referendum are substantial. However, with the three main parties
determined to continue membership, there had been a refusal even to debate the
issue

Today the boot is on the other foot. It has become impossible to deny that the
eurozone is not working. Not even the Olympics will enable the Government to
conceal the fact. A Prime Minister can only swim against the tide for so long.

Richard Shaw, Dunstable, Bedfordshire

SIR - David Cameron will soon have an excuse for not giving us a referendum:
there will be no point when there is no EU.

Brian Gilbert, Hampton, Middlesex

These letters were originally published in The Telegraph Weekly World Edition

Email your letters to weeklyt@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 22, 2012 Tuesday 7:57 AM GMT

Britain must limit European immigration during the recession, says ex-Labour
minister Frank Field;
Britain must stop letting in so many immigrants from Europe during the recession
because the job market is "flooded", Downing Street's poverty adviser has
warned.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 379 words


Frank Field, a former Labour minister and MP for Birkenhead, said immigration
from Europe was a major reason that millions of people are struggling to find
jobs in the recession.

He said it would be increasingly difficult for unemployed British people to find
work while the "market is flooded with over-qualified applicants from Europe".

He said temporary restrictions would help give the Government's welfare reforms
a "fair wind", as ministers try to encourage the long-term workless back into
jobs.

"During the recession, the Government just needs to tell Brussels that we just
can't have free movement of labour," he told The Daily Telegraph.

"How is Iain Duncan-Smith [the Work and Pensions Secretary] going to get people
off benefits into work if the market is flood with over-qualified people from
Europe?

"There's a huge haemorrhaging of Tory support to UKIP. I would have thought the
leadership should look at an idea that would appeal to Tory and indeed many
Labour voters."

Hundreds of thousands of migrant workers from Eastern Europe have settled in
Britain since countries such as Poland joined the European Union.

However, the Government quickly dismissed Mr Field's suggestions as it could
make it difficult for British people to get jobs abroad.

Damian Green, the immigration minister, said "closing off" the European market
would "badly impact" workers.

It is not unprecedented for countries imposed temporary measures to stop an
influx of workers from eastern Europe.

Earlier this month, Switzerland said workers from the Czech Republic, Estonia,
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia would have to seek
authorisation before arriving for work.

The country is not in the European Union (EU), but it said immigration from the
economic bloc would now be subject to quotas.

At the time, the EU warned Switzerland it was in breach of a free movement
treaty and hinted it could face legal action.

Britain has already limited the arrival of unskilled workers from outside the
European Union.

However, free travel within the EU is a key principle of the union.

Earlier this year, David Cameron led a coalition of countries claiming that
workers should be able to get jobs abroad within Europe even more easily as
migration will help the economy.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday

MILIBAND PLOY TO SPLIT THE TORIES

LENGTH: 394 words


PROMISING REFERENDUM ON EU

By Daniel Martin Whitehall Correspondent

ED MILIBAND is considering promising an historic in-out referendum on Britain s
membership of the EU.

Labour hopes pledging a vote will provoke a split in the Conservatives and
outmanoeuvre David Cameron on Europe.

The plan is being pushed by Mr Miliband s new policy chief, Jon Cruddas, who has
advocated a referendum for months.

Yesterday a poll found that, if a referendum were held tomorrow, 46 per cent
would vote to leave the EU and 30 per cent would vote to stay.

The survey also showed Europe could be a pivotal issue at the next election,
with 26 per cent of Tories saying they would consider voting for Ukip, compared
with just 11 per cent of Labour supporters and 14 per cent of Lib Dems.

Senior figures in Labour are now pushing Mr Miliband to commit to a referendum,
and the party leader has held discussions on the issue.

However, he is keen to stress the short-term focus must be on ending the
eurozone crisis.  The thing I would say about this [the referendum] is, at the
moment, it s not on the agenda, and I think we ve got to deal with the now, and
it s not a priority for now,  he said yesterday.

The priority for now is the economic problems.

[The referendum] is a debate that obviously people will engage in.

But I am interested in what needs to happen now, and I m not so interested in
speculating about what might happen in the long future.

Before his appointment last week as policy chief, Mr Cruddas told the People s
Pledge campaign for a referendum that the issue was one of  democracy . A
referendum pledge should be made  immediately, or as quickly as we can , he
said.

He believes the bold move of pledging a referendum would help define Mr Miliband
s leadership as distinct from the New Labour years.

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke rejected calls for a referendum, saying such a
pledge was irresponsible and designed to embarrass the Tories.

The Labour leader has also revealed he is considering finding a place in his
team for Tony Blair.

He revealed yesterday he often received advice from the former prime minister,
who has also been advising Barack Obama on his re-election bid.

Mr Miliband said:  He is obviously an employable statesman.

Asked if he would give Mr Blair a job if the former prime minister offered his
services, he replied:  Of course.

Melanie Phillips - Page 14

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 21, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Now give us chance to quit crumbling EU;
CRUSADE GET US OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 378 words


DEMANDS for a referendum on membership of the European Union were mounting last
night as turmoil within the eurozone reached boiling point.

Ed Miliband is being urged by a growing number of his shadow cabinet and senior
allies to promise a dramatic in-out vote on Britain's ties with Brussels if
Labour wins the next general election.

Several key figures in the party are pushing the Labour leader to make the
pledge well before the next European elections in 2014.

It is being seen as a bid to outmanoeuvre David Cameron, who is under heavy
pressure to commit the Tory party to a national vote.

The increased political pressure will give further momentum to the Daily
Express's hugely popular crusade for Britain's withdrawal.

Last year this newspaper delivered to 10 Downing Street 373,000 names calling
for us to quit.

Mr Miliband is believed to be warming to a referendum, although he believes the
immediate focus should be on the euro crisis.

Hostility

His appointment last week of Jon Cruddas, a long standing opponent of the euro,
as Labour's policy chief has also heightened expectations within the party. Mr
Cruddas is understood to believe that such a move would help define Miliband as
distinct from New Labour.

Meanwhile, a ComRes opinion poll showed how Europe could be pivotal at the next
election.

It found 26 per cent of Tories say they would consider voting for the anti-EU
Ukip compared with 11 per cent of Labour supporters and 14 per cent of Liberal
Democrats.

If Labour did commit to a referendum, the leadership would campaign for a vote
to stay in - and be supported by most members.

But the poll showed the extent of anti-EU hostility Labour would need to
overcome if a referendum were held now, with 46 per cent saying they would vote
to leave the EU compared with 30 per cent who would vote to stay in.

A referendum would leave the Tories divided, with the leadership certain to
campaign for a vote to remain while many MPs and members would want to leave.

24n01eulogo Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "The only people who can possibly be
surprised by this poll are the Tory leadership, whose heads have been in the
sand both on the growth of Ukip and the party's absolute dissatisfaction with
them on this massive issue."

LEO MCKINSTRY: PAGE 12, CITY: PAGE 44

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 21, 2012 Monday 11:40 AM GMT

Germany bought Europe on credit, and now it doesn't want to pay

BYLINE: ALEXANDER BOOT

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1010 words


You can see furniture emporia advertising similar deals on sofas upholstered in
genuine vinyl: buy now, pay later, 0% interest, while stocks last. That's how
the EU project was sold to those industrious, ordnung-loving, pfennig-pinching
Germans.

They saw, with a bit of prompting from the ruling bureaucrats, the economic
advantages of a protectionist block touting a single currency pegged to their
beloved deutschmark and a single market dominated by German exports.
Deutschmark, deutschmark, über alles - even if it's called something else now.
What's in a name, as that English precursor of Goethe once put it.

However, the ruling bureaucrats didn't tell them a few other things, which the
Germans are finding out the hard way. The economic advantages, as it turns out,
weren't the furniture emporium. They were its advertising campaign.

Advertising never lies; it deceives by omission. This particular campaign
omitted the truly critical datum: the purpose behind the EU is political, not
economic. And, if modernity has taught us anything, it's that politics costs.
Sometimes it costs a lot of blood, sometimes it doesn't. One way or the other,
it always costs a lot of money.

The economics of the situation are simple, though perhaps too simple for
government economists to understand. A monetary union can't work even in theory,
never mind practice, in the absence of a fiscal union. And no fiscal union is
possible without a strong central government allocating resources as it sees
fit.

That's how the South of England pays for the North, the North of Italy pays for
the South, and California pays for Mississippi. The mayor of Milan doesn't tell
the mayor of Naples to sack half the police force and tell people who've never
worked to find a job. Milan pays the central government, and the central
government then keeps all those unemployed southerners in spaghetti alle
vongole.

Extrapolating this proven arrangement to the EU means, in essence, that the
Germans have to pay for everybody else, with the possible exception of the
Benelux countries and one or two others. Suddenly it dawns on the Germans that
to keep the EU going they'll have to accept a lower standard of living and a
higher rate of inflation. Perhaps not so high that they'll have to take the old
wheelbarrow off the mothballs to collect their weekly pay, but something
approaching double digits.

They are understandably unhappy about that, and they've already communicated
their feelings to the government through local elections. On that basis, most
commentators have put a simple syllogism into effect. Thesis: Germany will have
to pay for everybody. Antithesis: the Germans won't wear it. Synthesis: the EU
will fall apart.

That's roughly the Aristotelian structure put together by a famous journalist
speaking the other day to a mostly UKIP audience. The chap, endowed with much
jolly-hockey-sticks charm but next to no intellectual rigour, more or less
preached the Dave line. In the process, he gave the impression of someone who'd
happily vote for a bull terrier, provided it sported a blue rosette.

The party line, as enunciated by the pundit, is that the EU is on its last legs,
and we shouldn't worry our pretty little heads about what to do next. There's no
point even talking about leaving this megalomaniac abomination. Loose talk may
cost Dave a few votes and what for? All we have to do is sit back and watch the
EU implode before our very eyes, all by itself.

That's wishful thinking that betokens a most unfortunate misreading of the
problem. The EU would indeed implode if its powers-that-be were solely driven by
economic concerns: one can't think of another recent example of elementary
economic theory receiving such a resounding empirical vindication. The EU may
still implode, and good riddance to bad rubbish.

But I'm prepared to bet what's left of my pension fund, that the Germans and
their hangers-on will go to any extreme to prevent this. Had they not been
prepared to stake all on an emerging federal state, a sort of EUSSR, or Fourth
Reich if you'd rather, they wouldn't have started the project in the first
place.

Angela Merkel will pout for a while and whine about good housekeeping, but then
she'll do what politics demands, and damn the economy. She and her friends won't
let the EU bite the dust until they've exhausted every means of its
preservation. And their feelings about the crisis just may be different from
yours or mine.

History teaches that economic (or military) cataclysms are the steroids on which
state Leviathans build their muscle mass. That's why all Western states acquired
unprecedented powers after both great wars, or, more appropriately, the Great
Depression. Hence, if there's an opportunity in every crisis, then the eurocrats
must feel that they have in Europe today their greatest opportunity ever.

They'll try to use the abyss into which they've pushed Europe as vindication of
federalism - not as irrefutable proof that the whole idea was criminally inept.
And if it takes trillions of freshly minted euros to fill the abyss, they'll
eventually do so, after much wringing of hands and gnashing of teeth.

Meanwhile, the only sane thing for us to do would be to leave this madhouse
immediately. Instead of paying the lunatics even more than we've already paid
them, we should use the vast sums earmarked for this to protect our banks
against the asylum collapsing on our heads. And because it's the only sane thing
to do, you know HMG won't do it.

Instead, they'll sing from the hymn sheet provided by The Sunday Times editorial
yesterday. The lyrics extol 'the trade advantages' of staying in the asylum - as
if a country has to dissolve itself into others in order to trade with them.
Britain did reasonably well in that department throughout her history without
becoming part of a German-dominated federation. But that was in the old days,
when sound economics wasn't trumped by deranged politics.

The Germans will pay dearly for their ultimately doomed attempt to unite Europe
without resorting to panzers. So, one fears, will we.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 21, 2012 Monday 8:14 AM GMT

Miliband ploy to split the Tories on Europe by promising in-or-out referendum on
EU membership

BYLINE: DANIEL MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words



     ·    Poll shows EU membership could be a pivotal issue for voters at the
          next election


Ed Miliband is considering promising an historic in-out referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU.

Labour hopes pledging a vote will provoke a split in the Conservatives and
outmanoeuvre David Cameron on Europe.

The plan is being pushed by Mr Miliband's new policy chief, Jon Cruddas, who has
advocated a referendum for months.

Yesterday a poll found that, if a referendum were held tomorrow, 46 per cent
would vote to leave the EU and 30 per cent would vote to stay.

The survey also showed Europe could be a pivotal issue at the next election,
with 26 per cent of Tories saying they would consider voting for Ukip, compared
with just 11 per cent of Labour supporters and 14 per cent of Lib Dems.

Senior figures in Labour are now pushing Mr Miliband to commit to a referendum,
and the party leader has held discussions on the issue.

However, he is keen to stress the short-term focus must be on ending the
eurozone crisis. 'The thing I would say about this [the referendum] is, at the
moment, it's not on the agenda, and I think we've got to deal with the now, and
it's not a priority for now,' he said yesterday.

'The priority for now is the economic problems.

'[The referendum] is a debate that obviously people will engage in.

'But I am interested in what needs to happen now, and I'm not so interested in
speculating about what might happen in the long future.'

Before his appointment last week as policy chief, Mr Cruddas told the People's
Pledge campaign for a referendum that the issue was one of 'democracy'.

A referendum pledge should be made 'immediately, or as quickly as we can', he
said.

" The Labour leader will today hit out at 'snobs' who believe that university is
the 'only pathway to success'.

The comments will come despite the fact that Oxford-educated Mr Miliband was
part of the previous Labour government, which set a target to send 50 per cent
of all school-leavers to university and oversaw a vast increase in the number of
students.

In a speech to the Sutton Trust in London, the leader of the Opposition will say
the Government 'must have a better offer to those young people who choose not to
go to university'.

He believes the bold move of pledging a referendum would help define Mr
Miliband's leadership as distinct from the New Labour years.

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke rejected calls for a referendum, saying such a
pledge was irresponsible and designed to embarrass the Tories.

The Labour leader has also revealed he is considering finding a place in his
team for Tony Blair.

He said yesterday that he often received advice from the former prime minister,
who has also been advising Barack Obama on his re-election bid.

Mr Miliband said: 'He is obviously an employable statesman.'

Asked if he would give Mr Blair a job if the former prime minister offered his
services, he replied: 'Of course.'

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Fingers is set to go under the spotlight again

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 640 words


WE could all do with a little break from referendum fatigue.

How many times do people have to hear the oftrepeated arguments? The bottom line
is 'sign up if you want to be sure of getting more hand-outs'.

You'd imagine most people would know by now what way they will vote.

But, with little over a week to go, the biggest shift of opinion has drifted
into the undecided camp.

Instead of being swayed by the quarrelling Yes and No sides, maybe a lot of them
are just fed up listening to the continuing squabbles.

Granted, we can thank Eurosceptic MEP Nigel Farage for a little light relief
when he jetted into Dublin to tell us he wasn't interfering and continued to do
just that.

Dishy The UK Independence Party boss had on his arm a "goodlooking Danish MEP"
who turned out to be Morten Messerschmidt, a dishy but somewhat mute assistant.

Still, he made a pleasant change from the usual grey suits we have to mingle
with in our quest to find something new to say.

But my own personal distraction came as I cycled into Leinster House for another
day on the political hustings.

And it made me wonder about some pressing matters that have slipped off the
radar over the past few months.

Waiting for the lights to change on O'Connell Bridge, my eye caught a notice in
the window of an abandoned building on the corner of the country's premier
street.

'Your account has moved to a new home' announced a sunfaded poster next to an
equally aged sign declaring 'This branch is now closed'. So where is the elusive
Michael "Fingers" Fingleton? For this was once the powerbase of Irish Nationwide
Building Society.

It was here that he threw lavish parties as his small lending bank went into
commercial property and grew, along with Anglo Irish, into a two-headed monster.

As financial institutions careered down the tracks to inevitable disaster,
Fingers helped buddy Seanie Fitz-Patrick hide millions in loans from Anglo
shareholders.

We've had an occasional recent sighting of Fitzy, most notably at a family
wedding, but Fingleton is a virtual will-o'-the-wisp.

Perhaps he is off in Spain playing golf, but he appears to be immune from any
accountability for his central role in the economic calamity. It's now three
years since he sailed off into the sunset with a '27million pension while his
former customers were facing the tightest squeeze of their lives.

He still hasn't handed back the grotesque '1million bonus he trousered or the
'11,500 Gucci watch that was part of his golden handshake.

Puppet Even after he took his retirement bow, he continued to wallow in
extravagant Nationwide hand-outs, like '48,000 in fees for the exclusive K Club,
'12,000 for private dental work, and even '2,300 for a break at London's
Dorchester Hotel with the missus.

But he denied he ran Nationwide as a personal bank when he appeared at an
employment appeal hearing last December - the last time he was seen in public.

Well, if he manages to stay a step ahead of the posse, even when the hue and cry
of the referendum abates, the mysterious Mr Fingleton will not escape the
spotlight.

Fingleton from Del Monte is set for a starring role in a puppet show that takes
to the stage later this year.

Anglo: The Musical will feature some catchy tunes, including Puttin On the Fitz
and Put a Zero on the End.

Bertie Ahern and Brian Cowen can prepare themselves for a few blushes as Dustin
the Turkey creator Johnny Morrison gives us his unique take on the underbelly of
financial disaster.

The feathered Eurovision flop might even make a cameo appearance, being as he is
a builder who fell on hard times.

The production is aptly taglined "because it only takes a few muppets to screw
an economy".

How true, but one wonders if any late developments would require a quick rewrite
before curtain-up.

I suspect not in the case of Mr Fingleton.

It only takes a few muppets to screw up an economy

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 2:04 AM GMT

IoS exclusive: Cameron hit by big rise in hostility to Europe;
And at the G8 summit, world leaders issue strong message calling for stimulus to
encourage growth

BYLINE: Matt Chorley, David Usborne

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1316 words


Almost one in three people who voted Conservative at the last election are ready
to back the UK Independence Party, or have switched already, according to a
devastating new opinion poll revealing the danger posed to David Cameron by a
growing anti-Europe sentiment across Britain.

Ten per cent of 2010's Tory voters say they have already decided to back Ukip,
while 26 per cent of those who still support the Conservatives are "seriously
considering" switching to support the Eurosceptic fringe party. Nigel Farage,
its leader, has sought to capitalise on the economic crisis gripping the
eurozone.

Forty-six per cent of people polled say they would vote for Britain to leave the
European Union, with just 30 per cent saying they want to continue membership.
If the 23 per cent who responded "don't know" were removed, such a referendum
would see Britain leave the EU on a 3:2 split.

The results will heap pressure on Mr Cameron, who faces demands from his
backbenchers and ministers for a referendum on continued membership in the next
Tory manifesto. But a more strident anti-European stance will do little to
improve the Prime Minister's international standing. Yesterday, he joined world
leaders for talks at Camp David, where efforts were being made at the G8 to
encourage growth as well as austerity.

With little sign of a breakthrough in efforts to rescue the Greek economy - and,
with it, the eurozone - Mr Cameron again resorted to hyperbolic rhetoric to
reassure increasingly sceptical voters back home that he was having some impact
on the world stage. Speaking after holding bilateral talks with President Barack
Obama yesterday morning, Mr Cameron declared: "There is a growing sense of
urgency that action needs to be taken, contingency plans need to be put in place
and the strengthening of banks, governance, firewalls, all of those things, need
to take place very fast."

German Chancellor Angela Merkel's agenda for Europe, demanding ruthless
austerity to tackle national deficits, was under assault. The new French
President, François Hollande, allied himself to President Obama's policy of
investing to stimulate economic growth. "All of us," Mr Obama said, "are
absolutely committed to making sure that both growth and stability, and fiscal
consolidation, are part of an overall package to achieve the prosperity for our
citizens we all are looking for."

Ms Merkel was on the back foot even before arriving at Camp David, as patience
with the tough-love German approach ebbed away. It was this tactic that had
helped fuel a voter rebellion in Greece and set the stage for the political
transition in France, where President Hollande took power on a pledge to put new
emphasis on stimulative economic measures.

There was a sense of alarm among leaders of the G8 nations - the United States,
France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, Italy, Canada and Russia - that the
renewed strains in Europe are threatening to bring back a fresh period of
recession that could quickly infect all of their economies.

A statement from G8 leaders mentioned "growth" no fewer than 10 times. It began:
"Our imperative is to promote growth and jobs" and included phrases such as: "We
all have an interest in the success of specific measures to strengthen the
resilience of the eurozone and growth in Europe". Direct references to
Merkel-style austerity numbered three, however. Meanwhile, the leaders did not
actually identify individual steps that might stimulate the EU economies. Those
may come, however, at what should be a more consequential EU summit next week.

Mr Cameron's only mentions of the G-word were when he insisted: "Growth and
austerity aren't alternatives. You need a deficit reduction plan in order to get
growth, in order to have the low interest rates that we have in Britain." But he
knows the coalition's cuts programme leaves him increasingly isolated on the
world stage, with Tory backbenchers demanding a tougher line on Europe to head
off the haemorrhaging of support to Ukip.

Mr Farage said: "The only people who can possibly be surprised by this poll are
the Tory leadership, whose head has been in the sand for such a long time, both
on the growth of Ukip and the party's absolute dissatisfaction at their own
leadership on this massive issue."

The ComRes/IoS poll reveals deep dissatisfaction with the mainstream parties,
with 37 per cent of their supporters seriously considering switching to smaller
parties. Among all voters polled, 13 per cent are pondering backing Ukip, with
the same proportion poised to vote Green. Four per cent are considering
supporting the BNP, and 3 per cent could vote for George Galloway's Respect
party. Only 38 per cent are not considering changing their allegiance.

Overall, Labour now has a nine-point lead, on 41 per cent, up two points on the
last ComRes poll. The Tories are on 32 per cent, down two points. The Liberal
Democrats are up one point, on 11 per cent; Ukip is down two points, on 7 per
cent; and the Greens are up one point, on 3 per cent.

Among Labour voters, the disaffected are most likely to be looking to the Green
Party (19 per cent), Ukip (11 per cent) or the Lib Dems (10 per cent). Of Lib
Dem supporters, 28 per cent are considering switching to the Greens, 27 per cent
to the Conservatives, 21 per cent to Labour and 14 per cent to Ukip.

But Conservative Central Office will be most concerned by the revelation that a
third of its 2010 support could disappear to Ukip. The Tory MP Stewart Jackson
said: "There is a growing realisation within the leadership of the Conservative
Party that Ukip could potentially cost us any chance of having an overall
majority at the next election, in 2015."

However, the Tory MP Brandon Lewis warned colleagues against taking a more
hardline eurosceptic stance. "We mustn't be tempted to lurch in one way or the
other," he said.

Voters are also becoming increasingly dissatisfied with Mr Cameron's
performance. Yesterday, Downing Street played down reports of the PM's laid-back
approach, after a new book quoted an ally as saying: "If there was an Olympic
gold medal for 'chillaxing', the Prime Minister would win it." The biography of
Mr Cameron, by James Hanning, deputy editor of The Independent on Sunday, and
Francis Elliott of The Times, also revealed how Mr Cameron unwinds at Chequers
with a karaoke machine, plays tennis against a machine nicknamed "the Clegger"
after the Deputy Prime Minister, and enjoys a few glasses of wine with Sunday
lunch.

Mr Cameron's net approval rating - the difference between those who say he is
doing well and those who disagree - is down seven points to minus 28. He has
been overtaken by Ed Miliband for the first time since ComRes began asking the
leadership questions in December 2010. Even among Tories, just two-thirds (67
per cent) of Conservative voters say Mr Cameron is turning out to be a good
prime minister, down from three-quarters (75 per cent) in April. And Mr Cameron
and George Osborne are now neck-and-neck, on minus 29 per cent, with Mr Miliband
and Ed Balls on being trusted to make the right decisions about the economy.

PM's iPad reshuffle

Which cabinet minister is a watermelon? Eric Pickles? Michael Gove is probably a
strawberry.

This will all be terribly important when David Cameron starts hacking through
his top team with his (metaphorical) samurai sword. The Prime Minister has said
the iPad game, Fruit Ninja, is a good substitute for a reshuffle: "It's quite
good, to get your frustration out."

According to Fraser Nelson, editor of The Spectator, the PM "spends a crazy,
scary amount of time playing Fruit Ninja". You score points by dissecting
melons, pears, strawberries, mangos, oranges, lemons and coconuts as they fly
into view.

But beware: bombs with lit fuses pop up - slice one of them and, like an attempt
to oust George Osborne or William Hague, the results are explosive. In fact,
it's game over.

Matt Chorley

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 20, 2012
                                 First Edition

Cameron hit by big rise in hostility to Europe;
EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 24 words


::: Nearly one-third of Tories signal switch to UK Independence Party

::: Voters split 3:2 in favour of Britain quitting the EU, according to IoS poll

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 20, 2012
                                 First Edition

Voters desert Cameron as Britain turns eurosceptic;
CRISIS IN THE EUROZONE The G8 Summit And at the G8 summit, world leaders issue a
strong message calling for stimulus to encourage growth. Matt Chorley in London
and David Usborne in Chicago report

BYLINE: Matt Chorley in London and David Usborne in Chicago

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1182 words


Almost one in three people who voted Conservative at the last election are ready
to back the UK Independence Party, or have switched already, according to a
devastating new opinion poll revealing the danger posed to David Cameron by a
growing anti-Europe sentiment across Britain.

Ten per cent of 2010's Tory voters say they have already decided to back Ukip,
while 26 per cent of those who still support the Conservatives are "seriously
considering" switching to support the Eurosceptic fringe party. Nigel Farage,
its leader, has sought to capitalise on the economic crisis gripping the
eurozone.

Forty-six per cent of people polled say they would vote for Britain to leave the
European Union, with just 30 per cent saying they want to continue membership.
If the 23 per cent who responded "don't know" were removed, such a referendum
would see Britain leave the EU on a 3:2 split.

The results will heap pressure on Mr Cameron, who faces demands from his
backbenchers and ministers for a referendum on continued membership in the next
Tory manifesto. But a more strident anti-European stance will do little to
improve the Prime Minister's international standing. Yesterday, he joined world
leaders for talks at Camp David, where efforts were being made at the G8 to
encourage growth as well as austerity.

With little sign of a breakthrough in efforts to rescue the Greek economy - and,
with it, the eurozone - Mr Cameron again resorted to hyperbolic rhetoric to
reassure increasingly sceptical voters back home that he was having some impact
on the world stage. Speaking after holding bilateral talks with President Barack
Obama yesterday morning, Mr Cameron declared: "There is a growing sense of
urgency that action needs to be taken, contingency plans need to be put in place
and the strengthening of banks, governance, firewalls, all of those things, need
to take place very fast."

German Chancellor Angela Merkel's agenda for Europe, demanding ruthless
austerity to tackle national deficits, was under assault. The new French
President, François Hollande, allied himself to President Obama's policy of
investing to stimulate economic growth. "All of us," Mr Obama said, "are
absolutely committed to making sure that both growth and stability, and fiscal
consolidation, are part of an overall package to achieve the prosperity for our
citizens we all are looking for."

Ms Merkel was on the back foot even before arriving at Camp David, as patience
with the tough-love German approach ebbed away. It was this tactic that had
helped fuel a voter rebellion in Greece and set the stage for the political
transition in France, where President Hollande took power on a pledge to put new
emphasis on stimulative economic measures.

There was a sense of alarm among leaders of the G8 nations - the United States,
France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, Italy, Canada and Russia - that the
renewed strains in Europe are threatening to bring back a fresh period of
recession that could quickly infect all of their economies.

A statement from G8 leaders mentioned "growth" no fewer than 10 times. It began:
"Our imperative is to promote growth and jobs" and included phrases such as: "We
all have an interest in the success of specific measures to strengthen the
resilience of the eurozone and growth in Europe". Direct references to
Merkel-style austerity numbered three, however. Meanwhile, the leaders did not
actually identify individual steps that might stimulate the EU economies. Those
may come, however, at what should be a more consequential EU summit next week.

Mr Cameron's only mentions of the G-word were when he insisted: "Growth and
austerity aren't alternatives. You need a deficit reduction plan in order to get
growth, in order to have the low interest rates that we have in Britain." But he
knows the coalition's cuts programme leaves him increasingly isolated on the
world stage, with Tory backbenchers demanding a tougher line on Europe to head
off the haemorrhaging of support to Ukip.

Mr Farage said: "The only people who can possibly be surprised by this poll are
the Tory leadership, whose head has been in the sand for such a long time, both
on the growth of Ukip and the party's absolute dissatisfaction at their own
leadership on this massive issue."

The ComRes/IoS poll reveals deep dissatisfaction with the mainstream parties,
with 37 per cent of their supporters seriously considering switching to smaller
parties. Among all voters polled, 13 per cent are pondering backing Ukip, with
the same proportion poised to vote Green. Four per cent are considering
supporting the BNP, and 3 per cent could vote for George Galloway's Respect
party. Only 38 per cent are not considering changing their allegiance.

Overall, Labour now has a nine-point lead, on 41 per cent, up two points on the
last ComRes poll. The Tories are on 32 per cent, down two points. The Liberal
Democrats are up one point, on 11 per cent; Ukip is down two points, on 7 per
cent; and the Greens are up one point, on 3 per cent.

Among Labour voters, the disaffected are most likely to be looking to the Green
Party (19 per cent), Ukip (11 per cent) or the Lib Dems (10 per cent). Of Lib
Dem supporters, 28 per cent are considering switching to the Greens, 27 per cent
to the Conservatives, 21 per cent to Labour and 14 per cent to Ukip.

But Conservative Central Office will be most concerned by the revelation that a
third of its 2010 support could disappear to Ukip. The Tory MP Stewart Jackson
said: "There is a growing realisation within the leadership of the Conservative
Party that Ukip could potentially cost us any chance of having an overall
majority at the next election, in 2015."

However, the Tory MP Brandon Lewis warned colleagues against taking a more
hardline eurosceptic stance. "We mustn't be tempted to lurch in one way or the
other," he said.

Voters are also becoming increasingly dissatisfied with Mr Cameron's
performance. Yesterday, Downing Street played down reports of the PM's laid-back
approach, after a new book quoted an ally as saying: "If there was an Olympic
gold medal for 'chillaxing', the Prime Minister would win it." The biography of
Mr Cameron, by James Hanning, deputy editor of The Independent on Sunday, and
Francis Elliott of The Times, also revealed how Mr Cameron unwinds at Chequers
with a karaoke machine, plays tennis against a machine nicknamed "the Clegger"
after the Deputy Prime Minister, and enjoys a few glasses of wine with Sunday
lunch.

Mr Cameron's net approval rating - the difference between those who say he is
doing well and those who disagree - is down seven points to minus 28. He has
been overtaken by Ed Miliband for the first time since ComRes began asking the
leadership questions in December 2010. Even among Tories, just two-thirds (67
per cent) of Conservative voters say Mr Cameron is turning out to be a good
prime minister, down from three-quarters (75 per cent) in April. And Mr Cameron
and George Osborne are now neck-and-neck, on minus 29 per cent, with Mr Miliband
and Ed Balls on being trusted to make the right decisions about the economy.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 4:56 PM GMT

Poll suggests a growing tide of anti-Europe sentiment is pushing Cameron's Tory
voters to UKIP

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 481 words


At the G8 David Cameron is battling for a solution to the eurozone crisis, but
at home a growing anti-Europe sentiment across Britain is threatening to derail
his government, a poll suggested today.

According to the survey, almost one in three people who voted Conservative at
the last election are ready to back the UK Independence Party.

Ten per cent of 2010's Tory voters say they have already decided to back UKIP,
while 26 per cent of those who still support the Conservatives are 'seriously
considering' switching.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage has tried to capitalise on the economic crisis gripping
the eurozone.

Forty-six per cent of people polled for The Independent on Sunday say they would
vote for Britain to leave the EU, with just 30 per cent saying they want to
continue membership.

If the 23 per cent who responded 'don't know' were removed, such a referendum
would see Britain leave the EU.

The results will heap pressure on Mr Cameron, who faces demands from his
backbenchers and ministers for a referendum on continued membership in the next
Tory manifesto.

But a more strident anti-European stance will do little to improve the Prime
Minister's international standing.

Yesterday, he joined world leaders for talks at the Presidential retreat Camp
David, near Washington, where efforts were being made to encourage growth as
well as austerity.

Mr Cameron declared: 'There is a growing sense of urgency that action needs to
be taken, contingency plans need to be put in place and the strengthening of
banks, governance, firewalls, all of those things, need to take place very
fast.'

Mr Farage said: 'The only people who can possibly be surprised by this poll are
the Tory leadership, whose head has been in the sand for such a long time, both
on the growth of UKIP and the party's absolute dissatisfaction at their own
leadership on this massive issue.'

The Independent on Sunday's ComRes poll revealed 13 per cent of voters polled
are considering backing UKIP, with the same proportion poised to vote Green.

Four per cent are considering supporting the BNP, and 3 per cent could vote for
George Galloway's Respect party. Only 38 per cent are not considering changing
their allegiance.

Overall, Labour now has a nine-point lead, on 41 per cent, up two points on the
last ComRes poll. The Tories are on 32 per cent, down two points.

The Liberal Democrats are up one point, on 11 per cent; UKIP is down two points,
on 7 per cent; and the Greens are up one point, on 3 per cent.

Tory MP Stewart Jackson told The Independent on Sunday: 'There is a growing
realisation within the leadership of the Conservative Party that UKIP could
potentially cost us any chance of having an overall majority at the next
election, in 2015.'

However, the Tory MP Brandon Lewis warned colleagues against taking a more
hardline eurosceptic stance. 'We mustn't be tempted to lurch in one way or the
other,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 2:11 AM GMT

BLACK DOG: The boomerang bureaucrat...

BYLINE: BLACK DOG

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 574 words


The drive to sack thousands of civil servants by Downing Street's just-departed
head of strategy Steve Hilton was fuelled by bitter personal experience.

After taking months to get shot of one No10 penpusher, imagine his ennui when
the very same Whitehall bureaucrat turned up in Hilton's office weeks later - as
a senior adviser to a Cabinet Minister.

After snubbing Francois Hollande just before he beat Nicolas Sarkozy, David
Cameron faces another diplomatic stand-off with the news that US Republican
Presidential candidate Mitt Romney plans to attend the Olympic Games opening
ceremony.

Mitt the Mormon wants a meeting with the PM and is still bristling at Dave's
love-in photocalls with Barack Obama in the US earlier this year.

Speaker John Bercow likes to lecture MPs guilty of rowdy behaviour and drinking
too much.

Is this the same John Bercow who, not so long ago, had to pay a £1,000 repair
bill after a Commons door was smashed down in a mysterious temper tantrum? Why,
yes, 'tis he.

Bad-taste Kerry's got a Psycho in her sights

Labour MP Kerry McCarthy deserves a bad taste award after claiming David Cameron
resembles a fictional, well-bred serial killer - because of the PM's taste in
Eighties soft rock.

'His Oxford contemporaries insist he was obsessed with Phil Collins,' says
McCarthy.

'In the novel American Psycho, the protagonist (serial killer Patrick Bateman)
is a slick yuppie who loved Phil Collins. It's hard not to be reminded of
Cameron.'

UKIP leader Nigel Farage claims to have proof that the Edexcel schools exam
board insists students sitting its politics papers describe his fully fledged
anti-EU party as a mere 'pressure group' - or get marked down for it.

'Ruddy cheek!' says Farage. 'How can they dismiss us as a pressure group when we
are ahead of the Lib Dems in the polls?'

As an Edexcel politics paper might add: Discuss.

No wonder he was wet

The late Norman St John-Stevas's catty relations with his party leader, Ted
Heath, were revealed at the 'wet' Tory Minister's memorial service.

Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor recalled an exchange after Stevas defied Heath's
order to pull out of a TV appearance.

'All water under the bridge, Ted?' asked Norman. 'No,' replied Heath icily.
'It's promotion down the drain.'

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond's Lib Dem Coalition partners are plotting
revenge after his one-man demolition job on Nick Clegg's gay marriage plan.

When he was Transport Secretary, Hammond had persuaded reluctant Clegg to drop
his opposition to increasing the speed limit to 80mph - in return for supporting
Clegg on gay weddings. One nil to Phil.

Staff on BBC Radio 5 Live complain they struggle to get Cabinet Ministers on air
now they are in Salford.

'In the old days, they'd hang around the Radio 4 Today programme studio in
London and nab Ministers on the way out, but they can't do it any more and it's
showing,' said an insider.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              May 20, 2012 Sunday

BLACK DOG

LENGTH: 486 words


THE BOOMERANG BUREAUCRAT...

THE drive to sack thousands of civil servants by Downing Street s just-departed
head of strategy Steve Hilton was fuelled by bitter personal experience.

After taking months to get shot of one No10 penpusher, imagine his ennui when
the very same Whitehall bureaucrat turned up in Hilton s office weeks later as a
senior adviser to a Cabinet Minister.

NO WONDER HE WAS WET

THE late Norman St John-Stevas's catty relations with his party leader, Ted
Heath, were revealed at the 'wet' Tory Minister's memorial service. Cardinal
Cormac Murphy-O'Connor recalled an exchange after Stevas defied Heath's order to
pull out of a TV appearance. 'All water under the bridge, Ted?' asked Norman.
'No,' replied Heath icily. 'It's promotion down the drain.'

BAD-TASTE KERRY'S GOT A PSYCHO IN HER SIGHTS

Labour MP Kerry McCarthy deserves a bad taste award after claiming David Cameron
resembles a fictional, well-bred serial killer Ð because of the PM's taste in
Eighties soft rock. 'His Oxford contemporaries insist he was obsessed with Phil
Collins,' says McCarthy, right. 'In the novel American Psycho, the protagonist
(serial killer Patrick Bateman) is a slick yuppie who loved Phil Collins. It's
hard not to be reminded of Cameron.'

DEFENCE Secretary Philip Hammond's Lib Dem Coalition partners are plotting
revenge after his one-man demolition job on Nick Clegg's gay marriage plan. When
he was Transport Secretary, Hammond had persuaded reluctant Clegg to drop his
opposition to increasing the speed limit to 80mph Ð in return for supporting
Clegg on gay weddings. One nil to Phil.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage claims to have proof that the Edexcel schools exam
board insists students sitting its politics papers describe his fully fledged
anti-EU party as a mere 'pressure group' Ð or get marked down for it. 'Ruddy
cheek!' says Farage. 'How can they dismiss us as a pressure group when we are
ahead of the Lib Dems in the polls?' As an Edexcel politics paper might add:
Discuss.

After snubbing Francois Hollande just before he beat Nicolas Sarkozy, David
Cameron faces another diplomatic stand-off with the news that US Republican
Presidential candidate Mitt Romney plans to attend the Olympic Games opening
ceremony. Mitt the Mormon wants a meeting with the PM and is still bristling at
Dave's love-in photocalls with Barack Obama in the US earlier this year.

Speaker John Bercow likes to lecture MPs guilty of rowdy behaviour and drinking
too much. Is this the same John Bercow who, not so long ago, had to pay a £1,000
repair bill after a Commons door was smashed down in a mysterious temper
tantrum? Why, yes, 'tis he.

STAFF on BBC Radio 5 Live complain they struggle to get Cabinet Ministers on air
now they are in Salford. 'In the old days, they'd hang around the Radio 4 Today
programme studio in London and nab Ministers on the way out, but they can't do
it any more and it's showing,' said an insider.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 20, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's cool in Greek crisis

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 892 words


YES, YES, he's had a calamitous couple of months, the economy is stagnating and
the Coalition is adrift but ask yourself this: who would you prefer to shield
Britain from the looming euro storm, David Cameron or Ed Miliband? The Prime
Minister stood before business leaders in Manchester last week and vowed to do
"whatever it takes" to insulate Britain against the economic and social
maelstrom now tearing through Europe.

Hard to imagine Miliband uttering those same words with anything like the
conviction or authority Cameron can summon up. It's ironic that in a week that
Miliband outstripped Cameron in the rating polls, the PM reminds us why he has
thus far left the Labour leader trailing. For when the going gets tough, the
tough get Tory.

Not since he returned from Brussels last November with his non-veto veto on the
fiscal pact, has Cameron looked and sounded more in control.

Echoing Margaret Thatcher he declared there would be no turning back on the
principal Coalition mission, to cut the toxic debt legacy left by Labour. It was
a defining speech at a time when European voters are turning their backs on
austerity.

In Greece it seems a second election will only entrench the anti-austerity
socialists as the main party, while in France Francois Hollande ousted Nicolas
Sarkozy on a promise of growth over fiscal discipline.

Cameron reminds us real growth can only be achieved by making European states
more competitive against Asian rivals, not by borrowing more. His speech may
have gone down across the Channel like an anti-capitalist protester at a G8
summit but in Britain it provided clarity of purpose in uncertain times.

It also helped him regain control of the economic debate from Labour and helped
reassure his own backbenchers that they may, after all, be led by a
Conservative.

THERE is, of course, some tweaking of Plan A alluded to in the speech. The PM
revealed he has told the Treasury to find more ways to ease credit for
struggling British firms and homeowners, and hinted of a speed-up in the
Coalition's infrastructure investment programme.

Yet the overall message was a strong declaration to nervous markets that while
the French may falter, the Greeks panic and the Spanish start a "slow run" on
the banks, Britain will not change course.

This is something more than Cameron displaying his gift for remaining calm in a
crisis. It was Cameron the conviction politician. At the G8 yesterday, and at
the informal European Council dinner next week, Cameron has and will offer
unsought advice to Merkel and Hollande (dubbed Merkollande by a media in love
with a mash-up).

Our country may have slumped into a double dip recession while the eurozone
narrowly avoided it but don't expect that to stop Cameron from insisting
eurozone leaders either sort out the Greek dilemma swiftly or risk devastating
break-up.

It will build on a strategy of increasing pressure on German Chancellor Angela
Merkel to put euro currency survival ahead of her own political survival by
standing aside on the issue of euro bonds.

Mr Cameron will also reflect the opinion of IMF managing director Christine
Lagarde that the time is right to start preparing for as orderly a Greek exit
from the euro as two years of dithering and dodging the inevitable would allow
for.

Merkel and Hollande may agree on precious little when it comes to the fiscal
pact but they are bound together in their myopic determination to cleave Greece
to the eurozone bosom no matter what the cost.

It is simply impossible to say whether a Greek exit and possible contagion prove
a greater threat to Britain's recovery than the current drawn out strains and
stresses on our main export market.

However, Cameron seems to have warmed to the belief of many of his own
backbenchers, that a Greek exit is almost inevitable. In the end, economic
events beyond his control will shape domestic politics for the remainder of his
term.

Bank of England governor Mervyn King, who sounds more and more like Cassandra at
Troy with every day that passes, warned last week that our mortgages and bank
loans will almost certainly go up as a consequence of sustained market turmoil.

The strength of the pound against the euro may be good news for those who can
still afford a foreign holiday this year but it is crippling for British
exporters. Worse, while Britain is not heavily invested in Greece, it is heavily
invested in countries which are heavily invested in the nearbankrupt nation.

IT'S HARDLY the most auspicious of circumstances for Cameron to ask taxpayers
for more cash to help protect the UK from a eurozone implosion. However, it
seems unthinkable that he will not be required by the IMF to do just that to
build up a crisis prevention fund against a Greek default. George Osborne last
month committed Britain to another £10billion contribution. It is the last offer
Britain can make without returning for Parliamentary approval. If Cameron is
forced to do that, it would not matter if he combined the leadership qualities
of Thatcher with the oratorical skills of Churchill, the price extracted would
be an in/out referendum on Europe.

The rise of Ukip, the engulfing eurozone crisis and Labour's belated revival
make a referendum commitment by Cameron as inevitable as a Greek exit from the
euro.

'The PM looks and sounds in control as he vows to shield us from the looming
euro storm'

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PANIC: Greek authorities are dealing with protests and economic
meltdown
Picture: YORGOS KARAHALIS/Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 20, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

RUNNING OUT OF CHANCERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 164 words


DAVID Cameron's bad weekend has just got worse.

If he thought spending time in America arguing with our European partners was
bad enough, today's Sunday Mirror poll spells disaster for him. It shows the
PM's ratings plunging, Ed Miliband's improving and Labour's lead increasing.

The ComRes poll also reveals that one in four Tory voters are thinking of
backing the anti-Europe UKIP. We're a long way off the next election but already
the signs are ominous for Mr Cameron... and many of his backbenchers are
nervous.

The truth is that a bunch of inexperienced chancers is running Britain, led by
chancer-in-chief David Cameron and his henchboy George Osborne.

The article in today's Sunday Mirror by Labour's former Chancellor Alistair
Darling tears the Coalition's economic policies to shreds with reasoned,
thoughtful argument.

In these deperate times the British people don't want the superficial posturing
of Mr Cameron , nor his policies which are sending the country on a downward
spiral.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 20, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

MILI GETS HIS ED IN FRONT;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 282 words


DAVID Cameron faces a double poll disaster today with his personal ratings
plummeting as Labour opens up a hefty lead.

An exclusive ComRes poll for the Sunday Mirror shows Ed Miliband's personal
approval ratings are higher than the PM's for the first time.

Labour has opened up a ninepoint lead over the Tories... the biggest in a Sunday
Mirror/ ComRes survey since the Coalition came to power.

Labour is on 41 per cent, with the Tories on 32. Last month the gap was just six
per cent. If an election were held tomorrow, Ed Miliband would form a government
with a 106 majority. The Tories would lose nearly 100 seats and the Lib Dems, on
11%, would go from 57 MPs to 22.

The findings come as the Government faces a worsening debt crisis and fresh
concerns over its economic strategy. Tory MPs are threatening rebellions on
unpopular Budget measures and Europe. Mr Cameron has been warned he might even
face a leadership challenge after a series of gaffes. In the popularity poll all
three main leaders get negative ratings, but for first time Mr Cameron's score
of minus 28 per cent is worse than Mr Miliband's, minus 19. His ratings are up
12 points since April. Lib-Dem Nick Clegg's net ratings are down six to minus
36.

Support for Mr Cameron has fallen among Tory voters. Only 67% say he is doing
well compared with 75% last month.

In another shock, 26% of his voters say they are seriously considering ditching
the Tories to back the UK Independence Party. It is now on 7%, just four points
behind the Lib Dems.

ComRes interviewed 2,038 GB adults online from May 16 to May 17. ComRes is a
member of the British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

EURO BATTLE AT G8 SUMMIT: Page 6

COMMENT: Page 14

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 8:39 PM GMT

Ken Clarke attacks 'nationalist' eurosceptic Tories;
MPs who want a referendum on membership of the European Union are "right-wing
nationalists" who would bring "disaster" to Britain, Kenneth Clarke has said.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 555 words


The Justice Secretary, who is regarded as the most "europhile" Conservative
Cabinet minister, said calls to consider withdrawing from the EU were "a
dangerous irrelevance" to the economic crisis.

Backbench Tories retaliated and warned that most of the party's MPs were in
favour of an "in-out" referendum.

Mr Clarke's launched his broadside after Ed Miliband signalled that he would
consider whether Labour should throw its weight behind calls for the public to
be given a vote on Britain's place in Europe.

In an interview with Sky News, Mr Clarke said a referendum was "dangerous" and
"irrelevant" to the task of addressing the eurozone debt crisis.

"I can't think of anything more irrelevant to the present situation actually,
nor personally can I think of anything more disastrous than the British leaving
the European Union and deciding that now is the moment to take up splendid
isolation alongside Iceland and others.

"I see there are some Tory backbenchers on the nationalist right still demanding
a referendum on the EU," he said. The Labour Party is considering joining the
MPs "to embarrass the Government", he added.

"That's just one of those things we have to put up with."

Eurosceptic Conservatives have been calling on David Cameron to agree to a
referendum and 81 MPs defied Prime Minister's orders last year to vote in favour
of a plebiscite during a non-binding Commons debate.

Many backbench Tories were delighted by Mr Cameron's use of Britain's "veto"
last December to block a new European "fiscal treaty".

However, some have become increasingly dismayed at the turmoil in the eurozone
and are believed to be considering fresh moves in Parliament to trigger a
referendum on Britain's EU membership.

Douglas Carswell, the eurosceptic Conservative MP for Clacton, retaliated
against Mr Clarke's criticism.

"Ken Clarke is as wrong about a Europe referendum as he has been about a
European single currency. He has been consistently wrong throughout his career,"
he said.

"There is nothing vaguely nationalistic about wanting to give the people the
final say over whether we remain in the EU.

"The alternative is that we leave those decisions to people like Ken, who stood
on a platform with Tony Blair in the late 1990s demanding that we join the euro.
Think what a disaster would have befallen us today."

The Prime Minister is under growing pressure promise a referendum amid signs
that he could be out-flanked on the issue by Labour.

Last week, Mr Miliband appointed Jon Cruddas, a Left-wing MP who backs a
referendum, to oversee Labour's sweeping policy review.

Mr Cruddas has promised to use all his influence in power to convince party
leaders to support an "in-out" vote, arguing that the public deserve to have the
final say.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, Mr Miliband declined to rule out
supporting a referendum, arguing that "it's a question for another day".

According to a poll for two Sunday newspapers, Britain's membership of the EU is
an increasingly important subject for voters.

Almost half of the electorate - 46 per cent - would vote to leave the EU,
compared with 30% who would support remaining in the union.

The ComRes survey, for the Independent on Sunday and the Sunday Mirror, showed
that 26 per cent of Tories now say they would consider voting for the UK
Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday

WHEN IT COMES TO IDEAS FOR SAVING THE ECONOMY, OUR LEADERS ARE AS BANKRUPT AS
GREECE. NO WONDER ALL THEY OFFER US IS LIES

LENGTH: 1510 words


COLUMN


BY SIMON HEFFER

 Can I be the only person to recall in recent days the moment in November 1990
when a crew of gutless politicians deposed Margaret Thatcher, our only truly
successful peace-time prime minister since Lord Salisbury? She adamantly opposed
the idea of a single currency in Europe, especially the idea of Britain being a
part of it. She knew it would violate national sovereignty; it would be
anti-democratic; and, above all, it would not work because one size of currency
would not fit all countries.At the same time, the British political class and
its legion of sycophants in the media, with one or two notable exceptions,
thought the euro would be a success. While they have been proved monumentally
wrong, Mrs Thatcher has been proved stunningly right.Some of those who got it
wrong are still in, or on the fringes of, public life.One such is Lord
(Geoffrey) Howe, Mrs Thatcher's main assassin, who only this week spoke about
the wickedness of  Britons drinking beer by the pint when, like good Europeans,
we should be  drinking it by the litre.He was out of touch in 1990, and is even
more so now.Things were no different back then across the rest of Europe. Anyone
who questioned the genius of having a fixed exchange rate system, or the single
currency that followed it, was deemed an idiot.Those who drove the federalist
project in Europe knew that if their dream of a  superstate was to be realised,
a single currency was essential because it would eliminate national differences
and dilute national identity.But the truth is that national differences would
not be eliminated.

One size did not, and would not, fit all. The Soviet-style imposition of an
economic system on disparate nations would eventually implode, just as the
Soviet bloc itself had in 1989, and for the same reason: a modern-day peasants'
revolt, after decades without proper democracy, would demand change.Today, even
with Greece turning into a banana republic, the European political class is
continuing, as best it can, its dishonest handling of what may well be the
euro's terminal crisis.What is happening reminds us that one reason why
politicians are so unpopular not just here, but across the Continent is that
they insult the intelligence of the electorate.The worst pretence this week was
that Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, and Francois Hollande, the new
President of France, have agreed to put aside their ideological differences and
fight to save the euro. The fact is that they agree on almost nothing, and short
of sending the Panzers into Athens, they won't save the euro either.Our own
politicians are just as mendacious. On Thursday, the PM, speaking like a
commentator rather than one of the main participants, lectured the Germans about
the need to take decisive action' and stump up money for those countries
suffering under the austerity programme that Berlin has imposed on the eurozone.
Meanwhile, Ed Miliband, leader of the Opposition, claimed the economic problems
Britain faces are a direct result of the Coalition's policies.Both men's
statements were absurd. The Germans won't change their decades-old tight
monetary policy, not least because they remember what happened in the two
decades after the Weimar inflation of 1923, when people had to take wheelbarrows
full of banknotes to buy a loaf of bread.And if Mr Miliband seriously thinks the
likely collapse of the euro, the currency of Britain's main export market, will
damage our economic prospects less than the Coalition's no-growth policy, he is
unfit to be a parish councillor, let alone leader of the Opposition.The
no-growth policy is a major problem, but is separate from the  horrors that will
occur when the  euro fragments. The behaviour of Messrs Cameron and Miliband
typifies the ignorance, dishonesty, cowardice and lack of vision with which the
European political class has conducted itself over the past 40 years, and its
determination to ignore both the views of their electors and reality. The truth
is that our Government's conduct has, indeed, been ludicrous. On Tuesday, George
Osborne condemned those speculating about the collapse of the euro as
unhelpful'. How absurd. It is not the job of politicians (or senior commentators
and capitalists, for that matter) to be helpful', least of all when politicians'
decisions are exposed as disastrous. And given Mr Osborne is not a finance
minister of a eurozone country, he should be circumspect in  lecturing others
who are.To make matters worse, within a few hours, the Chancellor's position had
been hopelessly countermanded by Christine Lagarde, managing director of the
International Monetary Fund, and Sir Mervyn King, Governor of the Bank of
England, both of whom were openly talking about the awesome consequences of a
Greek exit from the euro. Mr Osborne looked ill-briefed, irrelevant, out of his
depth and, indeed, incompetent. I start to worry that our economy is safe in his
hands. Let us be clear about what is  happening in Europe. Greece, a country
whose economic culture is about as similar to Germany's as Zimbabwe's, has
failed to elect a government. It will try again with another election next
month, which will almost certainly result in a victory for Syriza, a party of
Leftists opposed to any austerity programme.If this happens, Greece will refuse
to accept the conditions imposed on it in return for help from the European
Central Bank, and will finally leave the euro.For all Mr Cameron's urging,
Merkel will not want Germany to keep  shoring up the euro for ever simply to
tempt Greece to stay onboard by easing its bailout conditions.When Greece leaves
the euro, there will be a tsunami of bankruptcies in the country. Eventually,
Greece will recover: but it will take years and  will depend on the country
avoiding civil war or widespread social unrest.Its departure from the eurozone
will put pressure on Spain, whose banks have just been downgraded to near-junk
status. It will also hit  Italy and Portugal by driving up the costs of
government borrowing in those countries.In any case, with Spain and Italy having
economies far larger than Greece's, it would be impossible to bail them out as
happened with the Athens government.The truth is that Europhiles are desperate
to keep Greece in the euro not because they fear it will thrive if it leaves
though eventually it may but because the whole European house of cards could go
down after it.And what would that entail? Banks would fail. Bankruptcies would
spread across the Continent. Growth would end. And British banks, and British
exporters, would be among the casualties.I can see why British politicians don't
want to talk about this. The real reason is that they haven't a clue what to do
about such a nightmare. Equally, many of them will be embarrassed at having been
proved so disastrously wrong.Perhaps by the end of today's G8 summit of leading
industrialised nations in America they will have worked out a plan, but I doubt
it.Our main concern, in the meantime, must be for ourselves. Mr Cameron claimed
on Thursday he would do everything to spare  Britons from damage when the euro
dies: but I cannot believe him. First, he refuses to countenance the serious
cuts needed in public spending, to wean us off our addiction to living beyond
our means, and to allow the transfer of resources to the productive sector of
our economy through tax cuts.However, if Mr Cameron thinks we don't need an
urgent strategy for  economic growth now, he will find it hard to hold that line
when the tsunami hits.Margaret Thatcher, who was right about the single currency
and the infeasibility of a federal Europe, could give him some lessons on
tax-cutting, too. As I wrote here last week, Britain's economic predicament is
about to take a terrible turn. And nothing the Prime Minister or his
semi-detached Chancellor has said since makes me think they are any more on top
of the problem now than they were then.IS DAVE IN A WORLD OF HIS OWN?WHAT has
been achieved by the rigged 1922 Committee elections this week, in which
backbench Tories sceptical of the wonder of Dave have been partly replaced by
ones who think he is wonderful? Is it that an out-of-touch prime minister will
become even more distanced from reality, spared from hearing from his
backbenchers how outraged their constituents are by his increasingly irrelevant
policies? Dave doubtless thinks that being shielded from the real world will
help him and his administration survive in office. History suggests he should
think again.*?IN AN act of ?breathtaking hypocrisy, Labour now says it would
consider  a referendum on our continued membership of the EU. These, remember,
were the same people who denied us  a say on the Treaty of Lisbon (which
extended the powers of the EU superstate) after having promised a vote. So don't
believe a word of it. Will the Tories make the same promise? If they do,  it
would be equally cynical, but it would at least neutralise UKIP, which at the
moment looks like preventing a Tory victory at the next election.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Euro collapse 'will blight UK';
Eurozone crisis is 'biggest threat' to Britain

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 592 words


BRITAIN'S economy could suffer permanent damage if the euro collapses in a
chaotic way, the Government's chief economic forecaster has said.

Robert Chote, the head of the Office for Budget Responsibility, said shock waves
from Greece crashing out of the single currency threatened to cause a severe
recession with "lingering, long-lasting effects" for public finances.

This would "permanently hamper the economy" in the worst case scenario, he said,
raising the prospect of Britain never again seeing the growth of recent decades.

'We've solved We're going Zuckerberg to A row broke out yesterday over whether
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, had suggested that Greece should hold a
referendum on leaving the euro. Greek officials said she raised the idea in a
phone call with the country's president, but a spokesman for Mrs Merkel
dismissed the reports. The controversy came as European Union officials finally
admitted that they were drafting plans for how Greece could exit the single
currency.

George Osborne, the Chancellor, said there was a risk that Europe's "good work
in building a stable financial sector and creating jobs and prosperity might
unwind". Shares on the FTSE 100 index fell by 1.3 per cent to their lowest level
in six months as the Greek crisis threatened to spread to Spain, where bank
ratings were downgraded.

Amid concerns for its Spanish parent company, Santander UK sought to reassure
its 25million British customers that their money was safe, stressing that it was
a separate entity to Banco Santander. The bank insisted that only a small number
of customers with very large deposits had taken out cash, following reports that
£200 million more than usual was withdrawn from branches yesterday.

François Hollande, the French president, said Greece must stay in the eurozone,
as world leaders gathered for the G8 summit at the US president's country
retreat, Camp David. President Barack Obama said resolving the crisis was of
"extraordinary importance" to the world.

Karel De Gucht, a European Union trade commissioner, became the first senior
official to admit that Brussels was working on contingency plans for a euro
breakup. Mr Osborne has described the possibility of Greece leaving the euro
over its inability to stick to public spending plans as a "genie out of the
bottle".

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, claimed that the "game is
up" for the euro.

World leaders insisted that it could still be saved. David Cameron issued a
three-point plan to save the single currency, arguing that the eurozone crisis
was "the biggest risk to recovery in the UK".

Mr Chote gave an even stronger warning about the potential impact of "a
disorderly" European financial collapse.

"If you have a permanent impact on the productive potential of the economy, then
it will have a permanent impact on the ability to raise tax revenue and a
permanent impact on public finances," he told The Daily Telegraph.

In a separate newspaper interview, he said there was a risk that the economy
could go down and "never quite get back up to where you started". "The concern
is that you end up with an outcome in the eurozone that creates the same sort of
structural difficulties in the financial system and in the economy that we saw
in the past recession," he said.

He also risked a row with the Treasury by saying there was "no evidence" that Mr
Osborne's cutting of the 50p tax rate would promote growth.

Editorial Comment: Page 25

Business: Pages 32-34

'We've solved the euro crisis. We're going to get Mark Zuckerberg to buy Greece'

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Jailed hate cleric Qatada could be free 'within days'

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 346 words


TERROR suspect Abu Qatada could walk free from jail within days.

The hate preacher may be back on the streets in time for the Queen's Jubilee
celebrations after launching a new application for bail.

The application, lodged by his team of lawyers, will be heard on May 28, with
taxpayers footing the bill.

The latest move comes after it was revealed that failing to kick the radical
cleric out of Britain has already cost hard-working citizens £3million in legal
fees and prison costs.

The firebrand, described by a judge as Osama Bin Laden's right-hand man in
Europe, is being represented by human rights lawyers Gareth Peirce and Edward
Fitzgerald QC.

He is being held in a high-security prison while he fights deportation to his
native Jordan over terror charges.

A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We believe Qatada poses a real risk to national
security and will continue vigorously to resist any application for him to be
bailed."

Qatada's 10-year battle against deportation is in the hands of the British
courts after he was defeated in his attempt to make a final appeal to Europe's
human rights judges earlier this month.

Further potential appeals in Britain could lead to more delays in the case,
which is an embarrassment for Home Secretary Theresa May.

MPs and campaigners reacted with anger last night. Senior Tory MP and security
expert Patrick Mercer said: "I'm sick to death of this man wasting taxpayers'
money. We need to see the back of him."

Labour MP Ian Davidson said: "It is absurd that taxpayers are paying for both
sides of a long drawn out and expensive legal wrangle over this man's
deportation.

"The Government has got to take decisive action before this man and his lawyers
bleed us all to death."

Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Legal aid is
there to ensure everyone has equal access to justice but it is particularly
sickening to see this vile hate preacher will be taking advantage of it yet
again."

UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten said: "There doesn't
seem to be any end to this catalogue of insanity."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Abu Qatada awaits bail hearing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 19, 2012 Saturday 9:50 AM GMT

Eurozone talks top agenda as G8 summit gets under way;
President Barack Obama has welcomed David Cameron and other world leaders to
Camp David near Washington for the G8 summit, where the deepening crisis over
the eurozone is expected to dominate talks.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason and Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1338 words


Investors fear a Greek eurozone exit could trigger a fresh global crisis.

On Friday Mr Obama welcomed Francois Hollande to the White House to discuss
economic affairs. The French president said he and Mr Obama shared "the same
conviction that Greece must remain in the eurozone".

President Obama said resolving the crisis is of "extraordinary importance" to
the world.

Even before official proceedings began, David Cameron clashed with Francois
Hollande over the new French president's proposals for a Europe-wide tax on
financial transactions.

Mr Cameron issued a blunt warning that Britain would not accept such a tax,
insisting it was not "a sensible measure".

The summit got under way as the Government's chief economic forecaster warned
that Britain's economy may suffer "permanent" damage and "never quite get back
up" if the euro collapses in a chaotic way.

Robert Chote, the head of the Office of Budget Responsibility, issued the
warning amid fears of financial shock waves across Europe if Greece crashes out
of the single currency.

The senior Government economist, who has access to the most up-to-date Treasury
data, said this could cause a recession as bad as the last one and "lingering,
long-lasting effects" for Britain's public finances.

He said it could "permanently hamper the economy" in the worst case scenario,
raising the prospect that Britain may never again see the same high growth it
has had in recent decades.

The international talks got under way as:

* A row broke out over whether Angela Merkel, the German leader, has suggested
Greece should hold a referendum on leaving the euro. Greek officials said she
raised the idea in a phone call with their President, but a spokesman for the
German Chancellor strongly dismissed the reports.

* European Union officials finally admitted they were drafting plans for how
Greece could exit the single currency.

* George Osborne, the Chancellor, warned that the "storms" of a eurozone crisis
are gathering again. He said there is a risk that Europe's "good work in
building a stable financial sector and creating jobs and prosperity might
unwind".

* Santander reassured its 25 million British customers that their money is safe,
amid worries that its Spanish parent company is exposed to the eurozone crisis.
The bank told worried savers calling its telephone helplines that it is an
entirely separate entity and said only a small number of customers with very
large deposits have started withdrawing cash.

* Shares on Britain's FTSE 100 index fell by 1.3 per cent to their lowest level
in six months as concerns about the Greek and Spanish economies hit stock
markets around the world. Five more Greek banks had their creditworthiness
downgraded by the Fitch rating agency.

Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande set out their sharply differing positions on the road
to financial recovery as they met for the first time since Mr Hollande's triumph
earlier this month in the French presidential election.

The two men agreed on a broad range of international issues including Syria,
Iran and Libya as well as continued Anglo-French defence co-operation.

There was no disguising their differences, however, over the issue of an EU tax
on all financial transactions which formed a key plank of Mr Hollande election
platform.

"We are not going to get growth in Europe or in Britain by introducing a new tax
that would actually hit people as well as institutions," Mr Cameron said.

"I do not think it is a sensible measure. I will not support it."

Mr Hollande could not resist a sly dig at Mr Cameron's refusal to meet him when
he visited London during the election campaign - a move widely interpreted as a
snub to the Socialist leader.

"I couldn't meet David Cameron before the elections," he said. "I am all the
happier to meet him afterwards."

The two men met at the British ambassador's residence in Washington, ahead of
their attendance at the G8 summit at the US presidential retreat at Camp David.

Mr Cameron again vented his frustration at the continuing inability of the
eurozone leaders to reach a resolution to the Greek debt crisis threatening
stability of the whole continent.

"Decisive action is needed by the eurozone. They cannot go on kicking the can
down the road," he said.

"This is in Britain's interest too because we want to have a successful growing
eurozone on our doorstep and not the instability we have now."

After the failure of the Greek elections to deliver a clear result and with
further elections looming, he said the Greek people would have to make a
decision on where their future lay.

"The Greeks have to make up their mind which direction they want to go in and
then Europe has to make up its mind about how to strengthen the situation and
put beyond doubt the stability of the euro," he said.

Mr Hollande, who campaigned of easing German-led austerity measures, insisted
European leaders must consider "every possible option" for boosting growth when
they meet informally next week, without adding to their deficits.

He said that he hoped Greece would be able to stay in eurozone, although like Mr
Cameron, he acknowledged that it was ultimately a matter for the Greek people.

Mr Obama said the summit would promote a "strong growth agenda".

Worries that Greece is finding it too painful to stick to its public spending
plans have caused fresh warnings about the future of the eurozone over the past
week.

In Britain, the Chancellor has described the possibility of Greece leaving the
euro as a "genie out of the bottle", with people now talking openly about the
prospect.

Nigel Farage, the MEP and leader of the UK Independence Party, claimed the "game
is up" for the euro."

However, world leaders are insisting that the euro in its current form can still
be saved.

David Cameron has issued an unprecedented three-point plan to save the single
currency, arguing that Europe's debt problems are "the biggest risk to recovery
in the UK".

Mr Chote gave an even stronger warning about the potential impact of
"disorderly" a European financial collapse.

"If you have a permanent impact on the productive potential of the economy, then
it will have a permanent impact on the ability to raise tax revenue and a
permanent impact on public finances," he told The Daily Telegraph.

In a separate interview, he said there is a risk that Britain's economy could go
down and "never quite get back up to where you started".

"The concern is that you end up with an outcome in the eurozone that creates the
same sort of structural difficulties in the financial system and in the economy
that we saw in the past recession," he said.

He also said there is not enough "evidence" that George Osborne's 50p tax rate
will promote growth.

The US president deliberately chose Camp David - scene of Jimmy Carter's 1978
success brokering the Israeli-Egyptian peace accord - to host the G8 talks
because of its intimate, informal atmosphere.

At Friday's opening dinner, Iran and North Korea's nuclear ambitions and Syrian
unrest were discussed, with "broad consensus" among the G8 leaders that North
Korea should face further isolation if it "continues down the path of
provocation," officials said.

Mr Cameron is urging the other leaders to step up the pressure on the Assad
regime in Damascus to comply with the peace plan drawn up by former UN Secretary
General Kofi Annan.

He argues that could mean sending more monitors to bolster the 300-strong UN
observer mission led by the veteran Norwegian peacekeeper, Major General Robert
Mood.

The UK wants Assad to demonstrate his professed commitment to the Annan plan by
accepting a larger mission - arguing that if he refuses, the UN Security Council
should be asked to mandate one.

British officials confirmed that they were looking to deploy a senior military
officer to support Gen Mood on the ground in Damascus.

After the G8 talks ends on Saturday evening, most of the leaders will travel to
Chicago for a Nato summit on Sunday and Monday, where Afghanistan is expected to
be the main topic for discussion.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 18, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

...yet Turkey still wants to join

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 130 words


BRUSSELS sparked further dismay yesterday as it cranked up talks over Turkey
joining the EU.

With Europe spiralling into economic oblivion, eurocrats have started
negotiations to expand the bloc from the existing 27 nations.

Turkey is also showing renewed interest now that Nicolas Sarkozy - one of its
opponents - is no longer the president of France. Mr Sarkozy argued the
predominantly Muslim country was not part of Europe and wanted Turkey to accept
a special partnership instead of full membership, which it rejected.

David Cameron has previously backed the country's accession. But Ukip's deputy
leader Paul Nuttall said: "There is no way that Europe can afford to take on
Turkey. It is a country of 90 million people with an average wage that is at
least one fifth of the UK's."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 18, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Lib Dem poll blow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 46 words


THE UK Independence Party has opened up a TWO point lead over the Liberal
Democrats for the first time.

The latest YouGov poll for The Sun puts UKIP on nine per cent, with the Lib Dems
trailing on seven per cent.

Labour are on 44 per cent, 13 points ahead of the Tories' 31 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 18, 2012 Friday 9:29 PM GMT

British economy may 'never quite recover' from a severe Euro collapse;
Britain's economy may suffer "permanent" damage and "never quite get back up" if
the euro collapses in a chaotic way, the Government's chief economic forecaster
has said.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 602 words


Robert Chote, the head of the Office of Budget Responsibility, issued the
warning amid fears of financial shockwaves across Europe if Greece crashes out
of the single currency.

The senior Government economist, who has access to the most up-to-date Treasury
data, said this could cause a recession as bad as the last one and "lingering,
long-lasting effects" for Britain's public finances.

He said it could "permanently hamper the economy" in the worst case scenario,
raising the prospect that Britain may never again see the same high growth it
has had in recent decades.

Mr Chote's comments come as:

* A row broke out over whether Angela Merkel, the German leader, has suggested
Greece should hold a referendum on leaving the euro.

Greek officials said she raised the idea in a phone call with their President,
but a spokesman for the German Chancellor strongly dismissed the reports.

* European Union officials finally admitted they were drafting plans for how
Greece could exit the single currency.

* George Osborne, the Chancellor, warned that the "storms" of a eurozone crisis
are gathering again. He said there is a risk that Europe's "good work in
building a stable financial sector and creating jobs and prosperity might
unwind".

* Santander reassured its 25 million British customers that their money is safe,
amid worries that its Spanish parent company is exposed to the eurozone crisis.
The bank told worried savers calling its telephone helplines that it is an
entirely separate entity and said only a small number of customers with very
large deposits have started withdrawing cash.

* Francois Hollande, the French leader, said Greece must stay in the eurozone,
as world leaders gathered for the G8 summit at US President's official residence
Camp David. President Barack Obama said resolving the crisis is of
"extraordinary importance" to the world.

* Shares on Britain's FTSE 100 index fell by 1.3 per cent to their lowest level
in six months as concerns about the Greek and Spanish economies hit stock
markets around the world. Five more Greek banks had their creditworthiness
downgraded by the Fitch rating agency.

Worries that Greece is finding it too painful to stick to its public spending
plans have caused fresh warnings about the future of the eurozone over the last
week.

The Chancellor has described the possibility of Greece leaving the euro as a
"genie out of the bottle", with people now talking openly about the prospect.

Nigel Farage, the MEP and leader of the UK Independence Party, yesterday claimed
the "game is up" for the euro."

However, world leaders are insisting that the euro in its current form can still
be saved. David Cameron has issued an unprecedented three-point plan to save the
single currency, arguing that Europe's debt problems are "the biggest risk to
recovery in the UK".

Last night, Mr Chote gave an even stronger warning about the potential impact of
"disorderly" a European financial collapse.

"If you have a permanent impact on the productive potential of the economy, then
it will have a permanent impact on the ability to raise tax revenue and a
permanent impact on public finances," he told the Daily Telegraph.

In a separate interview, he said there is a risk that Britain's economy could go
down and "never quite get back up to where you started".

"The concern is that you end up with an outcome in the eurozone that creates the
same sort of structural difficulties in the financial system and in the economy
that we saw in the past recession," he said.

He also said there is not enough "evidence" that George Osborne's 50p tax rate
will promote growth.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Eurozone crisis live: Fitch downgrades Greece on euro exit fears

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5628 words

ABSTRACT

Rating agency says there is a heightened risk that next month's election could
lead to Greece leaving the euro

FULL TEXT

9.05pm: Another dramatic day must end. Keep an eye on the website, Twitter, or
your nearest Reuters/Bloomberg terminal in case Moody's does downgrade some
Spanish banks, as we had expected. In the meantime, here's a closing summary:

Fears that Greece might leave the eurozone, sparking global turmoil, intensified
tonight as Fitch downgraded its credit rating.The ratings agency said that there
was a heightened risk that next month's election will lead to a government that
does not support the current austerity plan, leading to a break-up of the single
currency and a Greek default. Fitch would also put all eurozone countries on
negative watch, which could lead to further downgrades.

Rumours of a bank run at Spain's fourth-largest bank rocked the markets. Spanish
media reported that over (EURO)1bn had been withdrawn from Bankia since it was
nationalised. The report was denied, after shares in the bank fell by almost
30%.

It was another day of losses on many world stock markets. The FTSE 100 closed 66
points lower at 5338, meaning it is now officially in correction territory. On
Wall Street, the Dow closed 156 points lower.

In Greece, the temporary government was swown in as the election campaign got
underway. Polling data painted a mixed picture, with one showing New Democracy
in the lead, and another placing Syriza in front. The party's two leaders both
hit the headlines, with ND's Antonis Samaras warning that Greece faced a
'nightmare' if it left the euro, and Syriza's Alexis Tsipras predicting 'hell'
if it stayed.

UK politicians weighed in on the crisis again. David Cameron urged other leaders
on a conference call to take decisive steps to save the eurozone, Alistair
Darling warned that the crisis could blow up in a few hours, and Vince Cable
argued that Germany would act to protect the euro.

Thanks, and goodnight! We'll be back in the morning. Hope you can be too.

9.01pm: Wall Street just closed after another day of losses, with the Dow Jones
unofficially finishing 157 points lower at 12,441, a drop of 1.25%. That's its
11th fall out of the last 12 day's trading.

The S&P 500 ended almost 1.5% lower, while the Nasdaq lost over 2%.Europe got a
lot of the blame.

8.19pm: Downing Street officials have been telling journalists tonight that
David Cameron warned fellow European leaders that they need to take "decisive
action" to ensure eurozone stability.

This afternoon's high-level conference call involving Cameron, German chancellor
Angela Merkel, French president Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande and Italian prime
minister Mario Monti lasted for 45 minutes.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said it was a "constructive discussion", ahead of
this weekend's G8 meeting at Camp David.

He discussed with the others their priorities for G8: the eurozone - including
Greece, growth and the importance of expanding trade relations between the US
and the EU.

7.48pm: It's been a tough day for Spain* -- with those rumours (officially
denied) of a run at Bankia, the higher borrowing costs seen at this morning's
auction of sovereign debt, the IBEX closing at a new nine-year low, the regional
downgrades from Moody's, and confirmation that it's in recession.

And in a few minutes, we fear Moody's will also announce that it has downgraded
some Spanish banks.....

* - not Greece as briefly mistyped. Perhaps a sign to close things up

7.10pm: Fitch's downgrade of Greece came as I was digesting two opinion polls
from Athens.

The latest MARC/Alpha survey, which was conducted between Tuesday and today, put
New Democracy (which broadly supports the terms of Greece's financial programme)
back in the lead, closely followed by Syriza (which has vowed to reshape it).New
Democracy: 26.1% of the voteSyriza: 23.7%Pasok: 13.2%

That, according to Bloomberg, would give New Democracy 123 seats (including the
50-seat bonus for coming first), followed by 66 for Syriza and 41 for Pasok. So
the two "mainstream" parties could then form a majority in the 300-seat
parliament.

However, a different poll carried out by the Pulse polling group (see bar chart)
found that Syriza was the most popular:

Syriza: 22%New Democracy: 19.5%,PASOK: 14%,KKE Communist Party: 5.5%Democratic
Left: 5.5%Golden Dawn: 5.5%

6.47pm: Fitch has also warned that it would put all eurozone sovereign ratings
on rating watch negative following the Greek elections if it believes a Greek
exit from the eurozone has become "probable".

That would be the first step towards credit rating downgrades. As things stand,
only four eurozone countries still hold AAA ratings with all three major rating
agencies, while others have already suffered several rating cuts since the
crisis began.

Tonight's statement also shows that Fitch have cut Greece's "country ceiling to
just B-" That, I think, means that no bond issuer based in Greece can have a
higher rating....

Business Insider have now helpfully uploaded the whole statement.

6.36pm: Big breaking news tonight -- Fitch has just downgraded Greece, warning
that it could soon crash out of the single currency.

The rating agency cut Greece's long-term rating to CCC, from B-, just two months
after upgrading its rating following its debt swap deal.

Fitch said it had taken the move because of the chance that the next Greek
government will be led by parties who oppose the current austerity plan.

In a statement, Fitch said

The downgrade of Greece's sovereign ratings reflects the heightened risk that
Greece may not be able to sustain its membership of Economic and Monetary Union
(EMU).

The strong showing of 'anti-austerity' parties in the 6 May parliamentary
elections and subsequent failure to form a government underscores the lack of
public and political support for the EU-IMF EUR (EURO)173bn programme.

In the event that the new general elections scheduled for 17 June fail to
produce a government with a mandate to continue with the EU-IMF programme of
fiscal austerity and structural reform, an exit of Greece from EMU would be
probable.

Fitch went on to warn that a Greek exit would likely result in widespread
default on bonds issued by Greek companies, as well as its own sovereigh debt.

6.19pm: On Wall Street, the main stock indices have fallen again today. That's
partly due to fears over the eurocrisis, and partly the weak economic data
released today (see 3.06pm). The Dow Jones is currently down 46 points at 12551,
a fall of 0.4%, with the S&P 500 down 0.6%.

That puts the S&P on track for its fifth daily loss in a row.

Brad Sorensen, director of market and sector analysis at Charles Schwab in
Denver, told Reuters tonight:

Europe continues to drive sentiment, and it continues to be negative, while in
addition today's data was mediocre overall. That's causing people to take risk
off the table.

6.06pm: Some breaking news on Spain -- Moody's has just announced that it has
downgraded four Spanish regions: Catalunya, Murcia, Andaluca, and Extremadura.

It confirmed its ratings on two other regions - Valencia, and Castilla-la
Mancha.

Moody's said it had taken the decision because it believes there is little
chance that authorities in these areas will hit their deficit goals. That's
worrying - Spain missed its overall deficit target in 2011 because its regions
borrowed too much.

The move comes as speculation grows that Moody's will downgrade as many as 21
Spanish banks tonight. According to the FT's fine Alphaville blog, the downgrade
is definitely coming, and it's going to be big....

5.39pm: Nearly [#xfffd]190bn has been wiped off the value of leading shares on
the London Stock Exchange since markets began to take fright over a potential
Greek exit from the euro, two months ago.

My colleague Patrick Collinson has crunched the numbers, and reports:

In the eight weeks since the FTSE peaked on March 16, the market has fallen by
10.4%, including today's 1.24% drop. The FTSE100 has plummeted from 5965 to
5338, while the All Share index has slumped from 3098 to 2776, according to FTSE
Group.

The scale of the fall means it is now an official 'market correction', which is
defined as a fall of 10% or more in a relatively short space of time.

4.56pm:Alistair Darling, the former UK chancellor of the exchequer, has blasted
Europe's leaders for wasting the last two years, and warned that the crisis
could blow up in just a few hours.

Speaking on Sky News, Darling said EU politicians must realise that:

If you don't get growth, you don't get deficits down. It's common sense. We had
this debate seventy five years ago.

Darling, who was UK finance minister between June 2007 and May 2010, warned that
the world economy simply couldn't cope with another banking crisis, saying that
confidence was "desperately needed"

From my own experience these things can blow up in a matter of hours. The slow
bleeding of Greek banks should worry everyone.

Europe for the last two years has been running round like headless chickens.
It's no wonder people now think things will go wrong.

4.39pm: European stock markets have closed in the red again, after another day
dominated by fears over the eurozone.

FTSE 100: down 66 points at 5338, - 1.24%DAX: down 67 points at 6316, -1.06%CAC:
down 32 points at 3016, -1.07%IBEX: down 73 points at 6537, -1.11%FTSE MIB: down
194 points at 12089, -1.46%

Fears over Bankia's future saw its shares close 13% lower, despite the official
denials that it was suffering a bank run.

The Stoxx 600 Euro Zone banking index, which includes financial stocks from
across the single currency, fell by 2.6% to its lowest ever closing level. That
reflects speculation that Moody's will downgrade a swathe of Spanish banks at
8pm BST tonight...

4.19pm: With stock markets heading into the close after another day of losses,
it has been calculated that the collective pension deficits of Britain's biggest
listed companies has swelled by [#xfffd]30bn in the past fortnight.

Actuaries at Towers Watson have, according to the Daily Telegraph, worked out
that total deficits in FTSE350 companies' pension funds have increased from
[#xfffd]62bn at the end of April to [#xfffd]92bn yesterday.

Most of the damage was caused by falling yields on government bonds such as UK
gilts and German bunds, rather than the drop in share prices. Lower bond yields
mean that pension funds must calculate that they will earn less from holding
sovereign debt, which is why pensions groups really dislike quantitative easing.

4.02pm: Following today's denials from Bankia, City analysts are warning this
afternoon that Europe could see bank runs in earnest unless progress is made to
resolve the crisis.

Capital Economics pointed to reports of deposit outflows in Greece, saying:

Concerns are growing that bank runs could soon become a regular feature in other
troubled countries in the region deemed at risk of following Greece's lead.

The recent rapid decline in Greek bank deposits underlines our warnings that it
could be market pressures exerted through the banking system which prompt some
form of euro-zone break-up.

This graph shows how Greek bank deposits have been falling for months.

With the euro bobbing around the $1.27 mark, and shares down in Europe, CMC
Markets' Michael Hewson compared the markets to the Vortex rollercoaster at the
Thorpe Park theme park:

Talk of bank runs in Europe clobbered banking shares across Europe with Bankia
in Spain gyrating wildly lower. Reports that ratings agency Moody's is
considering downgrading 21 Spanish banks has also weighed on sentiment as the
Spanish IBEX hit fresh nine year lows, as economic data confirmed that the
country was back in recession.

UK banks also got caught up in the backdraft with Royal Bank of Scotland and
Barclays the biggest losers in UK markets.

3.38pm: Greece can look forward to a visit from the International Monetary Fund
after next month's election.

David Hawley, the IMF's deputy director of external affairs, told reporters in
Washington that officials were very keen to meet Greece's next government, and
review progress made against the targets set by the Troika as part of its
(EURO)130bn bailout.

3.16pm: EC president Jos[#xfffd] Manual Barroso has told the United Nations that
Europe will do whatever it takes to help keep Greece within the eurozone.

In prepared remarks running on Reuters, Barroso told the UN General Assembly
that the EU will meet its obligations, and that Greece must do the same. Here's
a flavour:

As far as Greece is concerned, I would like to reaffirm very clearly that we
want Greece to stay in the euro area. And the European Union will do all it
takes to ensure it.

Barroso also sent a signal to Greece's leaders, as the new general election
campaign gets underway.

We will honour our commitments toward Greece and we expect the Greek government
- current and future - to fulfill jointly agreed conditions for financial
assistance.

3.06pm: Some disappointing data from America has just knocked market confidence,
and suggested that the US economic recovery is faltering.

The Philadelphia Fed business conditions survey was weaker than expected, coming
in at -5.8 for May. That suggests US business leaders in the Philadelphia region
are seeing tougher conditions.

Seperately, the Confidence Board's Leading Economic Index (a measure of future
economic activity), fell in April for the first time in seven months.

2.46pm:Stuart Gulliver, chief executive of banking giant HSBC, has told the
Guardian that the crisis has intensified over the last week, and that a firewall
would need to be put around Spain if Greece leaves the euro.

Jill Treanor, our banking expert, reports:

A week ago, when Stuart Gulliver was asked about whether Greece would stay in
the eurozone he said it was "impossible" to tell. Asked again today, he said
"We're in a worse place than we were a week ago".

"It remains a very difficult thing to call. I think the second election in June
will be be a referendum on whether to stay in the euro. A month is a very long
way away," he said.

"We are now seeing price action that is consistent with capitulation," said
Gulliver. And if Greece decides to exit the eurozone, he believes an firewall
will need to put around Spain. "We need to take Spain out of the market," he
said.

HSBC has a bank in Greece with 16 branches and he said there were no particular
signs of inflows or outflows. Asked it if was logical for Greeks to keep their
money in banks if the county was going to leave the euro, he said it was: "if
you believe the polls that show 75% of the electorate want to stay in the
eurozone but don't support the austerity".

But, he added, that if there was a run on Greece banks it might not be possible
to wait for the elections on June 17.

2.33pm: Our Madrid correspondent Giles Tremlett has full details on Bankia's
denial of a bank run:

In the note, published by the Comisi[#xfffd]n Nacional del Mercado de Valores as
"price sensitive information", Bankia said that operations in its branches "have
been within the normal parameters", adding:

The evolution of deposits in the first fortnight of May has a highly seasonal
nature

However, there is no mention of the (EURO)1bn euros that El Mundo newspaper said
had been pulled out of the bank over the past week.

Bankia also expected that "the level of deposits will not suffer any major
changes over the coming days."

The bank went on to remind clients that the governmnent had said they would not
suffer because of the nationalisation and that the Bank of Spain said last week
that Bankia was solvent and functioning normally.

Shares are now "only" 11% down on the start of day price.

2.05pm:Breaking news: Spain's Bankia has called on savers to remain calm. The
bank has responded to today's reports that more than (EURO)1bn of funds had
flowed out of the company in recent days.

Bankia issued a statement to the Madrid stock market in the last few minutes. In
it, new chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said:

Bankia's clients can be absolutely calm about the security of the the savings
they have deposited

So, a clear signal that a bank run is not taking place.

1.26pm: It appears that Spain's economy minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre has
calmed the worst of the crisis by insisting that Bankia was not suffering from
an outflow of deposits (see 12.54pm)

Shares in Bankia have struggled back a bit, now down 13.6% at (EURO)1.43. Still
a hefty fall.

1.08pm: Today's plunge in Bankia shares comes just a week after Spain's
government stepped in to partially nationalise the bank. Under that deal,
(EURO)4.5bn of state loans are being converted into shares, giving the Madrid
government 45% of the company.

Like the rest of the Spanish banking sector, Bankia has suffered massive losses
because of the country's property crash. This has left it sitting on around
(EURO)30bn worth of bad debts to developers, or losses on land and buildings
which have been repossessed.

12.54pm: Spain's economy secretary has just denied that Bankia is suffering a
bank run, Reuters reports from Madrid.

Asked about today's reports that Bankia customers had withdrawn more than
(EURO)1bn since it was nationalised last week, Fernando Jimenez Latorre told a
press conference that:

It's not true that there is an exit of deposits at this moment from Bankia.

According to news flashes from Madrid, Jimenez Latorre also said that Bankia has
everything it needs for succes, and should be given time....

12.32pm: The euro has just slipped to a new four-month low against the US
dollar, as fears over the eurozone crisis swept through the foreign exchange
markets again.

The euro hit a low of $1.2668, its lowest level since 17 January this year. The
dollar was also rallying against other currencies, hitting a four-month high
against the Swiss franc.

As well as the sitation in Bankia, traders were reacting to a report that
Moody's would announce updated ratings for 21 Spanish banks tonight. City
analysts fear that many of the banks could be downgraded, with the news now
expected at 8pm BST.

12.05pm: European stock markets have fallen sharply following the news that
Bankia's shares had tumbled.

In London the FTSE 100 is down 57 points, or 1.05%, at 5348, with Barclays
shares falling 3.7%, and IAG (British Airway's parent company which also owns
Spain's Iberia) down 3.8%.

Spain's IBEX is down 1.5% at 6510, a new low since 2003.

Italy's FTSE MIB has dropped almost 2%, with its own financial stocks falling.

The French CAC is down 0.8%, losing 24 points to 3023, while the German DAX is
down 0.6%, or 40 points, at 6343.

11.51am: Shares in Spain's Bankia have now fallen by as much as 26% on the
Madrid stock market, following those reports of customers withdrawing funds (see
11.17am for more).

Bankia was previously classed as 'under auction' (Reuters reports) -- which
indicates that a large buy or sell order was passing through the market, or that
the Madrid exchange was struggling to match buy and sell orders due to a
mismatch.

UPDATE: Looks like I was wrong to state that Bankia shares had actually been
officially suspended, as some City traders also thought. It appears that market
volatility was causing trading to be interrupted (with thanks to Pablo Rodriguez
of El Mundo, which was the first to report that some Bankia customers have been
withdrawing funds.

11.31am:Vince Cable, the business secretary, said this morning that Germany can
save the eurozone from disaster, pointing out that Europe's largest economy has
done very well out of the single currency.

Cable told my colleague Dan Milmo that he was not "Apocalypse Now" about the
crisis. Speaking from Ellesmere Port, where more than 2,000 Vauxhall car
manufacturing jobs have been saved this morning, Cable said he confident of a
positive outcome to the Greek crisis.

I am not Apocalypse Now about the European Union and the Eurozone. There are
risks around Greece but Greece is a very small country. The significance of
Greece is if you get contagion but I think that it is possible to be reasonably
optimistic that Germany understands those risks and will put mechanisms in
place. There are risks and worries and I am not minimising that. But there is
every reason to believe that the EU will pull out of this crisis as Britain
will.

Asked what 'mechanisms' he was referring to, Cable added:

We are talking about the firewall, the willingness of the European Central Bank
to intervene, the understanding of the Italian and Spanish governments that if
they play their part they will get back-up from, particularly, Germany. The
Eurozone has advanced quite a long way from the peak of the crisis

It ultimately comes back to Germany thinking they have done extremely well out
of the Eurozone, the competitive exchange rate. They have everything to gain
from making sure this succeeds. And they are not just going to let it go down
the pan.

11.17am: Shares in Bankia, Spain's fourth-largest bank, have tumbled by as much
as 26% this morning. This follows a report that worried customers have withdrawn
more than (EURO)1bn from their accounts since it was partially nationalised last
week.

The El Mundo newspaper reported this morning that Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri,
the bank's new chairman, gave Bankia's board the information at a meeting this
week.

Bankia, which was created from seven 'cajas' (savings banks) last year, was only
floated on the stock market last July.

This graph shows how its share price tumbled in recent weeks, and is down 70%
since flotation. That means huge losses for the many retail investors who took
part.

10.31am: David Cameron has begun giving his speech in Manchester, warning about
the dangers of the eurocrisis. He began by saying:

We are living in perilous economic times. Turn on the TV news and you see the
return of a crisis that never really went away. Greece on the brink; the
survival of the Euro in question. Faced with this, I have a clear task: to keep
Britain safe. Not to take the easy course - but the right course. Not to dodge
responsibility for dealing with a debt crisis - but to lead our country through
this to better times.

Andrew Sparrow is covering the whole event here, in his Politics Live blog.

10.23am: A striking poster urging a No vote in Ireland's referendum on the EU
fiscal treaty was erected overnight in Central Dublin:

It shows a European fist squeezing Ireland until it bleeds, and was put up by
the Mandate union over its headquarters in Dublin's Parnell Square.

It appeared as the latest opinion polls send a warning sign to the Republic's
governing parties. Just over a third of the Irish electorate remain undecided
about what way to vote in a fortnight's time, according to respected polling
firm Milward Brown.

From Dublin, Henry McDonald reports:

Around 35% of voters are in the "Don't Know" category with 37% saying they will
vote Yes and 24% indicating they will vote No. This latest snapshot of Irish
public opinion was taken amongst 1,000 voters on Monday and Tuesday for today's
Irish Independent newspaper.

Of the two ruling parties Labour has the toughest task in securing a Yes vote on
31 May with 50% of their supporters saying they oppose the EU fiscal treaty, the
poll found.

However a substantial majority of voters want the Republic to remain inside the
euro currency zone with three out of every four polled stating they do not want
Ireland to exit the euro.

The increase in the "Dont Knows" indicates that the Taoiseach Enda Kenny and his
team still have a fight on their hands to persaude the Irish people to ratify a
treaty that ties his government and all other states in the EU into tight
budgetary controls.

The opposition to the treaty ranges from Sinn Fein and the United Left Alliance
over to pro free market multi millionaire businessman Declan Ganley and his
Libertas organisation.[#xfffd] Even the British eurosceptic UKIP have entered
the fray distributing tens of thousands of leaflets across Ireland urging voters
to reject the latest EU treaty.

10.12am: The word from Westminster is that Downing Street officials are
confirming that prime minister David Cameron will hold a conference call with
Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande, Angela Merkel and Mario Monti this afternoon.

This will give the leaders of the UK, France, Germany and Italy a chance to talk
ahead of this weekend G8 meeting, where Barack Obama is expected to urge Merkel
to back a new eurozone growth package.

9.54am: Spain has seen its borrowing costs jump sharply at an auction of
government bonds. That's worrying, but the good news is that it raised the
funding it needed.

The interest rate, or yield, on (EURO)1.09bn Spanish bonds maturing in 2016
jumped to 5.106%, compared with 3.374% at a similar auction in March. That
underlines the fears swirling through the eurozone.

Spain also sold (EURO)1.02bn of 2015 bonds at an average yield of 4.375%, up
from 2.89% in April (a much calmer month).

In total, Spain managed to raise (EURO)2.5bn, which means it has met 55.8% of
its gross funding programme for 2012.

Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy said it would be "painful" for the
Spanish Treasury to be selling debt at such prices.

Spain is selling its debt at punitive rates against a rapidly deteriorating
domestic and external backdrop. Eurozone "break-up contagion" is seeping into
Spanish yields.

The Greek crisis is placing huge strain on peripheral eurozone bonds and
European bank shares. Spain is on the sharp end of these fears. The Spanish
government itself can do very little to shore up confidence in the near term.

Unless there is a bold and decisive response on the part of the eurozone,
sentiment towards Spain will deteriorate further. This is a very slippery slope
right now.

9.49am: More developments in Greece - Antonis Samaras, the conservative New
Democracy party leader, has addressed his parliamentary group this morning
saying "we are the front of resistance against catastrophe."

From Helena Smith in Athens:

The unilateral withdrawal from the EU-IMF sponsored loan deal keeping the Greek
economy afloat would be tountamount to the destruction of the country, he said,
attacking Syriza for its "lack of preparedness and inability" to govern.Samaras
spelt out "the nightmare" that would ensue if Greece gave up the euro.Reverting
to the drachma would mean wages being "cut in half, deposits being cut in half"
and property prices being devalued. The price of imports would skyrocket
particularly for food and gas. "This is the nightmare that those who speak of a
unilateral condemnation [of the loan accord] will bring us." Looking visibly
shaken, the ashen-faced Samaras who had been a vociferous supporter of Greeks
going to the polls "as early as possible" after the emergency interim government
of Lucas Papademos took over last November, said Greece's national interests
would also be threatened."Greece in Europe is protected nationally and
geopolitically," he said. "If we become isolated we will find ourselves totally
vulnerable with many around us being tempted to exploit our weakness," he said.
With the new caretaker government in power the speech in effect kicked off the
electoral campaign. Alexis Tsipras' will also address his parliamentary group at
1:30 PM (11.30am BS) (as I type, his speechwriters are sharpening their pens).

9.30am: We're hearing that Alexis Tsipras, the head of the Syriza party whose
popularity has surged recently, will travel to France and Germany next week to
discuss the crisis.

More from Helena.

Senior cadres in Syriza, the radical left group which looks poised to emerged as
the biggest party in next month's elections, have just confirmed that Alexis
Tsipras, its leader, will be visiting Berlin and Paris for talks next week.

The 38-year-old, who has sent shockwaves through EU capitals saying that Greece
can no no longer commit to the onerous terms of (EURO)130bn loan agreement it
has signed up to with the EU and IMF, will be departing from Athens for Berlin
on Monday.

It's not clear yet who Tsipras will be meeting.

9.25am: News in from Greece, where our correspondent Helena Smith says the
country's interim caretaker government has just been sworn in.Helena writes:

In what will go down in modern Greek history as one of the smallest cabinets
ever, it is comprised of 16 ministers, mostly university professors and
diplomats.

The swearing in of the new cabinet followed a similar ceremony for new prime
minister Panagiotis Pikramenos. In another first the make-up of the new
government was announced at dawn. A high court judge, Pikramenos takes over from
former vice president of the European Central Bank Lucas Papademos who left the
post warning that Greeks hadn't made sacrifices for "an empty shirt" but to put
the debt-stricken Greek economy back on track. "There are those who are waiting
to benefit from the chaos that will follow the humbling exit of the country from
the common currency," he said.

9.15am:Benedict Brogan of the Daily Telegraph has a good take on David Cameron's
upcoming address in Manchester:

'The Prime Minister's speech is the verbal equivalent of grabbing the Germans by
the lapels and shouting 'do something'.

8.51am: Shares have fallen in major European stock markets today, but we're not
seeing a repeat of Wednesday's selloff.

FTSE 100: down 19 points at 5384, - 0.36%CAC: down 10 points at 3038, - 0.34%
DAX: down 3 points at 6380, - 0.06%

Mike McCudden of Interactive Investor said markets remain on a "negative
trajectory", despite some traders reckoning that the crisis might prompt yet
more quantitative easing from the world's central banks.

Volatility will remain until the markets have some comfort over Greece and the
elections on the 17th June are looking more like a vote on whether they stay in
the Euro despite local public opinion.

8.48am: There are reports from Italy this morning that Mario Monti, Francois
Hollande, Angela Merkel, David Cameron and Herman Van Rompuy will hold a
videoconference this afternoon, ahead of a meeting of G8 leaders this weekend.
Nothing official yet...

8.38am: New economic data from Spain has confirmed that its economy shrank by
0.3% in the first three months of 2012, which put it officially back into
recession.

No relief for the Madrid government, as it battles record unemployment and the
crisis in its banking sector.

Spain will be in the spotlight this morning, as it holds an auction of
government debt.

8.35am:$1,000,000,000,000. That's the cost of a disorderly, badly managed Greek
exit from the eurozone, according to the Centre for Economics and Business
Research.

The CEBR warned this morning that the end of the euro in its current form is
certain. But while a well-managed Greek exit might only knock 2% off global GDP,
the worst-case would see a 5% drop in global output (or $1 trillion).

CEBR's Douglas McWilliams said: "The economic consequences depend on the timing
and the way in which the euro splits. There is no doubt that when the euro
breaks up it will be costly.

Some countries will lose around 10% of annual GDP. But this will happen anyway -
the choice is between a period of austerity followed by the impact of the end of
the euro and then some eventual recovery OR facing the trauma of the end of the
euro early and then starting to get the recovery underway."

More details in our front-page story here.

8.15am: The fact that David Cameron will make such a blunt intervention on the
eurozone later today underlines the desperately serious nature of the crisis.

The prime minister's message to Europe will be delivered in the city of
Manchester. It appears to be partly a message to his European counterparts, and
partly a signal to domestic voters that he will do everything possible to keep
Britain safe.

Here's what we expect the prime minister to say:

Either Europe has a committed, stable, successful eurozone with an effective
firewall, well capitalised and regulated banks, a system of fiscal burden
sharing, and supportive monetary policy across the eurozone, or we are in
uncharted territory which carries huge risks for everybody.

"But be in no doubt: whichever path is chosen, I am prepared to do whatever is
necessary to protect this country and secure our economy and financial system.

Cameron may also repeat his line from Prime Minister's Questions yesterday that
the eurozone "either has to make up, or it is looking at a potential break-up".

Our politics editor, Patrick Wintour, also reports this morning that Treasury
insiders has been criticising Germany for demanding too much from peripheral
countries. UK sources claim the Westminster government has long been pushing for
eurobonds (collective borrowing) and a looser monetary policy.

But while Britain is badly exposed to the eurocrisis, Cameron's ability to
influence events is limited. As political commentator Gaby Hinsliff points out
this morning, it's not ideal for governments to be warning of problems they
can't solve.

..& that's a dangerous position for govt to be in. warning of perils ahead,
sounding rather powerless to stop it.

- Gaby Hinsliff (@gabyhinsliff) May 17, 2012

8.10am: Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of the eurozone
financial crisis.

Coming up ... David Cameron is due to warn of the desperate consequences of a
eurozone break-up. In a sign that the crisis is dominating the political world,
the UK prime minister will argue that eurozone leaders must urgently create
closer fiscal ties and an effective firewall to prevent their currency union
imploding.

More on that shortly.

In Greece, the new caretaker government will be sworn in this morning. Outgoing
prime minister Lucas Papademos has warned that the country stands at a "critical
crossroads", but insisted that it can return to "stability, sustainable
development and social prosperity".

In the financial markets, yesterday morning's mood of panic has been replaced by
a sense of weary unease. Asian markets have clawed back some losses overnight,
as traders hunker down for weeks of uncertainty until the Greek elections of 17
June.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Cameron delivers speech on euro crisis and UK economy: Politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6070 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the days's political
developments as they happen, including David Cameron's speech on the euro crisis
and the UK economy

FULL TEXT

2.28pm: Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, was giving a
speech to a press gallery lunch this afternoon. But I'm told it was not
particularly newsy. Here's the BBC's Iain Watson on Twitter.

Biggest revelation from Danny Alexander's speech -in the Clegg household OMG =
On Miriam's Guidance

- iain watson (@iainjwatson) May 17, 2012

2.21pm: William Hague is answering questions on Twitter about Afghanistan. His
Twitter feed is here. He's using the #askFS hashtag.

2.15pm: David Cameron does not often talk about his dead son, Ivan, butthe
Telegraph is running a story about what Cameron said about his grief in a letter
to relatives of a brain tumour victim.

1.35pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has renewed his call for the eurozone countries to
intensify their efforts to stop Greece falling out of the euro. Later this
afternoon he will discuss the crisis in a video conference call with the new
French president, Francois Hollande, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, the
Italian premier, Mario Monti, the president of the European council, Herman
Rompuy, and the EU commission president, Jose Manual Barroso. Earlier Vince
Cable, the business secretary, said Britain should not be panicking about the
prospect of a Greek exit from the euro.

[#xfffd] Cameron is to urge the French president to dilute his campaign promise
to withdraw 3,400 French troops from Afghanistan two years earlier than planned,
it has emerged. As Patrick Wintour reports, Cameron will meet Fran[#xfffd]ois
Hollande at the British ambassador's residence in Washington on Friday ahead of
the G8 summit hosted by Barack Obama at Camp David. They are the first talks
between the two leaders since Hollande won the presidential election in which
Cameron openly backed his rival, Nicolas Sarkozy

[#xfffd] General Motors has announced an investment in the Vauxhall car plant at
Ellesmere Port that will save the factory from closure, preserving 2,100 jobs
and creating hundreds more.[#xfffd] George Osborne, the chancellor, has told MPs
that the government will spend [#xfffd]30m ensuring that churches affected by
his budget decision to impose VAT on repairs to listed buildings are fully
compensated. He made the announcement in the Queen's Speech debate on the
economy, which saw Osborne and Ed Balls blaming each other for the poor state of
the economy.

[#xfffd] The Northern Ireland attorney general, John Larkin, has dropped court
action against Peter Hain after Hain agreed to clarify remarks he made about a
high court judge. Hain, the Labour former Northern Ireland secretary, has agreed
that the next edition of his memoirs will make it clear that a critical comment
about a judge was not intended to undermine the Northern Ireland justice system.
"My words were never intended to, not do I believe that they did, in any way
undermine the administration of justice in Northern Ireland or the independence
of the Northern Ireland judiciary, that very independence and integrity I worked
so hard as secretary of state to achieve support for from all sections of the
community, including those who had previously denied it," Hain said in a letter
read out in the High Court in Belfast. Larkin was planning to prosecute Hain for
"scandalising a judge". But today, in the light of Hain's undertaking, Larkin
said he would drop the matter.

[#xfffd] The Department for Energy has revealed that the number of UK households
in fuel poverty dropped from 5.5m in 2009 to 4.75m in 2010. The fall was mainly
due to rising incomes, relatively stable energy prices at the time and reduced
energy consumption,according to the 2012 Annual Report on Fuel Poverty released
by the department.

[#xfffd] Ed Davey, the energy secretary, has said that he may "tweak" the start
date for the next reduction in solar tariffs. Speaking in the Commons, he said:
"I do listen to the industry and we are considering tweaking the start date for
the next tariff reduction, but if we do it will be a tweak not a massive
change." The next reduction was due to come into effect on 1 July.

[#xfffd]Mark Harper, the constitutional reform minister, has told MPs that the
government is "determined" to introduce a statutory register of lobbyists before
2015.

[#xfffd] Graham Brady, the chairman of the Conservative backbench 1922
committee, has said that yesterday's election to the committee executive was too
factional. "I think the campaign was too factional, and occasionally
bad-tempered, and I think sometimes colleagues didn't show the respect for each
other that I would like to see," he said on the BBC's Daily Poltics show. As
Nicholas Watt reports, the elections saw Cameron loyalists make limited progress
in dislodging some of the prime minister's critics from executive posts.
[#xfffd]The Labour MP John McDonnell has come top in the ballot for MPs wanting
to introduce a private member's bill.

[#xfffd] David Blunkett has backed a campaign calling for food for guidedogs to
be exempt from VAT.

12.57pm: Ed Miliband (pictured) has responded to David Cameron's speech. This is
what he told BBC News.

David Cameron isn't part of the solution, he is part of the problem. He promised
Britain there would be recovery and he has delivered a recession.

All of Europe's leaders, including David Cameron, bear responsibility for the
fact that over the last two years they haven't sorted out the problems of the
eurozone and they haven't had a proper plan for growth and jobs in Europe.

When you listen to the prime minister, he is like a man watching events. He is
the prime minister - he should be getting in there, getting it sorted out with
Europe's leaders. Sorting it out means not just sorting out the eurozone
problems, but getting that proper plan for growth in Europe, just like we need a
proper plan for growth here in Britain.

The prime minister should be showing leadership, not looking like a man who is a
bystander to events, shouting from the rooftops.

12.29pm: Here's a summary of the key points from David Cameron's speech.

[#xfffd] Cameron reaffirmed his call the eurozone countries to do more to
support Greek's bid to remain in the euro. He suggested that Germany should
contribute more and the eurozone countries should use eurobonds to help
countries like Greece. But he also said that more fundamental fiscal integration
was essential.

The Eurozone needs to put in place governance arrangements that create
confidence for the future. And as the British Government has been arguing for a
year now that means following the logic of monetary union towards solutions that
deliver greater forms of collective support and collective responsibility of
which Eurobonds are one possible example. Steps such as these are needed to put
an end to speculation about the future of the euro.

This was billed as a new warning to the eurozone, but actually Cameron has been
making these points for some time now. Today's warning was blunter than usual,
because Cameron floated the possibility of Greece leaving the euro if the
eurozone countries failed to address their problems, but there was nothing novel
in it in policy terms.

The problem for Cameron is that he has delivered a "last chance" message like
this before. For example, this is what he said in October last year.

Action needs to be taken in the next coming weeks to strengthen Europe's banks,
to build the defences that the euro zone has, to deal with the problems of debt.
They've got to do that now. They've got to get ahead of the markets now.

Experience suggests that the eurozone countries are quite capable of ignoring
these warnings.[#xfffd] He urged voters waiting for a recovery in the UK to be
patient. Rebuilding the economy was "a long-term project", he said. "It's
painstaking work."

[#xfffd] He accepted that the government needed to do "even more" to promote
growth. "The additional ingredient that government will deliver and needs to do
even more of is a radical programme of microeconomic reform to make our economy
more competitive -including competitive tax rates, planning reform and
deregulation," [#xfffd] He suggested that the government would expand its credit
easing programme.

[#xfffd] He rejected Labour's call for the austerity programme to be relaxed to
promote growth. That was "a cop-out", he said, and would mark a return to the
"something for nothing economics that got us into this mess". In a passage about
Europe, he also said that the idea that high-deficit countries could spend their
way to recovery was "a dangerous illusion".

And I've found out why Sky and BBC News were not able to show the speech live.
Cameron was speaking on the 16th floor of a building, and the broadcasters
couldn't get their kit to reach that high.

12.17pm: My colleague Dan Milmo has been speaking to Vince Cable about the
eurozone crisis this morning. Dan has sent me this.

Speaking from Ellesmere Port, where more than 2,000 Vauxhall car manufacturing
jobs have been saved this morning, Cable said he confident of a positive outcome
to the Greek crisis. "I am not Apocalypse Now about the European Union and the
Eurozone. There are risks around Greece but Greece is a very small country. The
significance of Greece is if you get contagion but I think that it is possible
to be reasonably optimistic that Germany understands those risks and will put
mechanisms in place. There are risks and worries and I am not minimising that.
But there is every reason to believe that the EU will pull out of this crisis as
Britain will."

Asked what 'mechanisms' he was referring to, Cable added: "We are talking about
the firewall, the willingness of the European Central Bank to intervene, the
understanding of the Italian and Spanish governments that if they play their
part they will get back-up from, particularly, Germany. The Eurozone has
advanced quite a long way from the peak of the crisis. It ultimately comes back
to Germany thinking they have done extremely well out of the Eurozone, the
competitive exchange rate. They have everything to gain from making sure this
succeeds. And they are not just going ti let it go down the pan."

11.30am: David Cameron is taking part in a video conference with his fellow EU
leaders who are attending this weekend's G8 summit in America this afternoon,
Downing Street has revealed. My colleague Nicholas Watt has the detailson
Twitter.

PM to hold vid conf at 4.15 with Merkel, Hollande, Monti, Van Rompuy + Barroso -
EU reps at #G8

Video conf was idea of Herman Van Rompuy - agreed a week ago - to discuss EU
positions ahead of #G8

Vid conf: only PM's 2nd conversation with Francois Hollande. 1st chat election
night #G8

11.21am: Chuka Umunna, the shadow business secretary, says Cameron has "his head
in the sand". Cameron has run out of excuses for the fact that the economy has
failed to grow, Umunna tells BBC News.

11.17am: Cameron did do a Q&A session with journalists after the speech. As soon
as it pops up on BBC News or Sky, I'll cover it.

11.16am:The full text of David Cameron's speech is now on the Number 10 website.

11.09am: Cameron winds up with a "whatever it takes" declaration.

I cannot predict how this crisis will end for others. And I cannot pretend that
Britain will be immune from the consequences, either. But this I can promise:
that we know what needs to be done and we are doing it.

Get the deficit under control, get the foundations for recovery in place, defend
the long-term interests of our country and hold our course.

As prime minister, I will do whatever it takes to keep Britain safe from the
storm.

11.08am: Cameron says globalisation offers big opportunities for the UK.

As nations get richer they spend more money on products where Britain excels. On
everything from financial services and pharmaceuticals to jet engines, music and
computer games.

The globalisation of demand means new countries demanding our products, fuelling
new jobs at home.

11.05am: Cameron says that, although the Doha trade round is "going nowhere",
that does not mean countries like Britain cannot promote free trade.

There is good work from Doha that we can salvage. Like the measures to break
down the bureaucracy over getting goods across borders. I want to see a
commitment to open markets and to rolling back protectionist measures already in
place.

And most importantly, I want us to move forwards with "coalitions of the
willing", so countries who want to, can forge ahead with ambitious deals of
their own because we all benefit from the increased trade and investment these
deals foster.

Cameron says that means getting EU trade deals finalised with India, Canada and
Singapore. The EU should also open negotiations with Japan and the US, he says.
A trade deal with the US would be "the single biggest bilateral deal that could
benefit Britain".

11.03am: Cameron says there also needs to be action at a global level.

So over the coming weeks I'll be flying to Camp David and to Los Cabos in Mexico
to fight for what is right for Britain at the G8 and G20 summits.

That means committing together to make the reforms we need to our economies to
get growth in the global economy working again, including involving
organisations like the IMF. It means persisting with reforms to make our banks
safe, by implementing high-quality, global financial regulatory standards. It
means recognising the risks to the recovery from rising and volatile energy
prices and working together to ensure our energy security. And most of all it
means getting together to give the world economy the one big stimulus that would
really make a difference an expansion of trade freedoms, breaking down the
barriers to world trade.

11.00am: And, third, Europe needs to address its "low productivity and lack of
economic dynamism", he says. The single market needs to be completed.

And then Cameron issues his "eurozone at a cross-roads" warning.

The Eurozone is at a cross-roads. It either has to make-up or it is looking at a
potential break-up. Either Europe has a committed, stable, successful Eurozone
with an effective firewall, well capitalised and regulated banks, a system of
fiscal burden sharing, and supportive monetary policy across the Eurozone.

Or we are in unchartered territory which carries huge risks for everybody. As I
have consistently said it is in Britain's interest for the Eurozone to sort out
its problems.

10.59am: Back to the speech. Cameron says the second thing that needs to happen
is more political cooperation in the eurozone.

Second, the Eurozone needs to put in place governance arrangements that create
confidence for the future. And as the British Government has been arguing for a
year now that means following the logic of monetary union towards solutions that
deliver greater forms of collective support and collective responsibility of
which Eurobonds are one possible example. Steps such as these are needed to put
an end to speculation about the future of the euro.

10.57am: BBC News are now broadcasting the Cameron speech. They weren't able to
show it live for technical reasons. At the moment I'm ahead of the BBC
broadcast.

10.52am: Cameron says three things need to happen for the eurozone to function
properly.

First, the high-deficit eurozone countries need to address their problems.

First, the high deficit, low competitiveness countries in the periphery of the
Eurozone do need to confront their problems head on. They need to continue
taking difficult steps to cut their spending, increase their revenues and
undergo structural reform to become competitive. The idea that high deficit
countries can borrow and spend their way to recovery is a dangerous delusion.

But this will only be able to happen if the rich countries in the eurozone and
the European Central Bank do more to support countries like Greece.

So I welcome the opportunity to explore new options for such monetary activism
at a European level, for example through President Hollande's ideas for project
bonds. But to rebalance your economy in a currency union at a time of global
economic weakness you need more fundamental support.

Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Sch[#xfffd]uble is right to recognise
rising wages in his country can play a part in correcting these imbalances but
monetary policy in the Eurozone must also do more.

10.49am: Turning to the euro, Cameron says that without Germany, the eurozone
would be in a recession.

I realise that countries inside the Eurozone may not relish advice from
countries outside it - especially from countries, such as Britain, with debts
and difficulties of their own.

But the eurozone crisis affects the UK, he says. As Sir Mervyn King, the
governor of the Bank of England, said yesterday, the eurozone crisis poses the
biggest threat to the UK's recovery.

This Coalition government was formed in the midst of a debt crisis in the
Eurozone. Two years later and little has changed. That's the backdrop against
which we have to work. So it's only right that we set out our views. We need to
be clear about the long-term consequences of any single currency. In Britain, we
have had one for centuries. When one part of the country struggles, other parts
step forward to help. There is a remorseless logic to it.

A rigid system that locks down each state's monetary flexibility yet limits
fiscal transfers between them can only resolve its internal imbalances through
painful and prolonged adjustment.

10.47am: Back to the speech. Cameron says legislation on its own will not create
growth.

Some people asked why we didn't have more economy Bills in the Queen's Speech.
If you could legislate your way to growth, obviously we would. The truth is you
can't.

10.45am: But the government needs to do more, he says.

I believe that there is more that we can do. We can use the hard-won credibility
of the government's balance sheet to help the economy grow without adding even
further to our debt.

Let me tell you what this means.

In many areas we are already using the credibility we have earned to pass on the
benefits of low interest rates to businesses and families. We have the credit
easing programme for small businesses we have mortgage help for people who want
new homes and then there are the guarantees for new infrastructure projects.

I want us to go further, so I've asked the Treasury to examine what more we can
do to boost credit for business, housing and infrastructure.

This sounds as if he's announcing an extension of credit easing, but, from the
text, it's not immediately clear how significant this is. I'll post more when I
get it.

10.43am: Cameron lists some of the things the government is doing to promote
growth: short-term measures, like cutting corporation tax, the National Loan
Guarantee Scheme and reforming planning; medium-term measures like the Regional
Growth Fund and apprenticeships; and long-term measures like High Speed Rail.

10.41am: Cameron accepts the government needs to do more to promote growth.

Fiscal responsibility and monetary activism is the right macroeconomic mix for
our over-indebted economy. But the additional ingredient that government will
deliver and needs to do even more of is a radical programme of microeconomic
reform to make our economy more competitive -including competitive tax rates,
planning reform and deregulation.

10.39am: And here's the attack on Labour's proposed economic strategy.

Those who argue we should spend more want us to borrow more, driving up our
deficit and our debt and putting our hard-won credibility and low interest rates
at risk.

Higher interest rates would mean higher mortgages, lower employment and even
more of the money people work so hard for wasted paying the interest on our
national debt. We must not and will not let this happen.

10.38am: Cameron says the government still spends [#xfffd]120m a day on interest
on Britain's debt and that the government is doing what it can to bring the
deficit down.

A central promise of this government - and one of the key tasks that brought the
Coalition together - was to deal with this deficit. That is the only path to
prosperity.

And that is exactly what we are doing. Despite headwinds from the Eurozone, we
are on track. It is a long-term project. It is painstaking work. But the tough
decisions we have taken on deficit reduction really are beginning to yield real
results. And there can be no deviation from this.

10.32am: Cameron says today's General Motors investment at the Vauxhall plant at
Ellesmere Port (see 9.35am) is a vote of confidence in the British car industry.

Look across the country, at Honda in Swindon, Jaguar Land Rover in the West
Midlands, Toyota in Derby and Nissan in Sunderland. Britain's car industry is
growing.

Indeed, this week our balance of trade in cars turned positive in the first
quarter - for the first time since 1976 when Jim Callaghan went to the IMF. And
it's not just our car industry which is strong. Life sciences, pharmaceuticals,
information technology, aerospace, the creative industries, services. Britain
has a stronger base from which to grow.

10.26am: Sky and BBC News have not deemed Cameron's speech important enough to
give it the live treatment. [UPDATE at 12.29pm: That's not right. They could not
cover it for technical reasons. See 12.29pm.]But colleagues are tweeting from
Manchester, and I've got a text in front of me, so the blogging carries on. I'm
reporting using the text issued by Number 10 this morning, not from what I can
hear Cameron saying. It's not an ideal arrangement, but it's unusual for the
prime minsiter to depart from his text and this seems better than not reporting
the speech at all.

Cameron says the government has cut the deficit by a quarter already.

Since we took office two years ago, we have cut the deficit by more than a
quarter.Yesterday, we had encouraging news on unemployment, too. The number of
people in work - up by 100,000 in the last quarter. And the number of new
business start-ups last year was one of the highest in our history. So now more
than ever this is the time to stand firm.

It is important not to squander the progress made, he says.

Yes, we are doing everything we can to return this country to strong, stable
economic growth. But no, we will not do that by returning to the something for
nothing economics that got us into this mess.

We cannot blow the budget on more spending and more debt.

10.22am: David Cameron is starting his speech in Manchester.

We are living in perilous economic times. Turn on the TV news and you see the
return of a crisis that never really went away. Greece on the brink; the
survival of the Euro in question. Faced with this, I have a clear task: to keep
Britain safe. Not to take the easy course - but the right course. Not to dodge
responsibility for dealing with a debt crisis - but to lead our country through
this to better times.

My message today is that it can be done. We are well on the way in this journey.

10.14am:David Cameron is about to deliver his speech in Manchester on the
economy and the euro crisis.

Here's Patrick Wintour's story previewing what he's going to say.

10.09am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some articles and stories that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Peter Oborne in the Daily Telegraph says Britain should be helping the
Greeks to leave the euro.

Something strange has happened. Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne appear to have
swallowed the official European line that unthinkable disaster will ensue when
the euro collapses. And, of course, it will be messy when Greece exits the euro.
But the truth is that the single currency has been calamitous for the peripheral
countries of Europe, and will get more calamitous the longer they stay in. Now
is the time for them to walk away. And here Britain's traditional role should be
to provide help and support - for instance, by offering some of the most
brilliant City minds to help the Greeks negotiate an elegant exit and plot a
solvent future. Instead, the Chancellor is siding with Greece's tormentors.

[#xfffd] David Aaronovitch in the Times (paywall) says there are too many
lawyers in parliament.

Whether the issue is drugs policy or the introduction of phonics into schools,
we don't apply the methods that we could to help us to make better decisions.
Rather, we rely on selective evidence, persuasion, rhetoric and crossing our
fingers and hoping like hell. So why is that? One reason may be that scientists
don't get to be decision makers and lawyers do. Of 650 MPs there are 158 from
business, 90 former political advisers, 86 lawyers and 38 journalists. Just one
MP worked as a research scientist and two have science PhDs. In the US Senate
there are no former research scientists, but 38 per cent of senators are
lawyers. In President Sarkozy's first 16-strong, cabinet, 9 members were lawyers
or had law degrees.

I love lawyers. I love their intellect ... But lawyers are not, in the way that
scientists are, truth seekers. When lawyers test the evidence, they do so not to
get as close to the truth as they can, but to make an argument or to decide
whether a law has been broken or upheld. And now, in this era of judicial
inquiries and extended judge-power, much of our governance seems to be a series
of turf wars between lawyers in politics and lawyers in law.

It's good that there is something of a resurgence of interest in science, of
which the sceptics movement is a part. Perhaps we will see a day when - as the
writer Alexandra Robbins put it, the geeks shall inherit the earth and a Martin
Rees, a Colin Blakemore and a Lesley Yellowlees can sit at a Cabinet table
presided over by Stella Creasy (Labour, PhD in social psychology), or Therese
Coffey (Conservative, PhD in chemistry) or even Julian Huppert (Liberal
Democrat, PhD in Biological Chemistry). And, if the evidence points in that
direction, they might even let a lawyer or two in to join them.

[#xfffd] Kiran Stacey in the Financial Times (subscription) says the Department
for Work and Pensions has dismissed Steve Hilton's call for welfare cuts worth
[#xfffd]25bn as "utter nonsense".

Mr Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, is keen on looking at ways to
encourage part-time workers to make the move into full-time employment, among
other measures likely to be part of a spending review some time in the next
three years. But a person close to the minister described the [#xfffd]25bn
figure on Wednesday as "nonsense", saying there was no room left for such steep
cuts.

The work and pensions department is already planning to save [#xfffd]18bn a year
in benefit payments by 2014-15 by implementing measures such as a cap on housing
benefit and less money for disabled people.

The person said: "We have already cut [#xfffd]18bn from the welfare bill. How
does he imagine we can cut another [#xfffd]25bn? This is utter nonsense, the
figure is ludicrous."

[#xfffd] And Sue Cameron in the Daily Telegraph says Hilton's plan to cut the
size of the civil service by 90% has also been dismissed as nonsense.

[Steve Hilton] is the man whose calls for a further 90 per cent cut in Civil
Service numbers have been hitting the headlines. One of his justifications is
that we once ran an empire with only 4,000 civil servants - so how can we
justify a Civil Service of 434,000 today just to run Britain? It's a fun
argument. It is also absurd.

It is true that under the Raj we ran India and her 400 million people with fewer
than 1,500 civil servants. Yet so disproportionate are the numbers that they
should have raised questions - even with Mr Hilton. As the historian Niall
Ferguson asks in his brilliant book Empire: How Britain Made the Modern World:
"Was this the most efficient bureaucracy in history? Was a single British civil
servant really able to run the lives of up to three million Indians, spread over
17,000 square miles, as some district officers were supposed to do?"

The answer, of course, was no. As Mr Ferguson explains, beneath the tiny top
layer of overwhelmingly British officials was another, much larger bureaucracy
composed of Indians who carried out day-to-day administration. And below them,
says Mr Ferguson, "was a veritable army of lesser public employees... Without
this auxiliary force of civil servants who were native born, the 'heaven-born'
would have been impotent."

Funnily enough, the senior Civil Service in Britain today comprises just over
3,700 people. The other 430,300 are the front-line troops who run Jobcentres,
tax offices, pensions, prisons and myriad other services. Small wonder that Mr
Hilton, who has never run a large organisation, was given short shrift by the
head of the Civil Service, Sir Bob Kerslake. After a stormy meeting, Sir Bob,
who used to run Sheffield, told Mr Hilton that the idea of a further 90 per cent
cut in numbers was "nonsense".

[#xfffd] Graeme Paton in the Daily Telegraph says the government could give
schools complete freedom over teachers' pay.

Ministers are considering proposals for a "complete deregulation" of salaries to
give schools more power to curb pay rises for the worst teachers, it was
revealed.

The Coalition said sweeping reforms were needed because rewards are currently
being given to the "great majority of teachers" - creating little incentive for
staff to improve.

It could lead to schools in England paying some qualified teachers at a
"significantly reduced" rate, the Government admitted. Average classroom
teachers currently receive [#xfffd]34,700 a year.

9.48am: For the record, here are the YouGov GB polling figures from last night.

Labour: 45% (up 2 points from Tuesday night)Conservatives: 31% (down 1)Lib Dems:
9% (up 1)Ukip: 8% (down 1)

Labour lead: 14 points

Government approval: -37

It's the second time this week Labour have had a 14-point lead in a YouGov poll.
That's the biggest lead YouGov have recorded for Labour since the polling firm
was founded in 2002.

9.35am: It's not all bad news today. Following a vote by workers at the Vauxhall
plant at Ellesmere Port in favour of new working conditions,the firm is going to
confirm an investment that will secure 2,100 jobs.

9.28am: David Cameron has released extracts from his speech in advance. And Ed
Balls (pictured), the shadow chancellor, has released his rebuttal in advance
too. Here's an extract.

David Cameron is totally out of touch and deeply complacent if he thinks Britain
is on the right course. His failed policies have pushed us into recession and
the government is now set to borrow an extra [#xfffd]150 billion to pay for this
economic failure.

Plan A has failed in Britain, but it is also now failing across the eurozone.
David Cameron must recognise the austerity policies which are failing in Europe
are the very same policies that have failed in Britain and which the British
government has been urging eurozone countries to stick with ...

Instead of using the eurozone crisis as an excuse for Britain's problems David
Cameron must wake up to the fact that our economy has not grown for over a year
and a half on his watch. When countries like France and Germany have avoided
recession, despite the eurozone's problems, it's clear Britain's double-dip
recession was made in Downing Street.

9.13am: There's a lot of comment about the eurozone crisis on the airwaves this
morning.

Vince Cable (pictured), the business secretary, said people in Britain should
not be panicking.

We need to get the risks in perspective. There clearly are risks to the UK.
Greece itself is a small country, it's only 2% of the European economy. The
risks arise if the crisis were spread to other weaker, countries in southern
Europe, but there is no reason why that should happen. They are in the process
of creating firewalls to prevent the financial crisis spreading and we hope that
they do.

But as far as the UK is concerned we can't directly influence what is happening
in the eurozone because we are not part of it. What we can do is to make sure
that the UK is a well-run economy ... I don't think there's any reason whatever
why in the UK we should be panicking or taking an excessively negative view.

Lord Lamont, the Conservative former chancellor, said a Greek exit would be
"messy" but that that would be better than allowing the crisis to prolong.

If we get a situation that is just going on and on, I think that's worse.

The immediate effects of a Greek departure don't go to this country but they
would reach us indirectly. The worst effects are on the banking system, first on
the Greek banks, but then on French banks that have lent to Greece, and then
British banks that have lent to France, so indirectly we are involved.

But the most damaging thing I think is this corrosive effect on confidence. We
hear all the time demands for more growth - growth above all depends on
individuals and individuals will only grow their business if there is
confidence. This going on and on and on - and it's a very serious crisis - the
threat being in the background is profoundly destabilising.

Alistair Darling, the Labour former chancellor, said it would be better if
Greece did not leave the euro.

I think it is not in the eurozone's interests to let Greece go. I think it would
be cheaper to reach a deal with Greece that actually works because the present
one is never going to work.

It is going to be very painful for Greece whatever they do, but there is no easy
options here but the risk of Greece going out and spreading to other countries
in Europe is too great. Look at it from Germany's point of view. The last thing
they want is a break-up of the euro and a return to the Deutschmark. It would
price them out of the market.

I've taken some of the quotes from PoliticsHome.

9.00am: "We are living in perilous economic times." That's what David Cameron is
going to tell us in a speech in Manchester. It is being billed by Number 10 as a
speech on the economy and Cameron will use it to reject Labour's calls for a
"Plan B".

We will not do that by returning to the something for nothing economics that got
us into this mess. We cannot blow the budget on more spending and more debt. It
would squander all the progress we've made in these last two, tough years. It
would mean more austerity, for even longer. It would risk our future.

But there will probably be more interest in what he has to say about the
eurozone crisis. As the Guardian reports today, it is estimated that a
disorderly Greek withdrawal from the eurozone (and no one has worked out how to
achieve an orderly withdrawal yet) would cost the eurozone $1trn (that's
trillion - 12 noughts). Accordig to the extract sent out by Number 10 in
advance, Cameron is going to say the eurozone leaders either have to take
decisive steps to protect their currency, or accept that Greece is on its way
out.

The eurozone is at a cross-roads. It either has to make-up or it is looking at a
potential break-up.

Either Europe has a committed, stable, successful eurozone with an effective
firewall, well capitalised and regulated banks, a system of fiscal burden
sharing, and supportive monetary policy across the eurozone. Or we are in
unchartered territory which carries huge risks for everybody.

As I have consistently said it is in Britain's interest for the eurozone to sort
out its problems. But be in no doubt: whichever path is chosen, I am prepared to
do whatever is necessary to protect this country and secure our economy and
financial system.

I'll be covering the speech in detail, and all the reaction to it. There will
also be further coverage of the eurozone crisis on our eurozone crisis live
blog.

Here are the other items in the diary for today.

9.20am: Universities UK holds a briefing on the impact of the government's
immigration policies on universities.

10am: Mark Harper, the constitutional affairs minister, gives evidence to the
Commons political and constitutional reform committee about the registation of
lobbyists.

10am: Sir Harold Evans, the former Sunday Times editor, and Peter Oborne, the
Daily Telegraph columnist, give evidence to the Leveson inquiry.

10.15am: David Cameron will deliver his speech on the economy in Manchester.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Leading Article: Conservative party: Terms of engagement

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 677 words


Politics in an age of austerity, number 239 in a limitless series. Last night
Conservative MPs turned the election for the executive of the backbench 1922
committee into a vehicle for their differences over what the party should be
saying to voters. The result was inconclusive: the Cameron-baiting old guard
were not trounced and nor was the 301 group of modernisers sent away with a
bloody nose. The real question, about what Conservatives are for if they cannot
manage the economy successfully remains unresolved. This matters to
non-Conservatives too: the politics of extremes serves no one's interests.

David Cameron knew there were irreconcilable backbenchers likely to cause
trouble in the course of the parliament: early on he tried to capture the 1922
by allowing ministers to vote in its internal elections. Having, reluctantly,
abandoned the changes, the slate put forward this time by the loyalist 301 group
was widely seen as another attempt to subvert the committee's independence.
Excessive zeal in party management is never an attractive quality, but the
Westminster bickering of an internal organisation is much less significant than
the problem that it represents - constructing a viable platform amid the ruins
of an economic policy on which the entire five-year programme of government had
been predicated. For instead of going into the next election with a growing
economy, more jobs and lower taxes, George Osborne has already conceded that
there will probably be at least two more years of cuts to come. The past month
in European politics makes plain how divisive the political consequences might
be.

No Tory backbencher is (yet) publicly questioning the austerity strategy. Nor,
the polls suggest, do a majority of voters. In fact, despite Tory MPs' criticism
of the budget shambles, voters still trust the coalition more than Labour on the
economy. The question that really divides the party is whether in the face of
austerity it returns to an enhanced core-vote strategy of shoring up the right
flank from Ukip by focusing on the traditional crime, immigration and Europe
agenda, or whether to keep faith, despite the vastly altered circumstances, in
Cameron's modernising programme and anchor the party to the centre-right. At
stake is not just the slender majorities of the 40 group (the proliferation of
Tory backbench groups is surely a reflection of the uncertainty about political
direction), nor surviving the cull of seats as the number of MPs is cut, but the
tone of British politics. The omens are mixed.

The best indication of current team Cameron thinking is in the parting shot of
his California-bound blue-skies thinker, Steve Hilton. Mr Hilton's frustration
with the constraints of working at the centre of the Whitehall web has been well
documented. In particular he despaired of the deregulation programme. Now the
man who once mused on abolishing maternity benefit has left behind what is
described as a well-developed plan for another swingeing round of welfare cuts
with up to £25bn more taken from in-work benefits. It is a further sign of the
shifting positions in the party that the welfare secretary Iain Duncan Smith has
reportedly dismissed the idea as "absolute nonsense". But - and this is
something Labour must contend with - party strategists calculate welfare cuts to
be popular, at least if accompanied by a reputation for economic competence. And
although they would like to play down the old nasty party's obsessions with
Europe and immigration, and focus on jobs and the cost of living, there is no
mistaking the pressure to appeal to an increasingly anxious electorate with a
more divisive attack on the poor and workless. Strong and fair is one dubious
slogan under which they would like to fight the next election. Meanwhile Mr
Cameron's increasingly noisy critics on the right worry that the prime minister
has no stomach for fight at all. They see a Baldwinian inertia at the heart of
government. That might yet mean that the loudest voice the voters hear is in the
shrill tones of a populist right.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 17, 2012 Thursday 10:27 PM GMT

What's Boris up to? The Mayor's plans for London are all too vague, but his
plans for himself are crystal clear

BYLINE: SONIA PURNELL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1591 words


It's already two weeks since Boris Johnson staged a great victory over his
Labour opponent Ken Livingstone. Yet we have heard surprisingly little since
from the mayor of London, apart from, that is, his likening of the Jubilee river
pageant to a more 'successful and cheerful Dunkirk.'

Partly this has been because eyes have rightly been fixed - with some terror -
on events in Greece and the eurozone. Partly because Johnson has been more
visible on the pages of the Daily Telegraph, where he writes a weekly column,
than he has been in City Hall, where he conducts his day job. Already Johnson
the national politician - for whom the Telegraph represents a personal intranet
with the Tory party at large - is taking precedence over his leadership of
London.

His sole noteworthy pronouncement to date did not emanate from the eighth floor
of the mayoral vastness next to Tower Bridge, addressing London's problems and
his great plans to solve them. No, it was a rather unmayoral rant in Monday's
Telegraph against the BBC.

This was apparently provoked by mild criticism by BBC arts editor Will Gompertz
of Johnson's vainglorious £24 million 'fallopian' metal structure officially
known as the 'Orbit', and the audacity of BBC London News's political editor Tim
Donovan in doing his job during a hard-fought campaign by asking him a few
difficult but entirely justified questions.

'We need a Tory' to run the 'statist, corporatist, defeatist' etc Left-biased
BBC, Boris opined in retaliation, ignoring the fact that we already have one in
the shape of its chairman Lord Patten. (His father-in-law, the late Charles
Wheeler, was also a BBC stalwart of course, his sister-in-law continues to work
there, and many of the Johnson clan including Boris himself have barely been off
the BBC airwaves for years. So much for bias.)

Indeed, although this outburst may well please many readers who perhaps share
those sentiments about the Corporation, it is in stark contrast to the
effusively positive comments Johnson made about the BBC when still bothering to
court London's liberals in his early 'Red Boris' days as mayor. Nor could either
Gompertz nor Donovan, both thorough professionals, be said to have stepped
outside the bounds of impartial journalism. What is more, the BBC's reporting
standards hardly rank as a priority for Londoners confronted by knee-quaking
news (biased or not) about our economic prospects just when most of us hoped
they could not get any worse.

It was yet another example of Johnson revealing the darker and angrier cast of
his character beneath that veneer of a lovable buffoon. He cannot take sole
blame, of course, for the nasty, personalised and destructive nature of London's
mayoral campaign. But all the shouting, barging, swearing, over-talking and
general braggadocio of Project Boris did nothing to lend it much grace either.
The televised mayoral debates with their jibes and jeers no doubt helped to
persuade cities up and down the land that if this is how mayors behave they were
better off without one. (It is also significant that with turnout only just over
30 per cent, Johnson was returned as mayor with support from just one in six of
his constituents.)

Nor did the antagonism cease with Boris's narrow victory over Livingstone on 4
May. The atmosphere in the chamber at City Hall as the candidates filed out onto
the stage to hear the returning officer read out the results was more akin to a
grudge match at the bottom of the league than a sort of coronation.

A senior Tory sitting in front of me spat out unpleasantness in turn about each
and every one of Johnson's opponents, but I was particularly shocked by the
comments made by some UKIP supporters in the row behind. This was not politics'
finest hour - not least when Johnson omitted to thank the thousands of party
supporters who had turned out in the rain to help him to victory. That lack of
grace did not go unnoticed in the ranks either.

The role played by many of his unsung campaigners is all too evident given the
closeness of the result. Indeed, one Tory elder assures me that the party really
did think at one point that he had lost. There are reports too of a high-end
legal team on standby in case it became necessary to mount a challenge to a Ken
victory.

But whatever the margin, Johnson did win and so we must now leave the past
behind to try to peer into the middle distance. The lack of substance in
Johnson's campaign - and his silence since - leaves us largely in the dark as to
what he intends to do over the next four years. For London anyway. By contrast,
Johnson's plans for Johnson are becoming clearer by the day as he positions
himself in the bosom of the right of the Tory party for a future leadership bid.

What is also clear, though, is that there is little incentive for David Cameron
to put himself out any longer on the mayor's behalf. The election is won; it was
a beacon of light on an otherwise dark night. But that's done. Johnson, who was
bailed out twice with pre-electoral bungs from Downing Street for transport and
the police, ungratefully informed his election victory party that he had beaten
Livingstone 'despite the rain, the BBC and the endorsement of David Cameron'.

And why would George Osborne continue to find helpful stashes of cash for
Johnson, when the mayor made no secret about his disdain for the omnishambles
budget and is, even more crucially, his main future rival for the leadership?

Labour in London has now lost twice against Johnson and there are signs that the
shock has encouraged them to start planning even now as to how to beat him next
time. If so, they are wasting their time. It is highly unlikely he will stand
again in 2016, not least because he is unable entirely to conceal his boredom
and frustration with the job even now. Taking a Parliamentary seat in the 2015
general election is still the most likely course, whatever Johnson's comic
semi-denials. The Conservatives would be better served by thinking who might
succeed Johnson as their candidate. Zac Goldsmith, currently MP for Richmond
Park, is a name that crops up, given his fame, possible cross-party appeal and
green credentials - assuming, that is, that the electorate has the stomach for
another Old Etonian blond.

Labour also needs to start planning for 2016, while learning the lessons from
2012. Livingstone's campaign was curiously undisciplined at times - perhaps as
the result of being run by people emotionally close to him who possibly lacked
the firepower to control their man. There were also signs that the party did not
throw its collective weight behind him - even some London MPs were said not to
have voted Ken. And why, for instance, did former Labour minister Lord Adonis
wait so long before putting his considerable political weight behind
Livingstone's claims that tube and bus fares could be cut without wrecking
investment? Why was a letter from a former finance director of Transport for
London that said the same thing not circulated more widely? It was all too
little, too late.

Whoever runs for Labour next time needs the party to unite behind him or her in
a way that after 40 years in public life Livingstone could not muster. The
Tottenham MP David Lammy is said to want the job but other possibly more
intriguing names are also already being bandied about such as John Cruddas (the
popular Left-winger who has just been handed the job of co-ordinating Labour's
policy review) and Sadik Kahn, the prominent and likeable Muslim MP for Tooting.

And what of the other parties? Jenny Jones, the warm-natured Green candidate,
took her party to third place ahead of the Liberal Democrats. She achieved,
perhaps by accident, national attention and a possible place in the political
text books of tomorrow when she called for candidates to publish their tax
details. Unlikely to stand again in 2016, the party will possibly find it a hard
slog to repeat Jones's success. It is far from clear as to whether this was a
one-off protest vote or the start of something more lasting and significant.

Despite personally performing better than last time and with an eye-catching
poster campaign behind him, Brian Paddick came in a shameful fourth for the
Liberal Democrats. He did not really want to run this time, and can be ruled out
as a future contender. Yet his party, if it exists at all in 2016, is hardly
brimming with obvious (willing) replacements.

Siobhan Benita ran as an Independent and is living proof that enough resourceful
protesting by an attractive, articulate woman about not getting enough media
coverage results in lots of...media coverage! Hers was a brave candidacy, coming
in as she did from nowhere. Support from her former Whitehall boss GOD - Sir Gus
(now Lord) O'Donnell - was undoubtedly a boost. But her downfall was that, apart
from supporting a third runway at Heathrow, she did not offer a sufficiently
distinctive manifesto to explain her presence other than as a diversion to the
main show.

Lawrence Webb of UKIP failed to make much of an impact, while his supporters
disgracefully burned pictures of Paddick, who is openly gay. And then there was
Carlos Cortiglia, the Uruguayan candidate for the BNP, who extolled 'socialist'
principles for transport and urged his party to change their immigration
policies. Quickly dubbed Comedy Carlos, it was nevertheless clear that in tough
times no-one found any of this funny. Nor was it frankly what London, with its
economic back against the wall, deserved.

Sonia Purnell is the author of  Just Boris: A tale of blond ambition

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Hollande declares war on corpo tax;
..BUT KENNY & GILMORE STAND FIRM

BYLINE: MYLES McENTEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 409 words


THE Government is set to clash with the new French President over our
investor-friendly corporation tax rate.

Taoiseach Enda Kenny and Tanaiste Eamon Gilmore lashed claims Francois Hollande
could make us hike our 12.5 per cent scale.

Fine Gael leader Kenny said: "Ireland will support a growth agenda. Ireland will
support an investment agenda. But clearly there are issues in there with which
we don't agree.

"Obviously in the context of changes with the corporation tax rate and localised
financial transaction taxes they are not in the interests of this country."

Hollande's predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy and German chief Angela Merkel have tried
to force the issue on Ireland in the past.

Earlier, Mr Gilmore insisted: "As far as Ireland is concerned, our rate of
corporation tax is established, it's not going to change."

Hollande's advisor Phillippe Aghion had said yesterday the Socialist leader will
seek harmonisation in corporation tax and financial and banking regulation.

He told Newstalk radio that Hollande expects solidarity from members of the
eurozone that sign up to the fiscal treaty.

Aghion said it remains to be seen how well each country co-operates with
European plans for growth. He added: "There is a view if Europe helps you, you
have to help Europe.

"So I think we put the idea it would be good to have a minimum amount of
solidarity if Europe is to survive." Kenny and Hollande will likely meet for the
first time at a Brussels summit next week. Despite the potential clash over the
tax, Finance Minister Michael Noonan said a Yes vote on the treaty would signal
to Europe that Ireland is serious about fixing our struggling economy.

He also drew laughter during a Bloomberg Ireland economic summit when discussing
economic links between Ireland and Greece.

Discussing the impact the latter's leaving the eurozone may have, he said:
"Apart from the Greek islands, I think most Irish people do not have a lot . .
if you go into the shops here, apart from feta cheese, how many Greek items do
you put in your basket?"

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage pledged to support the No side with a
leaflet campaign here, insisting his help did not constitute foreign
interference.

He said: "You have the Government putting out its own leaflet which masquerades
as being neutral."

Meanwhile, a new referendum campaign poll by Millward Brown Lansdowne shows the
Yes side on 37 per cent, the No on 24 and a third undecided.

myles.mcentee@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clash ... Kenny & Hollande

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

Politics live blog + PMQs: Wednesday 16 May 2012

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6272 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all today's political developments
as they happen, including David Cameron and Ed Miliband clashing at PMQs

FULL TEXT

2.00pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has suggested the Greece leaving the euro could be a
possible solution to the Eurozone crisis. He made the comment during PMQs in
response to a question from the Tory MP Sir Peter Tatchell.

It either has to make up or it is looking at a potential break up. That is the
choice they have to make.

He made the comment even though George Osborne said only yesterday that "open
speculation" about Greece leaving the euro was damaging the whole of Europe.

[#xfffd] Cameron has welcomed the news that unemployment has fallen by 45,000.
But, speaking at PMQs, he also insisted that he was not complacent.

It is welcome that we have had the largest rise in employment for over a year.
The number of people in work since the last election is up by 370,000 and
private sector jobs are now up by over 600,000. We are not remotely complacent
about this because although there is good news about youth unemployment and the
claimant count coming down, there are still too many people in part-time work
who want full-time work, and also we still have the challenge of tackling
long-term unemployment.

As Heather Stewart reports, the total number of jobless fell to 2.63 million,
according to the Office for National Statistics, its lowest level since last
summer. That brought the unemployment rate in the first quarter of 2012 down to
8.2%, from 8.4% in the last three months of 2011.

[#xfffd] The Bank of England has revised its growth forecast for 2012 down from
1.2% to 0.8%. At a news conference, Sir Mervyn King, the Bank's governor, said
there was a "risk of a storm heading our way from the continent".

We have been through a big global financial crisis, the biggest downturn in
world output since the 1930s, the biggest banking crisis in this country's
history, the biggest fiscal deficit in our peacetime history, and our biggest
trading partner, the euro area, is tearing itself apart without any obvious
solution. The idea that we could reasonably hope to sail serenely through this
with growth close to the long-run average and inflation at 2% strikes me as
wholly unrealistic.

The Bank also said the Diamond Jubilee celebrations could depress growth by 0.5%
in the second quarter of 2012.

[#xfffd] Jack Straw has told the Leveson inquiry that Rupert Murdoch enjoyed
"playing with political leaders". Straw also said that someone in Number 10 (but
not Alastair Campbell) was responsible for the leaking of the Macpherson report
into the police inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. There are more
details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has told the Police Federation that it
must take its share of public spending cuts. "Every part of the public sector is
having to take its share of the pain," she told the federation's conference. She
received a frosty reception and, in the Q&A afterwards, one officer told her she
was "a disgrace".

I'm winding up early today, but I'll be back as usual tomorrow.

Thanks for the comments.

12.35pm: PMQs Verdict: I don't know about you, but I found that uninspiring. Ed
Miliband asked good questions about frontline police officers and nursing jobs,
which David Cameron didn't really want to answer, and he had what was
potentially a very good question about what conversations Cameron has had with
Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande about an EU growth plan (answer - none) which failed
because Cameron sidestepped it quite easily. He was also wise to use the
frontline cuts quote from Cameron's appearance on the Andrew Marr show on the
Sunday before the general election (here, at 10.30am) which is so damaging that
Miliband should probably use it every week. But Cameron struck the right note on
the unemployment figures, and he had a robust line on Labour's record on
spending (particularly on the police, where Labour at times is sounding like the
parliamentary wing of the Police Federation).

The jokes were good. Cameron's line about Gordon Brown's phone-chucking habits
was okay, and Miliband used the LOL revelation brilliantly.

But perhaps what was most interesting was Cameron's attempt to depict the
appointment of Jon Cruddas to head Labour's policy review as a lurch to the
left. Cameron has almost certainly got Cruddas wrong; he's not a union lackey,
and his politics are much more subtle and unconventional than Cameron implied.
(Patrick Wintour summarised them well in his story yesterday.) But Cameron was
right to say that Liam Byrne, who was sidelined yesterday, is at the far end of
Labour's deficit-acknowledging spectrum.

And I also found myself wondering whether Miliband's "out of touch" line is
really such a good idea. That's because I've been reading Northern Lights, a
Policy Exchange report on voting behaviour based on extensive polling and focus
group research (pdf). (If you're a hardcore politico, it really is a must read.)
One of the many findings in the report is that people think all politicians are
out of touch. Here's what it says about the findings of focus groups involving
soft Tory and Labour voters.

[The political leaders] were all accused of "not living in the real world".
Attitudes to all were quite similar: "David Cameron isn't any more posh than Ed
Miliband. They're cut from the same cloth, with slightly different views"
according to one participant. As well as having similar backgrounds, the leaders
tended to behave in the same way, breaking promises and behaving in a typically
"political" way.

This is a problem for all the political leaders, not just Miliband. But,
interestingly, one of the people who seems to understand the alienation of the
political class best is Jon Cruddas.

12.32pm: Labour's Alan Johnson says Hull was included in round one of regional
growth fund announcements. Thirteen months later, no money has been paid, he
says.

Cameron says half the regional growth fund projects are underway. He will look
into the Hull case.

12.31pm: Labour's Peter Hain asks Cameron if he agrees that building a barrage
across the Severn to produce energy is a "no brainer".

Cameron says he heard Hain making the case for this on Farming Today this week.
He will listen to the representations Hain makes.

12.30pm: Tessa Munt, a Lib Dem, asks Cameron to ensure that all employees paid
by the state pay their taxes properly.

Cameron says he agrees. He says the government was "shocked" to discover how
many state employees were being paid through private companies to cut their tax
liability.

12.29pm: Labour's Dan Jarvis asks Cameron to accept that the sharp increase in
care costs revealed today is due to local government cuts.

Cameron says he does not accept this. The government has put money into care. A
white paper will be published later this year.

12.28pm: Cameron says there are been an 80% increase in the number of pupils
taking science at GCSE since 2010.

12.26pm: Labour's Simon Danczuk asks about the Rochdale case. He pays tributes
to the girls who gave evidence. Will Cameron support a serious case review.

Cameron agrees with what Danczuk said. And he says Danczuk has been "brave" to
talk about this as a problem affecting particular communities. He will consider
the need for a serious case review, he says.

12.25pm: Cameron says he hopes to deliver more than 400,000 apprenticeships this
year.

12.24pm: Labour's Tony Lloyd asks Cameron if, in the light of the Rochdale case,
he will order an inquiry into what went wrong at children's homes.

Cameron says Michael Gove has asked the children's commissioner to look into
this. It is important to get to the bottom of this "truly, truly dreadful case".

12.23pm: Cameron says a 1% interest rate increase will add [#xfffd]1,000 to the
annual cost of an average mortgage.

12.22pm: Labour's Ian Austin asks Cameron what has caused the "calamitous
collapse" in his reputation.

Cameron says the Bank of England governor said today the government was coming
up with a textbook response to the problems left by people like Austin.

12.21pm: Stuart Andrew, a Conservative, says that, as someone who grew up in a
council house, he knows how proud tenants were when they could buy their homes.
Will Cameron encourage this?

Yes, says Cameron. He is increasing the discount.

12.20pm: Nigel Dodds, a DUP MP, says the police force in Northern Ireland kept
body parts from murder victims without telling their relatives. Other forces in
the UK have done the same. Will Cameron order an independent review of this
practice?

Cameron expresses sympathy for the families. He is sorry the report was leaked.
It was meant to be announced on Monday. The Northern Ireland secretary will
consider the case for an inquiry.

12.19pm: Cameron says the fact that there are so many adults with reading
difficulties is "a tragedy".

12.18pm: Labour's Hugh Bayley asks Cameron to reverse the VAT increase.

Cameron says VAT had to go up because Britain had the biggest budget deficit
anywhere in Europe. In his memoirs, Alistair Darling said he too was in favour
of raising VAT.

12.17pm: Jo Johnson, a Conservative, asks Cameron to welcome the news that
Britain is a net car exporter.

Cameron says the deficit has been cut by a quarter. Britain is on the way to
balancing the budget. And it is "extremely good news" that Britain has a trade
surplus in cars.

12.15pm:PMQs Snap Verdict: A rambling, inconclusive PMQs largely devoted to a
repeat of the "out-of-touch versus weak" contest that we've seen so many times
already. More later ...

12.11pm: Miliband says Cameron will have training before he goes before Leveson.
It should include anger management. How many nursing jobs have been cut?

Cameron says the number of clinical staff has gone up. Miliband says spending on
the NHS is irresponsible, he says. But the numbers waiting for less than 18
weeks have gone down.

Miliband says the number of nurses has done down by 3,500 since Cameron became
prime minister. That's because Cameron spent money on a top-down reorganisation
that no one wanted. The government is just on the side of top earners. They are
unfair and out of touch and stand up for the wrong people, he says.

Cameron says the government has cut tax for every working person in the country.
And council tax has been frozen. Miliband's big decision this week was to
replace Liam Byrne, who acknowledged the need to deal with the deficit, with Jon
Cruddas, who is close to the unions. Cameron says he often wonders whether
Miliband's problem is that he is weak or leftwing; in fact, Miliband's problem
is that he is both, says Cameron.

12.07pm: Ed Miliband says Cameron did not address the question about Hague's
advice. And Cameron is trying to claim Hollande as an ally. "What is he on?"
Miliband asks about police job cuts.

Cameron says it is not surprising Miliband wants to stop talking about the
economy. He says interest rates would be higher under Labour. On the police, he
says HM Inspector of Constabulary has said the proportion of officers on the
frontline has gone up.

Miliband says, on the economy, we are in a double dip recession. Cameron says
the "proportion" of frontline officers is going up. But that's because he is
sacking so many backoffice staff. The overall numbers are going down.

Miliband says Cameron said before the election that any cabinet minister
proposing frontline reductions would be sent back to think again. No wonder the
police are furious.

Cameron says whoever was in power would have to cut police budgets. But if you
do not have the courage to cut pay and allowances, you would have to make the
case for deeper cuts. He quotes a Labour spokesman says he does not accept the
need for pay to be cut.

12.03pm: Ed Miliband rises to a big cheer (because his poll ratings are up,
presumably). He pays his own tribute to the dead servicemen.

He asks Cameron what discussions he has had with the new president of France
about a growth plan.

Cameron welcomes the fact that Miliband has welcomed the fall in unemployment.

He says he had a brief discussion with the new president after his election. He
will have a longer discussion with him at the G8 summit. Cameron says he has
proposed many ideas to encourage growth in the EU.

Miliband says Cameron should have seen Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande when he came to
London. But he is sure a text message and an LOL will go down well.

Does Cameron really agree with William Hague that the solution to the crisis if
for people to work harder.

Cameron says he may have been using his phone too much, but at least he knows
how to use a mobile phone - unlike Gordon Brown, who just threw his at those
working for him.

He says Hollande agrees with Cameron on the need to cut his deficit.

Ed Balls himself said long-term low interest rates were the best measure of
financial stability, he says.

12.02pm: Paul Maynard, a Conservative, welcomes the fall in unemployment, and
the rise in employment. Will Cameron continue to invest in back-to-work schemes?

Cameron says the largest rise in employment for over a year today is welcome.
But he is "not remotely complacent". There are too many people in part-time
work, he says.

12.01pm:David Cameron starts with a tribute to two soldiers killed in
Afghanistan on Saturday. They were both courageous men, he says.

12.00pm: David Cameron arrived early for PMQs, apparently. He sat through a
chunk of Northern Ireland questions.

11.59am: PMQs is about to start.

11.53am: It sounds as if the justice committee hearing on the Freedom of
Information Act this morning was quite fun. Dominic Grieve, the (Conservative)
attorney general, was up first up. According to PoliticsHome, he said the FoI
could have a "chilling effect" if it led to officials communicating through
non-official channels because they did not want their advice to be revealed
under the FoI.

The possibility of a chilling effect if routinely this material were put in the
public domain is clearly a real issue ... The real risk is that you end up
starting getting decisions made which are not recorded and people are, you know,
so worried that everything that is going to be said is going to go out into the
public domain at an early stage that they may not express their views and I do
think that's important.

But then Lord McNally, the (Lib Dem) justice minister, popped up and said he
disagreed. He said there was an "overclaiming of the chilling" effect and that
he had not noticed officials holding back on their advice.

11.43am: Theresa May, the home secretary, is speaking at the Police Federation
conference now. Before she started she had to listen to Paul McKeever, the
federation's chairman. My colleague Alan Travis has been using his Twitter feed
to give a flavour of the occasion.

Theresa May insists her podium is moved at Police Fed conf so she is not
standing in front of logo say 'Cutting police by 20% is criminal'

Police Federation conference audience stood up and held up banners saying
"Enough is Enough" as Theresa May takes to the stage

Poice Fed chairman Paul McKeever says 700 officers have left in Devon and
Cornwall alone and links it with 127% rise in road traffic deaths

Pol Fed chair says the British model of policing is being changed with large
swathes being privatised and office of constable under threat

Theresa May has had to sit through nearly 40 minutes of this speech from Police
Fed chair Paul McKeever warning about the cuts

Pol Fed chair Paul McKeever tells Theresa May that almost every off-duty police
officer marched in London last week to say enough is enough

May has just told the police in her speech that they are wrong to think that
they are being picked on. All sections of the public sector are facing cuts, she
said.

11.37am: The Times story about the civil service contracting out policy work to
thinktanks (see 10.38am)came up at the 11am Downing Street lobby briefing. The
prime minister's spokesman seemed happy to stand it up.

We're working on a civil service action plan. One of the areas we're looking at
is policy development. I think that specific idea [contracting policy work to
private sector] was raised by the cabinet secretary at an Institute for
Government event back in March and reported by some of you at the time. If you
think about how we reform the civil service, build on the strengths of the civil
service, address some of the weaknesses of the civil service, we'll be looking
at all the areas of civil service work, including policy.

11.11am: The full text of Sir Mervyn King's comments at the start of his
quarterly inflation report press conference is now on the Bank of England
website (pdf).Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Sir Mervyn King said that he expected the economy to recover, but that
recovery would be "slow and uncertain".

The economy will continue to face strong headwinds over the forecast period.
Underlying concerns about balance sheets, especially in the financial sector
with its exposure to the euro area, mean that the path of recovery is likely to
be slow and uncertain ... In the near term growth is subdued, but the recovery
gradually strengthens as consumption is supported by a gentle recovery in real
take-home pay, investment picks up from its current low levels, and there is
continued support from net trade. By the end of the forecast period there is
judged to be as much chance that growth will be above as below its long term
average rate.

[#xfffd] He said the Eurozone crisis was already having an effect on the UK
economy and that it was impossible to predict what would happen if it got much
worse.

The biggest risk to the recovery stems from the difficulties facing the euro
area, our main trading partner. As in recent Reports, the Committee believes
that there is no meaningful way to quantify the most extreme possible outcomes,
and they are therefore excluded from the fan charts. But even the threat of
those more extreme outcomes is enough to affect the outlook for the UK, through
its effect on bank funding costs, asset prices, including theexchange rate, and
the confidence of households and businesses.

[#xfffd] The Bank now believes the economy will grow by just 0.8% this year.
Previously it was predicting growth of 1.2%.

My colleague Graeme Wearden has more on his Eurozone debt crisis live blog.

10.51am: Here's some reaction to the unemployment figures.

From Liam Byrne (pictured), the shadow work and pensions secretary

Any increase in employment is welcome, but today's figures show that hard
working Britain is doing anything and everything to battle through this
double-dip recession made in Downing Street by David Cameron and George
Osborne's failed economic policies.

Part-time work and self-employment has now hit record highs as British families
pull out all the stops to make ends meet. It is really worrying to see the
soaring long-term costs as the number of long term unemployed surges towards the
one million mark - the highest since the Tories were in government last time.

From Ian Brinkley, director at the Work Foundation

These are surprising but very welcome figures. Claims that further deregulation
of the labour market is needed to stimulate job generation look to be
unjustified. Private sector employers clearly felt confident enough to hire in
large numbers over the three months to March 2012.

However, the overall numbers disguise some underlying weaknesses. The economy is
still shedding full-time jobs, with all the increase accounted for by part-time
work. The latest figures confirm that underemployment is emerging as a
significant problem in the UK labour market, with the number of people in
part-time work because they could not find a full-time job up by 33% over the
past two years.

From Dave Prentis, the Unison general secretary

Unemployment may have fallen but we still face the worst jobs crisis in a
generation. A huge growth in part-time working and in people accepting lower pay
is masking the real impact of austerity. No wonder growth has stalled and we are
back in recession. We need real action to boost growth and create jobs to
jump-start the UK out of recession.

From Graeme Leach, chief economist at the Institute of Directors

These figures raise half a cheer for the economy. Both headline unemployment
measures are down, which is obviously good news, but there's bad news in the
average earnings figures. Average earnings growth including bonuses has
collapsed from 1.3 per cent to just 0.1 per cent.

Excluding bonuses, average earnings growth stands at 2 per cent, which is way
behind inflation. This means the real squeeze in household incomes continues to
act as a dragging anchor on consumption and high street spending.

From Brendan Barber, the TUC general secretary

Today's figures are mixed, with the welcome fall in unemployment driven entirely
by part-time jobs. However the collapse in wages is terrible news for those in
work and threatens our chances of an economic recovery. The falling number of
full-time jobs and the 6% fall in real wages over the last two years means that
people are having to make huge salary sacrifices and put their careers on hold
just to stay in work.

From Tony Dolphin, chief economist at the IPPR thinktank

The fall in unemployment in the first three months of this year, compared to the
last three months of 2011, is very welcome news. It suggests the current
recession in the UK - if it is not revised away when the next set of GDP data
are released - is likely to be a very mild one.

From David Kern, chief economist at the British Chambers of Commerce

With the eurozone crisis worsening and economic pressures facing the UK, these
figures are encouraging. But there are still some worrying features. Youth
unemployment, though down, remains above one million which is a jobless rate for
young people of more than 20%.

From Paul Kenny, the GMB general secretary

That there are 2.63 million people without jobs shows the extent to which the
government's gamble with the economy has failed. So instead of borrowing to
support the economy and to continue the recovery the government has had to
borrow to fund the recession.

10.38am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, arehere.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some stories and articles that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Benedict Brogan in the Daily Telegraph says that one of the Tories'
problems is that they don't hate their opponents enough.

[Steve Hilton's] intention before leaving was to put a handover note on the
Prime Minister's desk, detailing the work he'd like to see done in his absence
and his thoughts on what Mr Cameron's priorities should be. I don't know if he
put pen to paper in the end, but I have an inkling of what he might have said:
"The problem is that they hate us more than we hate them."

For those tracking the current disputes inside the Conservative parliamentary
party, it is tempting to point out that the real problem is that the Tories are
once again spending more time hating each other than their common enemy. But the
question that is so exercising the party is fundamentally one of leadership and
attitude. Mr Hilton was among those who grew frustrated by the club-class
complacency of some colleagues, and of Mr Cameron himself. They have found
themselves in power, yet struggle to match the hunger to keep it that saw Mr
Brown up at all hours, chewing his nails as he plotted terrible plans to destroy
his opponents.

This absence of appetite may stem, in part, from the comforts of Opposition. For
too many top-level Tories, being out of power is no hardship. Indeed, for some,
it is far more lucrative. For the Labour front bench of new talent and old
stagers, defeat has not dented a desperation to claw their way back into office.
Yet there is despair in parts of Downing Street that you will not find junior
Tory hacks willing to spend a dark February evening infiltrating Labour meetings
with a tape recorder, to catch out an enemy frontbencher.

[#xfffd] Liam Fox in the Financial Times (subscription) says David Cameron
should adopt tax cuts and deregulation - even if the Lib Dems object.

It is becoming clear that the concept of labour market deregulation and tax cuts
funded by deeper reductions in public expenditure are anathema to many - but not
all - Liberal Democrats in government. The coalition is right to put debt
reduction and welfare reform at the centre of its agenda in response to the
economic emergency we inherited. But without serious supply side reform, these
may not produce results in time to persuade voters by a 2015 election. A change
of trajectory is quickly needed. It would be a tragedy if the good work of this
government was jettisoned and we followed the unfolding disaster on the
continent.

[#xfffd] Robert Winnett in the Daily Telegraph says that Steve Hilton, David
Cameron's outgoing strategy chief, has proposed welfare cuts worth billions in a
policy paper presented to the prime minister.

Mr Hilton, who left Downing Street yesterday for a post at a Californian
university is understood to believe that another [#xfffd]25 billion can be cut
from the welfare budget although this level of saving is regarded as "absolute
nonsense" by Mr Duncan Smith ...

A Downing Street source said: "There is some really radical thinking going on
around welfare, which is the most successful area of government policy so far.
Why should people only work part time? Why are young people who are out of work
not living at home? Why are we incentivising people to have more children?

"The Prime Minister is very keen on the next stage of welfare reform and there
are some properly worked out plans which have been submitted by Steve [Hilton}
before he left."

Another senior Government source said: "What we are engaged in is the mark-two
stage of welfare reform. Its how do you take the universal credit into the next
phase... encourage people to work longer hours, not just languish on 10, 15 or
20 hours.

"These things are part of a much bigger extended programme from where we are, to
take us forward. There are longer term saving by getting more people into work,
by giving people greater control of their lives, by making them essentially the
masters of their destiny again, we will reap massive rewards and thus massive
savings."

[#xfffd] Andrew Grice in the Independent says Lib Dem MPs are rebelling against
government plans to stop many blind people receiving disability living
allowance.

Government plans which could reduce state benefits paid to thousands of blind
people have sparked a revolt by Liberal Democrat MPs in the latest sign of
tension inside the Coalition over cuts.

The Liberal Democrat rebels are demanding a U-turn after it emerged that many
blind or partially-sighted people who currently receive disability living
allowance (DLA) of up to [#xfffd]120 a week could lose out when it is replaced
by a new personal independence payment (PIP) from next April.

Although Nick Clegg is defending the Government's plans, he is under intense
pressure from his MPs to lobby for changes before the new system is implemented.
Jo Swinson, his parliamentary aide, has written to Iain Duncan Smith, the Work
and Pensions Secretary, urging a rethink after taking up cases on behalf of her
constituents. Critics of the shake-up claim that the points system under which
DLA claimants will be reassessed is biased against the blind because it puts too
much emphasis on tasks such as the ability to walk and not enough on the special
needs of those who cannot see.

[#xfffd] Jill Sherman in the Times (paywall) says private consultants or
thinktanks will be asked to take over some civil service policy work.

Policy development is to be outsourced to private companies under radical
reforms to beef up government strategy with a smaller Civil Service, The Times
has learnt.

The move, part of an overhaul of Whitehall, comes after a series of policy
fiascos and growing frustration within No 10 about the performance of civil
servants.

Under the scheme, to start this autumn, departments would commission consultants
or think-tanks to draw up policy, develop it and "torture test" it instead of
using civil servants. Officials said that the policies could range from revising
business regulations to cutting billions from welfare payments or wider public
sector reform.

[#xfffd] Tim Ross in the Daily Telegraph says Jon Cruddas, who was appointed to
lead Labour's policy review yesterday, is in favour of a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU.

In a message to supporters of The People's Pledge, Mr Cruddas said: "This is
about democracy. At certain stages, the political classes should invite the
people into the discussion that affects their everyday lives; none more
important than Europe.

"I think we should use every opportunity to push the case for a referendum,
simply on the basis of the democratic principles involved.

"Irrespective of where you stand on the issue, it is a question of your rights
as a citizen of this country to be able to participate in discussions that
affect your material everyday life and our culture."

10.34am:Sir Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, is presenting the
Bank's latest quarterly inflation report. Here's an extract fromthe summary.

Output had barely grown for a year and a half and was estimated to have
contracted slightly in the past two quarters. The euro-area economy remained
weak, but global activity overall continued to expand at a moderate pace. A
number of one-off factors are likely to affect the pattern of quarterly growth
of domestic output during 2012. Looking through those effects, underlying demand
growth is likely to remain subdued in the near term, before a gentle increase in
households' real incomes and consumption helps the recovery to gain traction.
Stimulus from monetary policy should continue to support demand, although
headwinds from the external environment, tight credit conditions and the fiscal
consolidation are likely to persist. The possibility that the substantial
challenges within the euro area will lead to significant economic and financial
disruption continues to pose the greatest threat to the UK recovery.

10.05am: And here are the unemployment figures for January to March region by
region.

Region - total unemployed - change on previous quarter - rate

North East - 148,000 - plus 6,000 - 11.5%North West - 329,000 - plus 11,000 -
9.6%Yorkshire/Humber - 241,000 - minus 24,000 - 9%East Midlands - 182,000 -
minus 6,000 - 7.8%West Midlands - 228,000 - minus 19,000 - 8.5%East - 207,000 -
minus 6,000 - 6.7%London - 426,000 - minus 1,000 - 10.1%South East - 279,000 -
plus 1,000 - 6.2%South West - 175,000 - plus 10,000 - 6.5%Wales - 132,000 -
minus 1,000 - 9%Scotland - 221,000 - minus 10,000 - 8.2%N Ireland - 57,000 -
minus 5,000 - 6.7%

10.02am: Here's the top of the Press Assocation story about the unemployment
figures.

The government was given some welcome good news on the jobs front today when
unemployment fell by 45,000 and the number of dole claimants dipped for the
second month in a row.The jobless total was 2.6 million in the quarter to March,
the lowest since last summer, while the number of people claiming jobseeker's
allowance last month was down by 13,700 to 1.59 million.The number of people in
work increased by 105,000 to almost 30 million, but this was entirely due to a
rise in part-time workers.Almost eight million people are now in a part-time
job, the highest since records began in 1992, while those working part-time
because they cannot find full-time work increased by 73,000 to a record high of
1.4 million.Self-employment has also reached a record figure of 4.1 million, up
by 89,000 since the previous quarter.Average earnings increased by 0.6% in the
year to March, down by 0.5 percentage points on the previous month because of
lower bonuses in the private sector.Average weekly pay in private firms in March
was [#xfffd]2 lower at [#xfffd]460 compared to a year ago.The 13,700 fall in the
so-called claimant count last month was the biggest since July 2010.But other
figures from the Office for National Statistics showed that the number of people
unemployed for more than a year increased by 27,000 to 887,000, the worst total
since 1996.In the three months to March, a third of all unemployed people had
been out of work for more than a year.The number of people unemployed for more
than two years rose by 5,000 to 428,000.The UK's unemployment rate has fallen by
0.2% to 8.2%, lower than the European average of 10.2%.Spain has the highest
unemployment rate in the EU at 24.1%, while Austria has the lowest at 4%.Youth
unemployment has also fallen, down by 17,000 over the latest quarter to 1.02
million.There were 9.25 million economically inactive people in the three months
to March, a fall of 35,000, mainly due to a reduction in the number of people
under the age of 65 taking retirement, as employees work longer and the female
state pension age increases.

9.51am: Here's Chris Grayling (pictured), the employment minister, on the
unemployment figures.

These figures are a welcome step in the right direction. For a number of months
now, employment has been growing and this is starting to feed through into
improving unemployment figures. However, we still face significant international
uncertainty so we need to hold firm on our current economic strategy and
continue to do everything we can to ensure unemployment continues to fall.

9.30am: Unemployment is down. Here are the headline figures.

[#xfffd] Unemployment fell by 45,000 between January and March to 2.63m.

[#xfffd] The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month fell by
13,700 to 1.59m.

[#xfffd] Average earnings increased by 0.6% in the year to March, 0.5% down on
the previous month.

You can read the Office for National Statistics news summary here. Andthe ONS
bulletin, with the full details, is here (pdf).

9.22am: The gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell (pictured) is supporting David
Davis in his campaign to scrap section 5 of the Public Order Act, the one
banning "insulting" language or behaviour.Tatchell explained why on the BBC this
morning. I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

I think this is quite dangerous in a democratic society where we pride ourselves
on freedom of speech and the right to protest. And there's many many examples
where this law has been misused, for example a Christian street preacher, or
several Christian street preachers have been arrested for merely saying that
homosexuality is sinful or immoral. Now I disagree with them, but I defend their
right to express their point of view, and I don't think they should be
criminalised.

9.08am: For the record, here are the YouGov GB polling figures from last night.

Labour: 43% (down 2 points from Monday night)Conservative: 32% (up 1)Ukip: 9%
(up 1)Lib Dems: 8% (up 1)

Labour lead: 11 points

Government approval: -37

9.00am: We've got the first PMQs of this session of parliament today, as well as
some important economic indicators, but before 12pm the most lively drama may
come from Brighton, where Theresa May, the home secretary, is addressing the
Police Federation annual conference. The police have already marched in London
to protest about cuts to their pay and pensions and about changes to their
working conditions and, as Alan Travis reports, Paul McKeever, the federation
chairman, is expected to tell May in his own speech that she is "on the
precipice of destroying a police service that is admired throughout the world".
Here's an extract from Alan's story.

Paul McKeever, the federation's chairman, will tell May she can't expect
officers, who understand the fiscal situation and accept some cuts are
necessary, to take an unfair share of those cuts and "just sit there and be
content with their lot".

"This is a bad deal for the police service," he will say. "We have less
resilience; fewer warranted officers, a weakened frontline and a radically
altered model of British policing. You are on the precipice of destroying a
police service that is admired and replicated throughout the world.

"Home secretary, we are seeing proposals, things being put in place without
infrastructure, that will fundamentally change the dynamics of policing."

Will the home secretary get heckled? We'll see at 11am.

Here's the full agenda for the day.

9.15am: Dominic Grieve, the attorney general, Lord McNally, the justice minister
and Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, give evidence to the Commons
justice committee about the Freedom of Information Act.9.20am: Andrew Lansley,
the health secretary, speaks at a Reform conference.9.30am: Unemployment figures
are published.

10am: Jack Straw, the Labour former cabinet minister, gives evidence to the
Leveson inquiry.

10.30am: The Bank of England publishes its quarterly growth and inflation
forecasts.10.45am: Nick Hurd, the civil society minister, releases details of
the latest National Citizen Service pilot.

11am: Theresa May, the home secretary, speaks at the Police Federation
conference.

11.15am: David Davis, the Tory MP, launches a campaign for reform of the Public
Order Act. He and others are opposed to the clause banning the use of
"insulting" words or behaviour.

12pm: David Cameron and Ed Miliband clash at prime minister's questions.

2pm: Voting opens in elections to the executive of the Conservative 1922
committee. The results will be announced after 6pm.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 16, 2012 Wednesday 5:36 PM GMT

Will Labour out-euro-sceptic the Tories?

BYLINE: ANDREW PIERCE

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 461 words


David Cameron better wake up. He is in danger of being outfoxed on the EUissue
by the Labour Party.

Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, and Lord Mandelson- who once had his nose
buried so deep in the European trough all you could seewere his Cuban heels
waggling in the air - have joined forces. They could proveto be a formidable
duo.

Once sworn enemies, they shared a platform the otherday and both made ominous
noises about a referendum on Europe.

JonCruddas, a puppet of the Unite trade union, has been put in charge of
Labour'sfledgling policy review. He is a committed referendum man, as are
manytraditional trade unionists.

Is Labour going to out-euro-sceptic theTories? The signs are not good. George
Osborne, our part-time Chancellor,inexplicably lectured EU finance ministers for
daring to suggest that Greecemight have to leave the Euro. I know he studied
History at university, buthas he still not found time to read the beginners'
guide to Economics which Ihappen to know is still on the shelf in his Treasury
office?

Greece is a biggerbasket case than the Tory Party at the moment, and must
therefore be allowed tomake an orderly exit from the single currency - which the
country should neverhave been permitted to enter in the first place.

Hard-pressed Britishtaxpayers and pensioners will not easily forgive Osborne if
hecommits even more of our scarce resources to another bail-out for
theungrateful Greeks. Why should we help a country whose citizens are unwilling
toaccept that they have to cut spending to avert a national
financialcatastrophe?

But little George may yet roll over to Frau Merkel andproduce another cheque.

Frankly, I have little faith in Osborne's judgment. Heis supposed to be the
master Tory strategist, but failed to deliver victory inthe general election
against the worst Prime Minister of my lifetime.

Look athis track record. He worked forDouglas Hogg during the BSE crisis, which
did wonders for Britain's reputation. He worked for Sir John Major when he led
the Tories to their worst electiondefeat in more than 150 years. He was William
Hague's political adviser andchief of staff when the Tories lost the next
election by an almost identicalmargin.

Ed Balls may be a blustering hypocritical bully, but the fact that hehas buried
the hatchet with the REAL master tactician Peter Mandelson shouldworry Tory MPs
in marginal seats.

Tony Blair, who won three elections afterall, also appears to be joining forces
once more with the Labour leadership.Remember, Blair and  ghastly Gordon Brown
both ruled out joining theEuro.

With the popularity of UKIP on the rise, it's entirely plausiblethat Labour will
commit to a referendum while George is still fiddling on theEU stage -
guaranteeing them a comfortable victory next time.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 16, 2012 Wednesday 3:30 PM GMT

You don't like the idea, Dave - but we WILL have our say on the EU!

BYLINE: NIGEL JONES

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1032 words


As we gear up to remember the anniversary of D-Day on June 6th 1944, when
British, American and Commonwealth troops stormed the beaches of Normandy to
begin the long and bruising battle to liberate France and Europe from Nazi
German tyranny, another D-Day anniversary falling on June 6th should also come
to mind.

For on that day in 1975 the people of Britain voted in a referendum confirming
that they wanted to stay inside the organisation then known as the European
Economic Community (EEC), which the Euro-fanatic Prime Minister Edward Heath had
signed up to in 1973.

As per normal, the British people had not been asked by their rulers whether
they approved this momentous decision, but in the two General Elections of 1974
Harold Wilson's Labour party promised to give the people - for the first time in
British history - their say by holding a referendum on the issue. That pledge
may have been the deciding factor in winning Labour a narrow majority,
especially after the influential Tory Enoch Powell advised his supporters to
vote Labour on the issue.

Of course, there were political reasons behind Wilson committing his party to a
referendum: Labour, like the Tories then and now, were deeply split over Europe
and a referendum pledge was devised by the wily Wilson to paper over those
cracks and superficially unite his party.

In 1975, ' Europe' was apparently a much more attractive proposition than it is
today. Britain was a strike-torn mess, its antiquated, rust-belt industries
falling further and further behind its competitors. In comparison, continental
Europe appeared sleek, modern, prosperous and going places. Becoming part of
what seemed merely an efficient trading bloc made sense to a majority of people.
Unfortunately, few read the small print about where the 'European project' was
really going: towards a dictatorial, bureaucratic and above all undemocratic
nightmare.

Britain had left it far too late to board the European bus, which (to mix
metaphors) had become a building with its dictatorial foundations set in stone.
Largely run by French civil servants, paid for with German money, skewed to prop
up such monstrosities as the Common Agricultural Policy, Britain's influence
over this Leviathan would always be minimal. Any idea that we could renegotiate
our club membership would remain a fantasy. All we were asked to do was pay our
membership dues (the second highest after Germany) into the bottomless coffers
of this corrupt and wasteful sink.

Heath, who despite his comprehensive rejection by voters at the ballot box, led
the 'Yes' referendum campaign, lied through his teeth when he assured sceptics
that EEC membership would entail no loss of sovereignty. We would, he claimed,
continue to be governed by our own elected representatives rather than the
commissars in Brussels. Heath's message was reinforced by the political class,
in the shape of the official leadership of all three mainstream parties who
uniformally backed a 'Yes' vote, and by the mass media who dutifully echoed that
message. The 'No' campaign was headed by a motley crew of politicians widely
portrayed as maverick eccentrics or Right- or left-wing extremists like Powell
and Tony Benn.  As a result the 'No' campaign were lucky to get as many votes as
they did: the electorate voted by more than 2:1 (67-32%) to stay in the EEC.

Since that dread day, things have changed somewhat. In a nutshell, the EEC has
morphed into the EU - a political project to unite Europe in a dictatorial
superstate, reducing Europe's proud and ancient nations to a collection of
provinces run by an unelected caste based in Brussels. This is hardly surprising
since democracy in Europe is such a fragile plant: most EU states have within
living memory been Fascist or Communist dictatorships, and Frau Merkel, the
woman who wields the whip hand in Europe, grew up in Communist East Germany.
Besides, it was always the secret intention  of the EU's founding fathers to
build their superstate behind the backs of Europe's peoples, walling them into a
cell of 'ever closer union' until it was too late to escape.

Britain, however, the country of the Levellers, the Chartists, the Tolpuddle
martyrs and the Suffragettes, struggled for centuries to evolve its
Parliamentary democracy, and was and is not minded to throw it away lightly for
a mess of Brussels pottage. Especially as the wheels have so catastrophically
come off the European project, which has proved itself, as the currently
unfolding Greek tragedy shows, not the wave of the future, but a tsunami that
threatens to drown us all.

Perceiving all this, Ed Miliband's Labour party has started to shift its ground.
That reliable political weather-vane, Peter Mandelson, was the first to suggest,
last week, that the party if in government again, might hold another referendum
on Europe. His call has now been taken up by Miliband's new policy chief, Labour
MP Jon Cruddas - a down to earth old Labourite with his finger on the pulse of
popular feeling. Even Labour's Shadow Chancellor, Ed Balls (who, lest it be
forgot devised Gordon Brown's 'five tests' that kept us from Tony Blair's insane
desire to join the crumbling Euro) - has hinted that the time may be coming when
a referendum is inevitable.,

Labour know that Europe's tectonic plates are shifting. They also know that a
majority of Britons now want a fundamental re-ordering of our dysfunctional
relationship with the EU - and failing that, a complete withdrawal from the
whole poisonous and imploding mess. There are, in other words, votes to be won
by reverting to its traditional Euroscepticism. Lots of them. David Cameron, on
this issue as so many others, out of step with his party, is a Europhile in the
Heath mould ( he even used to wear the EU's hated logo on his cufflinks). A
faithful lackey of Brussels, he will never grant an 'In/Out' referendum - which
may be his downfall.

The Referendum is an idea whose time has come at last, and unless Cameron is
very careful, Labour will steal UKIP's clothes, and, following Harold Wilson's
example in 1975, give the British people the choice they have been denied for 37
long years. If they do that, they will win the next Election.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

REFERENDUM ON EU MAY BE NEEDED, WARNS BALLS

BYLINE: BY GERRI PEEV POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 545 words


SENIOR Labour ranks are considering an in/out referendum on the European Union,
it emerged yesterday.

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls admitted the public could have their say on whether
Britain should continue its membership of the crisis-hit EU in the years to
come.

Pressure is mounting on both the Conservative and Labour leaderships to pledge a
referendum at the next general election.

Breaking rank with Labour leader Ed Miliband's refusal to hold a ballot, Mr
Balls said yesterday: 'Whether there could be a case for there being a
referendum more widely on Britain's relationship with Europe as a new settlement
evolves...that might be an issue whose time comes.'

However Mr Balls, who was a rival for the leadership, said the timing was not
right just yet.

At an event with investment bank Nomura, Mr Balls said that it was for
Europhiles to make the case for Britain's membership of the EU.

He said: 'People who want to entrench a pro-European relationship between
Britain and the rest of Europe need to be winning arguments rather than simply
sitting back and waiting for that moment.'

Mr Balls was instrumental in keeping Britain out of the single currency as a
former special adviser to the then Chancellor Gordon Brown. His views echo the
call made by Lord Mandelson, the former EU commissioner and architect of the New
Labour project.

Lord Mandelson Ð a keen Europhile Ð said it was not sustainable to deprive
people of a referendum on Europe in the wake of the current crisis.

In a joint article published yesterday, the pair said that that the EU needed a
'new political settlement' to grapple with its financial turmoil. Tory
backbenchers have also warned David Cameron to agree to a referendum now or risk
Labour stealing a march by agreeing to a vote.

Eurosceptic MPs also fear that unless the Prime Minister takes a tougher line on
Brussels, they could lose crucial votes to UKIP at the next election.

So far, 68 MPs have signed up to a cross-party campaign, The People's Pledge, to
call for an in/out referendum. The campaign group yesterday revealed it had
identified 39 seats where it might hold a self-funded vote on a referendum. It
will hold three polls this summer, and a further ten in the autumn.

Tory MP Mark Reckless, who is behind The People's Pledge, said the party would
make a clear manifesto pledge to stage a national vote on UK membership in an
attempt to distance itself from the Liberal Democrats.

There was a 'real change in mood' across the country and the question was now
'when, not if' the poll would be held.

'I believe my party will go into the next election committed to an in/out
referendum on Europe,' he said. Mr Reckless urged his party to 'get there
first', warning that Mr Miliband could make the pledge sooner and seize momentum
with voters.

The campaign group's polls follow on from a vote in Thurrock, Essex, last month
that saw some 89 per cent of those who voted back an in/out referendum.

Labour MP Kelvin Hopkins, a founding supporter of The People's Pledge, said:
'The People's Pledge did a great job in Thurrock in energising local people on
this important issue. I just wish the main political parties could see the
benefit of giving the British people a chance to express a view about our
relationship with our European neighbours.'

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tories fear No 10 bias in back-bench 1922 poll

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words


ONE in five Tory MPs entitled to vote in this week's elections to the 1922
back-bench committee is a member of the Government.

Last night traditionalist MPs warned that the number of parliamentary private
secretaries voting in the election for the executive of the 1922 Committee
risked giving it an in-built bias in favour of Downing Street.

Nominations for new posts on the executive of the committee close at 2pm today,
with voting tomorrow afternoon and results expected in the evening.

Unusually, the 1922's executive has allowed parliamentary private secretaries -
MPs on the lowest rung of the ministerial ladder - to vote in the election.
Ministers on the government payroll will still be banned from voting.

It means that an extra 40 Tory MPs, who are relying on the Prime Minister to
advance their careers, will be allowed to vote for the executive of the
committee, often known only as "the 22".

This is an about-turn from the last election in 2010, when PPSs, who have seen
their influence rise under the Coalition, were not allowed to vote. Tensions
with traditionalist MPs have worsened after it emerged that members of the PPS
caucus were given a private briefing last week by Cameron-loyalist MPs who are
trying to force their way onto the 1922 Committee's executive.

Last night, Christopher Chope, one of the "traditionalist" MPs who is standing
in the elections, said that the inclusion of PPSs "had caused a lot of concern".
He said the number of PPSs who could vote was "quite a significant proportion",
adding: "Any attempt of a takeover of the 22 will backfire."

Ironically, the 1922 Committee got its name from the year that a group of Tory
back-bench MPs voted to end their coalition with the Liberal Party.

The committee has since gone on to be the back-bench voice and bane of past Tory
prime ministers and leaders. Its primary function is to keep the leadership of
the party informed of the mood of Conservative backbenchers.

Labour has established its biggest lead over the Conservatives for a decade,
according to a poll.

The opposition party is on 45 per cent, 14 points ahead of the Tories, the
YouGov survey for The Sun suggested. It placed the Liberal Democrats fourth, on
7 per cent, behind the Ukip on 8 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

Germany demands Britons pay another £1bn to bail out euro

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 661 words


SECRET German plans to force British taxpayers into a new multi-billion pound
European Union bail-out provoked outrage last night.

Documents revealed that Germany's finance ministry wants a new emergency fund to
be set up if, as looks increasingly likely, debt-ridden Greece quits the
European single currency system.

And officials in Berlin insist the costs of the new bail-out fund must be shared
among all 27 EU members, including non-eurozone countries such as the UK.

The plot was exposed yesterday as markets across Europe were once again plunged
into turmoil by the euro crisis.

Nervous traders wiped £28.5billion from the value of London's leading shares
index as fears intensified that Greece will crash out of the euro.

Another day of turmoil saw the FTSE 100 Index close two per cent, or 110 points,
lower at 5465.5 as attempts to form a coalition government in Greece continued
to stutter.

That left the country facing the prospect of another election next month,
putting its future in the eurozone in increasing doubt. The uncertainty hit
banking shares with Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and Lloyds Banking Group
among the biggest fallers.

Germany's Dax and France's Cac-40 were both down about two per cent. The slide
came after eurozone central bank officials publicly admitted for the first time
Greece could quit the euro.

The latest plot to dragoon Britain into supporting the crumbling euro was
rejected by EU critics last night. Tory MP Peter Bone said: "To bail out the
euro after Greek exit would be absurd.

"The euro is dying on its feet, and to pour more British taxpayers' money into
saving it would be ridiculous. I am sure that the Government will not allow this
to happen. If Germany and other countries want to keep throwing good taxpayers'
money after bad, that is up to them but we should have nothing to do with it. It
is in the interests of the Greeks, and the rest of Europe, that Greece is
allowed to leave the euro."

Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, urged the Government
"to shout it out, loud and clear to all those including the German Ministry; not
another penny to prop up their failed experiment".

Senior German politicians are understood to be concerned that their country's
taxpayers are fed up with shouldering the burden of supporting the euro.

If Greece does leave the euro, the German finance ministry wants to stabilise
the Greek economy and prevent financial panic spreading.

But they are desperate to share the costs among all 27 EU nations rather than
the 17 eurozone member states.

The German plan was leaked to the country's Der Spiegel newspaper. No10
officials yesterday played down expectations Britain would throw any more cash
into bailing out the euro. Speculation was also growing Britain could be asked
to give £1billion in a bid to recapitalise the European Investment Bank.

Last night George Osborne warned that the prospect of Greece crashing out of the
euro is damaging economies across Europe, including Britain.

Speaking in Brussels, where he is attending talks between EU finance ministers
over the crisis, the Chancellor said: "The eurozone crisis is very serious and
it's having a real impact on economic growth across the European continent,
including in Britain, and it's the uncertainty that's causing the damage.

"Of course countries have got to make difficult decisions about their public
finances. We know that in Britain. "But it's the open speculation from some
members of the eurozone about the future of some countries in the eurozone which
I think is doing real damage across the whole European economy."

OPINION: PAGE 12

CITY: PAGE 50

Q Should UK taxpayers bail out failed EU countries?

YES: 0901 792 5302

Yes text DXTUEYEs to 86611

NO: 0901 792 5303

No text DXTUENO to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.
Lines close at midnight tonight.

'The euro is dying. To pour more British taxpayers' money into saving it would
be ridiculous'

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Absurd' says Bone
'Enough' says Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Germany demands Britons pay another £1bn to bail out euro

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 658 words


SECRET German plans to force British taxpayers into a new multi-billion pound
European Union bail-out provoked outrage last night.

Documents revealed that Germany's finance ministry wants a new emergency fund to
be set up if, as looks increasingly likely, debt-ridden Greece quits the
European single currency system.

And officials in Berlin insist the costs of the new bail-out fund must be shared
among all 27 EU members, including non-eurozone countries such as the UK.

The plot was exposed yesterday as markets across Europe were once again plunged
into turmoil by the euro crisis.

Nervous traders wiped £28.5billion from the value of London's leading shares
index as fears intensified that Greece will crash out of the euro.

Another day of turmoil saw the FTSE 100 Index close two per cent, or 110 points,
lower at 5465.5 as attempts to form a coalition government in Greece continued
to stutter.

That left the country facing the prospect of another election next month,
putting its future in the eurozone in increasing doubt. The uncertainty hit
banking shares with Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and Lloyds Banking Group
among the biggest fallers.

Germany's Dax and France's Cac-40 were both down about two per cent. The slide
came after eurozone central bank officials publicly admitted for the first time
Greece could quit the euro.

The latest plot to dragoon Britain into supporting the crumbling euro was
rejected by EU critics last night. Tory MP Peter Bone said: "To bail out the
euro after Greek exit would be absurd.

"The euro is dying on its feet, and to pour more British taxpayers' money into
saving it would be ridiculous. I am sure that the Government will not allow this
to happen. If Germany and other countries want to keep throwing good taxpayers'
money after bad, that is up to them but we should have nothing to do with it. It
is in the interests of the Greeks, and the rest of Europe, that Greece is
allowed to leave the euro."

Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "Eurozone
nations have spent hundreds of billions of euros trying to avoid the inevitable.
Further bailouts weren't the answer then and they aren't the answer now.

"Britain shouldn't be forced into paying the price for other countries'
disastrous mistakes."

And Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, urged the
Government "to shout it out, loud and clear to all those including the German
Ministry; not another penny to prop up their failed experiment."

Senior German politicians are understood to be concerned that their country's
taxpayers are fed up with shouldering the burden of supporting the euro.

If Greece does leave the euro, the German finance ministry wants to stabilise
the Greek economy and prevent financial panic spreading.

But they are desperate to share the costs among all 27 EU nations rather than
the 17 eurozone member states.

The German plan was leaked to the country's Der Spiegel newspaper. Details set
out a scheme for containing the fallout from a Greek exit to "limit the losses
of the European Central Bank".

Downing Street officials yesterday played down expectations that Britain would
throw any more cash into bailing out the euro. Last week, the Government
unveiled a proposal in the Queen's Speech for a law blocking further UK
contribution to the EU's bailout fund.

But Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg yesterday attacked Euro-sceptics for
"gloating" about the euro's troubles. Speculation was also growing yesterday
Britain could be asked to provide around £1billion to a bid to recapitalise the
European Investment Bank.

OPINION: PAGE 12

CITY: PAGE 50

Q Should UK taxpayers bail out failed EU countries?

YES: 0901 792 5302

Yes text DXTUEYEs to 86611

NO: 0901 792 5303

No text DXTUENO to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.
Lines close at midnight tonight.

'The euro is dying. To pour more British taxpayers' money into saving it would
be ridiculous'

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Enough' says Farage
'Absurd' says Bone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

Damian Green grilled by MPs over Heathrow delays: Politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6405 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen, including Damian Green, the immigration minister, being grilled
by MPs over delays at Heathrow

FULL TEXT

3.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] Lord Justice Leveson has suggested that he will drop plans to take
evidence from Jeremy Hunt if MPs insist on interrogating him about his contacts
with News Corporation. His statement will be seen as a rebuke to Harriet Harman
and other Labour MPs, who said yesterday that Hunt should answer questions on
the affair in the Commons, and to John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, who said he
agreed. (See2.24pm.)

[#xfffd] Chris Grayling, the employment minister, has announced that the
Department for Work and Pensions has cancelled a contract with A4e. Here's an
extract from the news release, which describes the outcome of a DWP review of
all its contracts with A4e. The review found no evidence of fraud.

However, while the team found no evidence of fraud, it identified significant
weaknesses in A4e's internal controls on the mandatory work activity contract in
the south east. The documentation supporting payments was seriously inadequate,
and in a small number the claim was erroneous. There was also a high incidence
of non-compliance with other relevant guidance (including A4e's own processes).

The process established prior to March fell significantly short of our
expectations. As a result, the department has concluded that continuing with
this contract presents too great a risk and we have terminated the mandatory
work activity contract with A4e for the south east.

[#xfffd] David Cameron's personal approval ratings have hit a record low,
according to one new poll.An Ipsos MORI poll for the Evening Standard shows that
the number of people dissatisfied with Cameron's performance has reached 60%.
The same poll shows the Conservatives ahead of Labour on handling of the economy
by just 1 percentage point. A separate YouGov poll puts Labour ahead of the
Conservatives on the economy for the first time since the general election. (See
9.24am.)

[#xfffd] Christopher Graham, the information commissioner, has accused the
government of trying to tighten the way the Freedom of Information Act works.
Graham made the comment in a statement to parliament about the government's
decision to veto publication of the Health Act risk register. In the past the
government has only used its veto to block publication of cabinet minutes,
Graham said. But this veto was different because it did not refer to cabinet
papers. Graham said this was a matter of concern.

The arguments employed by the [health] department at the [information] tribunal
and by the secretary of state in explanation of the subsequent veto, both in the
statement of reasons and in exchanges in the House of Commons around the
ministerial statement, certainly use the language of 'exceptional circumstances'
and 'matter of principle'. But the arguments are deployed in support of what is
in fact the direct opposite of the exceptional - a generally less qualified, and
therefore more predictable, 'safe space'. As such, the government's approach in
this matter appears to have most to do with how the law might be changed to
apply differently in future. This question falls naturally to consideration by
the justice committee who have been undertaking post-legislative scrutiny of the
Act.

[#xfffd] The Office for National Statistics has said that the life expectancy
gap between the rich and the poor is widening. As the Press Assocation reports,
disproportionate improvements in health and longevity in less deprived
neighbourhoods appear to be driving an increase in inequality in life expectancy
and disability free life expectancy, particularly amongst women. Life expectancy
for men in the least deprived areas rose from 80 to 81.4 between 2002 and 2005
and 2006 and 2009 compared to a rise during the same period from 72.2 to 73.3
for men in the poorest neighbourhoods, according to ONS figures.

[#xfffd] China has protested about David Cameron's decision to meet the Dalai
Lama during his visit to London yesterday. As the Press Assocation reports,
Britain's ambassador in Beijing, Sebastian Wood, was summoned to the Foreign
Ministry to receive a rebuke from China's Vice Foreign Minister Song Tao. Song
said the meeting with the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader amounted to serious
interference in China's internal affairs. Cameron and Nick Clegg met the Dalai
Lama privately yesterday at St Paul's Cathedral, where he was receiving the
[#xfffd]1.1 million Templeton Prize for his work affirming the spiritual
dimension of life.

[#xfffd] Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, has told the Police
Federation conference that she is strongly opposed to police being given the
right to strike. But there was "a flip side to that", she said. "Government
should respect and value the office of constable on which we depend."

[#xfffd] Jim Murphy, the shadow defence secretary, has urged ministers to should
treat cyber security in the same way as drink-driving and launch a hard-hitting
advertising campaign to encourage people to take more care online.[#xfffd] The
Department of Education has started sending King James Bibles to schools in
England to mark the 400th anniversary of its translation. The DfE says charities
and philanthropists will cover the [#xfffd]370,000 cost. Michael Gove, the
education secretary, said the bible had had a huge impact on British culture.

The King James Bible has had a profound impact on our culture. Every school
pupil should have the opportunity to learn about this book and the impact it has
had on our history, language, literature and democracy. Thanks to the generosity
of a number of charities, supported by philanthropists, we have been able to
mark the 400th anniversary of its publication by making a copy available to
every school in the country.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

2.24pm: That was rather long-winded. But we can summarise it quite easily.

[#xfffd] Lord Justice Leveson (pictured) has urged MPs not to interrogate Jeremy
Hunt and his special adviser, Adam Smith, about their links with News
Corporation before they give evidence to the inquiry. He acknowledged that he
could not stop parliament addressing these issues. But he said that it would be
unfair for this evidence to be aired in parliament first.[#xfffd] He revealed
that he was planning to take evidence from Adam Smith, Jeremy Hunt's special
adviser, and Fred Michel, the News Corp lobbyist, before the end of May. We
already knew that Hunt wil be giving evidence too.

[#xfffd] But Leveson also signalled that he would drop Hunt and the others as a
witness if MPs tried to hear evidence from them first.

Leveson was responding tocomments made by John Bercow, Harriet Harman and others
during points of order in the Commons yesterday.In a nutshell, he was telling
MPs to back off.

2.20pm: Leveson is still speaking.

He says he has had regard for the interests of parliament. He hopes parliament
will not do anything that would have a negative impact on his inquiry.

He says it would be unfair for witness statements to be made public before they
are presented to the inquiry. If that were to happen, people would make up their
minds before the witnesses gave evidence. In that case, Leveson says, he might
conclude that there would be no point in hearing the evidence.

He makes it clear that he could decide not to call Adam Smith and Fred Michel if
he thinks that people have already made up their minds about what they did.

That's over.

2.07pm:Lord Justice Leveson is making a statement at the opening of this
afternoon's inquiry hearing.

He says that the emails produced by James Murdoch about News Corporation's
dealings with the Department for Culture produced much media comment.

Leveson said at the time he urged people not to take the emails at face value.
He was not taking sides; just saying that he wanted to hear all the evidence
(ie, Jeremy Hunt's evidence) before taking sides.

He wants to allow his inquiry to proceed. Once it is over, consideration can be
given to the need for any further inquiry.

In the Commons there have been questions about this, he says.

Leveson says he has already said that this stage of his inquiry will not go into
party political matters. He said he would consider how politicians engaged with
the press. But he would not be making a judgment about whether Hunt broke the
ministerial code.

Leveson says he sees the way Hunt and Vince Cable handled the News Corp bid as
evidence of how politicians related to the media.

Leveson says George Howarth, a Labour MP, asked Hunt to disclose information
about his relationship with his special adviser, Adam Smith. Hunt said in his
reply that he would deal with this in his evidence to the inquiry.

Yesterday Harriet Harman raised this on a point of order, he says. In his reply,
John Bercow said ministers should respond to questions from MPs.

Leveson says he accepts Article 9 of the Bill of Rights. He is not trying to say
anything about what should or should not be said in parliament. MPs should
proceed to do what they think is appropriate, he says.

But he also says that things said in parliament could have an impact on the
inquiry.

He says he will call Adam Smith, Hunt's special adviser, and Fred Michel, the
News Corp lobbyist who had regular contact with Smith, before the end of May.

2.05pm: I'm interviewing Robert Chote, the chairman of the Office for Budget
Responsibility, later this week.If there are any questions you think I should
ask, please post them here, on this blog.

1.40pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Rebekah Brooks, the former News International Executive, and her
husband Charlie are among six people who have been told that they are being
charged with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice in relation to the
phone hacking investigation. The news is embarrassing to David Cameron, who was
at Eton with Charlie Brooks and who has enjoyed a close friendship with the
couple. (Whether he still counts them as close friends is not entirely clear.)

[#xfffd]Ed Miliband has announced that Labour is setting up a website to
encourage NHS staff and patients to log information about how coalition policies
are affecting the health service. In a speech to the Royal College of Nursing,
he said:

I can't promise that we will always agree about everything. But what I will
never do is what this government did: insult you by dismissing you as just a
"vested interest". You were not a vested interest. You were the defenders of the
National Health Service ...

Please go to yournhs.com and talk to us so we can all hold this Government to
account. My party wants to work with NHS staff and patients everywhere to hold
the Government to account for what's going on.

[#xfffd] The Immigration Service Union has told MPs that staff cuts were to
blame for the delays at passport control at Heathrow. The union made the claim
in evidence to the committee after Damian Green, the immigration minister, told
MPs that an extra 70 staff were being hired to help man border controls at the
airport after the Olympics. Green also confirmed that "risk-based" passport
controls could be introduced. (See 12.28pm.)

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has announced that various items of
equalities legislation will be reformed or scrapped to reduce the regulatory
burden on businesses. Here's an extract from the Home Office news release.

Businesses and the wider public will be able to have their say on the reforms in
a series of consultations. These will look at proposals to streamline the
employment tribunal process and to scrap the Third Party Harassment law, which
makes bosses liable if a member of staff is harassed by a customer.

The government will also clarify disability law for employers and remove the
Socio-Economic Duty - which would have forced public bodies to consider
class-based inequality when developing policy.

And they will review the Public Sector Equality Duty to establish whether this
is the best way to ensure public bodies consider the impact of their decisions
on different groups.

[#xfffd] Lord Wakeham, the former chairman of the Press Complaints Commission,
has told the Leveson inquiry that legislation introducing statutory regulation
of newspapers would not get through parliament. "If there's any legislation that
flows from the circumstances we are in, I have considerable reservations about
how it would get on in parliament," he said. He argued that self-regulation
worked best.

[#xfffd] Ed Balls has said that figures showing that the eurozone economy
avoided recession in the first quarter of 2012, while the UK didn't, has
strengthened the need for the government to adopt a growth strategy.[#xfffd] The
Institute for Fiscal Studies has said that the drive to promote greener, more
efficient motoring will blow a [#xfffd]13bn hole in the public finances as
revenue from fuel and road taxes dries up.

12.28pm: As far as I could tell, Damian Green seemed to do quite well. He
sounded well-briefed and reasonable. But what do I know? The Press Association
have decided to write it up as a "minister says something daft" story because
they've put this headline on their first take from Green's evidence session.

AIRPORT QUEUES 'DEPEND ON THE WIND'

And here's the start of their story.

Long waits for passengers at the UK's airports will depend on the wind, the
Immigration Minister said today.Damian Green said bringing in risk-based
security checks would not be a panacea to reducing queues.Passengers travelling
to London's Heathrow Airport from New York may well have longer waits to clear
security if their flight arrives 10 minutes after one from Lagos, Nigeria, than
if it arrives 10 minutes earlier."That will depend on the wind, over which, with
the best will in the world, airlines and the Border Force don't have the
control," he said.

Here are some of the other key points from the hearing.

[#xfffd] Green confirmed that the government could bring back "risk-based"
passport controls. This system, which involves using intelligence to focus
passport checks on passengers most likely to be trying to enter the UK
illegally, was piloted when Brodie Clark was in charge of the Border Force. But
Green said that the data showing that it worked was tainted because checks were
also relaxed to cut queuing. In other words, there were "queue-based controls"
he said. He also said "risk-based" checks were not a panacea.

The other point I would make is that they [risk-based checks would not be a
panacea for queues. It's not at all obvious that just having risk-based controls
reduces queues. They may well involve doing more thorough checks on some of
those non-EU passengers.

[#xfffd] He said he did not acceptthe findings of a report from the Heathrow
independent monitoring board saying the UK Border Agency was detaining children
at Heathrow in "degrading" conditions.

I've visited some of these holding facilities at Heathrow, and they're not
ideal. I thought the report used language that I would not have used. It talked
about "degrading". I think that's too strong, frankly. But they are not ideal.

[#xfffd] He urged airlines to provide better information about passenger
arrivals. As the Press Association reports, he said that on Friday the Border
Force was told to expect some 2,500 passengers between 6am and 9am yesterday at
Heathrow. This rose to 5,000 at six hours' notice, but in reality some 7,500
passengers turned up, Green said.

The general point is that the earlier and the better the information the Border
Force can have from the airlines, the more likely it is the right numbers of
people will be at the right desks at the right time.

But Green rejected the idea of fining airlines for supplying information late.
He said he wanted airlines to work in partnership with immigration officials.

[#xfffd] He said a new central control room opening at Heathrow later this month
would help deal with delays because it would make it easier for officials to
identify where queues were buiding up. He said that 16 mobile teams, with 10
people in each team, would be on hand to deal with the queues.

[#xfffd] He said that 70 new staff were being hired to work at Heathrow after
the Olympics. Extra staff are already being recruited to work at the airport
during the Olympics, and the 70 new people will ensure that problems don't arise
when those extra staff leave after August.

[#xfffd] He said MPs would get the chance to vote on the government's new
guidelines telling the courts how to interpret the right to family life when
judging whether to deport people. Theresa May, the home secretary, is going to
publish the guidance because she thinks it is too easy for illegal immigrants
are using their right to a family life under article 8 of the European
convention on human rights to avoid deportation. Green said details of this
guidance would be published soon. He would not discuss exactly how it would be
given legal force, but he said there would be a "parliamentary vehicle" so that
the courts would know it reflected the will of parliament.

[#xfffd] He said Home Office figures being published soon would show that drug
seizures were still strong.

12.11pm: The hearing is over. Keith Vaz thanks Damian Green for attending.

I'll post a summary in a moment.

12.03pm: Labour's David Winnick goes next.

Green says he is not trying to stop people coming to the UK to visit relatives.

Mark Reckless, a Conservative, goes next.

Q: Some 82% of people who apply for these visas are accepted. But some people
must be getting in wrongly, he says.

Greens says that happens with any visa system.

Other countries run their visitor visa systems without a right of appeal. And
other parts of the UK visitor visa system do not allow an appeal, he says.

Vaz goes next.

Q: Are you happy about the payment of bonuses worth [#xfffd]3.5m to Border Force
staff?

Green says this money is not just going to those at the top. It is going to
middle-ranking officials, who are typically getting a few hundred pounds. No one
is getting more than [#xfffd]10,000.

Q: But why are any bonuses being paid to an organisation that has had such a
poor record?

Green says within the organisation some people have been doing a good job. They
deserve a bonus.

Q: And are you happy about people in the public sector being paid a bonus just
to do their job?

Green says that, as for whether bonuses in the public sector are ever justified,
"that's above my pay grade".

11.58am:Keith Vaz takes over.Q: The government is taking away the right of
appeal for people refused a family vistor. But the government loses many of
these, and so it looks as if you are just taking away the right of appeal just
to stop the government loses. Why are you abolishing a system that works?

Green says that when the right to appeal was introduced in 2000, 20,000 appeals
a year were expected. There are now 50,000 appeals a year. In many cases, people
introduce new information at the appeal stage. It would be better for people
just to apply again.

He says the present system is a "goldmine for immigration lawyers". This is not
something that was in the Magna Carta. It is a comparatively new right.

Vaz declares an interest. His wife is an immigration lawyer, he says.

Q: Are you happy to meet people to discuss this?

Green says he would be happy to have a meeting about this.

11.54am: Labour's Steve McCabe goes next.

Q: There have been reports about children being detained in degrading conditons
at Heathrow.Are they true?

Green says he has read the Heathrow independent monitoring board report that
generated the news story. He would accept that the facilities for children are
not ideal. But he would challenge the use of the word "degrading".

Children are sometimes kept in unsuitable rooms for a number of hours. But if
they arrive in the middle of the night, you cannot expect social services to
pick them up.

11.49am:Michael Ellis, a Conservative, goes next.

Q: You are spending money on new uniforms for Border Force officials. Is this a
good idea?

Green says uniforms wear out. They need to be replaced. Only [#xfffd]1.1m is
being spent on new uniforms this year. That is not a huge sum, he suggests.

Labour's Alun Michael goes next.

Green says the government wil soon publish its paper about the interpretation of
article 8 of the European convention on human rights. The government wants to
give better balance to the courts about how they should interpret the article 8
right to a family life.

Q: Will there be primary legislation?

There will be a parliamentary vehicle, Green says. That is all he can say about
that now.

Parliament will get a say, so it will be parliament speaking, not just
government speaking.

11.44am:Keith Vaz is asking questions again.

Q: Oyster cards can be swiped very quickly. Why can't passports be swiped that
quickly?

Green says there is more information on a passport than on an Oyster card. But
the system could be quicker. Even saving a few seconds per passenger at an
e-gate would help.

Q: Are you conscious of the reputational damage Britain has suffered because of
the delays at Heathrow? There are no British airports with a five-star or a
four-star rating on the five-star airports website.

Green says that of course this is a worry for the government. A white paper on
airport capacity in the south east of England will be published soon.

As far as the Border Force can contribute to this, by getting "the right people
in the right place at the right time", it is addressing the problem.

11.42am: Labour's Bridget Phillipson goes next.

Q: Are drug seizure figures being affected by the need to deploy more staff at
Heathrow?

Green says he will be publishing drug seizure figures soon. He has got into
trouble before with the national statistician for releasing them in advance, so
he won't reveal them now. But he is confident that the level of seizures is
high.

11.39am: Labour's Steve McCabe is asking the questions now.

Q: Will there be a reduction in staff at other places, like Eurostar, because of
the need to have people manning Heathrow during the Olympics?

Green says the extra staff being taken on to work at Heathrow during the
Olympics are not just coming from the Border Force. They are coming from other
places too.

Q: So there won't be problems at Eurostar or anywhere else?

Green says other places of entry will still be properly manned during the
Olympics.

11.32am: Labour's David Winnick goes next.

Q: What do you say to those calling for a return to risk-based border controls?

Green says that, in principle, he is not against risk-based controls. Ministers
thought they were trialling this last summer. But they were also doing
"queue-based controls". That means the data about the success of the pilot is
"tainted".

Risk-based checks might involve doing more thorough checks on non-EU passengers.

If a plane from the US arrives after a plane from Nigeria, it may take longer
for the Americans to get through passport control, he says.

Q: Brodie Clark says every non-European arriving at Heathrow will have already
been checked against a watch list.

Green says that depends whether they are arriving from the EU or from elsewhere.

Q: Given what happened to Brodie Clark, do you think immigration officers are
now asking passengers more questions than necessary to avoid the fate that
happened to him?

No, says Green. He does not think this has made any difference. Immigration
officers have always been very keen to protect the borders.

Q: Have you had meetings with the unions?

Green says he recently had a "useful" meeting with union officials at Heathrow.

Q: Will you meet with the unions to discuss their grievances?

Green says he will meet with anyone. But the recent strike was about pensions.
Pension policy is not a matter for him, he says.

Q: But what about a meeting about Heathrow?

Green says he speaks to staff a lot.

11.29am: Michael Ellis, a Conservative, goes next.Q: Can you get airlines to
space their flights out?

That's tricky, says Green, because the airlines all want to arrive at the same
time - or just five minutes before their competitors. This is a commercial
matter for them.

Q: Could you apply sanctions to airlines that provide information about
passenger numbers too late?

Green says there is more that can be done. But he is reluctant to use sanctions
because this is "a team game". It is important for all partners to work
together.

11.25am:James Clappison, a Conservative, is asking questions now.

Q: Will the border staff get information in a timely way in time for the
Olympics?

Green says the Home Office is in intensive talks about this with the airlines.
"The short answer is yes," he says. The new hub at Heathrow should be operating
soon.

Julian Huppert, a Lib Dem, goes next.Q: I'm worried about Stansted having a
structural problem because it does not use its full capacity.

Green says Stansted does use its full capacity, but only at certain times, like
on a Friday night.

Q: If border officials are doing unnecessary checks, they are wasting time,
aren't they?

Yes, says Green.

Q: John Vince, the independent inspector, has found that two thirds of checks
are unnecessary. What are you doing about this?

Green says that was under the old regime. The Border Force is now under new
managment.

11.20am: Vaz is still asking the questions.

Q: At Stansted the Border Force did know 6,000 people were coming. But the
e-gates still were not working. Are you saying more predictability woud help?

Green says more predictability would help.

But Stansted clearly has "structural problems", he says.

At Heathrow a central control room is being built, where all the information
will come in. Officials will be able to see where queues are building up.

Green says he has 16 teams of 10 people each at Heathrow to help deal with the
queues.

After the Olympics 70 extra people will be taken on, he says. There have been
worries that there will be problems post-Olympics when the staff recruited for
the Olympics take leave. These 70 extra staff will help to address that problem.
They were going to be recruited to work at Terminal 2 when it re-opens in 2014.
But they are being hired early to deal with the post-Olympics problem, he says.

11.13am:Keith Vaz, the chairman, starts the questioning.

Q: In an interview in the Times on Saturday you said British firms were addicted
to immigration. Do you think the British are addicted to queues?

No, says Damian Green. The delays at Heathrow and Stansted have not been
acceptable.Q: So why has it taken so long to address the problem?

Green says that over recent years border officials got used to dealing with
queues by relaxing checks. That was not acceptable. The Home Office has now
moved into "a new era". The first priority has to be border security.

Q: You have talked about average waiting times. But the key point is peak
waiting times. At Stansted on Sunday people were queuing all the way back to the
aircraft. The e-gates were not working.

Green says Stansted is different to Heathrow. It's a holiday airport. Planes
arrive in a bunch from 10pm on a Sunday night until midnight, or 1am.

Green says he was at Heathrow on Monday morning. That is a peak time too. On
Friday the Border Force was told that 2,500 people would be arriving at peak
time on Monday. But on the Monday 7,500 people actually arrived. Some tickets
are sold at the last minute. The Border Force was given just six hours' notice
of this.

11.13am: Damian Green is starting his evidence now.

11.00am:Damian Green, the immigration minister, is about to give evidence to the
Commons home affairs committee about the delays at Heathrow.

You can watch the hearing here.

10.53am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here.And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some stories and articles that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Jim Pickard and George Parker in the Financial Times (subscription)
says Liam Byrne, the shadow work and pensions secretary, is expected to be
demoted in Ed Miliband's forthcoming reshuffle.

More importantly, Mr Miliband is expected to demote Liam Byrne, currently work
and pensions spokesman and head of Labour's policy review. "As good as Liam is,
those are two big jobs for one person," said one senior party figure.

The Blairite Mr Byrne fell out with Mr Miliband over the issue of benefits
reform, in particular when he made a major speech without alerting the leader's
office earlier in the spring. Afterwards he announced he wanted to stand for
Birmingham mayor, a plan that imploded when the city voted against having one a
fortnight ago.

Allies of Mr Miliband say that he no longer feels the need to mollify figures in
the party when he disagrees with them. They use the analogy of how in the early
days his attempts to pacify MPs were like carrying a "Ming vase" on the lurching
deck of a boat - but now he feels emboldened.

Labour MPs have criticised the policy review under Mr Byrne for its bureaucratic
process and lack of eye-catching ideas. The party is holding a "national policy
forum" next month and is hoping to be able to publicise some new policies by the
autumn conference.

[#xfffd] Christopher Hope in the Daily Telegraph says the Institute of Chartered
Accountants for England and Wales has said the government's plan to remove child
benefit from high earners could be a disaster.

The Institute of Chartered Accountants for England and Wales has told the
Treasury that the controversial plan to deny the benefit to families with a high
earner "is seriously flawed in principle and in practice".

In a confidential report seen by The Daily Telegraph, it urged ministers to
rethink the plans when the Finance Bill is voted on by MPs later this month. The
institute, which represents 116,000 chartered accountants, claimed that unless
the Government found a more workable alternative, the tax plan could be an
"operational and reputational disaster".

The popular benefit is worth [#xfffd]20.30 a week for the first child and
[#xfffd]13.40 a week for every sibling. It is taken up by 97 per cent of
eligible parents. But from January, any family with a parent earning more than
[#xfffd]50,000 a year will lose a proportion of their entitlement. Any family
with a single earner on more than [#xfffd]60,000 a year will not receive it at
all.

The institute claimed that the plans were doomed because it involved combining
the benefits system, which is based on households, and the tax system, which is
based on individuals. This meant "using the tax system to claw back from one
individual a benefit paid to another", it said. An additional 500,000 people
would have to fill out self-assessment tax returns, the institute warned. HM
Revenue & Customs would have to claw back wrongly paid child benefit through tax
codes, but this could take up to three years, it added. If a couple separated in
the interim it could be "impossible" to get the money back.

[#xfffd] Rowena Mason in the Daily Telegraph says the public accounts committee
has found that up to [#xfffd]1bn is being spent finding jobs for unemployed
people who may have found work without state help.

In a report, the Public Accounts Committee will raise concerns about the
Coalition's Work Programme, which pays private companies to find jobs for
unemployed people.

One of the major worries is that companies are getting paid at least [#xfffd]400
just to assess each candidate, when many would be in the same situation "without
the programme".

Some of those unemployed people would already have found jobs of their own
accord, while others will remain on benefits that continue to be funded by the
taxpayer.

The report will say payments for people who did not need the programme amount to
nearly [#xfffd]1bn and could "potentially" be even higher - the equivalent of
[#xfffd]40 for every household in Britain.

The full report is now on the public accounts committee website.

[#xfffd] Robert Winnett in the Daily Telegraph says a big City firm is claiming
that the austerity programme is a "myth".

Tullett Prebon, a bond trader, said that "public expenditures have hardly been
reduced at all" and that claims of a "big cut in public spending is bare-faced
deception".

Figures highlighted by the firm show that public spending actually rose during
2010-11 and fell by just 1.5 percent last year.

Government spending is more than [#xfffd]22 billion higher than it was in 2008
when the financial crisis erupted.

[#xfffd] Rachel Sylvester in the Times (paywall) says the government contains
too many ministers who are clever but not sensible.

George Osborne is certainly clever - there are few more intelligent or engaging
people with whom to discuss politics - but is he sensible? A former special
adviser, he likes to joke that the "guild" of professional politicians must be
protected and he prides himself on being a master craftsman of the trade. Ever
since he scored a political victory by unveiling a plan to cut inheritance tax
in his 2007 party conference speech, he has become obsessed by wrong-footing his
opponents with tactical announcements. Like Roald Dahl's Enormous Crocodile he
is sometimes so proud of his "secret plans and clever tricks" that he fails to
spot the elephant traps.

His latest wheeze was the cut in the 50p top rate of tax. It may have been
economically justifiable and cheering to the Tory Right, but it failed to
understand the public mood in these difficult times. Not very astute. This week
the Chancellor is blaming business for not doing enough to get the country out
of recession, sending out ministers, in a bizarre buck- passing exercise, to
tell companies to stop whingeing . That's just too clever by half. One Tory
minister says: "There's a danger George becomes Gordon. He likes playing the
chess game several moves ahead and that can turn into tactical manoeuvring."

10.21am: The Department for Education has said that schools will be banned from
using biometric information about their pupils without their parents' consent.
The full details are in this DfE news release. And here's a statement from Nick
Gibb (pictured), the schools minister.

Biometrics in schools is a sensitive issue. We want schools to be in no doubt of
their responsibilities when it comes to young people's personal data.

I have heard from many angry parents after they have learned that their
children's personal data was being used by schools without their knowledge. The
new legislation gives the power back to parents, as it requires parental consent
before the information can be collected.

In the age of the internet, identity and the integrity of biometric data are of
increasing importance. Young people need to understand from an early age the
sensitivity of such personal data. The provisions of the Protection of Freedoms
Act 2012 and the accompanying advice to schools will help to reinforce that
message.

10.10am: The CPS are charging Rebekah Brooks, her husband Charlie and four
others with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. The full CPS news
release is about the prosecution is here.There are more details about the story
on our Leveson inquiry live blog.

9.24am: Today's YouGov polling is interesting. Here are the headline figures.

Labour: 45% (up 2 points since YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 31% (no
change)Ukip: 8% (no change)Lib Dems: 7% (down 3)

Labour lead: 14 points

Government approval: -42

This 14-point lead is the largest Labour have had in a YouGov poll since the
general election. But the most important figure is probably one in the table
showing what the voters think of the parties on particular issues (pdf). Labour
are ahead of the Conservatives (by 27 points to 26 points) on the question of
which party would be best at handling the economy in general. This is often
considered the most important indicator and, as the YouGov tracker (pdf) shows,
this is the first time Labour have had a lead on this since the 2010 election.
Looking at the other economic indicators, Labour are also ahead on taxation by 5
points and on unemployment by 15 points.

9.00am: It's nice to be able to start the morning with something that might
cheer my readers. Regular readers will know that parrotkeeper and PorFavor have
been very keen to find out what has happened to Michael Gove's promise to
deliver a King James Bible to every school.Well, at last I'm able to bring them
some news. Or at least my colleague Patrick Wintour can. He's posted this on
Twitter.

Michael Gove's King James bible has finally reached schools,including church
schools.

- Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour) May 15, 2012

If I get any more on this exciting development, I will, of course, let you know.

As for the Westminster agenda, here's what's on the list.

9.30am: The Office for National Statistics publishes life expectancy figures.

9.45am: Tim Loughton, the children's minister, delivers a speech on the child
exploitation action plan.

10am: The Crown Prosecution Services announces whether Rebekah Brooks, the
former News International chief executive, and six others will be charged with
perverting the course of justice.

10am: Sky presenter Adam Boulton and Lord Wakeham, the former chairman of the
Press Complaints Commission, give evidence to the Leveson inquiry.

11am: Damian Green, the immigration minister, gives evidence to the Commons home
affairs committee about immigration controls at Heathrow. Other witnesses
include Rob Whiteman, chief executive of the UK Border Agency, Virgin Atlantic,
British Airways, BAA, the Immigration Services Union and the Public and
Commercial Services Union. I'll be covering Green's evidence in detail.

11am: Lynne Featherstone, the equalities minister, announces plans to reduce
equalities-related regulations in response to the government's Red Tape
Challenge.

11.15am: Charles Hendry, the energy minister, gives evidence to the Commons
energy committee about nuclear power.

11.45am: Ed Miliband speaks at the Royal College of Nursing annual conference.

2.30pm: Peter Luff, the defence minister, gives evidence to the Commons defence
committee about defence procurement.

Of course the real story is on the continent, where the Eurozone crisis
continues and George Osborne, the chancellor, is attending a meeting of EU
finance minister. My colleague Graeme Wearden has all the latest on his Eurozone
debt crisis live blog.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

Conservative 1922 committee votes as Europe burns

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1289 words

ABSTRACT

The protracted recession is unsettling politics-as-usual but how will this
affect the Tory backbench factions battling for power?

FULL TEXT

The eurozone totters amid familiar predictions from Athens to Madrid that the
old politics is dead. Meanwhile Britain's Conservative party, as enduring a
three-century symbol of the old politics as you could hope to find, is engaged
in what it regards as a titanic struggle for its future: the new session's
elections to the executive of the backbench 1922 committee.

The '22 is the Tory equivalent of the Parliamentary Labour party (PLP), the
elected members' trade union branch, where grievances are aired and interests
defended, some of them noble, others, like MPs' expenses, less so. The battle
that will be resolved within the next 24 hours - when MPs vote on nominees
announced on Tuesday - is about loyalty towards David Cameron's regime versus
dissent.

At stake, as many reports have explained in recent weeks (here's the Guardian's
Nicholas Watt and some names provided by James Forsyth of the Spectator) is the
attempt by a group of younger Tory MPs to wrest control from the old guard, some
of them seen (rightly) as embittered old Thatcherites who have lost the plot.
The younger faction are known as the 301 group after the number of seats Cameron
will need to win a majority in the new 600-seat Commons in 2015.

Back in 2010, Cameron, who preaches localism more than he practises it, tried to
"reform" the '22 by allowing ministers to attend (but not vote) - as the PLP
allows - which prompted a backlash. Graham Brady, a resigner "on principle" over
grammar schools became chairman, Christopher Chope, an old school Maggie-ista
ideologue and Mark Pritchard, a young school one, became joint secretaries.
Chope is being targeted.

Let's not bother with the details. The 301 group is trying to be inclusive by
putting names on its slate that includes rebels and unreconstructed rightwingers
to show it's not a toady's claque. Cornish pasty rebel George Eustice, MP for
Camborne and Redruth, a former Hague press secretary and defector from Ukip, is
part of the team. He has a good instinct for compromise, even over Europe.

But what does it all mean as Europe gently frazzles and David Goodhart,
ex-editor of Prospect, now director of the Demos thinktank, pens an ambitious FT
article (paywall) promoting a new settlement for British politics, what he calls
"post-liberalism"? I'll come back to that. What it means in wider terms is that
the protracted recession - France's economy flatlining again, Germany a bit
brighter - is unsettling politics-as-usual, but not overthrowing it.

Rich countries in the north like Finland and the Netherlands - Angela Merkel's
coalition too in state elections - are revolting against the tax burdens they
feel they bear to bail out the "profligate" south. But the fates of Spain, Italy
and above all Greece hang in the balance between euro-doom and all the
uncertainties of the restored drachma.

No less a thinker than Paul Staines - Guido Fawkes to the blogosphere - reveals
in Tuesday's Times (paywall) that he will use his Irish vote (Guido O'Fawkes?)
to say no to the EU's fiscal stability treaty. Since it does not require
unanimity, Guido's vote will be as effective as Cameron's veto last December.
But we get his drift: he stands for restoring the dear old Irish punt. It is as
good a reason as I can think of for voting yes.

Yet even in the eurozone drama we can see politics at work, except in the
darkest corners of the Greek right's New Dawn party, which - like most
anti-politics parties in history - would end up bringing politics into
everything - office, kitchen, bedroom, brain. Syriza's charismatic young leader,
Alexis Tsipras, who might - might - lead the biggest parliamentary party if
fresh elections are called, is clearly trying to bluff the Germans ("you
wouldn't dare kick us out of the euro, you'd lose too much money") and they
("yes we would") are trying to bluff him back. The stakes are high, but this is
politics too, albeit with even higher stakes than the 1922 committee's
elections.

At Westminster the loyalists look at the likes of Nadine Dorries, "Mad Nad" to
her detractors, and shake their heads in despair. Dorries, former nurse turned
Tory MP for Mid-Beds, won a moment of fame after calling Cameron and George
Osborne "two arrogant posh boys who don't know the price of milk".

Dorries, who also earned a panellist's slot on Have I Got News for You last
week, is a familiar type who probably mistakes publicity for support. Plenty of
those MPs she reports as patting her on the back will be happy for her to act as
an expendable battering ram - and see what turns up. It's not to say she or her
allies are stupid, they have a point when they rail against Lords reform and gay
marriage as odd coalition priorities, or accuse No 11 of a poor budget.

Incidentally, Paul Goodman, himself an ex-MP (he stood down by choice) offers a
shrewd portrait of the sort of mild, unheroic backbencher who will decide the
outcome of Wednesday's ballot here at the ConservativeHome website. He's not
really a beast, red in tooth and claw. It's worth a look.

No, what the Cameroons lack is common sense as well as the common touch, a
killer failing in politics. As Rachel Sylvester puts it in the Times (paywall),
this cabinet is full of clever people, but less well endowed with sensible ones.
Cameron revealing to his 166,000 Facebook followers that one of his favourite
albums is Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon is no substitute for clear
leadership. Voters do not elect PMs for their taste in retro-rockers, the Tory
right is correct about that too.

Surprise, surprise, I do not share Polly Toynbee's certainty that this is an
incompetent, ideologically rigid one-term government; it ain't over yet and
Labour - or a British Syriza or a New Dawn party - must also show that it is fit
to govern for the coalition to be ousted in (or before) 2015. By then Greece
will have shown us what is practical politics and what is not.

But remember, we kept our drachma and it has already been devalued (thanks
goodness), so that is one less option. So Cameron will have to get a grip, ditch
under-performing ministers, cajole Osborne into a less fatalistic frame of mind
and persuade voters he knows where he wants to take up.

In Goodhart's "post-liberal" roadmap that would be to reverse the Thatcher-Blair
paradigm, the mix of Tory economic liberalism with Labour's social liberalism.
We need to be tougher on welfare and immigration, tougher on conservative values
like discipline and character in school, more supportive of communities and
patriotism: in short less of leftie social liberalism and of Maggie's economic
version, more of the reverse.

There's an opportunity there for Ed Miliband who has had a good 2012 so far, his
"responsible capitalism" speech in 2010 now looking worthier of attention than
some thought at the time. He too has a reshuffle looming. What can he do to look
more authoritative? Brother David, Alistair Darling, even Peter Mandelson and
Tony Blair, are all creeping back into the headlines after their sabbaticals
from frontline combat. Does Miliband have the confidence to include some of
them?

But there is also opportunity in the new fluidity for all those aspiring third
and fourth parties that are elbowing their way into the mainstream debate - from
the Greens setting their sights on the Lib Dem votes to Ukip (doing the same to
the Tories) and assorted nationalist aspirations, most boldly expressed by Alex
Salmond. There is no God-ordained reason why the parties that dominated
Westminster in 1912 - Tory, Liberal, Labour and nationalist - should expect to
do so in 2012 and our uncertain future.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

G2: Aditya Chakrabortty: With Greece suffering for the sins of the euro, it's
time to ask: is the single currency worth saving at all?

BYLINE: Aditya Chakrabortty

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 910 words


Never in the history of the British media have so many commentators lavished
such intense concern on so abstract a concept. I refer, of course, to the euro -
because, once you get past the crude notes and coins, what could be more
satisfactorily airy than the optimal conditions for a currency union across 17
nations? Over the past few days, from those first reproachful pips of the Today
programme to the final credits of Newsnight, pundits and politicians, financiers
and journalists have thrust and parried over how to rescue the single currency.
Will it hold together if Athens marches out? Will Lisbon, Madrid even, have to
lumber after it? But I have yet to hear discussion of a more fundamental
question: is the single currency project worth saving at all?

In raising this, I'm not throwing in my cards with the Ukip-ers, half of whom
still view Brussels as engaged in a knavish plot to straighten all known
bananas. Nor am I forgetting those grand promises made upon the euro's launch
just over a decade ago - it's just that I can no longer see how anyone might
make them with a straight face, especially that prediction from Wim Duisenberg,
inaugural head of the European Central Bank, about how an era of "peace and
prosperity" would follow.

Tip-toeing between the absolutism of the 'phobes and 'philes, it is possible to
draw conclusions about the worth of the single currency based upon how eurozone
politicians and officials have behaved in office. Not just on their record of
crisis management - which has obviously been woeful - but also in how northern
European governments have rounded on southern nations in distress, forcefeeding
them harmful diets of economic austerity and blithely exposing them to violent
social turbulence while preaching that this is the way all responsible, adult
countries behave. In other words, if the euro looks as if it is no longer worth
saving, it is not because of some unconquerable defect of birth, but because of
the way in which those at the top have behaved.

The prime example is Greece, which was the guinea pig for the European austerity
programme in an attempt to bring down government borrowing and restore it to
economic health. Two years on, public debt continues to rise, even while the
country sinks further into a depression and any family that can afford it tries
to save, in order to send their children abroad. The political result of this
was clearly visible at last weekend's general election, when more than 60% of
Greek voters plumped for an anti-austerity party.

In the days since, the reaction from German and European officialdom has been
that such overwhelming and natural revulsion by the Greeks at being forced on to
subsistence wages or out of their jobs completely was simply petulance. "I can
only hope that those responsible in Greece will quickly see reason," sighed the
German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, in an interview last weekend. At
least he didn't dare argue that all that hurting was actually working. Anyone
with their eyes open would have seen all this upheaval coming a mile off.

Greece, like all the other sinners of the euro club, has effectively been put on
an IMF structural-adjustment programme, of the kind that Washington economists
routinely used to impose on bankrupt governments in the developing world (until,
that is, many decided to tap up Beijing instead): hundreds of billions in a loan
in return for stringent spending cuts and sweeping changes to the welfare system
and labour laws, as well a firesale of publicly owned assets. All these elements
were in the package imposed on Athens - except that, as a member of the single
currency, it couldn't even enjoy the benefits of that traditional IMF remedy, a
devaluation.

As mushrooms emerge after the rain, a structural-adjustment programme regularly
leads to destabilising violence: the IMF riot. Joe Stiglitz, in Globalisation
and its Discontents, his memoirs as chief economist at the World Bank, records
how the slashing of food and fuel subsidies in Indonesia in the late 90s led to
the overthrow of the government. Seeing as that was the Suharto dictatorship,
that was ultimately no bad thing. But the point is that eurozone officials and
politicians would have guessed the political upheaval and social unrest that
would follow from this imposed austerity - and they did it anyway.

When northern European politicians justify the horrors they have visited on
Greece, they normally draw a binary distinction between austerity and
profligacy. Yet the imprudent banks have suffered less and later than the
people, nor did painful structural reforms have to come alongside savage cuts.

Euro-optimists will point to signs of change: Germany's belated admission that
its own workers must earn and spend more, the ousting of Nicolas Sarkozy. But
Germany cannot inflate enough to offset the severe deflation it has helped
impose on southern Europe, and, for all his rhetoric, Francois Hollande is
really just Alistair Darling with a French accent.

If the euro fails, Europe fails, Angela Merkel said at the end of last year,
coming clean on what was at stake. But while it is still alive, the euro must be
counted a failure. Because the single currency was always about a political
project as well as a printing press, and faced with their first major crisis,
eurozone politicians didn't even try to combine the two.

Captions:

A demonstrator in Athens, protesting against austerity measures imposed on
Greece

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

Leading Article: Green politics: A movement in search of a voice

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 680 words


Voting blue to go green was always going to require a leap of faith, and six
years on from David Cameron coining that slogan it sounds a hollow ring. His
government has a few worthwhile initiatives on energy saving and green
investment, but these are not being pursued with any oomph. As soon as green
building regulations got branded a conservatory tax, they were meekly dropped.
Another rethink is under way on airport expansion, binning the principled stance
briefly taken in opposition. The chancellor has taken to cynically rousing the
Tory party against "burdensome" green tape. And a recent long-promised set-piece
intervention by the prime minister himself turned out to be no more than brief
remarks.

This is one area where the Liberal Democrats are putting up something of a fight
- witness Nick Clegg's robust speech which answered George Osborne's tendency to
treat green growth as an oxymoron, by pointing to the vibrancy of a green
economy that's expanding at 4% a year. The Conservative mainstream, however, is
making a crude calculation - that in hard times like these, voters are little
interested in the future of the planet, and will smile on politicians who
downgrade such lofty matters in favour of the here and now. Labour's quietude on
matters environmental suggests that it, too, believes there are few votes here.

The oddity, however, is that a steadily growing band of the voters themselves
are pushing the planet centre-stage. It is still a smallish band, to be sure,
but in this month's local elections the Green party advanced a little on every
measure. It put forward 943 candidates, and the indications are that they
chalked up a respectable average of approaching 10% in these contests. In wards
that they had fought previously, they inched forward 0.7 percentage points
compared with last year, and by 1.4 points against the baseline of May 2008, the
pre-recessionary moment when most of the same seats were last contested. The
party picked up a handful of extra councillors to add to its total of over 130
across England and Wales, and its sister party in Scotland made parallel
advances. Meanwhile, in London, mayoral candidate Jenny Jones pushed the Liberal
Democrat Brian Paddick into fourth place.

Mr Paddick's humiliation was not any indictment of the Lib Dems' reasonable
showing on the natural environment, but a reflection of the wider political one.
Just as reactionary voters use Ukip to send an indignant signal of "none of the
above", there are progressives who do the same thing with the Greens. The
Liberal Democrat brand was previously attractive to refuseniks across the
spectrum, but it has been tainted by association with the coalition. That should
enhance the opportunistic prospects for a shrewdly led Green operation.

Shrewd leadership, though, has often been in short supply. It is not just the
cranky policies, such as a health service for animals, that occasionally pop up
in party platforms, denting credibility. It is also that - as in the Occupy
movement - there are purist elements who buckle at the very idea of any
individual assuming to give direction. Indeed there was no leader until Caroline
Lucas took up the role in 2008. Without leadership, previous Green advances have
proved flashes in the pan: during an earlier brief period of Lib Dem misery,
they briefly shot out of nowhere to claim 15% of the vote in the 1989 European
elections, but soon sank back into obscurity. One important reason the party
might have hoped its current advances would prove more enduring is Ms Lucas's
plausible public face.

After four years, however, Ms Lucas has decided to hand on the reins. The Green
hope must be that a leadership contest will give exposure to energetic activists
with experience of local government, and uncover someone else with a talent for
taking the message beyond the tribe. With their uneasy relationship with
modernity, the Greens will never be to everyone's taste. But their central
mission has never been more important - an anonymous collective cannot make the
case; a convincing figurehead must be found.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 15, 2012 Tuesday 7:10 AM GMT

Labour increases poll lead to 14 points

BYLINE: Daniel Bentley

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 108 words


Labour has established a 14-point lead over the Conservatives, according to a
poll.

Support for Labour is on 45%, while that for the Tories is on 31%, the YouGov
survey for The Sun suggested.

The Liberal Democrats are on just 7%, in fourth place behind the UK Independence
Party on 8%, YouGov found.

The poll also discovered that Labour has crept ahead of the Tories as voters'
preferred choice for dealing with the problems facing the economy.

The Tories' one-point lead on its handling of the economy has been reversed
since two weeks ago so that Labour is now backed on the issue by 27% to 26%.

:: YouGov interviewed 1,720 adults on May 13 and 14.

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour's 14pt lead on Tories

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 113 words


LABOUR last night posted a 14-point lead over the Tories - their biggest for a
DECADE.

A YouGov poll for The Sun found that the party was supported by 45 per cent of
people, far ahead of the Conservatives on just 31 per cent.

It also found that anti-EU party UKIP is on eight per cent - having leapfrogged
the Lib Dems, who languish on just seven per cent.

Ed Miliband's advantage is the biggest lead YouGov have recorded for Labour
since Britain's top polling company was started in 2002.

A disastrous two months for the Government, kicked off by the botched Budget,
has seen both Coalition parties' fortunes plummet.

ED AHEAD Labour 45% Conservatives 31% UKIP 8% Lib Dems 7% YouGov Poll

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Adams' 'support' from UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 146 words


THE campaign by Gerry Adams to have the EU treaty rejected is being boosted in
his back yard - by UK nationalists.

Leaflets urging a No vote on May 31 have been dropped through letterboxes in Co
Louth by the United Kingdom Independence Party.

And Louth Labour TD Ged Nash said the Sinn Fein leader and UKIP boss Nigel
Farage make strange bed-fellows.

Nash said: "For a man like Gerry who has staked his political career on booting
the Brits out of Ireland, he's keeping strange company.

"The fact Adams and Farage are on the same side is just another reason to vote
Yes."

Mr Adams was recently attacked in the Dail by Enda Kenny about suffering from a
complex by having "called in the reinforcements".

And when Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin previously complained UKIP had
campaigned here against the Lisbon Treaty, Mr Kenny agreed that the party should
stay out of Irish politics.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anti-treaty ... Gerry

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 15, 2012 Tuesday 10:33 AM GMT

Lord Owen attacks coalition over Lords reform 'farce';
Lord Owen, the former foreign secretary, has attacked the Coalition's House of
Lords reforms as "cack-handed" and a "farce".

BYLINE: By Robert Watts Deputy Political Editor and Josie Ensor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 933 words


The peer also criticised the "childish" way in which the Tories and the Liberal
Democrats have used the issue as a "bargaining tool" between the two parties.

He fears that the reforms will descend into a "monumental mess" in the coming
months and ultimately end in failure.

During the 1980s Lord Owen was the one of the founders of the Social Democrat
Party which later merged with the Liberals to create today's Liberal Democrats.
Lords reform is the pet project of the party's current leader, Nick Clegg.

Although a bill for Lords reform featured in last week's Queen's Speech, there
are signs that appetite in Downing Street is waning amid trenchant opposition.

Nearly three quarters of peers polled by The Sunday Telegraph in recent days
said they will not stand for election in the reformed upper chamber, raising
fears that the Coalition's plans would lead to a massive loss of expertise and
experience from Parliament.

A similar proportion of the 50 Lords surveyed by this newspaper opposed the
Coalition's reforms, which would cut the number of members of the Upper House
from more than 900 to as few as 300, at least 80% of whom would be elected for
15-year terms.

Lord Owen was one of 43 of the peers polled who said the Upper House needs to be
reformed, even though he disagreed with the changes devised by Nick Clegg and
other senior Liberal Democrats.

"There does need to be change," said Lord Owen.

"You look around the chamber and you can see the person who is a friend of
George Osborne. You can see the person who was a big donor. And you can see the
person who is an expert and deserves to be there."

The peer, who served as a Labour foreign secretary in the late 1970s, has a
range of criticisms of the Coalition's proposed changes, which he decribed as a
"farce".

"The 15-year terms are too long - they should be six or seven years," he said.
"There is also no need for youth peers - I think there should be a minimum age
of 45. It should be a revising chamber, not a challenger to the Commons.

"It is childish to use Lords Reform as a bargaining tool between two parties in
a coalition. There does need to be reform, but these proposals are cack-handed.

"I fear this is going to be a monumental mess that takes up far too much
parliamentary time... and ultimately ends in failure."

Lord Winston, the scientist and polymath, also said that he would not seek
election to what may be renamed as "the Senate".

"Why would I want to stand for an elected second chamber?" he asked. "Attending
the House of Lords is a responsibility that is not particularly
well-remunerated. We do it because it's a privilege and we want to help make
legislation.

"I have never had a desire to stand for the House of Commons, why would I want
to stand for a second-rate chamber?"

He also attacked the Lib Dems for "point scoring" rather than focussing on
issues of genuine importance to the country.

"It seems utterly wrong to make a change to the British constitution as a
hand-off for political gain or advantage, and that is exactly what the Liberal
Democrats are guilty of," Lord Winston added.

"They simply see it as their lasting legacy before they go.

"They are simply point-scoring rather than concerning themselves with the issues
that really affect people. For all its faults, the Lords actually works very
well and arguably much better than the Commons."

Others peers who said they would not stand for election to a reformed House of
Lords included: Lord Howe, another former foreign secretary, Lord Skidelsky, the
economist, and Lord Desai, the respected academic.

Lord Harris of Peckham, the chief executive of the chain Carpetright, also said
he would not seek election and also warned that many other peers from the
business world would be reluctant to do so.

"They won't have the time or the desire to take part in all the electioneering,"
Lord Harris said. "We've got a lot more important things to sort out than the
House of Lords. People are really interested in the economy and how much money
they have in their pockets - they don't worry about how their lords are
elected."

Lord Parkinson, who served as a Cabinet minister in Margaret Thatcher's
government, said: "No one but the Lib Dems are enthusiastic about these
proposals.

"They are extremely muddled - on the one hand they want a more subservient House
of Lords, but on the other want them democratically elected.

"The fact that Nick Clegg has championed PR for the second chamber - the system
that was rejected by voters at the referendum - just shows he doesn't understand
the mood of the people."

Lord Adonis, the former Labour transport secretary who was the architect of the
HS2 rail project, and Lord Ahmed, the Labour peer currently suspended from the
party for offering a £10million bounty for the capture of Barack Obama, both
said they would seek election if the Coalition's reforms go through.

Lord Treisman, the former chairman of the Football Association, also said he
would stand, but opposes the details of the Coalition's proposals.

"I'm not hostile to reform but this is barking mad," he said. "The Lib Dems have
a suicidal inability to recognise what the people want."

Lembit Opik, the former Liberal Democrat MP, and Nigel Farage, the leader of the
UK Independence Party, both indicated they would consider standing for an
elected Upper House.

Mr Farage said he expected the use of proportional representation suggested his
party would do well in elections to the Senate.

"This could be very good for us as party," he said. "But is Lords reform in the
interests of the country at a time like this? Absolutely not."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 14, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Politicians cannot indefinitely ignore voters' desire for an EU referendum;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 412 words


SIR - Calls for a national referendum on Britain's continued membership of the
EU have been going on for years, but with the eurozone in disarray, and the
situation growing worse, these calls have become more strident (Leading article,
May 12).

Apart from Ukip, several other organisations are now campaigning for action,
either in the form of a referendum or another debate in Parliament. Yet our
twoheaded Government continues to gaze in the opposite direction. Arguments in
support of a referendum are substantial. However, with the three main parties
determined to continue membership, there had been a refusal even to debate the
issue.

Today the boot is on the other foot. It has become impossible to deny that the
eurozone is not working. Not even the Olympics will enable the Government to
conceal the fact. A Prime Minister can only swim against the tide for so long.

Richard Shaw Dunstable, Bedfordshire

SIR - Your leading article notes that ministers have said it is overwhelmingly
in our interest for the eurozone crisis to be resolved, and that both main
parties are edging towards a referendum.

A referendum on EU membership, whether there is a vote for or against our
continued membership, will not mitigate the eurozone crisis's impact upon us.

The Government's priority is to resolve the economic mess bequeathed to it by
Labour, not to make it worse by prompting a possible sterling crisis, caused by
uncertainty over our EU membership, which would add to troubles in the eurozone.
Nick Hopkinson Steyning, West Sussex

SIR - We have never voted for the EU in this country. We voted to stay in the
EEC, a European free trade area, which was a quite different and excellent
organisation, one which I would vote for again.

The EU was sneakily foisted on us over time, and I hope that our political
leaders will give us the vote that we have long been denied.

Richard Statham Langport, Somerset

SIR - Is it a coincidence that Charles Moore's damning deconstruction of the
professional "managerialists", who are causing so much damage within our
institutions (Comment, May 12), was placed opposite your leading article: "Put
Britain's future in Europe to the vote?" If it is, it was felicitous, since the
supreme examples of these "bloodless beancounters" are to be found in Brussels.
Andrew Puckett Taunton, Somerset

SIR - David Cameron will soon have an excuse for not giving us a referendum:
there will be no point when there is no EU. Brian Gilbert Hampton, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 14, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron, Miliband, Clegg: we demand our EU referendum;
'British people must decide their destiny'

BYLINE: Leo McKinstry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 895 words


THE European Union has always been a conspiracy against democracy. Unelected and
unaccountable the bureaucrats of Brussels treat the peoples of Europe with
contempt as they pursue their goal of political unification.

Tragically for Britain our ruling class has colluded in the EU's systematic
destruction of our right to self-government while ignoring the will of the
public. The entire story of our official relationship with Brussels has been
characterised by deceit, cowardice and national humiliation.

The tone for this saga of decline was set in the early Seventies when Tory prime
minister Edward Heath forced through Britain's entry into the Common Market.
"There is no question of Britain losing essential sovereignty," he claimed - a
statement he knew to be a blatant lie.

The pattern of dishonesty has continued ever since. Even when a referendum was
held in 1975 on our membership the public was cynically misled by the
establishment which pretended we had merely joined a free trade area rather than
a political federation.

Since that vote the British people have been denied any further say over the
ruthless expansion of power by Brussels through measures such as the Lisbon
Treaty of 2007 which established the EU presidency and diplomatic service. Yet
despite their huge impact on our country none of these developments have ever
been sanctioned by the people.

BUT now we may finally be given a real say on our relationship with Brussels.
The wall of anti-democracy, so carefully preserved by the elite for so long, is
beginning to crumble. According to authoritative reports from Westminster each
of the two main parties is considering plans to go into the next general
election promising to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

In the Tory high command the idea is increasingly favoured as a means of
rebuilding popularity after the shambles of recent months. "Basically it's a
certainty," one Tory strategist said last week. Labour too is drawn to the
referendum idea, partly to outflank the Conservatives' This paper's chief
political commentator Patrick O'Flynn recently revealed that some senior Labour
figures believe a "referendum is going to happen anyway...so we might as well
pledge it first".

We have of course heard all this before. Both the Tories and Labour promised to
hold referendums on the Lisbon Treaty, only to renege on their pledges. But this
time it may be impossible for the politicians to resist public opinion.

Pressure for a vote is building all the time as disillusion with the EU mounts.
When Britain is facing severe cuts in public services because of our crippling
deficit the £17billion we have to give as our annual EU contribution becomes
ever more outrageous, especially because so much of the money is wasted.
Bloated, authoritarian and arrogant the EU has failed in everything it does.

It has undermined our nationhood but has put nothing in its place except
resentment at its imperialist bullying. The eurozone was meant to be a catalyst
for growth but it has turned into an engine of debt and despair.

The EU model of high taxation, big government and generous welfare has left
Europe hopelessly ill-equipped to compete on the world stage.

Apart from the spectacular, deepening failure of the EU there are other factors
behind the drive for a referendum.

One is the effective campaign run by the cross-party organisation the People's
Pledge which has tapped into a sense of public anger. In a vote it organised in
the Essex constituency of Thurrock 89.9 per cent of participants backed the call
for a referendum and just 10.1 per cent were opposed. This was on a turnout of
30.4 per cent of the electorate, higher than that achieved in most of the recent
municipal contests.

ANOTHER factor is the internal politics of the Tory Party where an EU referendum
is seen as a way of reinvigorating backbenchers and grassroots activists who
have become exasperated by two years of enfeebled coalition rule. Such a vote
also offers the chance to win back traditional Tory voters who have deserted for
the UK Independence Party.

David Cameron and George Osborne are also desperate not to allow the field of
Tory Euroscepticism to be dominated by Boris Johnson, by far the Conservatives'
most popular figure, victor of the London Mayoral contest and a supporter of the
People's Pledge campaign. One friend of Osborne is reported to have said a
referendum pledge will "shoot the fox of Johnson".

Such language could hardly be more dispiriting. A referendum should be about the
national interest, not the internal machinations of the Tories.

We have already had quite enough opportunism on this issue. What we now need is
honesty and conviction. That is why the referendum has to be on a straight
in/out question.

If Cameron plays more tactical games just to give a temporary boost to his
standing he will betray his country and his party. Already there is talk at the
top of the Tory Party about offering a vote on new terms for negotiation or a
different type of membership. That is just drivel, giving the illusion of
democracy while denying its substance.

We should be either in or out. And if we remain in, the politicians should be
honest enough to admit that it means the end of us as a sovereign nation. The
battle for Britain's soul should be decided by the British people, not by
politicians seeking narrow party advantage.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUSADE: Pressure for a referendum is growing
Picture: JONATHAN BUCKMASTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 14, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GO TO BRITAIN FOR BENEFITS SAYS EU;
Fury at £4m scheme to promote our soft-touch welfare system UK great for
benefits says EU

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 734 words


MEDDLING Euro MPs have provoked fury by heralding a £4million scheme to
publicise Britain's lucrative benefits and health care system to people from
across the Continent.

The money will be squandered on a campaign highlighting every citizen's right to
move from country to country within the EU.

But commentators pointed out last night that the plan was an easy way of
advertising Britain's soft-touch welfare system and could encourage millions of
people to travel to the UK for access to it.

The publicity programme, contained in a report put forward by a Greek MEP,
prompted howls of outrage among campaigners and raised fears of a fresh flood of
benefit tourists descending on the UK.

Britain is already the destination of choice for tens of thousands of eastern
Europeans every year because of our generous state handouts compared with their
home countries.

Those from Romania, Bulgaria and other poorer countries in eastern Europe need
only sell the Big Issue for a few weeks before they are entitled to claim
thousands of pounds each month in child, housing and council tax benefits, tax
credits and even disability living allowance and carer's payments.

In contrast, some 73,000 Romanians were kicked off their country's social
assistance scheme in February this year in a bid to get its ballooning welfare
bill under control.

Child benefits in Romania are a fraction of those in Britain. The state pays
just £40 a month for children up to two years old when the benefit drops to only
£8. In the UK, parents get more than £20 a week for their first child and an
additional £13 for each one after that. And Britain's free health services are
also very attractive to visitors.

The impending end of the work restrictions on Romanians and Bulgarians will fuel
fears of a new wave of migration to the UK and revive memories of the flood of
eastern Europeans that arrived when eight former Soviet bloc countries joined
the EU in 2004.

Since then more than 1.4 million eastern Europeans - mainly Poles and
Lithuanians - have come to Britain and now make up 40 per cent of all foreign
workers in the country. Last month, interfering Eurocrats also ordered Britain
to give millions of foreigners full access to the NHS.

The European Commission insisted that migrants from within the EU are entitled
to stay and use the service indefinitely, even if they do not pay UK taxes.

It threatened the Government with court action or a swingeing fine unless it
scrapped rules banning jobless EU citizens from staying in the country for more
than three months without having their own health insurance.

Ukip Euro MP Gerard Batten, who sits on the committee that approved the report
put forward by the Greek MEP, branded the programme to highlight movement rights
as "madness". He said: "Here we have an MEP from a bankrupt Waste country
encouraging EU citizens to migrate and claim benefits and full entitlements from
other EU countries.

"We know that many will come to Britain because of our generous benefits system.

"We are already providing international health, social security, housing and
education systems to people who have never paid a penny in tax in the UK, and we
are being asked to contribute British taxpayers' money to encourage more people
to come here and claim."

Mr Batten, one of only four MEPs on the 51-member-strong Home Affairs committee
to oppose the scheme, said he would try to scupper the report again when it
comes before the Parliament.

Tory Eurosceptic MP Peter Bone backed the move to stop the EU-wide promotional
campaign.

Waste

"My constituents are already pretty mad we are providing £8billion to the EU.

They will be even angrier to hear some of that money is being used to tell
citizens to claim benefits in other countries.

"You couldn't make it up. It is probably the worst example of wasting money
during an economic crisis that you could think of. It reminds us that all the
things we think about the EU are true.

"We are sick and tired of this sort of waste and it is this type of project that
will lead us to eventually pull out of the EU."

The report was presented to the EU parliament's Civil Liberties Justice and Home
Affairs Committee last week by Greek MEP Antigoni Papadopuolou.

Last night, Robert Oxley of the Taxpayers' Alliance said: "It is the job of
national governments to inform their citizens of their rights, not meddling
politicians in Brussels."

OPINION & LEO MCKINSTRY: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter Bone: 'You couldn't make it up'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 14, 2012 Monday

Comment: Tories and Lib Dems - beware the grassroots: Previous coalitions have
been undone from below, and today's may well encounter the same fate

BYLINE: Vernon Bogdanor

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 990 words


In a democracy, leaders lead for as long as followers are willing to follow. But
a coalition is peculiarly susceptible to pressure from below, from the
followers, since it has to reconcile those who belong to two different tribes.
There have been two previous peace-time coalitions in Britain since 1918 - the
Lloyd George coalition and the national government. Both were undermined at the
grassroots.

The Lloyd George coalition was destroyed in 1922 even though the big beasts of
the government - Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the
Conservative leader - favoured its continuation. Only two obscure and junior
cabinet ministers rejected it. But 180 Conservative constituency associations
chose candidates opposed to coalition, and the leaders were repudiated. In 1932,
just one year after the national government was formed, the National Liberal
Federation persuaded the free-trade Liberal ministers to leave the coalition. On
each occasion there was a party split - the Conservatives in 1922 and the
Liberals in 1932.

The current coalition is increasing the power of constituency associations by
reducing the number of MPs from 650 to 600 and redistributing constituencies on
a new, purely numerical basis. This means there will be widespread reselection
of MPs. About 70% of constituency boundaries will be radically altered. The most
likely outcome is there will be more eurosceptic Conservatives and more
left-leaning Liberal Democrats, imposing new strains on the coalition.

Coalition, declared David Cameron, when renewing his vows with Nick Clegg in the
Basildon tractor factory, was not the first choice of either party.
Parliamentary arithmetic and the personal chemistry between Cameron and Clegg
made it possible. The need to master the deficit and provide stable government
made it necessary. But can a marriage of convenience survive for five years?

Disraeli famously predicted that, because England did not love coalitions, their
triumph would be brief. Formed to deal with an emergency, they would lose their
raison d'etre once the emergency was over. The central problem for any
government during mid-term is to maintain direction. Without it, as Cameron
admitted, ministers are in danger of looking like a bunch of accountants. But
how can a coalition generate a sense of direction?

The two parties agree on eliminating the deficit. Do they agree on anything
else? On much of the rest of the political agenda - Europe, civil liberties, NHS
reform, taxation, redistribution, public service reform, free schools and
constitutional reform - they disagree profoundly. Have they anything to offer
except austerity?

Tony Blair recently emphasised that the coalition, which voters have never had
the opportunity to endorse, is ideologically unnatural, combining as it does a
party of the centre-right with a party that for 13 years attacked Labour from
the left. Centrifugal pressures - Ukip and Boris Johnson on the right, Liberal
Democrat activists on the left - push the two parties further apart.

A coalition imposes particular strains upon the smaller party, which must
struggle to retain its identity. As the historian Kenneth Morgan has pointed
out, the coalitions of 1918 and 1931 ruined the Liberals. The Lloyd George
coalition ended their role as a party of government; the national government
ended their role as a party of opposition. Will the coalition end their role as
a third party?

Nick Clegg's response to the humiliation of the alternative vote referendum and
the local elections has been to press for greater differentiation. But that
means exposing the differences between the two parties rather than allowing them
to remain dormant. The honeymoon in the rose garden is turning into a loveless
marriage. Will it end in divorce?

The Liberal Democrats face the dilemma of a third party in a political system
made for two. In 2015 voters will be asked for their verdict on the austerity
programme. If they approve, they will vote Conservative; if not, Labour. If the
Liberal Democrats remain in the coalition until 2015, they will be perceived as
a party of the right, barely distinguishable from the Conservatives. Yet much of
the Liberal Democrat vote, especially in Scotland, where the Conservatives are
seen as essentially an English party, is anti-Tory. Will voters on the left be
willing to endorse a coalition of the right?

Most commentators believe that there is no alternative to continuing the
coalition. If the Liberal Democrats leave, so it is argued, Cameron will destroy
them in a snap election. But the Fixed-Term Parliaments Act precludes a snap
election. An early election can only be called if there is a two-thirds majority
of MPs voting for dissolution, or failure to achieve an alternative government
14 days after the defeat of the current one following a no-confidence vote.
Therefore, were the Liberal Democrats to leave the coalition, Cameron would be
forced into continuing as the prime minister of a minority government. Were he
to be defeated in a confidence vote, he would still be unable to dissolve. He
would have to resign and the Queen would have to summon Ed Miliband. Then, only
if Miliband were unable to form a government would there be an election. It is
perhaps surprising that Labour has not done more to woo the Liberal Democrats
away from the coalition.

The good feeling that the coalition has generated among "the quad" - Cameron and
Clegg, George Osborne and Danny Alexander - is hardly replicated either in
parliament or across the country, where the two parties remain separate and
antagonistic tribes. If the followers cease to follow, the leaders will no
longer be able to lead and the coalition will fall. Its survival until 2015,
having once seemed a certainty, has now become a question mark.

Vernon Bogdanor, research professor at the Institute of Contemporary British
History, King's College, London, is author of The Coalition and the Constitution

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 14, 2012 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

Politicians cannot indefinitely ignore voters' desire for an EU referendum;
Calls for vote on Europe

LENGTH: 1636 words


SIR - Calls for a national referendum on Britain's continued membership of the
EU have been going on for years, but with the eurozone in disarray, and the
situation growing worse, these calls have become more strident (Leading article,
May 12).

Apart from Ukip, several other organisations are now campaigning for action,
either in the form of a referendum or another debate in Parliament. Yet our
two-headed Government continues to gaze in the opposite direction. Arguments in
support of a referendum are substantial. However, with the three main parties
determined to continue membership, there had been a refusal even to debate the
issue

Today the boot is on the other foot. It has become impossible to deny that the
eurozone is not working. Not even the Olympics will enable the Government to
conceal the fact. A Prime Minister can only swim against the tide for so long.

Richard Shaw                      Dunstable, Bedfordshire

SIR - Your leading article notes that ministers have said it is overwhelmingly
in our interest for the eurozone crisis to be resolved, and that both main
parties are edging towards a referendum.

A referendum on EU membership, whether there is a vote for or against our
continued membership, will not mitigate the eurozone crisis's impact upon us.

The Government's priority is to resolve the economic mess bequeathed to it by
Labour, not to make it worse by prompting a possible sterling crisis, caused by
uncertainty over our EU membership, which would add to troubles in the eurozone.

Nick Hopkinson                      Steyning, West Sussex

SIR - We have never voted for the EU in this country. We voted to stay in the
EEC, a European free trade area, which was a quite different and excellent
organisation, one which I would vote for again.

The EU was sneakily foisted on us over time, and I hope that our political
leaders will give us the vote that we have long been denied.

Richard Statham                      Langport, Somerset

SIR - Is it a coincidence that Charles Moore's damning deconstruction of the
professional "managerialists", who are causing so much damage within our
institutions (Comment, May 12), was placed opposite your leading article: "Put
Britain's future in Europe to the vote?"

If it is, it was felicitous, since the supreme examples of these "bloodless
bean-counters" are to be found in Brussels.

Andrew Puckett                      Taunton, Somerset

SIR - David Cameron will soon have an excuse for not giving us a referendum:
there will be no point when there is no EU.

Brian Gilbert                      Hampton, Middlesex

Qatada's deportation

SIR - You say Abu Qatada has made a "mockery of the law" (leading article, May
10), but his case has been about whether it is permissible for states to get
round the law by relying on diplomatic assurances over safe treatment and fair
trials.

Seeking such assurances against torture is a dangerous, illogical practice. How
can one accept a promise not to torture from a country where there is a pattern
of exactly these malpractices in violation of its own laws and international
obligations? Neither safe treatment or a fair trial are likely outcomes.

Underlying this case is a simple but fundamental issue: this country should
ensure that the basic rights of all deportees are always respected.

Kate Allen                      Director, Amnesty International London EC2

SIR - I cannot be the only one amazed by the efforts of Amnesty International to
oppose the deportation of Abu Qatada to Jordan. What has happened to its
perspective, balance and reason?

Having been a supporter of Amnesty International for 40 years, I think it is
time to quit.

Russell Armitage Walsall, West Midlands

Benefits of beetroot

SIR - I am surprised that Prof J C Dearden (Letters, April 30) is concerned
about the risk of nitrate in beetroot causing cancer, and advises against its
regular use.

The risk of nitrate in vegetables has been considered by many international
authorities, and all agree that there is no appreciable cancer risk. To quote
the World Health Organisation in 2003: "Overall, the epidemiological studies
showed no consistently increased risk for cancer with increasing consumption of
nitrate. These data, combined with the results of the epidemiological studies
considered by the Committee at its 44th meeting, do not provide evidence that
nitrate is carcinogenic to humans." I do not believe that this conclusion has
been seriously questioned since.

However, there is every reason to believe that the high concentration of nitrate
in vegetables such as beetroot contribute to their considerable health benefits.

Hon Prof Nigel BenjaminPeninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry Plymouth,
Devon

Pinched Parker

SIR - I am still using the Parker 51 that I confiscated from my nine-year-old
son in 1975, telling him it was too expensive for him. He had swapped it for
five marbles.

Judy MillerToller Porcorum, Dorset

SIR - Writing novels and plays by hand for six hours a day, I long ago abandoned
heavy fountain pens for the lightest felt pen I could find, thus avoiding an
arthritic thumb and fingers. Fountain pens are delightful, but a luxury for
amateurs.

Robin Chapman St Hippolyte, Pyrénées-Orientales, France

SIR - I use a quill; always have done, always will. Those from a peacock's wing
feather are both sturdy and well balanced, and in plentiful supply about my
garden.

Charles DingwallWantage, Oxfordshire

SIR - At work, the big advantage of a fountain pen over a Biro is that if I set
it down and leave my desk it's still there when I return. Biros have legs and
walk.

D H Todd Ripon, North Yorkshire

Fight against piracy

SIR - Christopher Williams ("Victory to the suits as pirates walk the plank",
Technology, May 3) does not reflect on the importance and impact of copyright
theft.

The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry estimates that 95 per
cent of all music downloads are illegal. No other industry suffers theft on the
same scale as we do, and yet more than any other industry we are committed to
discovery and development - 16 per cent of our revenues go towards artist
development.

Consumers have got to realise the harm they are doing to their favourite artists
by listening to pirated music. Governments and the judiciary have got to
continue fighting copyright theft, and record companies need to have the means
to create great new music sustainably and adapt to the changing environment,
helping consumers to access the music they want at the best possible price.

Blocking illegal download websites is, therefore, a victory for songwriters,
musicians, artists, actors, scriptwriters, large and small record companies and
film production companies, not just the "suits".

Max HoleChief Operating Officer, Universal Music Group International London, W14

Valuing our troops

SIR - While on duty in America, in uniform, I had my lunch paid for by a
stranger in an airport restaurant. The gentlemen didn't intrude on my solitary
meal, he just settled my bill before leaving.

In February, I tried to obtain an iPhone contract with a service provider who
had an Armed Forces "perk". Moving three times in the past 18 months made this
impossible. (This was compounded by the Royal Mail's postcode system where a
single postcode covers an entire garrison, in my case more than 3,000 people.) I
was only in this country after being injured in Afghanistan. The response from
the staff in store: "The computer says no".

My American counterparts would not believe this, so common is being thanked for
your service on their side of the pond.

Capt John ByrneNottingham

Olympic confusion

SIR - The Royal Mint series of Olympic gold coins features the Roman gods Juno,
Vulcan and Mars, among others (report, May 11). I thought that the Olympics was
a Greek institution in honour of Zeus.

Barry GowerLondon E14

Huge quantity of rubbish left on our roadsides

SIR - The Highways Agency's claim that the amount of roadside litter would fill
700,000 bin bags a year must be an underestimate (report, May 10).

I do a voluntary litter patrol on a two-mile stretch of B-road passing through
our West Berkshire village and fill, on average, three bags a week. If a couple
of miles of minor road can yield 150 bags a year, the total for the 247,000
miles of highway in Britain must be many millions.

Patrick Hickman-Robertson Eastbury, West Berkshire

SIR - Years ago, I did something similar to Alice Arnold, who chucked litter
back into a car from where it came.

A car pulled up at a junction, where I was waiting to cross the road. As it
pulled away, the passenger threw some litter out of the window. I picked it up
and threw it back in the car saying: "I think you just dropped this". The look
on the young man's face was sheer shock. I felt pleased with my instant
reaction. He did throw it out again further along the road, but at least I
tried.

Agnes BakerTorpoint, Cornwall

SIR - When I reported the driver of a car for throwing a plastic bottle into the
hedgerow to Dover council (with photo) I was told "we don't get involved in
issues like this". Yesterday, when I accused a young male driver of being a
litter bug, he swore at me.

Ian Stewart Wickhambreaux, Kent

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  May 13, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Guido Fawkes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 601 words


AFTER she declared that David Cameron and George Osborne are "out of touch posh
boys", matters came to a head with Tory MP Nadine Dorries at a meeting of
backbench Tory MPs on Wednesday. A fellow Tory MP was keen to stress "there were
a lot of Northern very un-posh voices reminding colleagues to behave properly".
Momentarily silent in the face of a co-ordinated attack from new MPs keen to
impress the leadership, Nadine wasn't done there. Appearing on Have I Got News
For You on Friday night, her team declared that Cameron's government has been "a
bit pants".

ANOTHER of Nadine's colleagues, who refused to be named, thinks he's worked out
why the feisty blonde, above, has declared war: "I'd rather be governed by two
arrogant posh boys than a mad old nurse who has only just realised she's going
to lose her seat and is trying to go out with a bang." Nadine told Guido: "That
says a lot more about them than it does about me and shows just how unpleasant
many in the Tory party are." With Nads telling Ian Hislop on the show that she's
"a bit UKIP-py", perhaps her best hope for survival in Parliament really is to
defect to the on-therise eurosceptic party...

LAUGHTER is politically toxic, leaders can survive being unpopular, they won't
survive being a laughed at for too long - no one votes for a loser. People are
mocking David Cameron for his confusion about the text abbreviation LOL. The
former head of News International Rebekah Brooks told the judge at the Leveson
Inquiry how the PM would sign off his text messages to her "DC in the
main...occasionally he would sign of LOL - Lots Of Love - until I told him it
meant Laugh Out Loud." LOL indeed, though for Dave it was probably more like
"FFS".

NEVER one to be self-conscious about laughter, grand Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg,
the Member of Parliament for the 18th Century, was more concerned about other
matters: "I don't think the inquiry is now producing anything more than
trivialities. How people sign off their text messages is completely irrelevant
and unimportant. I would have thought he'd sign off yours sincerely but never
mind."

TRADE union membership in the UK dropped by 143,000 last year, nearly the same
number as the 132,000 public sector jobs cut. More militant unions were out on
strike again last week; though they have shot themselves in the foot as the
public sector continued to work without them, leaving some wondering what
exactly do this lot do when they are at work. Eric Pickles is permanently locked
in battle with the unions and was very relaxed about the damp squib day of
action. His ministry worked out that money can be saved as strikers don't get
paid: "The estimated total amount saved to the public purse as a result of
members of the Department for Communities and Local Government participating in
industrial action on 30 November 2011 is £51,348." A small but important
contribution to the national coffers.

LABOUR'S Ed Miliband is having a good few weeks and soaring ahead in the polls,
yet Guido hears there has is some tension at the top between Deputy Leader
Harriet Harman and the self-appointed scourge of Rupert Murdoch, Tom Watson,
below, who is in charge of campaigning for the party. He's meant to be
campaigning for Labour nationally. Instead, Guido hears complaints that he is
fixing party positions for union-backed allies as he moves to gain more control
over the party. After losing Bradford to George Galloway and London to Boris,
wary colleagues reckon he should be focusing on his day job rather than what
they suspect is his real campaign goal - he wants Harman's deputy leader job for
himself.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 13, 2012

How can Labour harness the voter rage against the machine?: Ed Miliband is
better at describing why so many people hate conventional politics than he is at
providing an answer

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1512 words


At lunchtime yesterday in London, the sun was shining, which made a pleasant
change. The shops were open. So were the pubs. There were lawns to be mowed,
cars to be washed, books to be read, museums, art galleries and parks to be
visited. If you preferred to slump on the sofa in front of the telly, ITV was
offering Carry On Cruising and the BBC the qualifying laps for the Spanish Grand
Prix. You were therefore the member of a highly peculiar minority, a most
eccentric sect, if you instead chose to spend your Saturday lunchtime listening
to a speech by a politician about why no one listens anymore to politicians. The
man in question was Ed Miliband and he himself teased his audience of Labour
members that there was something odd about them because "you chose to come
here".

One prompt for this speech was the recent local elections, which were better
evidence for public disenchantment with the coalition than they were proof of
surging enthusiasm for a Labour government. Labour polled better than the rest,
but the real winner of those contests, and by a landslide, was the Stay At Home
Party. The non-voters represented 68% of the electorate. As Mr Miliband
acknowledged: "It tells us we have a very long way to go to generate trust,
enthusiasm and deep allegiance." That sentiment is widely felt in the party's
senior ranks. One Labour figure observes: "People say 'I don't vote' like they
would say 'I don't smoke'. It's a lifestyle decision now".

Among those still voting, we see an increasing rejection of conventional party
politics in a flight to extremes, "independents" and single-issue parties, a
phenomenon far from confined to Britain. In Germany, there's the rapid rise of
the Pirate Party. The French and Greek elections both saw leaps in support for
fascist and radical leftist parties. In the US, it found expression in the Tea
Party. The British strain of this contagion has been comparatively mild: one
byelection victory for Respect and an increasingly smug look on the face of
Nigel Farage as he basks in the rising ratings for Ukip.

In some places, the conventional parties of power are just about staying on top
of these convulsions. Despite the claims in some quarters that the French
presidency is now in the hands of a raving leftie, Francois Hollande is a pretty
orthodox social democratic member of the French political establishment. The
Republicans in America flirted with an assortment of wacky nominees, but have
ultimately if grudgingly settled on a fairly conventional candidate for the
White House in Mitt Romney. In other polities, the old order is being destroyed
by vengeful electorates. The traditional parties of left and right were both
eviscerated in Greece.

The first targets of this mix of voter rage and despair have usually been the
party in government. In a short space of time, Nicolas Sarkozy has become only
the second French president of the postwar era to fail to win a second term, the
Dutch government has fallen and the Greek electorate have thrown out the two
parties that dominated power for four decades. Some optimists in the Labour
party and their social democrat cousins in Europe detect the beginnings of a
leftwards swing across the continent as voters reject the austerity politics
that have been preached by the right.

These events, particularly the election of Monsieur Hollande, will certainly
have some effect on the continental conversation about how to lift Europe from
the slough of despond. In Britain, it will make it that much harder for the
coalition to sustain its line that there is no alternative to their economic
policy. But it is a bit premature to call this a definitive left turn. Where a
party of the left found itself in government when the music stopped - one
example is Labour in Britain two years ago, another is the socialists in Spain -
it is they who have felt the toe of the voters' boot up their backsides. The
most consistent theme of recent elections is that incumbency, generally an
electoral asset in times of prosperity, has become a liability in an era of
austerity. Yet it would be a mistake to assume, as rather a lot of establishment
politicians still do, that things will return to normal when economic recovery
eventually comes and voters will fall back in love with conventional politics.
Austerity did not so much cause this alienation as sharpen and deepen a
pre-existing condition. I have pointed out before that the combined support for
the Conservatives and Labour has been in steady decline since the early 1950s.
Membership of mainstream political parties here, as elsewhere, has been
withering for decades. There was plenty of evidence that many of the public were
either turning against mainstream British parties or turning off politics
altogether even when the country was enjoying prolonged periods of prosperity.

A renewal of growth will not by itself bridge the chasm of disenchantment that
exists between so many voters and politicians.

The Labour leader seemed genuinely exercised about this crisis of political
engagement in yesterday's speech. Even if he wasn't, he can surely see that
there are potentially lucrative electoral benefits for the party that can
persuade voters that it can do politics in a more attractive and engaging way.
Some aspects of his analysis of what has gone wrong were persuasive. The
political establishment is not seen to speak or act on behalf of the many, but
to govern in the interests of a privileged few. As examples of which, Mr
Miliband duly cited party funding scandals and the web spun by the Murdoch
empire. At the last election, when David Cameron was trying to present himself
as the answer to public disenchantment, broken promises and sleazy deals, he
offered what he called "an invitation to join the government of Britain". The
revelations of the Leveson inquiry are further confirmation for voters that
power is brokered at gatherings to which they are never invited. The Labour
leader was honest enough to acknowledge the sins of his party in this respect.
"We became one of 'them' rather than one of 'us'."

As an explanation for what has gone wrong, this analysis is not just confined to
the left. The New Few, a compelling book by the conservative thinker Ferdinand
Mount, a former head of the Number 10 Policy Unit when Margaret Thatcher was in
residence, argues that wherever you find power, whether it be at Westminster,
universities, in the City or corporate boardrooms, you will find self-serving
oligarchies dedicated to the empowerment and enrichment of a minority at the
expense of the majority.

It is one thing to describe a problem; it is another to solve it. That is where
Mr Miliband struggles, as do all the conventional politicians. His pledge that a
Labour government would confront "vested interests" and "unaccountable
concentrations of power" needs a lot of fleshing out before it becomes
convincing. We can just forget his claim that "I won't make promises that I
can't keep".

They all say that in opposition and they all make promises that aren't kept. He
wants his party activists to spend more time engaging with the electorate. A
lovely idea, if only Labour still had an army of people to mobilise on to the
doorsteps. He also commended reconnecting with voters through local campaigning.
When I asked one of his aides what sort of campaigns the Labour leader had in
mind, I received the reply: "Dog shit." He went on to explain that in Carlisle,
a Labour gain at the council elections, the party enjoyed a great success
harnessing local discontent about canine excrement. This sounds very redolent of
the "pavement politics" first pioneered by the Liberals in the 1970s. It is not
necessarily a bad idea, but it is certainly not a new one, and far from an idea
big enough to address the scale of the challenge.

Labour, in so many ways an instinctively conservative party, will have to think
a lot more radically than this if it is to capture the anti-establishment mood.
And the Labour leader will have to overcome some of the contradictions thrown up
by his personal biography before he becomes a compelling tribune of the people
championing the masses against the elites. True, he is not an Old Etonian
married to the daughter of an aristocrat. His parents were refugees from the
Nazis and they sent him to a comprehensive. But he is no less a favoured son of
what he calls the "Westminster club". He read PPE at Oxford, just like the prime
minister. His first job was in television working on a programme - with me, as
it happens - devoted to Westminster politics. His subsequent career has been
almost entirely spent inside the club: first as an aide to Harriet Harman and
Gordon Brown, then a quick route to a safe seat under their patronage, and swift
elevation to the cabinet.

He is every bit as much an example of the professional politician as is David
Cameron, George Osborne or Nick Clegg. If Ed Miliband is to become a convincing
champion of the people, he will not only have to conquer the cynicism of the
electorate, he will have to overcome his own biography too.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 13, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Owen attacks Lords reform 'farce'

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS; JOSIE ENSOR

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 906 words


LORD OWEN, the former foreign secretary, has attacked the Coalition's House of
Lords reforms as "cack-handed" and a "farce".

The peer also criticised the "childish" way in which the Tories and Liberal
Democrats have used the issue as a "bargaining tool" between them.

He fears that the reforms will descend into a "monumental mess" in the coming
months and ultimately end in failure.

During the 1980s, Lord Owen was one of the founders of the Social Democratic
Party which later merged with the Liberals to create today's Liberal Democrats.

Lords reform is the flagship project of the party's current leader, Nick Clegg.

Although a Bill for Lords reform featured in last week's Queen's Speech, there
are signs that the appetite for it in Downing Street is waning amid trenchant
opposition.

Nearly three quarters of peers polled by The Sunday Telegraph in recent days
said they would not stand for election in a reformed upper chamber, raising
fears that the Coalition's plans would lead to a massive loss of expertise and
experience from Parliament.

A similar proportion of the 50 Lords surveyed by this newspaper opposed the
reforms, which would cut the number of members of the Upper House from more than
900 to as few as 300, at least 80 per cent of whom would be elected for 15-year
terms.

Lord Owen was one of 43 of the peers polled who said the Upper House needed to
be reformed, even though he disagreed with the changes devised by senior Lib
Dems.

"There does need to be change," said Lord Owen. "You look around the chamber and
you can see the person who is a friend of George Osborne. You can see the big
donor. And you can see the person who is an expert and deserves to be there."

The peer, who served as a Labour foreign secretary in the late 1970s, has a
range of criticisms of the Coalition's proposed changes, which he described as a
"farce".

"The 15-year terms are too long - they should be six or seven years," he said.
"There is also no need for youth peers - I think there should be a minimum age
of 45. It should be a revising chamber, not a challenger to the Commons.

"It is childish to use Lords reform as a bargaining tool between two parties in
a coalition. There needs to be reform, but these proposals are cackhanded.

"I fear this is going to be a monumental mess that takes up far too much
parliamentary time ... and ultimately ends in failure."

Lord Winston, the scientist, said that he would not seek election to what may be
renamed "the Senate".

"Why would I want to stand for an elected second chamber?" he asked.

"Attending the House of Lords is not particularly wellremunerated.

We do it because it's a privilege and we want to help make legislation.

"I have never had a desire to stand for the House of Commons.

"Why would I want to stand for a second-rate chamber?" He also attacked the Lib
Dems for "point-scoring". "It seems utterly wrong to make a change to the
British constitution as a trade-off for political gain, and that is exactly what
the Lib Dems are guilty of," Lord Winston added. "They see it as their lasting
legacy before they go.

"They are simply pointscoring rather than concerning themselves with issues that
really affect people. For all its faults, the Lords works very well and arguably
much better than the Commons."

Others peers who said they would not stand for election to a reformed House of
Lords included: Lord Howe, another former foreign secretary, Lord Skidelsky, the
economist, and Lord Desai, the academic.

Lord Harris of Peckham, the chief executive of the Carpetright chain, also said
he would not seek election and warned that many other peers from the business
world would be reluctant to do so.

"They won't have the time or the desire to take part in all the electioneering,"
Lord Harris said.

"We've got a lot more important things to sort out than the House of Lords.
People are really interested in the economy and how much money they have in
their pockets - they don't worry about how their Lords are elected."

Meanwhile, Lord Parkinson, who served as a cabinet minister in Margaret
Thatcher's government, said: "No one but the Lib Dems is enthusiastic about
these proposals.

"They are extremely muddled - on the one hand they want a more subservient House
of Lords, but on the other they want them democratically elected.

"The fact that Nick Clegg has championed PR for the second chamber - the system
rejected by voters at the referendum - just shows he doesn't understand the mood
of the people."

Lord Adonis, the former Labour transport secretary, and Lord Ahmed, the Labour
peer currently suspended from the party for allegedly offering £10million in
bounty for the capture of Barack Obama, both said they would seek election if
the Coalition's reforms go through.

Lord Triesman, the former chairman of the Football Association, also said he
would stand, but opposed the details of the Coalition's proposals. "I'm not
hostile to reform but this is barking mad," he said. "The Lib Dems have a
suicidal inability to recognise what the people want."

Lembit Öpik, the former Lib Dem MP, and Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK
Independence Party, both indicated that they would consider standing for an
elected Upper House.

Mr Farage said he thought the use of proportional representation meant his party
would do well in elections to the Senate.

"This could be very good for us as party," he said. "But is Lords reform in the
interests of the country at a time like this? Absolutely not."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nearly three quarters of peers contacted for a poll said they would not
stand for election in a reformed upper chamber
DOMINIC LIPINSKI/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 13, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Captain Cameron needs an anchor

BYLINE: MARTIN IVENS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1293 words


It was a Queen's speech to delight Ronald Reagan. "Don't just do something,
stand there," was the Great Communicator's plea to politicians not to mistake
hyperactivity for good government. Last week David Cameron decided to do very
little indeed, unless you count the creation of a "groceries code adjudicator"
as one giant leap forward for mankind.

No 10 has done with the revolutionary excitement of its first two years in
office. It is time to consolidate and show quiet competence (yes, do something
about Heathrow immigration queues, Theresa May). "Reform and renewal" is the
mantra. Masterly inactivity has its dangers. Cameron's critics charge that this
thin programme reflects prime ministerial complacency.

They say he wants to govern unflappably like Harold Macmillan; the PM has no
desire to turn the world upside down or even put it to rights.

The surlier sort of Tory MP grumbles that born to rule doesn't mean a right to
rule. Nadine Dorries, for instance, lets her inverted snobbery run away with
her. Not long before the local elections, she described Cameron and George
Osborne as "two arrogant posh boys who don't know the price of milk - who show
no remorse, no contrition and no passion to want to understand the lives of
others". She might just as well have said: "Vote UKIP."

The Conservative backbench 1922 committee pilloried her for it. For, as Michael
Gove, the education secretary, teased in a witty speech to Brighton college last
week, such is the failure of Labour's bog-standard comprehensive schools that
even Guardian left-wing polemicists have to be privately educated these days.

Others ask whether the prime minister has time in his hectic schedule for
conviction politics beyond deficit-cutting.

People want more from a government than a bare recitation of abstract financial
numbers. Tony Blair realised this when he accepted Thatcher's economic
settlement but added uplift and a programme to combat low-level lawlessness in
Asbo Britain.

Gove's speech shows how a bit of ideological backbone stiffens the spine.
Old-fashioned morality goes down well with voters. His challenge to the teaching
unions appeals to electorally significant "strivers" concerned about falling
standards in their children's schools: everyone is well aware of how private
sector pupils dominate our national life - even, as the education secretary
pointed out, in pop music and some sports.

Sir Michael Wilshaw, his new chief inspector of schools, also took aim at
teachers who allow children to use mobile phones at school. This ought to be a
statement of the blindingly obvious but, alas, it isn't. The following day it
was reported that a headmaster who had confiscated a girl's mobile is being
threatened with human rights charges, even though it was school policy to
confiscate them.

Conservatives come in all shapes and sizes, of course. Margaret Thatcher had a
grim determination to transform the country but radiated little warmth. Reagan
was a sunny, avuncular figure but the ideological right saw in him a soul mate.
Like Reagan's successor, George Bush Sr, Cameron lacks "the vision thing",
although he shares some of his optimism. The prime minister is very sure of who
he is, confident in his own judgment. But he is happier talking about values and
character than in creating a political narrative.

You can't imagine Cameron's fingers itching to text: "Wow, hurd gr8 nu idea. LoL
DC." "Broken Britain" was a useful rallying cry in opposition but now that he
owns the bits and pieces it has been quietly dropped. Even Cameron's big society
is a lot of little ideas carried out by a lot of little people. Its progress has
been uneven. Charities are complaining, for instance, that No 10 never lifted a
finger to defend them against the chancellor's budget strike against big donors.
When it comes to breaking up big government, big business is usually better
qualified and resourced to provide the services.

Almost unnoticed, another big idea has bitten the dust. Steve Hilton, Cameron's
adviser now departed for California, really did like blue-sky thinking. He
wanted directly elected mayors to give provincial England a voice: if London had
Boris Johnson and Scotland had Alex Salmond, think what Manchester, Birmingham
and Newcastle could do when led by their own larger-than-life personalities.

Hilton even flirted with becoming mayor of Brighton, Britain's bohemian answer
to San Francisco.

Ten days ago the flowers were nipped in the bud just as they were in Mao's
China. Local referendums killed off mayors across the Midlands and the north. No
10 had expended scant political capital on backing the cause. Grant Shapps, the
perky housing minister, then popped up on the Today programme to assure us that
the coalition had never really intended to force this curious innovation down
the throats of the voters. That's conviction politics?

Cameron's devotion to green politics, too, rises and falls like the uncertain
gusts that leave wind farms idle. A green investment bank is proposed. The prime
minister once promised to deliver "the greenest government ever". He liked to
wear green in the good times but puts on mournful black when energy prices rise
and manufacturing industry threatens to exit for China. We are left wondering
whether it is all a pose.

Then there is the Tory modernisers' cause célÈbre, gay marriage. A tiny number
of genuine enthusiasts, like my colleague Andrew Sullivan (see News Review, page
4), believe it is a sound conservative measure to shore up stable relationships.
If it makes people happy, say I. Believers and many older folk think it devalues
traditional marriage.

Some Conservative MPs feel a bit guilty about the party's former support for
Clause 28, Thatcher's divisive attack on gay "propaganda" in schools, but they
can't see the point of offending their constituency parties when existing civil
partnerships already provide full legal equality.

This is also the view of Ben Bradshaw, a gay Labour MP who argues that there is
no genuine demand for gay marriage and charges No 10 with grandstanding. Philip
Hammond, the defence secretary, speaks for many who think that it is not "a
priority".

That is not the prime minister's view, No 10 assures us - even if he is
genuinely lukewarm on House of Lords reform (which invites the similar criticism
that if it ain't broke, don't fix it).

Cameron is swift to recall a conversation with two affluent gay men while out
canvassing in his Witney constituency. They told him they were natural
Conservatives but couldn't vote for a homophobic party. Why then was there no
mention of gay marriage in the Queen's speech? Because it is out for
"consultation". Cameron should put up or shut up.

Last week ended on another sour note for the prime minister. At the Leveson
inquiry, two cool customers, Andy Coulson, the former News of the World editor
and No 10 spokesman, and Rebekah Brooks, former chief executive of News
International, parried counsel Robert Jay QC. The media show was a painful
reminder of Cameron's unbusinesslike proximity to Brooks. That said, all
politicians have links to news organisations, the BBC included. Its new
director-general, when appointed next month, will undoubtedly launch a huge
lobbying offensive to ensure charter renewal on good terms. But don't tell Lord
Leveson that; it would spoil his fun. For No 10 the ensuing mockery about text
messages is as dangerous as real scandal.

Will the bad headlines stop? The good news for Cameron is that he has another
three years in which he - along with the economy - has time to recover. The bad
news is that he has to fill up those three years with something.Without an
ideological anchor, his government will drift.

'THIS IS A TIME TO CONSOLIDATE, BUT MASTERLY INACTIVITY HAS ITS DANGERS'

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 13, 2012 Sunday 2:14 PM GMT

Tories, the EU, Greeks, immigrants, Simon Cowell, Israel, Labour... just some of
the things you hate, dear readers

BYLINE: By Walter Ellis

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 333 words


I've just had an epiphany. Everybody is wrong about everything. No one gets
anything right.

I know this because no one in the blog thread commentariat seems to have a good
word to say about the Tories, or the Lib Dems, or Labour, or the EU (obviously),
or François Hollande, or Angela Merkel, or the Greeks, or the Italians, or the
Americans, especially Barack Obama, or Boris Johnson, or Ken Livingstone, or the
Bank of England, or the high street banks, or the City of London, or the UN, or
Israel, or the Guardian, or News Corporation, or the Catholic Church, or the
Muslim World, or the Church of England, or Arabs, or Africa, or China, or
British industry, or high-speed rail planners, or the airlines, or airports, or
immigrants, or the Scots, or the Welsh, or the Irish, or the BBC, or the police,
or traffic wardens, or plumbers, or Roy Hodgson, or Simon Cowell, or Jeremy
Paxman, or the Foreign Office, or quangos ... or (naturally, and quite right,
too) bloggers who write for the Telegraph.

Have I left anyone out? Of course I have. The list is endless. It could go on
and on until it sank under its own weight into a sea of bile.

The thing is, everyone now fervently believes that what they believe is right
and that everybody who doesn't think exactly as they do is not only wrong, but a
fool and, in all likelihood, a liar and a cheat.

We live in an age of certainty. Though the world is collapsing about our ears,
each of us knows who is to blame and what, specifically, must be done to put it
right. If only we could all, individually, be in charge of everything, then
everything, apparently, would be all right.

But here's the thing? If you're so right and so insightful about everything, how
come everyone else thinks you're an idiot? I leave you with that thought as you
prepare to pour renewed scorn on everything and everybody, including the
unfortunates who only agree with you 90 per cent.

PS: Needless to say, I don't mean you, dear reader. I mean... well, everybody
else. Vote Ukip!

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 13, 2012 Sunday 2:14 PM GMT

Tories, the EU, Greeks, immigrants, Simon Cowell, Israel, Labour... just some of
the things you hate, dear readers

BYLINE: By Walter Ellis

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 333 words


I've just had an epiphany. Everybody is wrong about everything. No one gets
anything right.

I know this because no one in the blog thread commentariat seems to have a good
word to say about the Tories, or the Lib Dems, or Labour, or the EU (obviously),
or François Hollande, or Angela Merkel, or the Greeks, or the Italians, or the
Americans, especially Barack Obama, or Boris Johnson, or Ken Livingstone, or the
Bank of England, or the high street banks, or the City of London, or the UN, or
Israel, or the Guardian, or News Corporation, or the Catholic Church, or the
Muslim World, or the Church of England, or Arabs, or Africa, or China, or
British industry, or high-speed rail planners, or the airlines, or airports, or
immigrants, or the Scots, or the Welsh, or the Irish, or the BBC, or the police,
or traffic wardens, or plumbers, or Roy Hodgson, or Simon Cowell, or Jeremy
Paxman, or the Foreign Office, or quangos ... or (naturally, and quite right,
too) bloggers who write for the Telegraph.

Have I left anyone out? Of course I have. The list is endless. It could go on
and on until it sank under its own weight into a sea of bile.

The thing is, everyone now fervently believes that what they believe is right
and that everybody who doesn't think exactly as they do is not only wrong, but a
fool and, in all likelihood, a liar and a cheat.

We live in an age of certainty. Though the world is collapsing about our ears,
each of us knows who is to blame and what, specifically, must be done to put it
right. If only we could all, individually, be in charge of everything, then
everything, apparently, would be all right.

But here's the thing? If you're so right and so insightful about everything, how
come everyone else thinks you're an idiot? I leave you with that thought as you
prepare to pour renewed scorn on everything and everybody, including the
unfortunates who only agree with you 90 per cent.

PS: Needless to say, I don't mean you, dear reader. I mean... well, everybody
else. Vote Ukip!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 12, 2012 Saturday 12:42 AM GMT

An EU referendum is coming. Which party will get the credit?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 750 words


It's the Prisoner's Dilemma. The party which offers a referendum on leaving the
EU will gain a hefty electoral premium. Though neither of the big two is exactly
enthusiastic - politicians rarely like to initiate projects with uncertain
outcomes - each wants to stop the other getting there first.

In March, I suggested that an In/Out referendum was starting to look inevitable.
A month later, Newsnight's Allegra Stratton, whose sources are generally
excellent, Tweeted that both parties were moving that way. A few days
afterwards, Patrick O'Flynn reported in the Daily Express that Labour would
promise a referendum in its next manifesto. The following week, Peter Mandelson
called for such a vote.

Now James Forsyth writes in the Spectator (no link) that the inclusion of a
Europe referendum in the next Conservative manifesto is 'basically a certainty'.
There is some discussion over the precise timing and wording, though the
preferred scenario seems to be an In/Out vote following a renegotiation, as
first suggested here. Even The Economist has reluctantly come to accept that
such a vote is on the way.

Several factors are at work: the rise in the UKIP vote; the success of the
People's Pledge; the conversion of several former Europhiles as the eurozone
crisis deepens; the normalisation of referendums following the votes on AV and
devolution; and, not least, a growing conviction that asking the electorate is
right in principle.

The battle isn't yet won. Some will seek a milquetoast referendum along the
lines of 'Do you give us a mandate to renegotiate Britain's membership terms?'
The country, though, won't fall for any such nonsense. Nor will voters be
satisfied with promises about what a party might do in some future Parliament:
such pledges have been broken too often. No, the way to maximise the electoral
benefit of a referendum is to move the Bill now - even if that Bill sets a
polling date after the 2015 general election.

Several people will have stopped reading after my first paragraph, and will be
filling the comment thread below with furious screeds about 'LibLabCon', 'Call
Me Dave', 'Cast-Iron Cameron,' blah blah. Well, chaps, I'm sorry to disappoint
you but, other than on this issue, I think the PM is doing a pretty good job;
and if he gets this issue right, he could end up doing a great job.

I'm not saying this to suck up to the fellow; he barely talks to me. I'm saying
it because some of my fellow Eurosceptics have become so angry about the
Government's policy on the EU that they're not looking dispassionately at what
it's doing elsewhere. Open your eyes, my friends. People are being rescued from
the squalor of welfare dependency. Schools are being prised from the grip of the
LEAs and teaching unions. Quangos are being scrapped and local councils
strengthened. The pensions timebomb is being defused. The engorged state payroll
is being slimmed. Even on foreign policy - if we again set aside the EU - the
record is, from a conservative perspective, hard to fault.

Some recent criticisms are downright bizarre. Surely we should applaud lower,
flatter and simpler taxes. Whether or not you support Lords reform (I do, but
there are good and sincere arguments on both sides), you can hardly blame the PM
for bringing forward a proposal which was in all three party manifestos. And by
what twisted, resentful logic does his obvious ease in the job become a cause
for complaint? Isn't it a good thing to have someone who looks comfortable and
confident? Sure, Ed Miliband might not exude what Guardian columnists call a
'sense of entitlement', but who would you rather have in Number Ten, for
Heaven's sake?

Look, I was as against the climbdown on the EU referendum as the next chap. I
resigned my - admittedly somewhat paltry - front-bench position in protest.
Surely, though, the correct reaction is to try to correct that policy. After
all, if the case for a referendum is as convincing as I like to think it is, it
ought to be possible to convince others. And, sure enough, that's now happening.

As I say, we're not there yet. We need to keep making the argument, applying the
pressure. In particular, we need to be certain that the advantages of a
referendum are not thrown away because someone is over-clever about the precise
wording.

Overall, though, there are grounds for optimism. A referendum within the next
five years is now overwhelmingly likely. I may soon have to switch from lobbying
for a referendum to fundraising for the Get Britain Out campaign.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 12, 2012 Saturday 12:42 AM GMT

An EU referendum is coming. Which party will get the credit?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 750 words


It's the Prisoner's Dilemma. The party which offers a referendum on leaving the
EU will gain a hefty electoral premium. Though neither of the big two is exactly
enthusiastic - politicians rarely like to initiate projects with uncertain
outcomes - each wants to stop the other getting there first.

In March, I suggested that an In/Out referendum was starting to look inevitable.
A month later, Newsnight's Allegra Stratton, whose sources are generally
excellent, Tweeted that both parties were moving that way. A few days
afterwards, Patrick O'Flynn reported in the Daily Express that Labour would
promise a referendum in its next manifesto.The following week, Peter Mandelson
called for such a vote.

Now James Forsyth writes in the Spectator (no link) that the inclusion of a
Europe referendum in the next Conservative manifesto is 'basically a certainty'.
There is some discussion over the precise timing and wording, though the
preferred scenario seems to be an In/Out vote following a renegotiation, as
first suggested here. Even The Economist has reluctantly come to accept that
such a vote is on the way.

Several factors are at work: the rise in the UKIP vote; the success of the
People's Pledge; the conversion of several former Europhiles as the eurozone
crisis deepens; the normalisation of referendums following the votes on AV and
devolution; and, not least, a growing conviction that asking the electorate is
right in principle.

The battle isn't yet won. Some will seek a milquetoast referendum along the
lines of 'Do you give us a mandate to renegotiate Britain's membership terms?'
The country, though, won't fall for any such nonsense. Nor will voters be
satisfied with promises about what a party might do in some future Parliament:
such pledges have been broken too often. No, the way to maximise the electoral
benefit of a referendum is to move the Bill now - even if that Bill sets a
polling date after the 2015 general election.

Several people will have stopped reading after my first paragraph, and will be
filling the comment thread below with furious screeds about 'LibLabCon', 'Call
Me Dave', 'Cast-Iron Cameron,' blah blah. Well, chaps, I'm sorry to disappoint
you but, other than on this issue, I think the PM is doing a pretty good job;
and if he gets this issue right, he could end up doing a great job.

I'm not saying this to suck up to the fellow; he barely talks to me. I'm saying
it because some of my fellow Eurosceptics have become so angry about the
Government's policy on the EU that they're not looking dispassionately at what
it's doing elsewhere. Open your eyes, my friends. People are being rescued from
the squalor of welfare dependency. Schools are being prised from the grip of the
LEAs and teaching unions. Quangos are being scrapped and local councils
strengthened. The pensions timebomb is being defused. The engorged state payroll
is being slimmed. Even on foreign policy - if we again set aside the EU - the
record is, from a conservative perspective, hard to fault.

Some recent criticisms are downright bizarre. Surely we should applaud lower,
flatter and simpler taxes. Whether or not you support Lords reform (I do, but
there are good and sincere arguments on both sides), you can hardly blame the PM
for bringing forward a proposal which was in all three party manifestos. And by
what twisted, resentful logic does his obvious ease in the job become a cause
for complaint? Isn't it a good thing to have someone who looks comfortable and
confident? Sure, Ed Miliband might not exude what Guardian columnists call a
'sense of entitlement', but who would you rather have in Number Ten, for
Heaven's sake?

Look, I was as against the climbdown on the EU referendum as the next chap. I
resigned my - admittedly somewhat paltry - front-bench position in protest.
Surely, though, the correct reaction is to try to correct that policy. After
all, if the case for a referendum is as convincing as I like to think it is, it
ought to be possible to convince others. And, sure enough, that's now happening.

As I say, we're not there yet. We need to keep making the argument, applying the
pressure. In particular, we need to be certain that the advantages of a
referendum are not thrown away because someone is over-clever about the precise
wording.

Overall, though, there are grounds for optimism. A referendum within the next
five years is now overwhelmingly likely. I may soon have to switch from lobbying
for a referendum to fundraising for the Get Britain Out campaign.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 12, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Magazine columnist of the year

BYLINE: CAITLIN MORAN

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 820 words


So, these are troubled times. A double-dip recession here, the European economy
crumbling there, and the possibility that boy band One Direction have caught
chlamydia after being urinated on by an infected koala bear while in Australia.
Let's face it - the most tempting reaction is to just lie down on the floor,
shouting, "Let the grown-ups sort it out! Let the grown-ups sort it out! I still
don't know what 'stagflation' means and I swear, with God as my witness, I never
will!"

This, however, would be the wrong response. Political ignorance is a luxury only
a booming economy can afford. When things get this bad, we all have to brain up
a bit, roll up our sleeves and re-engage instead. Politics can only be as clever
as the people who vote for it. There's no point having the greatest economic
mind of all time running for Parliament if he has to reduce everything down to a
nine-word soundbite that includes his opinion of Jessie J's dip-dye wigs on The
Voice, just to get the attention of the mouth-breathers at the back.

Ask yourself: accidentally, have I become one of the mouth-breathers at the
back? Is my current unwillingness to understand the political process in this
country making Britain more stupid? Did throwing the Conservative manifesto in
the bin, back in 2010, cause - directly or indirectly - the downfall of that
weeping tramp I just stepped over on my front doorstep?

Here, then, is my simple five-point guide to becoming a better citizen, and
doing our bit to help Britain out of what is the economic equivalent of "the
toilet":

1) Reject the notion that it is unmannerly to discuss politics at the dinner
table or at social gatherings. Who says this is non-U behaviour? The Man, that's
who. But who will most benefit from people not discussing politics, becoming
apathetic and eventually deciding not to vote at all - thus reverting to a
pre-democratic era where we were all ruled by feudal posho lords and walked
around in mud, eating mud and wearing mud? Why - it's also The Man! Well, screw
you, The Man! I see through your plan to confine political discussion to
specialist places that the working classes have no access to - like the debating
chamber at Oxford and on This Week with Andrew Neil. I'm not going to fall for
your strategy to make politics seem distant, distasteful and the business of
others. I'm going to talk about politics anywhere I damn please - including
outside the school gates, in the bath with my kids and in that quiet bit during
wedding ceremonies, just before they say, "I do."

2) Watch Newsnight and Question Time religiously. Astonishingly, there are many
people who don't watch the BBC's big political shows - presuming they're just
five men in suits with cobwebs on their heads, saying, "Filibuster blark rark
gark, and it's all a little like the situation in Belgium, in 1717." Of course,
they often are, but if you watch both while keeping an eye on Twitter, the whole
thing suddenly turns into The Muppet Show - with Twitter acting as Statler and
Waldorf to the politicians' Gonzo or Miss Piggy. Twitter will counter someone's
dodgy statistics with the real figures, shout, "You weren't saying that two
years ago!" and point out that that Nigel Farage from UKIP has hair that looks
like he bought it in a box from M&S. Twitter loves politics on TV.

3) Read broadsheet analysis of the European financial crisis. At first, it will
be hard. I won't deny that. I recommend getting a bag of Hula Hoops and placing
one every 200 words or so. As you read through the article, eat the Hula Hoops
as reward. The first couple of pieces you read will be difficult - you might
sometimes find yourself resting your head on the paper, going "ARGH!" - but
within a week, you will find yourself having really quite strong opinions about
the long-term effects of the austerity measures in Greece, and will be reeling
at the Spanish unemployment statistics. ("Only one in seven people has a job?
This is even less than the cast of Made In Chelsea. Jesus.")

3) Regard any election - national, council, mayoral - as a day of hoodallally
and feasting. NEVER renege on your duty to vote and ALWAYS do so with great
festivity and flamboyance. To paraphrase Peter Pan, every time an adult votes, a
dictator dies. Clap your hands and shout, "I do believe in democracy! I do, I
do!"

4) Check, when mentioning them in arguments, that you actually know what
"socialism" and "capitalism" are. Contrary to what many believe, "socialism" is
not "something to do with Billy Bragg, wearing an anorak and not kissing with
tongues".

5) REPEL the lazy peasant notion that "All politicians are the same - out for
themselves" by researching and compiling a list of your favourite ever MPs. Mine
include Disraeli (waspish Jew), Nye Bevan (stuttering NHS daddy) and Churchill
(always pissed).

caitlin.moran@thetimes.co.uk

'When things get this bad, we have to brain up, roll up our sleeves and
re-engage'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPIROS POLITIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 11, 2012 Friday 3:40 PM GMT

EU referendum pledge could be the key to Conservative victory - as well as
British independence

BYLINE: HARRY PHIBBS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 430 words


Do The Spectator not recognise a scoop when it hits them on the nose?

My copy has arrived this week and the article by James Forsyth is not mentioned
on the front page but merely flagged up on the strip of paper stapled to the
side.

It says that the next Conservative manifesto will propose two referendums on the
European Union. The first to approve terms to renegotiate our membership. The
second to decide whether what is agreed is acceptable, or whether we should pull
out.

He writes:

"A referendum on Europe is the obvious answer. It is one the leadership seems
set to embrace. The popularity of Cameron's EU veto made his circle realise how
much of a political asset Euroscepticism could be, if used in the right way.
There is also concern in No. 10 that if the Tories don't offer the public a
vote, Labour will.

"One source intimately involved in Tory electoral strategy told me recently that
a referendum in the next manifesto was 'basically a certainty'. The only debate
now was about what 'sequencing' the manifesto should propose: renegotiate
Britain's membership of the European Union and then hold a referendum on the
result, or hold a referendum asking for permission to go to Brussels and
renegotiate.

"My understanding is that, at the moment, the favoured option is to propose
renegotiation, followed by a referendum on the new arrangements within 18
months. During the campaign, the Tories would argue for staying in if new terms
could be agreed but leaving if the rest of Europe refused to play ball."

My own hunch is that the Eurocrats would refuse anything approaching the sort of
renegotiation that would be acceptable. It would certainly have to include
withdrawal from the Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy
as well as ceasing to pour billions into the EU budget and adhering to all the
meddlesome directives.

But if our EU "partners" do allow some kind of associate, free trade,
membership, then fine. If they don't, it is time for us to go. At least that
would be my view. Let the people decide. If voting Conservative at the next
election meant having the chance to decide, it would result in the Conservatives
taking votes from UKIP (which is a far from inconsequential challenge for David
Cameron whether he admits it or not) but also many votes from Labour and the Lib
Dems.

It could be the deal-breaker with the electorate. It could be the issue that
brings about a majority Conservative Government rather than a coalition or a
return to Labour. What is more important, it could mean the British people at
last restored to self-government.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 11, 2012 Friday 5:51 AM GMT

Bloodlust at the 1922 Committee

BYLINE: By Donata Huggins

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 294 words


"Civil war" was how one MP described Wednesday night's 1922 Committee. The
meeting amounted to what I'm told was "collective bullying of Nadine Dorries,"
who called David Cameron and George Osborne "arrogant posh boys" on TV two weeks
ago.

The HuffPost reported on the Committee's anger at Ms Dorries this morning - but
I'm told the feeling of the group wasn't as one-sided as it may seem. Tempers
frayed during the meeting when a traditionalist was sworn at for an interjection
and told to sit down for suggesting that UKIP posed a threat to the Tories. "The
way they treated him was a disgrace," an observer said.

Conspiracy theories on No 10's orchestration of the stand-off are flying from
those on the Right of the party today. While unlikely, I'm told the event has
left many of the old guard feeling isolated because - as Tim Montgomerie, the
editor of Conservative Home, said in a Times column last week - many MPs
privately agree with Ms Dorries' view.

The traditionalists are visibly disjointed. Today Conservative backbencher David
Davies wrote to his local newspaper apologising for the Government's
"incompetence at the highest levels".

Mr Cameron appears to be smoothing feathers though. Guido Fawkes published a
letter sent by him to his MPs, reminding them that the Government is "looking at
the long-term".

Next week sees the election of a new executive for the Committee. The
modernising 301 Group has put forward a slate in an attempt to squeeze out
hard-line critics.

Steve Baker, a new intake backbench MP, is also standing. "I'm fed up of the
factionalism. I want to stand as neither a modernising 301 candidate or a
traditionalist. We need a place we can speak privately and this is clearly not
working."

It looks like this battle isn't over yet...

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 11, 2012 Friday 5:51 AM GMT

Bloodlust at the 1922 Committee

BYLINE: By Donata Huggins

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 294 words


"Civil war" was how one MP described Wednesday night's 1922 Committee. The
meeting amounted to what I'm told was "collective bullying of Nadine Dorries,"
who called David Cameron and George Osborne "arrogant posh boys" on TV two weeks
ago.

The HuffPost reported on the Committee's anger at Ms Dorries this morning - but
I'm told the feeling of the group wasn't as one-sided as it may seem. Tempers
frayed during the meeting when a traditionalist was sworn at for an interjection
and told to sit down for suggesting that UKIP posed a threat to the Tories. "The
way they treated him was a disgrace," an observer said.

Conspiracy theories on No 10's orchestration of the stand-off are flying from
those on the Right of the party today. While unlikely, I'm told the event has
left many of the old guard feeling isolated because - as Tim Montgomerie, the
editor of Conservative Home, said in a Times column last week - many MPs
privately agree with Ms Dorries' view.

The traditionalists are visibly disjointed. Today Conservative backbencher David
Davies wrote to his local newspaper apologising for the Government's
"incompetence at the highest levels".

Mr Cameron appears to be smoothing feathers though. Guido Fawkes published a
letter sent by him to his MPs, reminding them that the Government is "looking at
the long-term".

Next week sees the election of a new executive for the Committee. The
modernising 301 Group has put forward a slate in an attempt to squeeze out
hard-line critics.

Steve Baker, a new intake backbench MP, is also standing. "I'm fed up of the
factionalism. I want to stand as neither a modernising 301 candidate or a
traditionalist. We need a place we can speak privately and this is clearly not
working."

It looks like this battle isn't over yet...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Don't use our institutions as political pawns;
Cameron is playing parlour games with the constitution. No Tory should ever do
such a thing

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 937 words


Is the Prime Minister a sensible man? By Harold Macmillan's standards he clearly
is not. It was Macmillan who said that there are three bodies that no sensible
man challenges: the Roman Catholic Church, the Brigade of Guards and the
National Union of Mineworkers.

One may question the choice Macmillan made of formidable institutions; the
Catholic Church is not the political force that it used to be; the Brigade of
Guards regularly loses out to the Treasury and the NUM is an extinct volcano.
But the principle still stands: institutions attract loyalties that are
challenged at one's peril. Among the 19 Bills in the Queen's Speech, there is
promised a Bill to chop up one of the few national institutions that is working
properly.

There is going to be a long and, I fear, bitter struggle for the survival of the
House of Lords. Such disputes inevitably become embittered, even if they do not
start that way.

The Lords is a symbol of English conservatism. It is an inherently traditional
institution; perhaps after the Monarch, the most powerfully symbolic of
Britain's constitutional traditions. The Lords has its roots in deep history,
going back almost 1,000 years. Repeatedly it has been attacked by radicals and
defended by conservatives. Now it is being brought to an end by Liberal
Democrats. The supreme bureaucratic radical, Oliver Cromwell, abolished the
House of Lords. Now it is to be abolished by a Conservative-led coalition. To be
destroyed by one's historic ally to placate one's historic opponent would sour
the temper of their mildest Lordships. Was it for this that the Conservatives
had developed their own constitutional ideals, centred on the idea of political
stability? Burke would have defended the Lords without expecting the Tory ranks
to turn against him.

If the Conservative peers, who are about a third of the present House, thought
that there was a manifestly superior rearrangement of powers, a sort of House in
Heaven, they would probably yield with good grace. Yet they see in their daily
work on revising Bills that the work of a second chamber is intricate,
difficult, lawyerly and requires a range of experience and a mixture of
intelligence and sheer hard work.

The good qualities of the work done seem to have escaped David Cameron. Like
Tony Blair, whom he admires so much, Mr Cameron seems to regard the constitution
of the United Kingdom as a pawn in the political life the country. Likewise, the
creation of the Supreme Court, which was the whim of a moment decided in an
afternoon.

It should be understood that this Government does not have any proposals for a
new House of Lords that would be more efficient, or which would save money; on
the contrary, all the proposals that have been advanced so far would create a
chamber of less qualified, if elected, members, some of whom would be in it for
a paid job. The eventual cost of a new House of Lords would be a multiple of the
present cost.

The trouble is that there is a real need for constitutional change - and such
change can have unforeseen explosive effects. Britain is on the threshold of
some further degree of Scottish devolution. A change to the constitution of
Scotland will have an impact on Wales and Northern Ireland as well. To an even
greater degree it will have an impact on England. There is also the question of
Europe, which is going through its worst crisis since the Treaty of Rome was
signed 55 years ago.

The proposal of a new House of Parliament would delay for decades the revision
of the constitution that might be needed. This would bring no benefit to a
rather unhappy coalition of partners who do not trust one another. What will the
coalition do to establish relationships with the rest of the UK and the rest of
Europe? These would be the serious questions for the Government if it was
concerned with real issues rather than parlour games.

The coalition claims to be in favour of localism, but has not been able to turn
localism into local votes. Indeed, the two politicians who have managed to
breathe life into localism have been Alex Salmond in Scotland and Boris Johnson
as Mayor of London. Both have achieved victory by qualities of personality
rather than by arguing in committees. Both Mr Salmond and Mr Johnson rely on a
natural humour that cannot be made to order.

People talk of "charisma", but neither of these two men has the sort of charisma
that is associated with religious leaders. The opposite is the case. The
personalities people seem to like best are closer to being comedians than
saints; they are what used to be called "cards". What is important is that both
these two men seem to be natural human beings who are comfortable in their own
skins.

A great part of modern democratic politics is unduly boring, and politicians
gain no thanks for making the lame jokes that too many of them clip on to the
opening or closing of their speeches. The Queen could hardly have inserted in
her speech the commitment: "My ministers will make better jokes." Yet both in
Scotland and London, humour has played a significant part in political success.

Who will benefit politically from the abolition of the Lords? The Labour Party
generates little enthusiasm under Ed Miliband's leadership. The Lib Dems dislike
coalition with the Conservatives, yet it is the middle parties that might win
votes. UKIP is on a rising curve in local elections and might become the main
beneficiaries. Mr Cameron might prove to have replaced the House of Lords with a
House of UKIP. From a Conservative point of view it will not be a change for the
better.

The Lords would yield with good grace to a 'House of Heaven'

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Reply: Letter: Coalition tractor factory love-in fools no one

BYLINE: John Flowers

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 207 words


Dave and Nick's love-in is hardly likely to quell the rancour within the
coalition (Coalition tensions cast a shadow over the growth agenda, 9 May). The
manic Tory right and the Lib Dems are at loggerheads over the EU and reform of
the House of Lords; both parties have abandoned or modified parts of their
manifestos, and have even legislated acts that were unheard of before the
general election. On top of that, the electorate distrust them as a coalition;
we did not vote for a coalition.

Surely, it would appease all and sundry if the Lib Dems were to decide it would
be better for all to allow the Tories to become a minority government - as the
electorate prescribed. After all, the Tories are not likely to call a general
election in the shorter term and the Lib Dems will have a little time to return
to their honest core values and perform, prostrated, their much needed mea culpa
to their party members and to the electorate. Of course, those Lib Dems in the
cabinet should apply for membership of the Conservative party; conversions will
not be required.

Danny Alexander was never, in the broadest stretch, a Liberal Democrat at heart.
Finally, Ukip beckons for the loony right of the nasty Tory party.

John Flowers

Neath, West Glamorgan

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 10, 2012 Thursday 11:01 AM GMT

David Cameron too close to Rupert Murdoch, say constituents

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 443 words


David Cameron's own constituents believe he is too close to Rupert Murdoch and
his media empire.

A ComRes poll of 500 people in Witney, Oxfordshire, found that 49 per cent agree
that the Prime Minister is too close to Mr Murdoch and News Corp, while 35 per
cent disagree. The finding suggests that recent revelations could harm his image
- even in his home territory.

Mr Cameron is friends with Rebekah Brooks, the former News International chief
executive due to appear before the Leveson Inquiry tomorrow, and her husband
Charlie, who also have a home in the Prime Minister's constituency.

Mr Cameron won a huge 22,740 majority in Witney at the last election. According
to ComRes, 54 per cent of his constituents now believe he and his government
have not done enough to avoid a double-dip recession, while 40 per cent think
they have.

However, by a margin of 2-1, they do not share the opinion of the Tory
backbencher Nadine Dorries that Mr Cameron is an "arrogant posh boy". By a
similar margin - 61 to 33 per cent - his constituents believe the Prime Minister
understands their needs.

By a margin of 53 to 42 per cent, they think Mr Cameron is doing a good job as
Prime Minister. Some 45 per cent are disappointed, while 51 per cent are not.
People are evenly split over whether the Coalition has the right ideas for the
country.

Only 29 per cent of those polled said they would vote Conservative if there were
an election now. Although Mr Cameron would still win, a larger proportion (31
per cent) say they would not vote or do not know which party they would support.

When undecideds and non-voters are excluded, the Tories emerge with 46 per cent
of the vote (down from 59 per cent at the last election), with Labour on 20 per
cent (up from 13 per cent), UKIP on 10 per cent (up from 4 per cent) and the
Liberal Democrats on 9 per cent (down from 19 per cent).

Today Mr Cameron's links with the Murdoch empire will be in the spotlight when
Andy Coulson, his former communications director who resigned as News of the
World editor over the phone hacking scandal, gives evidence to the Leveson
Inquiry. Last night Downing Street admitted that it was "entirely probable" Mr
Coulson had attended high-level Government meetings on defence and intelligence
despite having only been subjected to a low level of security screening.

Yesterday it was revealed that Mr Cameron sent Ms Brooks a text message urging
her to "keep her head up" in the week she resigned from News International.
Downing Street did not deny a claim in an updated biography of Mr Cameron that
he met Ms Brooks at an undeclared point-to-point meeting in Oxfordshire and at a
Chipping Norton fair.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Conservatives revert to type

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 156 words


Tch, tch. Temper, temper. Seeing as Ukip is the nearest "democratic" outfit that
spouts similar garbage to the BNP, it would do. But what she is really saying is
that those silly people should have voted Tory, harking back to the Thatcher
days, which saw a nosedive in open support for the National Front once they
realised that Thatcher would do the job for them. That's why the maggots are
crawling from the the Tory woodwork and calling for a return to "traditional"
Tory policies, ie nasty, homophobic, class-ridden and openly imperialist poison.
And what of the Limp Dems? After their demise last week, do any of that band of
back-stabbing creeps have any back-bone or convictions left to make life as
difficult, if not impossible, for the government by defying their whips and
getting stuck in during what is left of this Parliament? Give the rats in
government something to think about whilst on holiday. Terry WhiteNorth Shields

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 10, 2012 Thursday 6:42 PM GMT

Bloodlust at the 1922 Committee

BYLINE: By Donata Huggins

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 292 words


"Civil war" was how one MP described Wednesday night's 1922 Committee. The
meeting amounted to what I'm told was "collective bullying of Nadine Dorries,"
who called David Cameron and George Osborne "arrogant posh boys" on TV two weeks
ago.

The HuffPost reported on the Committee's anger at Ms Dorries this morning - but
I'm told the feeling of the group wasn't as one-sided as it may seem. Tempers
frayed during the meeting when a veteran was sworn at for an interjection and
told to sit down for suggesting that UKIP posed a threat to the Tories. "The way
they treated him was a disgrace," an observer said.

Conspiracy theories on No 10's orchestration of the stand-off are flying from
those on the Right of the party today. While unlikely, I'm told the event has
left many traditionalists feeling isolated because - as Tim Montgomerie, the
editor of Conservative Home, said in a Times column last week - many MPs
privately agree with Ms Dorries' view.

The traditionalists are visibly disjointed. Today Conservative backbencher David
Davies wrote to his local newspaper apologising for the Government's
"incompetence at the highest levels".

Mr Cameron appears to be smoothing feathers though. Guido Fawkes published a
letter sent by him to his MPs, reminding them that the Government is "looking at
the long-term".

Next week sees the election of a new executive for the Committee. The
modernising 301 Group has put forward a slate in an attempt to squeeze out
hard-line critics.

Steve Baker, a new intake backbench MP, is also standing. "I'm fed up of the
factionalism. I want to stand as neither a modernising 301 candidate or a
traditionalist. We need a place we can speak privately and this is clearly not
working."

It looks like this battle isn't over yet...

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Eurozone crisis to be fixed...with a knees-up

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 318 words


EUROCRATS are planning to party through the eurozone crisis by holding a bizarre
birthday festival this week, it emerged yesterday. EU citizens are being invited
to Brussels to see displays of Tai Chi, cookery, flag throwing and a troop of
frolicking clowns.

There is even a display of laughter yoga - an exercise technique from India
where participants learn to "laugh for no reason".

And the highlight of the taxpayer-funded event will be a live performance by a
69-yearold DJ called Mamy Rock.

The attractions are being staged in the European quarter of the Belgian capital
on Saturday in a Festival of Europe Open Day at the EU's institutions.

It is planned around today's Europe Day anniversary of the foundation of the
first step towards European union. But last night, critics were appalled that
Brussels chiefs were staging a celebration at a time of worsening political and
economic crisis across the EU.

Euro MP Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of Ukip, said: "I am sure the millions left
destitute and unemployed by the EU's ruinous policies will join me in denouncing
these events. The Eurocrats are laughing at us - at our expense." An EU
spokeswoman said: "The open day is held every year to invite citizens to find
out more about what the EU does." Critic Eric Pickles But EU officials yesterday
declined to disclose how much the event was costing.

Meanwhile, a number of public buildings in the UK will be forced to fly the
blue-and-gold EU flag for a week from today.

Whitehall's office of the Department for Communities and Local Government is
among those where staff are forced to comply with the ruling or face a £10,000
fine. Officials are ordered to ensure the flag is flown in a "prominent position
at the front of the building".

Communities and Local Government Secretary Eric Pickles said: "Forcing the UK to
fly the flag is not going to get more people to embrace the European Union."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Critic Eric Pickles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Getting out of Europe is concession voters crave;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 139 words


THE election of Francois Hollande to the French presidency has already caused
great debate as to what will happen to the Franco/German axis formed by Angela
Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy to keep Germany and France at the head of the EU
table.

The Centre for Economics and Business said the result could trigger the break-up
of the euro.

United Kingdom Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: 'Hollande's election
is great news. It will help drive a wedge between Germany and France, the two
engines of EU integration.' Whatever the outcome, Europhiles in Britain can rest
easy in their beds.

Prime Minister David Cameron can be relied upon to be the last man standing,
still trying to win concessions from the EU in spite of the fact that the masses
in Britain want only one concession and that is to get out.

H Atkinson, Haydock, Merseyside

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 6:33 PM GMT

Going Viral: Happy Europe Day from Nigel Farage

BYLINE: RIGHTMINDS TEAM

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 112 words


The 9th of May marks the anniversary of French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman
putting forward the ideas that led to the eventual formation of the European
Union.

Apparently, we're now meant to celebrate it as 'Europe Day'.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage MEP remarked that these celebrations consisted
predominantly of 'slagging off the English'.

Less facetiously, he suggested that we should instead be celebrating the 8th of
May, VE Day, which marked the end of the Second World War.

And he pointed out the similarities between Europe today and in 1932 - a
collapse of the centre parties and the rise of left and right extremes, when the
Nazis became the largest party in Germany.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 3:07 PM GMT

The only way isn't Essex for Clegg, Cameron and Miliband

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 785 words


Having abandoned the working and lower middle classes our political leaders hot
foot it to The Only Way is Essex country. This county is the election
battleground that Thatcher reached into and was able to woo three decades ago.

In 1997 they took Blair to their hearts and given their hostile performance on
last week's Question Time from Romford, Essex man and woman are very angry with
all politicians.

Unfortunately, politics is looking more like a soap-opera but without the sex.

Clegg, Cameron and Miliband all looked uncomfortable in trying to appeal to
aspirational Essex. This is a no-nonsense, plain speaking political county.
Mostly ruled by the Tories at County Council level, with a few Labour district
councils, a small handful of Lib Dem MPs, the county is blue, with seats like
Thurrock with a very small majority and Harlow, whose MP is the excellent Robert
Halfon, the Tories could suffer heavily at the next election.

A few months ago I was asked to take part in Made in Chelsea, the supposedly
upmarket version of The Only Way is Essex.  It was quite good fun but I was
uncomfortable arguing with one of the 'actors' who thought there should be 'more
of the fairer sex in politics'. It was ridiculous, over-staged and a little
embarrassing for the young rich guy who was out of his depth in politics.

Thankfully for him it was never aired. Just like yesterday's slightly older rich
guys who all look like they had just left college who were trying to appeal to
Essex man and woman. Dave, Ed and Nick, you're just not convincing enough.

Dave, your policies do not resonate with the Essex voter. Instead of playing
around with Lords' reform (and I am a Lords' reformer), concentrate on cutting
taxes and stimulating growth. Tackle the housing crisis, job losses, raising
education standard and the immigration overload.

Bring in the Bill of Rights you promised us and ditch the Human Rights Act. You
can't get tough on Europe so settle the argument once and for all and give us
the referendum that the people of Thurrock called for in their own referendum a
few weeks ago.

Dave, the Lib Dems are the junior partners in coalition. You say in today's Mail
that there are many things you would like to do but can't because you are
hampered by the Lib Dems. They are the junior partner, they brief against you
more vociferously than your own MPs, they are not going to leave government any
time soon as they know they can get their policies through and 'hold you back'.
They like being in power and will not relinquish it.

You have given enough ground. You allowed them to waste millions on the AV
referendum. Again, I am an electoral reformer but this was the wrong time and
the wrong platform. Electoral reform was only discussed by anoraks and a closed
circle of generally loony left individuals such as Huhne and co but was the
biggest bargaining tool that Clegg had leverage with. He mis-judged the appeal
of electoral reform to the general public, a public that had been left bankrupt
by Labour and wanted the coalition to sort out the mess the country had been
left in, not waste millions on a voting system.

Clegg should have given the Lib Dems more time to sell the idea, like Lords'
reform.  But I guess he was cleverer than most of us thought as he went to the
country with the AV referendum while he and his party were not under scrutiny by
the public. My guess is that he knew the failings of his MPs and once the
country got to see them in action they would never vote for one of their
policies.

And so with Lords' reform. Listen to your backbenchers Dave, they reflect the
country's mood. Do not give ground on Lords' reform.  When you have an alliance
of two of your oldest enemies, two of the most revered brains in politics - John
Redwood and David Davis - then you are in trouble.

Your backbenchers are mainly Thatcherite, often dubbed as Thatcher's Children,
they are more right-leaning than you, voted against you on the EU referendum and
are fearful of their seats at the next General Election.

Go back to real Conservative values, policies and leadership. That's what Essex
man and woman want, not watered down, left-leaning tinkering with the
constitution. Be bold and go for a Bill of Rights instead.

And Ed, dear old Ed, don't think that Essex is listening to you.  The votes you
received in last week's local elections were a protest vote, a mid-term,
knee-jerk electoral blip.  Your voters, along with Conservative voters, turned
to UKIP.

Dave, if you don't return to real Conservative policies then you will go the
same way as Sarkozy and where will this country be then, under the inane grin of
Miliband?  Please, you have time to turn it around, the only way is Essex.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 6:24 PM GMT

Why the euro is doomed to fall apart: it was an incredibly stupid idea in the
first place

BYLINE: By Tim Worstall

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 730 words


The euro is doomed to fall apart: no, not because I'm some nasty man in UKIP but
because the basic idea was such a terrible one. Our chart above (fromJP Morgan
Asset Management,which you can see more easily by clicking here)shows just how
terrible it was. It would, in economic terms, have been better to have a new
currency for all countries beginning with the letter M than for the eurozone. Or
for all countries that have the 5th parallel North passing through them.

Yes, of course, we all know, the euro is the bright new dawn, the vital step in
stopping Germany from invading France. Again. No one seems to have noticed it
that they managed it last time and having experienced the place seem to have no
desire at all to go back. So this might not be a problem that needs a solution.

However, let's look behind the political posturing and ask ourselves whether, in
economic terms, the euro was a sensible idea. The structure we need to help us
decide is Robert Mundell's concept of an Optimum Currency Area. We should look
at things like language barriers, labour mobility, capital, the similarity
between economies, their reaction to external shocks - essentially what has been
worked out for us in that chart.

And, as you can see, it's a blitheringly stupid idea to try and push countries
into the same currency just because they happen to be next door to each other.
People would have been better off if we'd insisted that the c. 1800 Ottoman
Empire had the same currency again: Tunisia, Turkey, Israel and Greece. Which is
a real indication of how dumb it was to try and get Greece and Germany into the
same currency.

So a very silly thing done by those Very Serious People who have decided they'd
like to rule us.

There is one further thing. It is possible to take an area which is not an
optimal currency area and make it more so. This is what Lord Mandelson is
talking about when he parrots the line about a "fiscal Europe". The idea is that
if the rich areas send money to the poor areas then the effects of being
lumbered with the wrong currency can be mitigated. As indeed they can: London
sends vast amounts of money to the north of England and Scotland and this helps
reduce the impact of the Pound Sterling itself not quite being such an optimal
area.

Over larger areas and numbers of people, the US is regarded as a good example.
However, it is worth looking at quite how much money has to be sloshed around
America to achieve a single currency. Some would argue that it's the welfare
state bit of the Federal government, perhaps plus the military, that does this.
That's about 5 or 6 per cent of US GDP. Others argue that it's the whole of the
Federal government that does it, around and about (outside current blowout
deficit times) some 20 per cent of the entire economy.

Which is fine if that's your sort of thing. But now try and move this over to
the European scenario. The US government, all levels of it, takes some 35 to 40
per cent of GDP. That's two fifths of everything that everyone produces in a
year. And this is after they've done that fiscal sloshing around to make up for
having a single currency.

Here in Europe, governments take 40 to 50 per cent of GDP, two fifths to one
half, before they've started to chuck the cash around to pay for the vanity
project of the euro. We'd have to take in tax another 5 to 20 percent of
everything produced and ship it off to the poor countries to achieve what the
Americans have: a single currency that doesn't cripple those poor areas.

Five per cent of the UK's GDP is 75 billion or so: that's more than all council
tax and all business rates. Twenty per cent is 300 billion: more than all VAT
plus all income tax.

Can we see any possible future in which we (or the Germans, the Finns or the
Swedes) agree to pay such taxes so that we can build a Common European Home -
or, if you like, to subsidise the countries which we really shouldn't have a
common currency with?

No, quite. I can't, either.

Look at that chart again. The UK and its English speaking offshoots: the US,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand and so on. They make up a more logical single
currency area than the eurozone. The euro was and is an insane economic idea
balanced on the nonsense upon stilts of a very silly indeed political ideal.

And, let me remind you, just because you want to ignore economics does not mean
that economics is going to ignore you.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 3:42 PM GMT

Why the euro is doomed to fall apart: it was an incredibly stupid idea in the
first place

BYLINE: By Tim Worstall

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 731 words


The euro is doomed to fall apart: no, not because I'm some nasty man in UKIP but
because the basic idea was such a terrible one. Our chart above (from JP Morgan
Asset Management, which you can see more easily by clicking here) shows just how
terrible it was. It would, in economic terms, have been better to have a new
currency for all countries beginning with the letter M than for the eurozone. Or
for all countries that have the 5th parallel North passing through them.

Yes, of course, we all know, the euro is the bright new dawn, the vital step in
stopping Germany from invading France. Again. No one seems to have noticed it
that they managed it last time and having experienced the place seem to have no
desire at all to go back. So this might not be a problem that needs a solution.

However, let's look behind the political posturing and ask ourselves whether, in
economic terms, the euro was a sensible idea. The structure we need to help us
decide is Robert Mundell's concept of an Optimum Currency Area. We should look
at things like language barriers, labour mobility, capital, the similarity
between economies, their reaction to external shocks - essentially what has been
worked out for us in that chart.

And, as you can see, it's a blitheringly stupid idea to try and push countries
into the same currency just because they happen to be next door to each other.
People would have been better off if we'd insisted that the c. 1800 Ottoman
Empire had the same currency again: Tunisia, Turkey, Israel and Greece. Which is
a real indication of how dumb it was to try and get Greece and Germany into the
same currency.

So a very silly thing done by those Very Serious People who have decided they'd
like to rule us.

There is one further thing. It is possible to take an area which is not an
optimal currency area and make it more so. This is what Lord Mandelson is
talking about when he parrots the line about a "fiscal Europe". The idea is that
if the rich areas send money to the poor areas then the effects of being
lumbered with the wrong currency can be mitigated. As indeed they can: London
sends vast amounts of money to the north of England and Scotland and this helps
reduce the impact of the Pound Sterling itself not quite being such an optimal
area.

Over larger areas and numbers of people, the US is regarded as a good example.
However, it is worth looking at quite how much money has to be sloshed around
America to achieve a single currency. Some would argue that it's the welfare
state bit of the Federal government, perhaps plus the military, that does this.
That's about 5 or 6 per cent of US GDP. Others argue that it's the whole of the
Federal government that does it, around and about (outside current blowout
deficit times) some 20 per cent of the entire economy.

Which is fine if that's your sort of thing. But now try and move this over to
the European scenario. The US government, all levels of it, takes some 35 to 40
per cent of GDP. That's two fifths of everything that everyone produces in a
year. And this is after they've done that fiscal sloshing around to make up for
having a single currency.

Here in Europe, governments take 40 to 50 per cent of GDP, two fifths to one
half, before they've started to chuck the cash around to pay for the vanity
project of the euro. We'd have to take in tax another 5 to 20 percent of
everything produced and ship it off to the poor countries to achieve what the
Americans have: a single currency that doesn't cripple those poor areas.

Five per cent of the UK's GDP is £75 billion or so: that's more than all council
tax and all business rates. Twenty per cent is £300 billion: more than all VAT
plus all income tax.

Can we see any possible future in which we (or the Germans, the Finns or the
Swedes) agree to pay such taxes so that we can build a Common European Home -
or, if you like, to subsidise the countries which we really shouldn't have a
common currency with?

No, quite. I can't, either.

Look at that chart again. The UK and it's English speaking offshoots: the US,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand and so on. They make up a more logical single
currency area than the eurozone. The euro was and is an insane economic idea
balanced on the nonsense upon stilts of a very silly indeed political ideal.

And, let me remind you, just because you want to ignore economics does not mean
that economics is going to ignore you.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory steps down over support for English Defence League

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 193 words


A Tory councillor has been suspended for comments on the Twitter microblogging
site about the English Defence League being the only party to "stick up for the
English".

Sue Anderson is also accused of making other "shameful" remarks, telling an
Asian Twitter user: "If you don't like it here go back to where you came from."

Mrs Anderson, a Bournemouth councillor, has referred herself to the local
authority's standards board after she was criticised by hundreds of people over
her comments on Saturday night.

In reply to a woman who complained about the Right-wing EDL, Mrs Anderson wrote:
"But nobody else except the EDL stick up for the English."

She also referred to fellow Tories switching to the UK Independence Party after
last week's local election rout. She wrote: "Where else can they go? BNP or EDL
not PC enough."

Mrs Anderson, a mother of four in her late fifties, apologised unreservedly
yesterday for her "offensive" comments. She has suspended her membership of the
local Tory party pending an inquiry into her conduct.

Ben Grower, the Labour leader on Tory-run Bournemouth council, said: "She has
joined the desperate wing of the Conservative Party."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 8, 2012
                                 First Edition

Letter from the executive editor

BYLINE: Stefano Hatfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292 words


How dare those revolting Continentals defy those untouched by the recession to
vote against more personal austerity? At least they voted, eh? Here are the
turnout figures from the past week: London mayoral election - 38%; Britain's
local elections: 32%; presidential election, France (round two) - 81% . The
despairing Greeks still managed 65% - the same as at the 2010 UK general
election. (Yes, locals and nationals are not the same, but...) i's inbox this
week has filled with letters on the "it is our duty to vote" debate; I was
always in that "duty" camp, but of late, I am not so sure. Perhaps it's age:
elections fly by at an alarming rate; main parties converge in the centre ground
at an even faster pace; and a disgruntled electorate casts around for a real
alternative. Candidates' election resources and the system (including TV
coverage) conspire against us.

Some find solace in a UKIP or an attractive independent like George Galloway,
others in extremists. But how many vote just as a protest? How can most of us
know what candidates stand for when largely denied access to their arguments?
What comes first, the "interest in serious politics" egg or the "belief there is
no difference between the politicians and parties" chicken? In France 17 million
tuned in for last week's (three-hour-long) live TV debate between Hollande and
Sarko. In fact, 10 million for the first of our three debates in 2010 wasn't
that bad. But, we do need a rethink on how politics is presented to help us all
re-engage - from the national embarrassment that is the weekly Prime Minister's
Questions to the tired format of BBC Question Time. That said, we can fix the
medium as much as we want, we can't change the politicians' messages!
twitter.com/stefanohat

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 12:21 AM GMT

i Editor's Letter: They conspire against us

BYLINE: Stefano Hatfield

SECTION: I

LENGTH: 295 words


How dare those revolting Continentals defy those untouched by the recession to
vote against more personal austerity? At least they voted, eh? Here are the
turnout figures from the past week: London mayoral election - 38%; Britain's
local elections: 32%; presidential election, France (round two) - 81%. The
despairing Greeks still managed 65% - the same as at the 2010 UK general
election. (Yes, locals and nationals are not the same, but...)

i's inbox this week has filled with letters on the "it is our duty to vote"
debate; I was always in that "duty" camp, but of late, I am not so sure. Perhaps
it's age: elections fly by at an alarming rate; main parties converge in the
centre ground at an even faster pace; and a disgruntled electorate casts around
for a real alternative. Candidates' election resources and the system (including
TV coverage) conspire against us.

Some find solace in a UKIP or an attractive independent like George Galloway,
others in extremists. But how many vote just as a protest? How can most of us
know what candidates stand for when largely denied access to their arguments?
What comes first, the "interest in serious politics" egg or the "belief there is
no difference between the politicians and parties" chicken?

In France 17 million tuned in for last week's (three-hour-long) live TV debate
between Hollande and Sarko. In fact, 10 million for the first of our three
debates in 2010 wasn't that bad. But, we do need a rethink on how politics is
presented to help us all re-engage - from the national embarrassment that is the
weekly Prime Minister's Questions to the tired format of BBC Question Time. That
said, we can fix the medium as much as we want, we can't change the politicians'
messages!

twitter.com/stefanohat

Follow @stefanohat

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Letters: Tory futures;
'Nasty' Toryism won't woo voters

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1723 words


David Cameron will only come further unstuck if he listens to the reactionary
voices from the Tory backwaters urging a return to the days of the "Nasty
Party". Former Conservative leaders William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael
Howard all took the Tories sharply to the right and all three were total
failures at the ballot box.

If anything, Mr Cameron should take the Conservatives' local election disaster
as a signal to build a broader cross-party coalition to create a grand alliance
to address Britain's grave financial and social ills. Pandering to the dead wood
on his back benches will only see his project for modern Conservatism land up on
the scrapheap alongside the Big Society and Plan A. Further, deeper cuts to
public services and rowing back on social policy reform will only set the
Conservatives back by a decade.

The people of France have just rejected a "nasty" president along with his
draconian austerity plan. The British electorate will follow and consign the
Conservatives to another 20 years without a majority if the Nasty Party returns.

Anthony Rodriguez

Staines, Middlesex

As David Cameron ponders government for the second half of the current
parliament and his relationship with the Lib Dems, instead of listening to the
Tory clamour for pushing away his partners, he ought to consider listening to
them more closely.

If he had listened to Vince Cable's views on Rupert Murdoch, much political
damage would have been avoided. Perhaps he should now take greater notice of Mr
Cable's approach to the economy before it is too late.

Chris Evans

Teddington, Middlesex

George Osborne tells Andrew Marr that he hears what the electorate is saying,
but he is not prepared to review his austerity measures. Now, even his own
backbenchers are saying that the Posh Boys are arrogant and out of touch. How
right they are.

Gordon Wilde

Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire

Why Ofsted is no help to schools

I did a double-take when I read your leader backing no-notice school inspections
by Ofsted (4 May). You claim that when the day of an inspection is known "duff
teachers" are told not to come in and pupils are primed to be on their best
behaviour. That reads like someone who hasn't the faintest idea how schools
work.

Believe me, if you have a class of disruptive pupils, priming them to behave
when an inspector is due is like asking Boris Johnson to talk about policy - not
a hope.

I write as an ex-teacher - still a volunteer in two schools - and vice-chairman
of a first school, due to become a primary, which has received Outstanding at
its last two inspections.

Ofsted is essentially a bully. How it continues to survive in a world where
workplace bullying is no longer tolerated I cannot understand.

As the head of the school of which I am vice-chairman said at a conference for
outstanding school leaders: "Ofsted told me nothing about my school which my
governors and I didn't already know."

I can only wholeheartedly endorse everything in David Saunders' letter (4 May)
about the destructive effect, both before and after, of an Ofsted inspection on
a school. I too have known Ofsted inspectors who feel very uneasy about what
they have to do and do it because they need the work.

Far and away the best form of inspection would be for the inspectors to stay on
and support, guide and encourage a school where they perceive improvements are
needed. It's called living in the real world.

Michael H C Baker

Wareham, Dorset

Trying to hoodwink school inspectors is nothing new. One of our teachers (in the
1960s) told us how his own teacher (in the 1930s) devised the following protocol
for his class to follow whenever an inspector was present: "If I ask you a
question and you know the answer, raise your right hand. But if you don't know
the answer, raise your left hand."

Ron Paterson

Sheepscombe, Gloucestershire

The dead hand of Ofsted is partly responsible for the near-demise of adult
community education.

About 20 years ago, adult education caught the management virus and the ratio of
administrators to tutors rocketed. Ofsted soon muscled in, though there was no
need for inspections as students treated the classes like any other service they
bought, voting with their feet and thus settling the matter of success or
failure.

Many tutors, reluctant to spend unpaid hours with the new corporate stationery,
left the system and often took their class with them to a church hall or their
own home, where they could pursue the subject in peace. It is small consolation
that the management junkies have virtually destroyed their own golden-egg-laying
goose.

S Lawton

Kirklington, Oxfordshire

Olympic follies and vanities

It was rather mean-spirited of Ian McNicholas (letters, 1 May) to seek to place
the blame for the increasing fiasco that is the Olympic Games on to poor Dwain
Chambers. Perhaps he might consider the contributions made by the death of the
old amateur spirit where sport was enjoyed for sport's sake, the surreal
absurdity of East End residential blocks having surface-to-air missiles on their
roofs, and the preening vanity of the men who run our country and London, and
who spend extravagant sums on this circus while neglecting health, housing and
transport needs.

Instead, Mr McNicholas seeks to put all the blame on one young inner-city black
man trying to make something of his life, who once, a long time ago, did
something foolish. Even murderers don't get real life imprisonment. Chambers has
paid a huge price for what he did and deserves to rehabilitate himself.

Ian Craine

London N15

I have no doubt the Olympic Games could be a target for terrorists. Even so,
there appear to be two problems with the proposal to station a surface-to-air
missile battery on top of an apartment block near the Olympic park.

The first is the implications of shooting down a hijacked airliner over an area
as densely populated as east London. The consequences don't bear thinking about.

The second is that if the security measures on the ground are successful and
terrorists find it difficult to get explosives or weapons into the park, any
building where missile batteries are sited and its occupants may become targets.

Julius Marstrand

Cheltenham

Gold for patience at Heathrow

Further to Mark Steel's excellent take on the border controls at Heathrow
Airport (2 May), would it not be possible to award a gold, silver and bronze
medal for the longest time anyone queued at Heathrow from 1 June to 31 August.
If you can get a gold medal for sliding on ice, on a tin tray, at the Winter
Olympics, surely marathon queuing at Heathrow should qualify.

Incidentally, I saw Theresa May waved through border controls recently; she must
be wondering what all the fuss is about.

John Humphreys

Milton Keynes

We have been told that the public sector had to be cut because there were too
many public-sector workers and they didn't do anything. Oops! Now we find at
Heathrow airport that they do actually did do something and now there are not
enough of them. What a surprise.

Robert Senecal

London WC1

The experience of arriving in England hasn't changed for centuries, it seems.
Tobias Smollett (1721-1771) wrote: "The road from Dover to London was the worst
in England and must certainly impress foreigners with an unfavourable opinion of
the nation in general. The chambers are generally cold and comfortless, the beds
paltry, the cooking execrable, the wine poison, the attendance bad, the
publicans insolent, and the bills extortionate. Kent St [Old Kent Road] is a
most disgraceful entrance to such an opulent city."

Jenny Macmillan

Cambridge

Ukip: good cause, wrong party

Although I am grateful to The Independent Diary (12 April) for quoting from my
letter to the Receiver General of Westminster Abbey giving the litany of
political disgrace which characterised Edward Heath's life (and therefore the
unsuitability of a plaque to his memory in the Abbey) I have in fact not been a
member of Ukip since I resigned in 2000. I had been appalled at the shenanigans
and manipulations of the party by its leadership and could see no credible party
emerging so long as that leadership was in place.

Ukip has represented a worthy cause but is not a worthy party. The rise of a
good body of younger braver eurosceptic Tory MPs actually in Parliament is
already proving a better bet for those who seek a way out of the labyrinthine
constitutional and economic disaster that is the EU.

Rodney Atkinson

Stocksfield, Northumberland

Two centuries of philosophy

I am writing, as President of the Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, in
response to Nicholas Gough's letter (5 May), to say that the Leeds society was
founded in 1819 and is still going strong, as are a number of other such
societies formed in the 19th century, such as those in Manchester and Newcastle.

The scientific collections of its Victorian members formed the nucleus of the
exhibits in the Leeds City Museum and, as a registered charity, the society
continues to support science, literature and the arts in the Leeds area by a
programme of events and by the award of grants.

Congratulations to the Swindon society for their forthcoming 50th anniversary -
only seven years now to our 200th!

Anthony North

Leeds

No progress on the building site

Fiona Dunlop (2 May) comments that the Bauhaus buildings on the Torten estate
were put up in six hours in the 1920s.

Almost a century later, we are still building walls by laying brick upon brick,
as in the 18th century, while roofs are still being built by laying tile upon
tile, as in the 19th century, and hot water is still being produced by
electricity or gas, as in the 20th century.

Completion time: months. Why?

William Robert Haines

Shrewsbury

Neglected auteuses

John Walsh, (Radar, 5 May), said thank goodness for Ken Loach and Mike Leigh,
adding that without them British film would "lack almost all intellectual
ability" and "boast no auteurs worthy of the name".

What about Lynne Ramsay, of Ratcatcher, and Sally Potter, director of Orlando?
Yes, Ken Loach and Mike Leigh are great, but they're not alone. I can't imagine
how John Walsh could forget Lynne Ramsay and Sally Potter.

Henrietta Cubitt

Cambridge

Inexplicable French election

So a warm welcome awaits President Hollande in the UK, but who is going to
explain to David Cameron what a Socialist is? Certainly no one currently in the
Palace of Westminster.

Bob Simmonds

Stickney, Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 2:21 PM GMT

Boris Johnson has proven that Tories with personality can return to popularity

BYLINE: FRANCESCA PREECE

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 420 words


David Cameron could learn a thing or two from bumbling, fumbling Boris.

Super-polished DC may know how to talk the talk and say the right thing but his
sleek speeches aren't winning favour with the voters.

Boris's win last week proved that the public are crying out for a real human
being in charge... not a media whizz robot. Is there any wonder that red Ken
rose through the polls? It's certainly not for his policies! Like them or not,
Ken and Boris are cut from the same cloth. They are the same breed of
personality politician, those who aren't afraid to let their real side come
out... good or otherwise.

I may have rooted for Boris and fought to keep Ken out of London, but I admire
Livingstone for not being afraid to stand up for what he believes in.

He may not stand again but at least in his political career, he stood up for his
beliefs and fought to see his policies, however maligned, see light. It's about
time we saw more of this from our mainstream MPs and less of the well-rehearsed
lines they continually give us.

We want talking off-the-cuff, MPs working as individuals and not being afraid to
disagree with party policy. We need more Churchills and it is in risk-takers
like Boris and Ken that we see that much-loved political figure appear.

London's Mayoral election also proved one other thing: that the Tory party isn't
as abhorred as we might have first thought. The problem is that so many people
see MPs as the same, and after expense rows, U-turns, barmy Brussels blueprints
- it's not in a great light.

Londoners voted for Boris because he is more like the electorate. He's not just
a suit. He is charming, he makes mistakes and isn't afraid to say what he
thinks, even if it means insulting a whole city in the process.

I believe that this election showed a vote for character over politics. It is
why Brian Paddick faltered and the likes of Jenny Jones squeezed into third
place. She may have moaned on about climate change in her commiseration speech,
but she had more personality in that five minutes than Brian has ever shown.

David Cameron and Co should look at this as a lesson to learn. As kids we are
taught by our parents to just be ourselves. Why is it so difficult for David and
George to do this? They'd get far more credit if they accepted their social
status and lived life as they actually do.

PR stunts professing love of pasties and being one of the 'common people' fail
hopelessly. Show some personality and maybe then the Tory support will flock
back from its nesting area in UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 12:33 PM GMT

How Dave Cameron could win over even Nadine Dorries

BYLINE: SIMON RICHARDS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 433 words


After the Conservative Party's shockingly poor performance in last week's local
elections - and, for that matter, its almost equally unimpressive performance
over the past two years in Government, what can Dave Cameron do to rescue his
sinking Tory ship from the rocks to deliver the General Election victory that
has so far eluded him?

Here are a few suggestions which I believe could help him deliver an historic
comeback election victory:

1. Have the honesty and humility to acknowledge that your strategy of trying to
win over Guardian readers turned certain victory at the last General Election
into a defeat that has dogged you ever since.

2. Stop cosying up to the most despised and unpopular boy in the class - Nick
Clegg - and tell him where to stick his constitutional reforms. The
justification for the Coalition was supposed to be the need to concentrate on
the economy, not tinkering with the House of Lords.

3. Stop throwing more money down the EU drain. Not a penny more should go to
prop up the doomed Euro.

4. Use the tens of billions saved on subsidising our trading rivals in the EU to
finance a programme of infrastructure improvements to make the UK the
communications hub of the world - and by that I mean spending on roads and
airports, not shaving a few minutes off the journey to London-Birmingham for
civil servants traveling first class on a high speed train.

5. Accept that there are some politicians the public will never warm to. Neil
Kinnock was one; I'm afraid that George Osborne may well be another.

6. Stop listening to that swivel-eyed Eurofanatic, Lord Heseltine, who wants to
take us into the Euro. Instead, invite Lord Tebbit in for a weekly chat and a
cuppa. Nobody knows better how to win over the striving classes than the sage of
Chingford.

7. Don't expect people to get behind necessary public spending cuts while, at
the same time, you're spending more and more money on your pet projects, such as
overseas aid. Building much needed new ships for the Royal Navy would create new
jobs - shipping food to India won't.

8. Stop treating disillusioned natural Conservatives who are tempted to vote
UKIP as though they're extremists. Concentrate on giving them good reasons to
vote Conservative instead.

9. Although your friend, Helena Bonham-Carter, has given the game away about
your not being a Conservative, do try to show just a little respect for the
people who would like a Conservative leader - after all, it worked for Boris.

10. Do just some of these things and you'll find lots more people - even
bloggers like me on Right Minds - will start to warm to you!

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cam we get rid of EU too?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 478 words


£50 LETTER I HAVE no sympathy for David Cameron - he has only himself to blame
for the poor election results.

WITH cent of the taking part the not a major The winner is "abstain". needed is
cent to form party.

In the last General Election, top of the manifesto was to give us a referendum
on the EU which he conveniently forgot about once he was in power. SACHA As for
the ridiculous hot pie tax, what does the average working man have for his
lunch? Need I say more!

HELEN PATERSON Dunfermline SO Cameron has finally admitted the euro is still in
a crisis, what a shocker! The EU has been nothing but a disaster since 1975, and
it just gets worse. We should get rid of him and the EU now by sending a vote of
no confidence in Cameron to Downing Street. We need to try a new political party
and UKIP is the only one that will give us our country back again.

MICHAEL HASTIE Glasgow ONCE again flunky Cameron says the UK recovery will last
until 2015, so in other words, he will never give us a referendum on the EU. We
are ruled from Brussels because Cameron hasn't got the guts to stand up to them.

It's time the people took to the streets to show how disgusted we are with the
Government.

VICKI JONES by email THE low turnout of voters yet again is a disgrace. It's
disappointing that only around 30 per cent of those eligible to vote actually
bothered.

These people will probably be the 34 per electorate local elections, winner is
first to complain about Governments and politicians but this was their chance to
vote for change in the future of this country - and they blew it.

66 per cent Clearly what is the 66 per their own Whatever anyone thinks about
the Americans, when there's an election, there are always queues of people
waiting to put their vote to good use.

GOSLING by email MARIA CONNELLY Bellshill, Lanarkshire IT'S a sad day when
councillors admit the weather helped them gain votes for the Scottish council
elections.

But with only an average of 34 per cent voting in each ward, shouldn't they be
asking why voters aren't turning up in their droves? DIANE MITCHELL Aberdeen IT
beggars belief that there's women out there like killer John Gardiner's fiancée
Patricia Dawson who'll marry fiends. How do they sleep at night knowing what he
has done? It is sick that he gets to make a new life for himself while relatives
of his poor wife Margaret are still wondering where he has concealed her body.

IRENE BURNS East Kilbride WITH Sudan on the brink of war with its neighbour,
South Sudan, the UK has a pivotal role to play in supporting the African Union's
call to settle this dispute.

And with Scotland's history of hosting reconciliation and conflict resolution
talks, such as those in Moray between Armenia and Azerbaijan, Sudan provides the
perfect catalyst for the establishment of a Scottish Centre for Reconciliation
and Conflict Resolution.

ALEX ORR Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:56 AM GMT

These mid-terms blues are worse than normal because Cameron is letting Labour
off the hook

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1644 words


Mid-term electoral blues for the party in office are nothing new. Most
governments suffer them. Some recover in time for the following election. So on
the surface what happened to the Government last Thursday was not only
unsurprising, nor of itself does it rule out a recovery before 2015.

However, this attack of mid-term blues looks to be rather worse than normal. Nor
is it just the inherent problems of being in coalition with a party whose very
existence after the next election depends on the Conservative Party failing once
again to win a majority.

The Prime Minister seem to have let the Labour Party get away from its record in
government, and to pose as having found in opposition the solution to the
problems which they created not long ago in government. That must mean that
either Ed Milliband is proving a much better leader of his party than the Tories
would like to admit, or that they have been far, far less effective than they
should have been in highlighting his weaknesses.

There is some comfort to be had from the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor
of London. It demonstrates that the electors have no prejudice against wealthy
old Etonian ex-members of the Bullingdon Club, even in a city in which Labour
had a clear majority both in the polls and in other contests. Not only that, but

 to the relief of the Prime Minister, it makes it much more difficult for Boris,
willingly or unwillingly, to become the focus of an attempt by dissident Tory
MPs to mount a leadership coup d'état.

For Unionists, there was also some comfort to be drawn from the SNP's failure to
take control of Glasgow from the Labour Party, and conservatives certainly had
reason to smile at the discomfiture of their LibDem 'partners', whose base in
local government was again severely eroded.

The smaller parties had mixed fortunes but it is a pity that the ridiculous
Green Party had some successes. Alongside the appallingly low turn-out, it
should be a warning to the major parties when electors begin to take such a nest
of charlatans seriously.

Labour's recovery seemed to have taken the wind out of the sails of the BNP, but
Galloway's Respect Party made ground at Labour's expense in Bradford. It is hard
to assess  how well Ukip performed overall. Whilst the increase  in its  share
of votes in the seats it contested from 8 per cent to 13 per cent was real
enough who can tell just how well it would have done had it contested more
widely. Nonetheless it was certainly good enough to have increased the concern
of many Conservative MPs.

All in all Ed Miliband had a good night out. His troops are in a more cheerful
mood again, Boris Johnson has done him a great favour by pushing Ken Livingstone
off the stage, the Lib Dems have suffered a nasty defeat and their dissident
voters are more likely to come Labour's way than the Tories.

What all the politicians, winners and losers alike, should remember is that the
overall winner on Thursday, by a margin of two to one over all the rest, was our
old friend "None Of The Above".

There is another caveat. The General Election is most likely still three years
away and there are plenty of  'events'  to come.  To start with, there will be
the European Elections in 2014, when it is hard to imagine that Ukip will not at
least be ahead of the Lib Dems in third place - and if the Coalition does not do
a lot better over the next two years than the last, it might even challenge the
Conservatives for second place.

If the Prime Minister is indeed contemplating a reshuffle he had best put a
premium on competence over personal friendships to avoid another sticky patch
like the one he has suffered over the last month and look for the issues which
can be as attractive to Labour's stay at home former supporters as those of the
Tory Party.

House of Lords reform, gay marriage, windmills, and overseas aid are not amongst
them.

...

With something like 1,500 posts on my two recent blog posts it would be hard to
do justice to them all. However, as usual, there were a some distinct themes
which emerged and some particular individual posts to which I should reply.

First of all I should say to TrulyDisqusted that I am sorry that some of what I
have written should have caused him such hurt.   He has clearly suffered in the
service of his country and that experience has left him with some scars. I
understand that from my own experiences and I wish him well even although we may
disagree.

As for Max Semenenko, I apologise for spelling his name wrongly. That can be
irritating, as I know. However, he cannot simply blame the mediator for not
backing up his claim that I remain in the Conservative Party because, he says,
it brings me financial benefits. Despite that I remain ever willing to help him
to put up or shut up. Perhaps he would write to me at the House of Lords, SW1A
0PW, and I will let you all know all what he reveals. I am afraid that I found
Amos47 still determined not to understand what I write. I have set out the
nature of the difference between the centre or middle ground  and the common
ground more than once. He really must make an effort to understand that if he
wants to understand the disenchantment of former Conservative voters.

Alas, he was not alone in either not reading, or not understanding, what I
write. There were still some posts claiming that I had said there were no
English-born (for which read 'white') candidates fit to be Archbishop of
Canterbury. Perhaps their authors would like to direct readers to where they
think I wrote that.  My blog on that matter was about the shamelessness of those
who would normally be the first to scream 'racist' against any one who
criticised a cleric not of English blood, but who sneered at Sentamu's African
heritage when what they really objected to was his Christian belief. On the
matter of just what constitutes the prime precepts of Christianitybut is often
left unsaid, puranah 69 helpfully directed us to St Matthew 5: 7-8.

On the wider theme of how Mr Hunt has landed himself in such trouble, there were
of course some who wanted to depict him as no more than a lackey of the Murdoch
Empire simply obeying orders. I think it best to await what evidence comes to
light at the Leveson Inquiry before being too certain of such matters.

I was, however, glad that so many of you accepted my analysis that as with the
troubles of the Coalition as a whole, many of Mr Hunt's troubles spring from a
lack of real-world experience and reliance on  'special advisers' at least as
inexperienced as himself.

As english pensioner and prof.ardie put it, the trouble is that too few
Ministers or 'advisers' have worked for a living outside the Westminster village
and the public relations business.

There was a good post from marcus-junius-brutus on the development of strategy
and products in business, and by analogy, in government, supported by what
mpjones, steadybarker, mrsmo and simoncoulter wrote too. I thought darkseid also
made a good point about the damage done to the civil service during Blair's
premiership.

There were plenty of posts from cdivision, rubyduck, and many others who
questioned my remark that it should be a matter of concern that there has been a
flight of electors from the three main parties. I understand their point of
view, which springs from their lack of confidence in those parties and in many
cases their view that there is too little to choose between them for comfort of
the health of the body politic. That is so. My thought was that it is in itself
is a matter of concern that there are not major parties capable of putting
forward  ideas capable of carrying widespread support. As Lord Boone wrote, the
goal of the party leaders should be more than just to be in office.

The most surprising thing about your responses to my blog marking the 15th
anniversary of Tony Blair's first election victory was not that it evoked a
thousand posts, but how very few of them attempted to defend Blair. Eventually
mungol braved ridicule by doing so, Benjamin Hurley followed and poor fabian
solutions came out for him too, but the tide was overwhelmingly against them.
Blair Supporter demanded that I should stop referring to Campbell and Blair as
'creatures'.  Perhaps he would be so kind as to say where I did so. It seems
that sloppiness and muddle are not confined to Mr Hunt's office.

Naturally there were those who, unable to defend Blair, chose to attack
Thatcher, but making bricks without straw is hard enough for master craftsmen,
and they failed pretty badly at that.

Understandably there were those who reacted to my comments about Blair's Wars by
pointing out that the Conservative Party supported the invasion of Iraq and
demanding to know if I had opposed his policy. The short answer is that I did
not. At that time I did not think that he would have made the claims which he
did about the extent and nature of Saddam's weapons of mass destruction
programmes which proved to be substantially untrue. Nor did I believe that he,
as |Prime Minister, would have agreed to the invasion without an agreed plan on
how Iraq would be governed in the immediate aftermath of the overthrow of
Sadaam's government and the defeat of the Iraqi army. There was no plan to
safeguard public utilities. No plan to effectively disarm the Iraqi army, nor to
use it to help maintain order. There was no plan to use the Iraqi civil service
to help administer the country. The result was chaos and disorder.

In short, Blair allowed the aftermath of the military conflict to be bungled. I
was glad that jayfromphilly made exactly that point in his post.

Thank you hdgdggd for reminding us of The Fox's Prophecy.  So far it seems to
have been alarmingly accurate. I can only hope that it continues to be.

Finally, thank you to all of you for your contributions, especially those who
supported my views or said kind things. I am grateful to you.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:56 AM GMT

These mid-terms blues are worse than normal because Cameron is letting Labour
off the hook

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1644 words


Mid-term electoral blues for the party in office are nothing new. Most
governments suffer them. Some recover in time for the following election. So on
the surface what happened to the Government last Thursday was not only
unsurprising, nor of itself does it rule out a recovery before 2015.

However, this attack of mid-term blues looks to be rather worse than normal. Nor
is it just the inherent problems of being in coalition with a party whose very
existence after the next election depends on the Conservative Party failing once
again to win a majority.

The Prime Minister seem to have let the Labour Party get away from its record in
government, and to pose as having found in opposition the solution to the
problems which they created not long ago in government. That must mean that
either Ed Milliband is proving a much better leader of his party than the Tories
would like to admit, or that they have been far, far less effective than they
should have been in highlighting his weaknesses.

There is some comfort to be had from the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor
of London. It demonstrates that the electors have no prejudice against wealthy
old Etonian ex-members of the Bullingdon Club, even in a city in which Labour
had a clear majority both in the polls and in other contests. Not only that, but

 to the relief of the Prime Minister, it makes it much more difficult for Boris,
willingly or unwillingly, to become the focus of an attempt by dissident Tory
MPs to mount a leadership coup d'état.

For Unionists, there was also some comfort to be drawn from the SNP's failure to
take control of Glasgow from the Labour Party, and conservatives certainly had
reason to smile at the discomfiture of their LibDem 'partners', whose base in
local government was again severely eroded.

The smaller parties had mixed fortunes but it is a pity that the ridiculous
Green Party had some successes. Alongside the appallingly low turn-out, it
should be a warning to the major parties when electors begin to take such a nest
of charlatans seriously.

Labour's recovery seemed to have taken the wind out of the sails of the BNP, but
Galloway's Respect Party made ground at Labour's expense in Bradford. It is hard
to assess  how well Ukip performed overall. Whilst the increase  in its  share
of votes in the seats it contested from 8 per cent to 13 per cent was real
enough who can tell just how well it would have done had it contested more
widely. Nonetheless it was certainly good enough to have increased the concern
of many Conservative MPs.

All in all Ed Miliband had a good night out. His troops are in a more cheerful
mood again, Boris Johnson has done him a great favour by pushing Ken Livingstone
off the stage, the Lib Dems have suffered a nasty defeat and their dissident
voters are more likely to come Labour's way than the Tories.

What all the politicians, winners and losers alike, should remember is that the
overall winner on Thursday, by a margin of two to one over all the rest, was our
old friend "None Of The Above".

There is another caveat. The General Election is most likely still three years
away and there are plenty of  'events'  to come.  To start with, there will be
the European Elections in 2014, when it is hard to imagine that Ukip will not at
least be ahead of the Lib Dems in third place - and if the Coalition does not do
a lot better over the next two years than the last, it might even challenge the
Conservatives for second place.

If the Prime Minister is indeed contemplating a reshuffle he had best put a
premium on competence over personal friendships to avoid another sticky patch
like the one he has suffered over the last month and look for the issues which
can be as attractive to Labour's stay at home former supporters as those of the
Tory Party.

House of Lords reform, gay marriage, windmills, and overseas aid are not amongst
them.

...

With something like 1,500 posts on my two recent blog posts it would be hard to
do justice to them all. However, as usual, there were a some distinct themes
which emerged and some particular individual posts to which I should reply.

First of all I should say to TrulyDisqusted that I am sorry that some of what I
have written should have caused him such hurt.   He has clearly suffered in the
service of his country and that experience has left him with some scars. I
understand that from my own experiences and I wish him well even although we may
disagree.

As for Max Semenenko, I apologise for spelling his name wrongly. That can be
irritating, as I know. However, he cannot simply blame the mediator for not
backing up his claim that I remain in the Conservative Party because, he says,
it brings me financial benefits. Despite that I remain ever willing to help him
to put up or shut up. Perhaps he would write to me at the House of Lords, SW1A
0PW, and I will let you all know all what he reveals. I am afraid that I found
Amos47 still determined not to understand what I write. I have set out the
nature of the difference between the centre or middle ground  and the common
ground more than once. He really must make an effort to understand that if he
wants to understand the disenchantment of former Conservative voters.

Alas, he was not alone in either not reading, or not understanding, what I
write. There were still some posts claiming that I had said there were no
English-born (for which read 'white') candidates fit to be Archbishop of
Canterbury. Perhaps their authors would like to direct readers to where they
think I wrote that.  My blog on that matter was about the shamelessness of those
who would normally be the first to scream 'racist' against any one who
criticised a cleric not of English blood, but who sneered at Sentamu's African
heritage when what they really objected to was his Christian belief. On the
matter of just what constitutes the prime precepts of Christianitybut is often
left unsaid, puranah 69 helpfully directed us to St Matthew 5: 7-8.

On the wider theme of how Mr Hunt has landed himself in such trouble, there were
of course some who wanted to depict him as no more than a lackey of the Murdoch
Empire simply obeying orders. I think it best to await what evidence comes to
light at the Leveson Inquiry before being too certain of such matters.

I was, however, glad that so many of you accepted my analysis that as with the
troubles of the Coalition as a whole, many of Mr Hunt's troubles spring from a
lack of real-world experience and reliance on  'special advisers' at least as
inexperienced as himself.

As english pensioner and prof.ardie put it, the trouble is that too few
Ministers or 'advisers' have worked for a living outside the Westminster village
and the public relations business.

There was a good post from marcus-junius-brutus on the development of strategy
and products in business, and by analogy, in government, supported by what
mpjones, steadybarker, mrsmo and simoncoulter wrote too. I thought darkseid also
made a good point about the damage done to the civil service during Blair's
premiership.

There were plenty of posts from cdivision, rubyduck, and many others who
questioned my remark that it should be a matter of concern that there has been a
flight of electors from the three main parties. I understand their point of
view, which springs from their lack of confidence in those parties and in many
cases their view that there is too little to choose between them for comfort of
the health of the body politic. That is so. My thought was that it is in itself
is a matter of concern that there are not major parties capable of putting
forward  ideas capable of carrying widespread support. As Lord Boone wrote, the
goal of the party leaders should be more than just to be in office.

The most surprising thing about your responses to my blog marking the 15th
anniversary of Tony Blair's first election victory was not that it evoked a
thousand posts, but how very few of them attempted to defend Blair. Eventually
mungol braved ridicule by doing so, Benjamin Hurley followed and poor fabian
solutions came out for him too, but the tide was overwhelmingly against them.
Blair Supporter demanded that I should stop referring to Campbell and Blair as
'creatures'.  Perhaps he would be so kind as to say where I did so. It seems
that sloppiness and muddle are not confined to Mr Hunt's office.

Naturally there were those who, unable to defend Blair, chose to attack
Thatcher, but making bricks without straw is hard enough for master craftsmen,
and they failed pretty badly at that.

Understandably there were those who reacted to my comments about Blair's Wars by
pointing out that the Conservative Party supported the invasion of Iraq and
demanding to know if I had opposed his policy. The short answer is that I did
not. At that time I did not think that he would have made the claims which he
did about the extent and nature of Saddam's weapons of mass destruction
programmes which proved to be substantially untrue. Nor did I believe that he,
as |Prime Minister, would have agreed to the invasion without an agreed plan on
how Iraq would be governed in the immediate aftermath of the overthrow of
Sadaam's government and the defeat of the Iraqi army. There was no plan to
safeguard public utilities. No plan to effectively disarm the Iraqi army, nor to
use it to help maintain order. There was no plan to use the Iraqi civil service
to help administer the country. The result was chaos and disorder.

In short, Blair allowed the aftermath of the military conflict to be bungled. I
was glad that jayfromphilly made exactly that point in his post.

Thank you hdgdggd for reminding us of The Fox's Prophecy.  So far it seems to
have been alarmingly accurate. I can only hope that it continues to be.

Finally, thank you to all of you for your contributions, especially those who
supported my views or said kind things. I am grateful to you.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:56 AM GMT

These mid-terms blues are worse than normal because Cameron is letting Labour
off the hook

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1644 words


Mid-term electoral blues for the party in office are nothing new. Most
governments suffer them. Some recover in time for the following election. So on
the surface what happened to the Government last Thursday was not only
unsurprising, nor of itself does it rule out a recovery before 2015.

However, this attack of mid-term blues looks to be rather worse than normal. Nor
is it just the inherent problems of being in coalition with a party whose very
existence after the next election depends on the Conservative Party failing once
again to win a majority.

The Prime Minister seem to have let the Labour Party get away from its record in
government, and to pose as having found in opposition the solution to the
problems which they created not long ago in government. That must mean that
either Ed Milliband is proving a much better leader of his party than the Tories
would like to admit, or that they have been far, far less effective than they
should have been in highlighting his weaknesses.

There is some comfort to be had from the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor
of London. It demonstrates that the electors have no prejudice against wealthy
old Etonian ex-members of the Bullingdon Club, even in a city in which Labour
had a clear majority both in the polls and in other contests. Not only that, but

 to the relief of the Prime Minister, it makes it much more difficult for Boris,
willingly or unwillingly, to become the focus of an attempt by dissident Tory
MPs to mount a leadership coup d'état.

For Unionists, there was also some comfort to be drawn from the SNP's failure to
take control of Glasgow from the Labour Party, and conservatives certainly had
reason to smile at the discomfiture of their LibDem 'partners', whose base in
local government was again severely eroded.

The smaller parties had mixed fortunes but it is a pity that the ridiculous
Green Party had some successes. Alongside the appallingly low turn-out, it
should be a warning to the major parties when electors begin to take such a nest
of charlatans seriously.

Labour's recovery seemed to have taken the wind out of the sails of the BNP, but
Galloway's Respect Party made ground at Labour's expense in Bradford. It is hard
to assess  how well Ukip performed overall. Whilst the increase  in its  share
of votes in the seats it contested from 8 per cent to 13 per cent was real
enough who can tell just how well it would have done had it contested more
widely. Nonetheless it was certainly good enough to have increased the concern
of many Conservative MPs.

All in all Ed Miliband had a good night out. His troops are in a more cheerful
mood again, Boris Johnson has done him a great favour by pushing Ken Livingstone
off the stage, the Lib Dems have suffered a nasty defeat and their dissident
voters are more likely to come Labour's way than the Tories.

What all the politicians, winners and losers alike, should remember is that the
overall winner on Thursday, by a margin of two to one over all the rest, was our
old friend "None Of The Above".

There is another caveat. The General Election is most likely still three years
away and there are plenty of  'events'  to come.  To start with, there will be
the European Elections in 2014, when it is hard to imagine that Ukip will not at
least be ahead of the Lib Dems in third place - and if the Coalition does not do
a lot better over the next two years than the last, it might even challenge the
Conservatives for second place.

If the Prime Minister is indeed contemplating a reshuffle he had best put a
premium on competence over personal friendships to avoid another sticky patch
like the one he has suffered over the last month and look for the issues which
can be as attractive to Labour's stay at home former supporters as those of the
Tory Party.

House of Lords reform, gay marriage, windmills, and overseas aid are not amongst
them.

...

With something like 1,500 posts on my two recent blog posts it would be hard to
do justice to them all. However, as usual, there were a some distinct themes
which emerged and some particular individual posts to which I should reply.

First of all I should say to TrulyDisqusted that I am sorry that some of what I
have written should have caused him such hurt.   He has clearly suffered in the
service of his country and that experience has left him with some scars. I
understand that from my own experiences and I wish him well even although we may
disagree.

As for Max Semenenko, I apologise for spelling his name wrongly. That can be
irritating, as I know. However, he cannot simply blame the mediator for not
backing up his claim that I remain in the Conservative Party because, he says,
it brings me financial benefits. Despite that I remain ever willing to help him
to put up or shut up. Perhaps he would write to me at the House of Lords, SW1A
0PW, and I will let you all know all what he reveals. I am afraid that I found
Amos47 still determined not to understand what I write. I have set out the
nature of the difference between the centre or middle ground  and the common
ground more than once. He really must make an effort to understand that if he
wants to understand the disenchantment of former Conservative voters.

Alas, he was not alone in either not reading, or not understanding, what I
write. There were still some posts claiming that I had said there were no
English-born (for which read 'white') candidates fit to be Archbishop of
Canterbury. Perhaps their authors would like to direct readers to where they
think I wrote that.  My blog on that matter was about the shamelessness of those
who would normally be the first to scream 'racist' against any one who
criticised a cleric not of English blood, but who sneered at Sentamu's African
heritage when what they really objected to was his Christian belief. On the
matter of just what constitutes the prime precepts of Christianitybut is often
left unsaid, puranah 69 helpfully directed us to St Matthew 5: 7-8.

On the wider theme of how Mr Hunt has landed himself in such trouble, there were
of course some who wanted to depict him as no more than a lackey of the Murdoch
Empire simply obeying orders. I think it best to await what evidence comes to
light at the Leveson Inquiry before being too certain of such matters.

I was, however, glad that so many of you accepted my analysis that as with the
troubles of the Coalition as a whole, many of Mr Hunt's troubles spring from a
lack of real-world experience and reliance on  'special advisers' at least as
inexperienced as himself.

As english pensioner and prof.ardie put it, the trouble is that too few
Ministers or 'advisers' have worked for a living outside the Westminster village
and the public relations business.

There was a good post from marcus-junius-brutus on the development of strategy
and products in business, and by analogy, in government, supported by what
mpjones, steadybarker, mrsmo and simoncoulter wrote too. I thought darkseid also
made a good point about the damage done to the civil service during Blair's
premiership.

There were plenty of posts from cdivision, rubyduck, and many others who
questioned my remark that it should be a matter of concern that there has been a
flight of electors from the three main parties. I understand their point of
view, which springs from their lack of confidence in those parties and in many
cases their view that there is too little to choose between them for comfort of
the health of the body politic. That is so. My thought was that it is in itself
is a matter of concern that there are not major parties capable of putting
forward  ideas capable of carrying widespread support. As Lord Boone wrote, the
goal of the party leaders should be more than just to be in office.

The most surprising thing about your responses to my blog marking the 15th
anniversary of Tony Blair's first election victory was not that it evoked a
thousand posts, but how very few of them attempted to defend Blair. Eventually
mungol braved ridicule by doing so, Benjamin Hurley followed and poor fabian
solutions came out for him too, but the tide was overwhelmingly against them.
Blair Supporter demanded that I should stop referring to Campbell and Blair as
'creatures'.  Perhaps he would be so kind as to say where I did so. It seems
that sloppiness and muddle are not confined to Mr Hunt's office.

Naturally there were those who, unable to defend Blair, chose to attack
Thatcher, but making bricks without straw is hard enough for master craftsmen,
and they failed pretty badly at that.

Understandably there were those who reacted to my comments about Blair's Wars by
pointing out that the Conservative Party supported the invasion of Iraq and
demanding to know if I had opposed his policy. The short answer is that I did
not. At that time I did not think that he would have made the claims which he
did about the extent and nature of Saddam's weapons of mass destruction
programmes which proved to be substantially untrue. Nor did I believe that he,
as |Prime Minister, would have agreed to the invasion without an agreed plan on
how Iraq would be governed in the immediate aftermath of the overthrow of
Sadaam's government and the defeat of the Iraqi army. There was no plan to
safeguard public utilities. No plan to effectively disarm the Iraqi army, nor to
use it to help maintain order. There was no plan to use the Iraqi civil service
to help administer the country. The result was chaos and disorder.

In short, Blair allowed the aftermath of the military conflict to be bungled. I
was glad that jayfromphilly made exactly that point in his post.

Thank you hdgdggd for reminding us of The Fox's Prophecy.  So far it seems to
have been alarmingly accurate. I can only hope that it continues to be.

Finally, thank you to all of you for your contributions, especially those who
supported my views or said kind things. I am grateful to you.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:56 AM GMT

These mid-terms blues are worse than normal because Cameron is letting Labour
off the hook

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1628 words


Mid-term electoral blues for the party in office are nothing new. Most
governments sufferthem. Some recover in time for the following election.So on
the surface what happened to the Government last Thursday was notonly
unsurprising,norof itself does itrule out a recovery before 2015.

However, this attack ofmid-term blues looks to be rather worse than normal.Nor
is it just the inherent problems of being in coalitionwith a party whose very
existence after the next election depends on the Conservative Party failing once
again to win a majority.

The Prime Minister seem to havelet the Labour Party get away from its record in
government, and to pose as having found in opposition thesolution to the
problems which they created not long ago in government. That must mean that
either Ed Milliband is proving a much better leader of his party than the Tories
would like to admit, or that they have been far, far less effective than they
should have beenin highlighting his weaknesses.

There is some comfort to be had from the re-electionof Boris Johnson as Mayor of
London. It demonstrates that the electors have no prejudice againstwealthy old
Etonian ex-members of the Bullingdon Club, even in a city in which Labour had a
clear majority both in the polls and in other contests. Not only that, butto the
relief of the Prime Minister, it makes it much more difficult for Boris,
willingly or unwillingly, to become the focus of an attempt by dissident Tory
MPs to mount a leadership coup d'tat.

For Unionists, there was also some comfort to be drawn from the SNP's failure to
take control of Glasgow from the Labour Party, and conservatives certainly had
reason to smile at the discomfiture of their LibDem 'partners', whose base in
local government was again severely eroded.

The smaller parties had mixed fortunes but it is a pity that the ridiculous
Green Party had some successes. Alongside theappallingly low turn-out,it should
be a warning to the major parties when electors beginto take such a nest of
charlatans seriously.

Labour's recovery seemed to have taken the wind out of the sails of the BNP, but
Galloway's Respect Partymade ground at Labour's expense in Bradford.It is hard
to assess how well Ukip performed overall.Whilst the increase inits share of
votes in the seats it contested from 8 per cent to 13 per cent was real enough
who can tell just how well it would have done had it contested more widely.
Nonetheless it was certainly good enough to have increased the concern of many
Conservative MPs.

All in all Ed Miliband had a good night out.His troops are in a more cheerful
mood again,Boris Johnson has done him a great favour by pushing Ken Livingstone
off the stage,the Lib Dems have suffered a nasty defeat and their dissident
voters are more likely to come Labour's way than the Tories.

What all the politicians, winners and losers alike,should rememberis that the
overall winner on Thursday, by a margin of two to one over all the rest, was our
old friend "None Of The Above".

There is anothercaveat. The General Election is most likely still three years
away and there are plenty of 'events' to come. To start with, there will be the
European Elections in 2014, when it is hard to imagine that Ukip will not at
least be ahead of the Lib Dems in third place - and if the Coalition does not do
a lot better over the next two years than the last, it might evenchallenge the
Conservatives for second place.

If the Prime Minister is indeed contemplating a reshuffle he had best put a
premium on competence over personal friendships to avoid another sticky patch
like the one he has suffered over the last month and look for the issues which
can be as attractive to Labour's stay at home former supporters as those of the
Tory Party.

House of Lords reform, gay marriage, windmills,and overseas aid are not amongst
them.

...

With something like 1,500 posts on my two recent blog posts it would be hard to
do justice to them all.However, as usual, there were asome distinct themes which
emerged and some particular individual posts to which I should reply.

First of all I should say to TrulyDisqusted that I am sorry that some of what I
have written should have caused him such hurt. He has clearly suffered in the
service of his country and that experience has left him with some scars.I
understand that from my own experiences and I wish him well even although we may
disagree.

As for Max Semenenko, I apologise for spelling his name wrongly.That can be
irritating, as I know.However, he cannot simply blame the mediator for not
backing up his claim that I remain in the Conservative Party because, he says,
it brings me financial benefits.Despite that I remainever willingto help him to
put up or shut up. Perhaps he wouldwrite to me at the House of Lords, SW1A 0PW,
andI will let you all know all what he reveals.I am afraid that Ifound Amos47
still determined not to understand what I write. I have set out the nature of
the difference between the centre or middle groundand the common ground more
than once.He really must make an effort to understand that if he wants to
understand thedisenchantment of former Conservative voters.

Alas, he was not alone in either not reading, or not understanding, what I
write.There were still some postsclaiming that I had said there were no
English-born (for which read 'white') candidates fit to be Archbishop of
Canterbury.Perhaps their authorswould like to direct readers to where they think
I wrote that. My blog on that matter was about the shamelessness of those who
would normally be the first to scream 'racist' against any one who criticised a
cleric not of English blood, but who sneered at Sentamu's African heritage when
what they really objected to was his Christian belief.On the matter of just what
constitutes the prime precepts of Christianitybut is often left unsaid, puranah
69 helpfully directed us to St Matthew 5: 7-8.

On the wider theme of how Mr Hunt has landed himself in such trouble, there were
of course some who wanted to depict him as no more than a lackey of the Murdoch
Empire simply obeying orders.I think it best to await what evidence comes to
light at the Leveson Inquiry before being too certain of such matters.

I was, however, glad that so many of you accepted my analysis that as with the
troubles of the Coalition as a whole, many of Mr Hunt's troubles spring from a
lack of real-world experience and reliance on 'special advisers' at least as
inexperienced as himself.

As english pensioner and prof.ardie put it, the trouble is that too few
Ministers or 'advisers' have worked for a living outside the Westminster village
and the public relations business.

There was a good post from marcus-junius-brutus on the development of strategy
and products in business, and by analogy, ingovernment, supported by what
mpjones, steadybarker, mrsmoand simoncoulter wrote too.I thought darkseid also
made a good point aboutthe damage done to the civil serviceduring Blair's
premiership.

There were plenty of posts from cdivision, rubyduck, and many others who
questioned my remark that it should be a matter of concern that there has been a
flight of electors from the three main parties.I understand their point of view,
which springs from their lack of confidence in those parties and in many cases
their view that there is too little to choose between them for comfort of the
health of the body politic.That is so.My thought was that it is in itself is a
matter of concern that there are not major parties capable of putting forward
ideas capable of carrying widespread support.As Lord Boone wrote, the goal of
the party leaders should be more than just to be in office.

The most surprising thing about your responses to my blog marking the 15th
anniversary of Tony Blair's first election victory was notthat it evokeda
thousand posts, but how very few of them attempted to defend Blair.Eventually
mungol braved ridicule by doing so, Benjamin Hurley followed and poor fabian
solutionscame out for him too, but the tide was overwhelmingly against
them.Blair Supporter demanded that I should stop referring to Campbell and Blair
as 'creatures'. Perhaps he would be so kind as to say where I did so.It seems
that sloppiness and muddle are not confined to Mr Hunt's office.

Naturally there were those who, unable to defend Blair, chose to attack
Thatcher, but making bricks without straw is hard enough for master craftsmen,
and they failed pretty badly at that.

Understandably there were those who reacted to my comments about Blair's Wars by
pointing out that the Conservative Party supported the invasion of Iraq and
demanding to know if I had opposed his policy.The short answer is that I did
not.At that time I did not think that he would have made the claims which he did
about the extent and nature of Saddam's weapons of mass destruction
programmeswhich proved to be substantially untrue.Nor did I believe that he, as
|Prime Minister,would have agreed to the invasion without an agreed plan on how
Iraq would be governed in the immediate aftermath of the overthrow of Sadaam's
government and the defeat of the Iraqi army.There was no plan to safeguard
public utilities.No plan toeffectively disarmthe Iraqi army, nor to use itto
help maintain order.There was no plan to use the Iraqi civil service to help
administer the country.The result was chaos and disorder.

In short, Blair allowed the aftermath of the military conflict to be bungled.I
was glad that jayfromphilly made exactly that point in his post.

Thank you hdgdggd for reminding us of The Fox's Prophecy. So far it seems to
have been alarmingly accurate.I can only hope that it continues to be.

Finally, thank you to all of you for your contributions, especially those who
supported my views or said kind things.I am grateful to you.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:05 AM GMT

A shockwave across Europe? The only person shocked by Nicolas Sarkozy's defeat
was Nicolas Sarkozy

BYLINE: By Walter Ellis

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 750 words


According to the media, the election of François Hollande as French President
sent "shockwaves" across Europe. I don't quite see that myself.

Even allowing for the fact that "Europe" in this instance is shorthand for the
political class and its fellow travellers, the use of the word "shockwave,"
suggesting a political tsunami, seems to me more than a touch exaggerated.

For a start, just about everyone expected Hollande to win. The real shock would
have come if Nicolas Sarkozy had somehow hung on and embarked on a further five
years of ill-starred autocracy.

To be fair, Sarkozy himself was shocked. He knew what the polls were saying. He
reads the papers and watches the television - or at any rate employs people to
do it for him. So Sunday's truth had been staring him in the face for days, even
weeks. Yet, as his rancorous TV debate with Hollande confirmed, he saw himself
as France's elected monarch right up until the final hours and was mentally
unprepared for the fact that the Bastille was about to be stormed again.

It was the same 31 years ago for Valery Giscard d'Estaing - the last French
president to be thrown out of the Elysée and a man, if it is possible, even more
arrogant than Sarkozy. Both men should have known what was happening, but each
was deceived by his own rhetoric. Ask not for whom the tumbrels roll; they roll
for thee.

Angela Merkel might have been shocked, but surely not surprised, when Sunday's
result came through. Though she no doubt hoped for a last-minute miracle, she
will have spent much of the weekend preparing the "welcome" she would extend to
her new best friend, François.

The German Chancellor knows that she has to enter a form of what the French call
cohabitation until the time comes when, in all likelihood, she joins Sarkozy in
exile. It won't easy for her. It won't be easy for Hollande either. He has to
keep at least some of the promises he made to a disgruntled French electorate
while not doing irreparable damage to the Franco-German relationship that has
been central to the European Project for the last 50 years.

So who else was shocked? David Cameron? I doubt it. Despite his own adherence to
austerity, he will be glad to see new possibilities open up on Europe's future.
And he could be forgiven in any case for bidding a less than heartfelt farewell
to Sarko, the man who snubbed him so publicly three months ago in Brussels.

What about the markets, then? Were they shocked? Hollande's victory had been
factored in for weeks. The euro barely moved and shares in both Europe and the
US actually rose on the news.

Leftists across Europe, far from being shocked, were delighted by the transfer
of power. While they don't expect an easy passage for either Hollande or
Socialism over the next five years, they are excited by the prospect of a new
beginning and a fresh approach.

Could it all end in tears? Well, of course. But then, as Enoch Powell famously
reminded us, all political careers end in failure, and the same is true for most
political strategies extended beyond their natural life. This was as much the
case with Thatcherism/Blairism as it is of Phase One of the euro.

What Sunday's French election means as much as anything is that the nation state
is alive and well in the European Union. Those who consider the EU an
unstoppable force must admit today that it can in fact be stymied, or turned
around, if sufficient people, or the voters in a key state, decide that enough
is enough.

Those who hate Brussels and all its works should pause for a moment to reflect
on this fact. Britain didn't join the euro because it chose not to. That was its
right. Instead, the British were free to make their own mistakes - which they
duly did. The Dutch government fell apart last month because one of its
coalition partners withdrew support for the so-called fiscal compact. The
Greeks, looking a Trojan horse in the face, rejected austerity outright and
voted instead for a New Deal - with potential consequences that are far from
clear. Now the French, at the heart of the union, have added their voice to the
no camp and lined up on the side of renegotiating everything that gives them
grief.

The fact is that democracy in Europe is far from exhausted. Citizens - including
the one in seven or one in eight of British voters who support Ukip - can still
make their voices count. We should give thanks for that and see what, if
anything, can now be cobbled together in the smoke-free rooms of Brussels to
keep our troubled continent together.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:05 AM GMT

A shockwave across Europe? The only person shocked by Nicolas Sarkozy's defeat
was Nicolas Sarkozy

BYLINE: By Walter Ellis

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 750 words


According to the media, the election of François Hollande as French President
sent "shockwaves" across Europe. I don't quite see that myself.

Even allowing for the fact that "Europe" in this instance is shorthand for the
political class and its fellow travellers, the use of the word "shockwave,"
suggesting a political tsunami, seems to me more than a touch exaggerated.

For a start, just about everyone expected Hollande to win. The real shock would
have come if Nicolas Sarkozy had somehow hung on and embarked on a further five
years of ill-starred autocracy.

To be fair, Sarkozy himself was shocked. He knew what the polls were saying. He
reads the papers and watches the television - or at any rate employs people to
do it for him. So Sunday's truth had been staring him in the face for days, even
weeks. Yet, as his rancorous TV debate with Hollande confirmed, he saw himself
as France's elected monarch right up until the final hours and was mentally
unprepared for the fact that the Bastille was about to be stormed again.

It was the same 31 years ago for Valery Giscard d'Estaing - the last French
president to be thrown out of the Elysée and a man, if it is possible, even more
arrogant than Sarkozy. Both men should have known what was happening, but each
was deceived by his own rhetoric. Ask not for whom the tumbrels roll; they roll
for thee.

Angela Merkel might have been shocked, but surely not surprised, when Sunday's
result came through. Though she no doubt hoped for a last-minute miracle, she
will have spent much of the weekend preparing the "welcome" she would extend to
her new best friend, François.

The German Chancellor knows that she has to enter a form of what the French call
cohabitation until the time comes when, in all likelihood, she joins Sarkozy in
exile. It won't easy for her. It won't be easy for Hollande either. He has to
keep at least some of the promises he made to a disgruntled French electorate
while not doing irreparable damage to the Franco-German relationship that has
been central to the European Project for the last 50 years.

So who else was shocked? David Cameron? I doubt it. Despite his own adherence to
austerity, he will be glad to see new possibilities open up on Europe's future.
And he could be forgiven in any case for bidding a less than heartfelt farewell
to Sarko, the man who snubbed him so publicly three months ago in Brussels.

What about the markets, then? Were they shocked? Hollande's victory had been
factored in for weeks. The euro barely moved and shares in both Europe and the
US actually rose on the news.

Leftists across Europe, far from being shocked, were delighted by the transfer
of power. While they don't expect an easy passage for either Hollande or
Socialism over the next five years, they are excited by the prospect of a new
beginning and a fresh approach.

Could it all end in tears? Well, of course. But then, as Enoch Powell famously
reminded us, all political careers end in failure, and the same is true for most
political strategies extended beyond their natural life. This was as much the
case with Thatcherism/Blairism as it is of Phase One of the euro.

What Sunday's French election means as much as anything is that the nation state
is alive and well in the European Union. Those who consider the EU an
unstoppable force must admit today that it can in fact be stymied, or turned
around, if sufficient people, or the voters in a key state, decide that enough
is enough.

Those who hate Brussels and all its works should pause for a moment to reflect
on this fact. Britain didn't join the euro because it chose not to. That was its
right. Instead, the British were free to make their own mistakes - which they
duly did. The Dutch government fell apart last month because one of its
coalition partners withdrew support for the so-called fiscal compact. The
Greeks, looking a Trojan horse in the face, rejected austerity outright and
voted instead for a New Deal - with potential consequences that are far from
clear. Now the French, at the heart of the union, have added their voice to the
no camp and lined up on the side of renegotiating everything that gives them
grief.

The fact is that democracy in Europe is far from exhausted. Citizens - including
the one in seven or one in eight of British voters who support Ukip - can still
make their voices count. We should give thanks for that and see what, if
anything, can now be cobbled together in the smoke-free rooms of Brussels to
keep our troubled continent together.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 11:05 AM GMT

A shockwave across Europe? The only person shocked by Nicolas Sarkozy's defeat
was Nicolas Sarkozy

BYLINE: By Walter Ellis

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 750 words


According to the media, the election of François Hollande as French President
sent "shockwaves" across Europe. I don't quite see that myself.

Even allowing for the fact that "Europe" in this instance is shorthand for the
political class and its fellow travellers, the use of the word "shockwave,"
suggesting a political tsunami, seems to me more than a touch exaggerated.

For a start, just about everyone expected Hollande to win. The real shock would
have come if Nicolas Sarkozy had somehow hung on and embarked on a further five
years of ill-starred autocracy.

To be fair, Sarkozy himself was shocked. He knew what the polls were saying. He
reads the papers and watches the television - or at any rate employs people to
do it for him. So Sunday's truth had been staring him in the face for days, even
weeks. Yet, as his rancorous TV debate with Hollande confirmed, he saw himself
as France's elected monarch right up until the final hours and was mentally
unprepared for the fact that the Bastille was about to be stormed again.

It was the same 31 years ago for Valery Giscard d'Estaing - the last French
president to be thrown out of the Elysée and a man, if it is possible, even more
arrogant than Sarkozy. Both men should have known what was happening, but each
was deceived by his own rhetoric. Ask not for whom the tumbrels roll; they roll
for thee.

Angela Merkel might have been shocked, but surely not surprised, when Sunday's
result came through. Though she no doubt hoped for a last-minute miracle, she
will have spent much of the weekend preparing the "welcome" she would extend to
her new best friend, François.

The German Chancellor knows that she has to enter a form of what the French call
cohabitation until the time comes when, in all likelihood, she joins Sarkozy in
exile. It won't easy for her. It won't be easy for Hollande either. He has to
keep at least some of the promises he made to a disgruntled French electorate
while not doing irreparable damage to the Franco-German relationship that has
been central to the European Project for the last 50 years.

So who else was shocked? David Cameron? I doubt it. Despite his own adherence to
austerity, he will be glad to see new possibilities open up on Europe's future.
And he could be forgiven in any case for bidding a less than heartfelt farewell
to Sarko, the man who snubbed him so publicly three months ago in Brussels.

What about the markets, then? Were they shocked? Hollande's victory had been
factored in for weeks. The euro barely moved and shares in both Europe and the
US actually rose on the news.

Leftists across Europe, far from being shocked, were delighted by the transfer
of power. While they don't expect an easy passage for either Hollande or
Socialism over the next five years, they are excited by the prospect of a new
beginning and a fresh approach.

Could it all end in tears? Well, of course. But then, as Enoch Powell famously
reminded us, all political careers end in failure, and the same is true for most
political strategies extended beyond their natural life. This was as much the
case with Thatcherism/Blairism as it is of Phase One of the euro.

What Sunday's French election means as much as anything is that the nation state
is alive and well in the European Union. Those who consider the EU an
unstoppable force must admit today that it can in fact be stymied, or turned
around, if sufficient people, or the voters in a key state, decide that enough
is enough.

Those who hate Brussels and all its works should pause for a moment to reflect
on this fact. Britain didn't join the euro because it chose not to. That was its
right. Instead, the British were free to make their own mistakes - which they
duly did. The Dutch government fell apart last month because one of its
coalition partners withdrew support for the so-called fiscal compact. The
Greeks, looking a Trojan horse in the face, rejected austerity outright and
voted instead for a New Deal - with potential consequences that are far from
clear. Now the French, at the heart of the union, have added their voice to the
no camp and lined up on the side of renegotiating everything that gives them
grief.

The fact is that democracy in Europe is far from exhausted. Citizens - including
the one in seven or one in eight of British voters who support Ukip - can still
make their voices count. We should give thanks for that and see what, if
anything, can now be cobbled together in the smoke-free rooms of Brussels to
keep our troubled continent together.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Local election boost for Labour under Ed Miliband will soon evaporate;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 427 words


SIR - The BBC's political correspondents proclaimed on the morning after the
local elections that the results had secured the future of Ed Miliband as Labour
leader.

In the 2010 general election, the Labour Party failed to recognise in time that
their unpopularity was the man, not the party. It is now heading for a repeat in
2015. At least Ed lacks the arrogance of his predecessor, but he is as
charismatic as a wet sponge.

The current euphoria will have died down within weeks and reality will return.
Despite having a government forced to impose draconian cuts and, in Labour's own
words, "run by a toff", Labour has struggled to impose a commanding lead in the
polls. Only David Cameron's own recent failures have actually made a significant
impact.

I have previously voted Conservative, but if the Labour Party were to replace Ed
with his brother I would vote for the man, not the party.

Mike Davies Everton, Hampshire

SIR - The local election results should have been no surprise to the Government,
even if they were a disappointment. As a former Conservative group leader who
suffered the same fate under a previous Tory government and lived to fight
another day, I can see lessons to be learnt.

An earlier Conservative machine managed to convince the people that a Labour
government was led by the "loony Left", until Tony Blair came to power. This
time Labour spin doctors have convinced the electorate that the Government is
led by a bunch of "rich blokes who don't know the price of a pint of milk". What
rubbish.

This Government is guilty of having policies vital to the nation's survival, but
being unable to explain them properly.

Sir Bernard Zissman Birmingham

SIR - Public anger is not just about economics, it's also against government
failure to show some strength in deporting those who wish us ill.

You only have to stand in a supermarket queue to find that out.

Rachel Humphries Wells, Somerset

SIR - Percentages given in election results are usually based on the number who
voted, not the number entitled to vote.

In our ward only 1,131 out of 2,554 voted.

Of the number who voted, the percentages were: Ukip 11; Lib Dem 15; Conservative
73. Based on the number entitled to vote, the percentages were: Ukip 5; Lib Dem
7; Conservative 33; did not vote 55.

Peter Hornby Otley, Yorkshire

SIR - Will the results and abysmal turnout in the local elections persuade the
Prime Minister to concentrate on things that are important to voters, rather
than wasting time attempting to redefine marriage and redesigning the House of
Lords?

David Inns Cucklington, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The misery is piling up for Merkel;
GERMANY

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield; Henry Samuel; Matthew Day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 717 words


THE VICTORY of the French Socialists and humiliation of mainstream parties in
Greece sent a shockwave throughout Europe - one that was particularly felt in
Berlin.

François Hollande's election threw down the gauntlet to Angela Merkel, the
German chancellor, who has railroaded the eurozone into agreeing a new
"fiskalpakt" treaty enshrining Germany's austerity doctrine.

That doctrine - cutting the burden of state spending to free up the economy -
has ruled supreme with the support of all of Europe's leaders, the European
Union and financial markets. But last night, political leaders were conceding
the consensus had been shattered beyond repair.

With Europe's economies plunging further into recession and as unemployment in
the eurozone breaks record levels, voters' demands for a new approach had
finally become to great to ignore and could threaten the existence of the euro
itself.

Greece, potentially ungovernable as a minority government, must try to pass a
new raft of austerity measures next month which are a condition of an EUIMF
bailout and Greek membership of the euro.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, revelled in the prospect
of a Germany/France split bringing the prospect of the euro's demise closer.

"Hollande's election is great news. It will help drive a wedge between Germany
and France, the two of the engines of EU integration," he said. "The friction
between German austerity and French profligacy will increase and bring the
eventual demise of the EU even closer."

In France, Mr Hollande is sitting on a powderkeg of resentment at measures that
his government will have to pass if it is not provoke a meltdown of financial
markets.

In a meeting in Berlin next week, Mrs Merkel is set to warn Mr Hollande that
weakening austerity pledges would rattle markets and undermine investor
confi-dence at a critical time for the eurozone's economy. She will remind him
that support for the eurozone austerity pact is the condition for European
Central Bank support for struggling financial institutions, many of which are
French. Dubbed the "Iron Chancellor" domestically, Mrs Merkel will not climb
down for a Socialist president who is close to the German Social Democrats ahead
of elections in Germany next year.

Her governing coalition suffered a fright of its own at the ballot box yesterday
after appearing to lose its ruling majority in the state of Schleswig-Holstein.

Although Mrs Merkel's personal popularity remains strong, the Christian
Democrats-Free Democrats coalition has struggled in a series of local elections
over the past 12 months, with the junior party seeing its popularity collapse.

Pressure on Mr Hollande to back away from radical policies and implement the
austerity measures demanded by Mrs Merkel will come from the EU and financial
markets.

Lord Glasman, a senior adviser to Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, said that
avoiding a reaction from financial markets would make Mr Hollande cautious and
push him into the arms of Germany.

"There is very little chance that the financial markets will give Hollande the
room to be radical. Mitterrand, elected in the heyday of Thatcher, was forced to
abandon policies by the markets," he said. "That was before the euro, which is
locked to political conservatism."

French officials in the defeated Sarkozy administration have predicted economic
chaos for France, which owes most of its debt to foreign investors.

"I am very worried for the French economy," said Gilles Carrez, budget
rapporteur in the French parliament for Mr Sarkozy's UMP party. "We have made
considerable efforts in the past three years to manage the crisis."

Mr Carrez said markets were keenly aware that Mr Sarkozy had brought the French
state deficit down ahead of schedule to 5.2 per cent of GDP.

"The slightest let up will see us skid off course. Hollande proposes a return to
a spiral of raising spending and civil servants," he said.

"As he has to make compromises with Communists and Greens, we are heading for
the worst. The markets have not yet reacted, as we have scrupulously respected
our deficit reduction commitments. But if they see the hatches even slightly
opening - a U-turn on retirement reforms, say - the punishment will be
immediate. The markets will judge the Socialists not by their promises but by
their actions."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel: the 'Iron Chancellor' is one of the architects of
European austerity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 7, 2012 Monday

French rock EU as they dump Sarkozy

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words


THE future of the EU was thrown into turmoil last night after France elected its
first Socialist leader for 17 years.

Francois Hollande ousted Nicolas Sarkozy as president and promised to reverse
his policy of austerity measures.

Along with a hammering for the Greek government in an election last night, Mr
Hollande's victory will have major implications for the eurozone.

UKIP Leader Nigel Farage said: "Hollande's election is great news. It will help
drive a wedge between Germany and France, the two engines of EU integration.

"The friction between German austerity and French profligacy will increase and
bring the eventual demise of the EU even closer."

Trigger The Centre for Economics and Business Research said the result could
trigger the break-up of the euro.

Mr Hollande, an advocate of economic growth through tax and spend, is also
likely to end Germany's grip on EU policy.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Mr Sarkozy had a cosy relationship, dubbed
Merkozy, which wielded a powerful influence over the European Union.

Mr Hollande, 57, has vowed to stand up to the fiscal pact forged by the pair,
calling for spending to stimulate growth rather than austerity.

Mr Sarkozy's humiliating defeat makes him the 11th eurozone leader to be swept
from power by the economic crisis. He secured about 48 per cent of the vote
against 52 per cent for Mr Hollande.

Conceding defeat, Mr Sarkozy said: "I take responsibility for the defeat." It
means the self-styled radical conservative, who pledged to reform France as Mrs
Thatcher reformed Britain, has become a one-term president who achieved
relatively little. However, Mr Hollande says he wants to be France's "Mr Normal"
president.

He plans a raft of taxand-spend policies.

In a victory speech in Tulle in the south, Mr Hollande said: "I have mentioned
the French dream before and I say it now. It is in our history and in our
future.

"It's called simply progress, to give our children a better life than ours. This
is the French dream that I will really try to achieve."

Mr Hollande is already at odds with David Cameron over a proposed tax on
financial services and Britain's EU rebate. But a Number 10 spokesman said: "The
Prime Minister called Mr Hollande this evening and congratulated him on his
victory. "They both look forward to building on the very close relationship that
already exists between the UK and France."

Before the election Work and Pensions Minister Iain Duncan Smith warned a
Hollande win would prompt a rush of French migrants.

He said: "That will have a shockwave effect in Europe.

It could cause major ructions with Germany, and the European Central Bank could
find itself in difficulty."

In Greece the conservative New Democracy and socialist Pasok parties suffered
big losses and neither were able to form a government.

They now have three days to form a coalition.

New Democracy and second-placed Syriza said they would either renegotiate the
bailout or overturn it.

The ability of a new government to carry on with the austerity programme will be
crucial to ensure access to EU, ECB and IMF funds.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defeated Mr Sarkozy and his wife Carla Bruni, left. Above, a victorious
Mr Hollande last night
Pictures: EPA and PHILLIPPE DESMAZES/AFP/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French rock EU as they dump Sarkozy

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words


THE future of the EU was thrown into turmoil last night after France elected its
first Socialist leader for 17 years.

Francois Hollande ousted Nicolas Sarkozy as president and promised to reverse
his policy of austerity measures.

Along with a hammering for the Greek government in an election last night, Mr
Hollande's victory will have major implications for the eurozone.

UKIP Leader Nigel Farage said: "Hollande's election is great news. It will help
drive a wedge between Germany and France, the two engines of EU integration.

"The friction between German austerity and French profligacy will increase and
bring the eventual demise of the EU even closer."

Trigger The Centre for Economics and Business Research said the result could
trigger the break-up of the euro.

Mr Hollande, an advocate of economic growth through tax and spend, is also
likely to end Germany's grip on EU policy.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Mr Sarkozy had a cosy relationship, dubbed
Merkozy, which wielded a powerful influence over the European Union.

Mr Hollande, 57, has vowed to stand up to the fiscal pact forged by the pair,
calling for spending to stimulate growth rather than austerity.

Mr Sarkozy's humiliating defeat makes him the 11th eurozone leader to be swept
from power by the economic crisis. He secured about 48 per cent of the vote
against 52 per cent for Mr Hollande.

Conceding defeat, Mr Sarkozy said: "I take responsibility for the defeat." It
means the self-styled radical conservative, who pledged to reform France as
Margaret Thatcher reformed Britain in the 1980s, has become a one-term president
who achieved relatively little.

But Mr Hollande says he wants to be France's "Mr Normal" president. He plans to
bring in a raft of tax-andspend policies.

Giving a victory speech in Tulle in the south, Mr Hollande said: "Many people
have been expecting this moment for years.

"I'm proud to be in a position to give back hope to them. I can imagine that
emotion, I share it, I feel it, this emotion is one of pride, responsibility and
dignity. I have mentioned the French dream before and I say it now. It is in our
history and in our future.

"It's called simply progress, to give our children a better life than ours. This
is the French dream that I will really try to achieve."

Before the election Work and Pensions Minister Iain Duncan Smith warned a
Hollande win would prompt a rush of French migrants.

He said: "That will have a shockwave effect in Europe. It could cause major
ructions with Germany, and the European Central Bank could find itself in
difficulty." In Greece exit polls indicated the two main parties have suffered
huge losses.

There is widespread anger in Greece at harsh measures imposed in return for
international bailouts.

Coalition negotiations can take three days. If they fail, Greece will hold
another election, which would alarm the country's creditors.

The ability of a new government to carry on with the austerity programme will be
crucial to ensure access to EU, ECB and IMF funds.

The current plan demands further cuts of 11billion euros by June.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defeated Mr Sarkozy and his wife Carla Bruni, left. Above, a victorious
Mr Hollande last night
Pictures: EPA and PHILLIPPE DESMAZES/AFP/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ALL MIGRANTS TO GET A BRITISH PENSION;
New EU plot to grab our benefits ; EU deal to give go-ahead for all foreign
scroungers

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words


BRITAIN faces paying pensions to all migrants under an EU plot to seize control
of the benefits system.

It would allow people who have never worked in this country to claim welfare and
retirement cash. But critics last night warned Brussels to expect a battle
against any such attempt to "bypass our rights".

Employment Minister Chris Grayling said: "The Government takes the very firm
view there should be no opening up of our welfare system to people coming from
abroad who do not intend to work and contribute to British society.

"Our arrangements are for Britain to decide, not Brussels.

I'm not happy with the way that the EU is behaving.

"Europe should not be negotiating social security deals on our behalf. That's
why we're going through the courts to stop them." The "worrying" move emerged as
Eurocrats prepare to sign a deal with Turkey, which wants to join the EU, and
which could give its 75 million citizens full access to European nations' social
security payments. Ministers fear the controversial move will lead to a string
of welfare deals with countries outside the EU, which this country would be
powerless to resist.

And it means benefits such as pensions and health care could be handed out to
all immigrants, even if they have never contributed taxes to Britain. Brussels
believes the pact will "enhance the special relationship with Turkey" and
"permit Turkey to align its policies on social security co-ordination with those
of the EU in preparation for future accession". The deal would not immediately
open the door to large numbers of new Turkish welfare claimants, because Britain
already has a treaty with Turkey dating from 1961 which gives some access to
social security benefits.

But officials are concerned that once Brussels has grabbed power over benefits
eligibility rights could later be extended and given to citizens of other
countries to claim here without British consent. Tory ministers are concerned
this would add millions of pounds to the welfare bill, harm attempts to cut the
deficit and encourage benefit tourists to exploit Britain's generous social
security system. This includes the basic state pension of £107.45 a week. Ukip
leader Nigel Farage said: "If they are allowed to get away with these plans then
the British government will not be able to stop who lives off our own
taxpayers."

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "All British taxpayers should be deeply concerned
about this. It demonstrates the extent of their erosion of British sovereignty."
The Department for Work and Pensions is also angry at what it sees as underhand
tactics used by the European Commission to bypass government consent. The Lisbon
Treaty gave Britain the choice to opt in or out of agreements between Brussels
and non-EU countries. However, the commission is trying to force through the
deal using another part of the treaty that is usually used to govern relations
between member states.

DWP sources said Brussels was pursuing an attempt to "bypass our rights", "seize
control" of pensions and benefits rights and encroach further on British
sovereignty. "We should have the right to decide whether to opt in or not to
these agreements, but the way the EU is putting them together stops us
exercising this right," said a senior source. The revelation will fuel support
for the Daily Express's massively popular crusade to get Britain out of the EU.
Last week this newspaper revealed how the "Berlin group" of European nations
headed by Germany and France wishes take away much of the UK's sovereign power.

It has drawn up plans for merging the jobs currently done by Herman Van Rompuy,
president of the European Council, and Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the
European Commission. The Government has already started a legal battle to stop
the EU e xtending its power, taking a case to the European Court to stop similar
deals with Switzerland and Norway. Last night the European Commission denied it
was trying to harmonise social security systems, saying the deal would mean
migrant workers were not put at a financial disadvantage when moving between
states.

"None of this means anyone, wherever they are from, can just pitch up in the UK
and claim benefits. For non- EU citizens, working or not, the UK decides who to
let in and for how long and whether to recognise them as resident," said a
commission spokesman. "What this proposal does is simplify administrative
arrangements for the governments concerned."

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should British pensions only be for UK taxpayers?

YES: 0901 792 5300 no: 0901 792 5301 Yes text DXmonYEs to 86611 no text DXmonno
to 86611 Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT
landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We'll fight in courts, says Chris Grayling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 7, 2012 Monday

François Hollande: France's Mr Normal gets his chance to shine

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1494 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: France's Socialist president-elect may be dull but he gives
optimism to voters that many livelier rightwing politicians in Europe do not

FULL TEXT

Tony Benn used to say it's the issues, not the personalities, that matter in
politics. As in so much else he was wrong, as his own personality constantly
reminded voters. This weekend's election results in Athens, London and Paris
make the point yet again that electoral outcomes are a not-always-subtle
combination of both.

Democratic renewal is usually attractive and Sunday night's thunderous French
socialist celebrations in the Place de la Bastille (where else?) must have
persuaded many of those present to really believe they have willed fundamental
change through the ballot box. Maybe, but the in Greek parliamentary elections,
the battered electorate's decision to reject the parties of austerity, has the
greater potential to shake the foundations of the European settlement. Markets
are already tumbling.

In Greece the issue was preponderant, Germany's Angela Merkel, champion of
austerity, perhaps the election's dominant-if-absent personality. In France it
was a mixture. François Hollande, president-elect of France, is as dull as
Clement Attlee, Labour's most successful prime minister. He won as Mr Normal
against Nicolas Sarkozy's mercurial and arrogant incumbency as much as he did
against his rival's alleged focus on German-led austerity.

It would be delightful - read Angelique Chrisafis's profile here - if modesty of
outlook and personality, the opposite of bombast and grandiosity, proves a
success in the challenges ahead. Hollande is already burdened with expectations
that he can change more than is within his presidential powers to change. But
Attlee showed it can occasionally be done - "all substance and no show" as
Margaret Thatcher admiringly conceded in her memoirs. Ed Miliband may even take
some comfort here.

By way of contrast Boris Johnson, re-elected mayor of London in a cliffhanger
count, is as lively as a barrel-full of frogs, clever, opinionated, dishevelled,
the epitome of Mr Abnormal. Johnson positioned himself vaguely to the right of
David Cameron, but chiefly ran on his sunny personality, that happy knack of
cheering voters up in tough times simply by being Boris. In response Cameron
grits his teeth and tells today's Daily Telegraph: "I get the message" about
Tory voters disaffection.

Notwithstanding the excited predictions in the Tory press that he will throw out
soppy coalition plans to create fully fledged gay marriage and Lords reform
(Nick Clegg argues otherwise in Monday's Guardian), Cameron also rejects the
many advocates of "loud ideology" as the answer, the Telegraph reported.

"We're not just a bunch of accountants," he avers. No, and there isn't much
ideological blue water between him and Boris either: the mayor may have a more
bouncy extrovert temperament, but he's still a liberal Tory - just one with
fewer responsibilities and (thanks to the City) more money. Tim Montgomerie, the
Tory grassroots website guru, says - here - that Dave must move right. Well,
yes, but the grassroots always says that.

So Cameron is left pleading for more time in his battle to pay down the national
debt and deficit, cut red tape and business taxes that inhibit growth, rebalance
the economy and raise the skills base. Sounds familiar? Absolutely. It could be
Tony Blair talking. It is certainly not the impatient language of the Front
National's Marine Le Pen and Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the charismatic candidate of
the French left, nor of the 60% of Greek voters who embraced their own Le Pens
and Mélenchons.

All the serious candidates have been rejected, one aghast Greek analyst
protested on Radio 4's Today programme. Comedians, actors, goons and thugs have
been elected in their place. "This will be a circus, not a parliament, a circus
of madmen," he predicted. Steady on. What happens in this situation is that the
lightweights quickly fall by the wayside whereas some of the newcomers,
comedians, actors, goons, even thugs and accountants, turn out to have a talent
for politics, they grow into office and power.

That de-professionalisation of the political elite can be bad - think Silvio
Berlusconi, think even worse. But it can also be good, new blood, fresh
thinking. People rise to the occasion, it's best to be optimistic, though it's
hard to see how in Athens.

Peter Mandelson has just been on air warning Greeks that abandoning the euro and
reverting to the drachma won't solve much - no one will lend money to them.
"Greece is the author of its own misfortunes," he sternly asserted. It must
respond to the "national necessity", which is austerity.

Half-true at best. The mostly French and German banks that recklessly lent so
much money to the Greeks, individuals, firms and governments, at low interest
rates so they could buy French and German products, have much to answer for too.
We sometimes call it loan-sharking.

Besides, if individuals and the wider private sector are cutting back to pay off
their debts, the state or the eurozone must sustain demand in the economy.
Otherwise even the export-fetishist Germans will be in trouble: no one else will
be able to afford their BMWs and machine tools.

That probably requires the Germans to embrace the logic of the eurozone, which
is a Europe-wide underpinning of each other's debts - a bigger financial
stability mechanism, eventually a eurobond. But the corollary of that is that
Brussels and Berlin will assert greater control over national debt and deficit.
It is a scary recipe that is already stirring nationalist and protectionist
sentiment across the continent - just the opposite of what the new Europe was
supposed to do.

Thus educated Greeks on the BBC this morning were talking as much nonsense as an
average Ukip voter about how Brussels was forcing them to grow bananas instead
of tomatoes. It's fun, but it's usually not very real: we blame outsiders for
what tends to be our own collective failings.

Foreigners taking our jobs in so many shops, pubs and restaurants, not to
mention fruit-picking, all over Britain? Could it be they're willing to be more
flexible, work harder, complain less, than the sort of locals who turn down the
same jobs? Skills matter, motivation matters, being left to rot quietly on the
dole or join the BNP matters.

I realise that some immigrants, temporary or not, will undercut local wage
rates, but that's not the whole story, far from it, here or in France where
labour market rigidities (non-wage labour costs, employment protection, that
sort of thing) are far more restrictive than here and youth unemployment higher.
As many French people live here now as Brits live in sunnier parts of France:
they get our elderly, we get their young thrusters.

That's one for Hollande's agenda too. If he wants Berlin to go a bit easy on the
debt-and-deficit reduction plan - a sort of Ed Miliband lite - so that we can
all invest more in infrastructure, research and skills, he'll have to tackle the
supply side that makes too many people unable or unwilling to do jobs that need
to be done. British governments, Labour and Tory-led, have at least been trying.

So Hollande has an opportunity, if he has the diplomatic skills and political
will, to tilt the balance of the argument away from self-defeating austerity by
forcing the German government and its voters to accept that Europe will not be
beggared to meet the needs of their domestic politics. It's a narrow field of
opportunity, but attitude matters.

As Australian lefties may still say: "It's only an inch, but it's worth fighting
for." Miliband, quietly celebrating a successful election week, but still far
from clinching the deal with voters - is it that elusive personality thing
again? - might say the same. Why not more?

The awkward fact, too often missing from the narratives offered by left, right
and soggy centre, remains the extent to which our economic problems are not
self-inflicted but a consequence of the re-emergence of Asia to the centre of
the world's stage: China, India and the nations in between, not forgetting the
oil wealth generated in the near east, they are calling more and more of the
shots.

We have to stay afloat by becoming smarter, better organised and using whatever
competitive advantages we still have. Fairness matters too. But windy rhetoric
about taxing the French rich at 75% above incomes of (EURO)1m may make voters
feel better, it won't make them any richer. London estate agents are reporting
40% more Gallic inquiries since Hollande made that pledge.

My worry as the car horns toot in the Place de la Bastille, beneath the
Acropolis in Athens and the copy in central Birmingham, is that the process of
winning elections raises the bar of expectations beyond what can be delivered.
Alienation, low turnout, xenophobia and heaven knows what else may follow in its
wake, as Sarko hoped it might on Sunday. But optimism is always worth a try.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2012 Monday

Comment: Right turn for Cameron: Our alternative Queen's speech charts a way for
the prime minister to reunite the Tory family

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 605 words


What would this week's Queen's speech have contained had Britain elected a
Conservative government two years ago? A group of Tory MPs have drafted a mix of
legislative ideas in an attempt to answer that question. John Redwood, for
instance, has suggested changes to energy policy, while David Davis has proposed
a prisons reform agenda. ConservativeHome.com has knitted 15 ideas from
different MPs together in an alternative queen's speech that we're publishing
today and tomorrow.

Some of the ideas, a double referendum on Britain's relationship with the
European Union, for example, will confirm existing perceptions of the party.
Another calls for the replacement of European supremacy on human rights with a
British bill of fundamental rights. There are also recommendations for faster
cuts in taxation and the expansion of grammar schools. These aren't ideas that
David Cameron would necessarily have embraced if he'd won the last election but
they are the priorities of many Conservative backbenchers. They are, no doubt,
what certain commentators have in their closed minds when they talk of a "lurch
to the right".

The causes most associated with the right are often presented as if they are
extreme, but opinion polls suggest that big majorities want tougher control of
immigration; faster, longer incarceration of serious offenders; and a more
conditions-based benefits system.

Not only is much rightwingery popular, it's also socially just. Polly Toynbee
has herself acknowledged that it's the working class who have suffered most from
uncontrolled immigration. The EU's common agricultural policy has inflated the
average family's grocery bill and its energy regime has made it more expensive
for pensioners to heat their homes.

Some of the most interesting ideas in the alternative Queen's speech focus on
greater rights for consumers against big business. Draft bills would produce
more competition in the crucial banking, energy and water markets and make it
easier to switch between banks and electricity companies if we're not getting a
good service.

The challenge for the Conservative right - more accurately, the Conservative
majority - is to blend so-called core vote policies with an enthusiastic
acceptance of the NHS, progressive taxation and other settled features of modern
Britain. One of the reasons Thatcher was so successful was that she understood
certain institutions that may not have matched her ideals were nonetheless
sacred to the British people.

Cameron can't win the next election if he does not reunite the Tory family. It
is not an exaggeration to say that we may be on the brink of a historic split in
the centre-right vote. If 5% to 10% of voters get into the habit of voting Ukip,
it will become very difficult for the Conservatives to win marginal seats.

The conventional wisdom is that you cannot simultaneously appeal to Liberal
Democrat, Labour and Ukip-inclined supporters. That is wrong. Cameron can win by
combining traditional Tory messages with policies that accelerate social
mobility and empower ordinary people.

The most important decision the Tory leader will make in the next few weeks is
whether to keep Sayeeda Warsi as party chairman or appoint a figure with the
authority of a Norman Tebbit or a Chris Patten. These were powerful Tory
chairmen who focused on winning elections while the prime minister governed the
country. If Cameron appoints a big beast to the chairman's role - with a mandate
to rethink the party's machine and manifesto - his MPs will have fresh hope
about the next election, and become much easier to manage.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of ConservativeHome.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 7, 2012 Monday 3:33 PM GMT

Peter Popham: Rise of far right threatens to pollute politics across Europe;
So far none of these rapidly growing parties has succeeded in forging a
meaningful alliance with any of the others across national borders

BYLINE: Peter Popham

SECTION: HEI-FI-VIEWS

LENGTH: 742 words


They may not have claimed ultimate victory, but the biggest winners of the
elections in France and Greece were the parties of the extreme right. Fringe
parties, some of them routinely labelled "neo-Fascist" until recently, have made
stunning inroads into mainstream European politics, to the point that in France,
Norway, Finland, Hungary and Austria they either hold or threaten to hold the
balance of power. Governments are increasingly faced with the choice of either
giving ground on hot-button issues such as immigration and Islam, or ceding
power.

In Greece, its disastrous economy in the hands of European moneymen, its
political establishment rotten with corruption and unemployment among the
under-25s cresting 50 per cent, this general election has seen a host of
extremist parties emerge from the woodwork like termites.

The leader of Chrysi Avgi ("Golden Dawn"), Nikos Michaloliakos, would not have
been given the time of day in most EU countries only a short while ago. An open
admirer of Hitler (he has called him "a great personality of history"), Mr
Michaloliakos has adopted the Nazi salute and a version of the swastika as his
party's emblem. One of his candidates in this election remarked laconically:
"Most of the money is in the hands of the Jews." At the last election Golden
Dawn polled a derisory 0.29 per cent; this time they are expected to crash
through the 3 per cent threshold to end up with a dozen MPs in parliament.

That will still put them many miles away from holding power. But in Greece, as
in many other countries, the danger is not a far-right takeover but ideological
contamination of the parties in power.

Last week, attempting to steal the far right's thunder, the technocratic
government of Lucas Papademos set up a camp for illegal immigrants and promises
to establish dozens more.

In the Netherlands the power of the far right was demonstrated last week when
Geert Wilders' Freedom Party, anti-Muslim and anti-EU, brought down the
government, wrecking a long-standing financial pact with Germany which had been
one of the pillars of EU stability.

In France the rise of the Front National under Marine Le Pen has already
dramatically altered the terms of the presidential election decided yesterday.
When the FN polled 17.9 per cent in the first round two weeks ago, President
Sarkozy immediately toughened his rhetoric. "Islamism is the totalitarianism of
religion," Ms Le Pen declared last week. Mr Sarkozy promptly followed suit, as
John Lichfield reported in the Independent on Sunday yesterday, lashing out at
"such menacing enemies as halal meat in school canteens and special hours for
women in swimming pools".

Across Europe, from Britain, where UKIP - "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists" according to David Cameron - averaged 14 per cent in last Thursday's
local elections, to Finland, where the extreme nationalist True Finns party has
increased its share of the vote from 4 per cent to 19 per cent in four years, to
Hungary, where the anti-Roma, anti-Semitic Jobbik party holds the balance of
power, the far-right is seizing the initiative provided by recession and the
threat of a eurozone meltdown.

The only crumb of comfort is that so far none of these rapidly growing parties
has succeeded in forging a meaningful alliance with any of the others across
national borders. Nicolas Lebourg, an authority on the far-right at the
University of Perpignan, was yesterday quoted as saying: "Europe is a dry
prairie waiting for someone to light a match." But given the nationalistic
obsessions of all these far-right parties - Golden Dawn says "the nation comes
first, democracy after" - the EU's national borders would seem to be
unbreachable fire-breaks. It's about the only consolation there is.

The right track: extremist Europe

France

Marine Le Pen, leader of the National Front, came third in the first round of
the presidential elections with 17.9 per cent of the vote. She told her
followers to cast blank votes at the run-off yesterday, blowing President
Sarkozy's chances of taking the far-right vote for his campaign.

Greece

The extreme-right Golden Dawn party seemed set to gain parliamentary seats for
the first time last night, as voters made their anger known over austerity
measures, and the main two parties.

The Netherlands

The Dutch nationalist Freedom Party, led by Geert Wilders, is the third-largest
in parliament. It brought down the minority government last week by withdrawing
its support.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 7, 2012 Monday 12:47 AM GMT

All the pillars of the Cameron delusion have now collapsed

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1138 words


That's settled, then. We shall have an openly declared Labour government again
by 2015, instead of a Labour government in all but name, as we have now.

The Tories cannot possibly win the next Election, just as they never had a hope
of winning the last one.

But in 2015 it will be even worse for them. In 2010 they fanned a wild, unhinged
hatred of Gordon Brown to get their failing vote out, despite having no policies
to offer.

Their attempts to engineer a similar scorn for Edward Miliband have failed.
Voters are now so weary of the Coalition  that they don't really care if the
Opposition is led by a goofy Marxoid teenager.

You won't notice much difference when Labour take over, except that no Labour
government would have dared to smash up our Armed Forces as Mr Cameron has done.

They would have been too scared of being accused of national treachery.

Political correctness will rule over all, as it does now. Crime and disorder
will flourish, as they do now. Mass immigration will carry on, as it does now.

The EU will continue to steal our independence, as it does now. The married
family will continue to be besieged and undermined by laws and the active
promotion of fatherless homes, as is the case now.

The welfare state will continue to swell far beyond our ability to pay for it,
and children will carry on emerging from  11 years of alleged education barely
able to read and count. New grammar schools will be illegal, as they are now.

The one good thing is that the Cameron delusion ought now  to reach an end. But
will it?

Or will Britain's conservativeminded people carry on voting stupidly and
pointlessly for the Tory Party, which hates and despises them and everything
they care for?

All the pillars of the Cameron delusion have now collapsed. The Tory Party
cannot win a majority by any method.

Nobody trusts it, and  it stands for nothing except  getting posh boys into
office.

Mr Cameron is not a secret patriot waiting for the chance to rip off his
expensive tailoring and reveal his inner Thatcher. He is exactly what he looks
like, an unprincipled chancer with limited skills in public relations.

He likes being in a coalition with the Liberal Democrats because he agrees with
them.

George Osborne is not an iron Chancellor with a severe plan to save the economy.
His cuts don't exist; he's as wedded to the big-spending welfare state as Ed
Balls or Gordon Brown are. On top of that, he's not very good  at his job.

Because so many people foolishly trusted Mr Cameron in 2010, we have wasted
several precious years. But we can bring about the collapse of the useless
Tories in 2015 by refusing to vote for them any more.

If you must vote at the next Election (I shan't), vote for the absurd Dad's Army
of UKIP if you want to. At least it does no harm.

But the real business of constructing a new pro-British party to speak for all
the abandoned, honest, patriotic, gentle people of this Disunited Kingdom can
begin only when we have chucked the Tories into a suitably stout wheelie bin and
slammed the lid down on top  of them.

Was Sylvia a victim of these 'suicide pills'?

If you won't take it from me, will you take it from Ted Hughes?

I get into great trouble for warning that 'antidepressant' pills may actually
make people worse.

Well, the renowned Poet Laureate believed that it was an 'antidepressant' that
led to the otherwise inexplicable suicide of his beautiful, talented wife Sylvia
Plath.

This sort of thing is still going on. Time for an inquiry, I think.

............................................

You might have got the impression from some reports that Speaker John Bercow is
a wicked baddie, and Mr Slippery, our leader,  a gentleman of the old school.

Normally, I'd let this go, but this week it's the opposite of the truth. Mr
Bercow is doing what a Speaker  ought to do, and making sure that Ministers in
trouble come to Parliament and face hard questioning.

Whatever his politics or his past, or the foolishnesses of his wife, Mr Bercow
is upholding our constitution and liberties, and good for him.

Mr Cameron, meanwhile, has taken to delivering cowardly and disrespectful verbal
rabbit-punches to older MPs who dare to tease him.

When Dennis Skinner, 80 but still very sharp, made a perfectly justifiable
comment, Mr Slippery hit back crudely: 'He has the right to take his pension and
I advise him to do so.'

And when David Winnick teased him lightly, Mr Slippery snapped: 'I think Russell
Brand got it just about right yesterday.'

Brand, the odious alleged comedian, had sneered about Mr Winnick's age, at a
committee hearing on drugs. Interesting  that Mr Slippery identifies with this
very nasty, coarse person. I think it tells us a lot about him.

................................................................................
...........................

The more ferocious border controls are, the more futile they tend to be.

I have held a U.S. visa for years, and obtaining the last one involved hours of
form-filling, acres of personal information, a criminal record check and an
interview. They know more about me than I can currently remember.

Yet I must still queue for ages at U.S. immigration, and be photographed and
fingerprinted, before I can get in.

Well, it's their country, and they can do what they like, but for the past 20
years or so millions of Central Americans have got into the US, founded families
and settled into jobs there, by sprinting from Tijuana into San Diego, or wading
the Rio Grande. It's the same with us.

For years and years, our border officials feebly admitted thousands of people
with tenuous claims to be refugees, and failed even to record the names of those
caught being smuggled into the country in lorries.

And then they let the EU force us to admit uncounted legions of migrants from
Eastern Europe, including former Soviet republics, who now - absurdly -  have
the same legal  right to be here as you or I.

And then they have the nerve to claim that they are making us wait hours to get
back into our own country for our own good.

Plucked from the ranks of our ineffectual, excuse-making chief constables,
Border Force chief Brian Moore quickly showed us what he was made of. He droned,
in the zombie tones of modern inflexible bureaucracy, that if there were
four-hour passport queues during the Olympics 'then so be it. We  will not
compromise on safety'.

Oh, it's for our safety, is it? No, it's not. If we were serious about that we
wouldn't have staged the stupid Olympics in the first place.

It's because, if we behaved  like an independent country and opened up passport
lines marked 'British subjects only', the EU would fine us for breaking European
law. And we'd pathetically  pay the fine.

[column

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Saddle up, Dave, and take charge

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 704 words


THE most important outcome from last week's elections is not Boris Johnson's
victory or Ed Miliband's "triumph".

Boris won because he is hugely popular. But he would be toast if Labour had
fielded anyone but discredited Ken Livingstone.

Equally, Ed Miliband will be delighted with his swag of Coalition scalps - but
he fell short of the breakthrough he needs for Westminster.

What really mattered on Thursday is that TWO THIRDS of voters stayed home -
enough to deliver a completely different result.

In the 2010 General Election, it was the other way round - two thirds of the
country's 45million voters used their ballot.

So 15million votes are going begging if politicians offer the people what they
want.

The party machines will have done these sums but it is David Cameron who is best
placed to seize advantage - if he wants to.

Ed Miliband is trapped by Labour's history - explored again last week by Bank of
England chief Mervyn King - as economic wreckers.

They carry the can for mass immigration, schoolleaver illiteracy, kowtowing to
Brussels and the explosion in welfare spending.

These are all trump cards for the Tories - especially Europe after Francois
Hollande's sensational victory as French president last night - but they have
been stopped by their own squeamishness from playing them.

Coalition Lib Dems, exposed by last week's results as utterly out of touch with
ordinary voters, can be blamed for blocking the way.

But Mr Cameron is complicit. He is as contemptuous of the Tory Right as Nick
Clegg is.

This is a mistake. Those who want action on these policies exist in all parties.
They are the majority of UK voters.

Death

Yet the Prime Minister has been happy to see Clegg & Co kicking lumps out of the
Tories over human rights and the EU.

He has leaned over backwards to save a floundering, minority party from certain
death at the next election.

Worse, he allowed that dissent to mutate into the blatant Lib Dem treachery
which destroyed George Osborne's Budget. I am told this licence to sabotage has
been revoked. Even Nick Clegg now sees kicking your partner in the teeth is no
recipe for marriage.

He has finally worked out his stricken party's only hope of salvation is to back
the Tories as they fight for their own survival.

Which brings us back to Mr Cameron.

It is too early to say if his leadership is under serious threat but there are
increasingly public murmurs of revolt.

Some rebels day dream about vote winner Boris Johnson as the King Over The
Thames. They include Boris himself.

Free to say what he likes, he is able to set out his stall using a heady
cocktail of humour and populism.

I recently watched him speak at the Winston Churchill Society.

He hailed Britain's warrior PM as a gifted maverick at odds with his own party
who returned to lead it to immortal glory. The message is crystal clear: Boris
sees his destiny in Downing Street. Eurosceptics agree.

They believe, with Boris in charge, the 14 per cent support stolen by UKIP would
come home to the Tories.

For Mr Cameron, this means trouble.

Already he is backing away from divisive plans for gay marriage, Lords reform,
foreign aid and even pointless and ugly windmills.

Most important of all, he seems ready at last to make a stand on Europe and
especially on the Court of Human Rights.

But voters have been taken for a ride on Europe before by Mr Cameron who - like
Blair and Brown - reneged on a promised referendum.

This time, Tories will want a proper debate over our future in the EU - not a
straight IN or OUT vote which could cement us in for ever.

And they want Mr Cameron to lead it, as he promised in 2010.

Last week's election kicking was a defining moment in Mr Cameron's premiership.

Those missing 15million votes are up for grabs.

Boris Johnson likes to claim every disaster as an opportunity. The only question
is whether he or David Cameron seizes this one.

'OUR Sun poll reveals more women want to "dine" with Boris Johnson, a mere
Mayor, than with David Cameron, leader of our great nation. Husbands, on the
other hand, would prefer them to share a meal with safe Dave than philandering
joker Bo-Jo. Doesn't this just go to prove the old saying that the best way to
get a woman into the ballot booth is to make her laugh? '

Kicking

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 7, 2012 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

Local election boost for Labour under Ed Miliband will soon evaporate;
People and policies in hard times

LENGTH: 2596 words


SIR - The BBC's political correspondents proclaimed on the morning after the
local elections that the results had secured the future of Ed Miliband as Labour
leader.

In the 2010 general election, the Labour Party failed to recognise in time that
their unpopularity was the man, not the party. It is now heading for a repeat in
2015. At least Ed lacks the arrogance of his predecessor, but he is as
charismatic as a wet sponge.

The current euphoria will have died down within weeks and reality will return.
Despite having a government forced to impose draconian cuts and, in Labour's own
words, "run by a toff", Labour has struggled to impose a commanding lead in the
polls. Only David Cameron's own recent failures have actually made a significant
impact.

I have previously voted Conservative, but if the Labour Party were to replace Ed
with his brother I would vote for the man, not the party.

Mike Davies                      Everton, Hampshire

SIR - The local election results should have been no surprise to the Government,
even if they were a disappointment. As a former Conservative group leader who
suffered the same fate under a previous Tory government and lived to fight
another day, I can see lessons to be learnt.

An earlier Conservative machine managed to convince the people that a Labour
government was led by the "loony Left", until Tony Blair came to power. This
time Labour spin doctors have convinced the electorate that the Government is
led by a bunch of "rich blokes who don't know the price of a pint of milk". What
rubbish.

This Government is guilty of having policies vital to the nation's survival, but
being unable to explain them properly.

Sir Bernard Zissman                      Birmingham

SIR - Public anger is not just about economics, it's also against government
failure to show some strength in deporting those who wish us ill.

You only have to stand in a supermarket queue to find that out.

Rachel Humphries                      Wells, Somerset

SIR - Percentages given in election results are usually based on the number who
voted, not the number entitled to vote.

In our ward only 1,131 out of 2,554 voted. Of the number who voted, the
percentages were: Ukip 11; Lib Dem 15; Conservative 73. Based on the number
entitled to vote, the percentages were: Ukip 5; Lib Dem 7; Conservative 33; did
not vote 55.

Peter Hornby

Otley, Yorkshire

SIR - Will the results and abysmal turnout in the local elections persuade the
Prime Minister to concentrate on things that are important to voters, rather
than wasting time attempting to redefine marriage and redesigning the House of
Lords?

David Inns

Cucklington, Somerset

Sold down the Derwent

SIR - The ink was hardly dry on the National Planning Policy Framework,
published in March, when, after finessing the normal planning arguments in its
favour, Ryedale's planning committee did exactly what we feared it would - and
gave permission for a superstore on the council's own land in Malton, North
Yorkshire.

For the £5 million it will thereby make from the site, this elected body has
decided to sell the people and independent traders of Malton down the Derwent
river.

Every single poll of public opinion has been against this decision by a factor
of four to one. Each has also made it clear that people are deeply disturbed by
the planning authority ruling in a case where it has a clear vested interest. A
petition to Eric Pickles, the Communities Secretary, was signed by 2,000.

The town council, the chamber of trade, the neighbourhood plan consultation
group - all stand aghast at a decision that makes a mockery of localism.

We are not against change in our back yard. Most opponents of the superstore
favour an alternative regeneration project that offers economic and employment
gains without destroying the town's character or the livelihoods of its numerous
small retailers. This is in accord with the NPPF. But it has been turned down at
the same Ryedale planning committee.

If this policy is not to fall at the first hurdle, Mr Pickles must call this
matter in for objective review. To allow it to stand is undemocratic and will
cause irreversible damage to the retail diversity of a treasured market town.

It will encourage large supermarket predators to believe that the National
Planning Policy Framework policies have no weight and to bully their way into
smaller towns, impoverishing their high streets.

To fail to act would be, to quote Mary Portas, to sacrifice community for
convenience.

Martin Arnold                      Otley

Jane Baldwin                      Sinnington

Paul Beanland                      Malton

Daniel Beckett                      Malton

Sir Richard Beckett                      Rievaulx

Thomas Black                      Ilkley

Sir Nicholas and Lady Brooksbank                      Malton

Richard and Lady Henrietta Burridge                      Whitby

Rosalie Butler Adams                      Holtby

Jeremy and Vivien Cassel                      Westow and The Grange Hotel, York

Malcolm Chalk                      Worldwide Shopping Mall, Malton

Charles Charters                      Barton Hill

Anne Cleverley                      Settrington

Lady Clarissa Collin                      Pockley

Fred and Helen Collin                      Bransdale

Lorraine Corrigan                      The Frock Exchange, Malton

Sara Craig                      Oswaldkirk

Cllr Martin Dales                      Malton Town Council (former Mayor)

Ronnie Duncan                      Otley

Mark Evans                      Brompton

Cllr Paul Farndale                      Norton Town Council, tailor and former
mayor of Malton

James and Linda Fenwick                      Terrington

Cllr Jason Fitzgerald-Smith                      Mayor of Malton

Fiona Foley Croft                      Old Malton

Charles Forbes Adam                      Escrick

Nigel Forbes Adam                      Old Byland

Cllr Jane Ford                      Malton Town Council

Derek Fox                      Fox Butchers, Malton

Ian Hall                      The Country Cobbler, Malton

James Holt                      President, Thirsk & Malton Conservative
Association

Benedict Hoskyns-Abrahall                      Richmond

Sally Howard Vyse                      Langton

Simon Howard                      Castle Howard

Juliet Jowitt                      Ripon

Angela Kirkham                      Kirkham Henry Dance School, Malton

Cllr Michael Knaggs                      Malton (representative on North
Yorkshire County Council)

Yvonne Law                      Beecham Health Foods, Malton

Cllr Joan Lawrence                      Malton Town Council

Sophie Legard                      Malton Relish

Cllr David Lloyd Williams                      Malton and Norton Town Councils

Angela Lloyd Williams                      Norton

Wendy Loncaster                      Beverley

David, Cath and Gemma Magson                      The Topiary Tree, Malton

Rev Canon John Manchester                      Malton

Lord Manton                      Market Weighton

Oliver and Lif Marriott                      Aldborough

Baroness Masham of Ilton                      Masham

Charles and Rosalind Maxsted                      Brough

The Earl of Mexborough                      Hawnby

The Dowager Lady Middleton                      Birdsall

Michael Paley                      Paleys Greengrocers, Malton

Jeremy Powell                      Palace Cinema, Malton

Mark and Kate Preston                      Malton

Samantha and Pippa Raine                      Malton

Gavin and Samantha Read                      TV Centre, Malton

Dr Ingrid Roscoe                      Nun Monkton

Selina Scott                      Malton

Cllr Stephen Shaw                      Norton (representative on North Yorkshire
County Council) Dickens of a Deli, Malton

Piers Shepherd                      Slingsby

Malcolm Shields                      Beverley

Humphrey and Julia Smith                      Tadcaster

Michael Spencer                      Harrison & Hargreaves, Malton

Malcolm Stather                      Francis Johnson Architects

Sir Richard Storey                      Settrington

John Sturdy                      Old Malton

Sir Hugh and Lady Sykes                      Sheffield

Sir Tatton Sykes                      Sledmere

Christopher Tetley                      Malton

Christopher Thornton-Holmes                      Langton

Denys Townsend                      Malton Business in Action Linton Pet Shop,
Malton

Gerald Turton                      Upsall

Tom Tyson                      Norton

Angela Vaux                      Richmond

David and Audrey Wakeley                      Massers Cameras, Malton

Mark Waller                      Malton Fisheries

John and Lucy Warrack                      Rievaulx

Victoria Widdows                      Malton

Letitia and Arabella Wrigley                      Ganton

Helen Wrigley                      Potter Brompton

Venetia Wrigley                      Ganton

Charles Wyvill                      Leyburn

Rank outsider

SIR - Mark Phillips (report, May 5) has no more right to use his previous army
rank as a title than does Lance Corporal Jones.

Only officers of field rank (major and above) may use their previous rank when
retired.

Gerard Needham                      Ferndown, Dorset

Meat in the classroom

SIR - I too, lament the loss of wholesome cooking in school home economics
departments (Letters May 3).

We also need to ask: why aren't children grappling with meat and other more
expensive ingredients in the classroom?

The answers are: lack of preparation time in the school timetable, and funding.

In Scotland, Quality Meat Scotland provides meat vouchers for high schools, and
Scottish Natural Heritage funds hill-to-plate venison sessions, enabling
children to learn where food comes from and how to cook it. Partnerships can
work where funding is tight.

Fi Bird                      Askernish, Isle of South Uist

Fields of yellow                      SIR - What is so alarming about oil-seed
rape (Letters, May 5)? The end product is a very healthy alternative to olive
oil, and is a break crop that allows the area to be sown down to wheat the
following year.

It is grown because there is a demand for the oil. I find the ignorance
regarding our home-grown food production dispiriting.

Marion Gilbert                      Daventry, Northamptonshire

SIR - Polyunsaturated rapeseed oil is touted as a health food, but according to
at least one international expert, it is anything but. It goes rancid easily and
can contribute to increased risk of cancer and heart disease. Rapeseed pollen
causes hayfever sufferers misery. Many fields are heavily sprayed with
pesticides, which are killing off our bees.

Why do we grow it? Instead we should reclaim our natural asset by returning the
land to pasture.

Margaret Hopkins                      Wokingham, Berkshire

News of the boos

SIR - My wife and I had never heard booing at performances of Madame Butterfly
(Letters, April 30) until we went to see Opera North's production. Noah Stewart,
the tenor, was booed taking a curtain call as the villain and then roundly
cheered for his superb performance.

Jim Priestley                      Huddersfield, West Yorkshire

SIR - How saddened I was to hear booing during the national anthem before that
great English institution, the FA Cup Final.

Have we really sunk to that level?

Peter Parfitt-King                      Eastbourne, East Sussex

Hanging on the phone, waiting for the taxman

SIR - Nina Ball ("Your call is important ...", Letters, May 5) confirmed your
report on the length of time it takes for HM Revenue and Customs to answer the
telephone. My experience over the past two days has enraged me.

On the first day there was only a message saying there was nobody available and
I'd have to call back.

The next day I had to listen to lengthy advertisements for the HMRC website,
then wade through five menu systems of increasing complexity (none of which
really fitted my situation).

Eventually I was put on hold, listening to music for 25 minutes. During this
time the message repeatedly assured me: "Your call will be answered at the
earliest opportunity."

Finally a girl answered and, after I'd told her my problem, replied: "Sorry, all
our computers are down. It's a national problem."

Furious that I'd spent money for nothing, I asked: "What do you suggest I do
then?" She replied: "You'll have to call another time."

Will I ever get them to supply my correct tax code? I doubt it.

Tricia Booth                      Belper, Derbyshire

SIR - HMRC may say that the average wait for the telephone to be answered is
three to four minutes, but the reality is more like 30 to 40 minutes.

On the second day of trying, after I had waited for 15 minutes, an automated
voice said: "Please ring tomorrow."

As these are 0845 numbers, just how much does HMRC make out of the calls?

Gerald Masters                      Ilchester, Somerset

SIR - The problem is the probability (60 per cent?) of waiting for more than 15
minutes. Having waited for 21 minutes before hanging up, I have now written to
HMRC, saying that I am doing so because the telephone service is unacceptable.
We need more people to take this action - to "Write the Wrong".

Stephen Mathewson                      Wareham, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 6, 2012
                                 First Edition

Beware The Boris Effect - it could mean nothing at all

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 874 words


Labour did well at the polls last week, apart from in the London mayoral
contest. But Boris Johnson's win is a headache for David Cameron, because Boris
wants his job. The UK Independence Party did well, threatening to stop the
Conservatives winning a majority at the general election. And the defeat of all
but one of the referendums on directly elected mayors is a crushing setback for
the Prime Minister and his big idea of localism.

All these early wisdoms about last week's voting are mistaken. In the local
council elections, Labour secured 38 per cent of the national vote, according to
the BBC's projection, to the Tories' 31 per cent. Respectable, but a seven-point
lead two years into a parliament is nothing special. It is even less special
because we have a coalition government.

If we add the 16 per cent of votes cast for the Liberal Democrats, a total of 47
per cent voted for the government parties. This may seem a curious way of
looking at it, because the most important number at the general election will be
the difference in votes between Labour and the Tories. That is what will decide
whether or not either party has a majority or how far short of a majority they
fall.

However, it is easy to overlook the difference a coalition makes, just because
two-party government is so unfamiliar. Mid-term elections are chances to
protest, and it isn't much of a protest against the Government to vote Liberal
Democrat. That is why it is hard to claim, as Ed Miliband did, that these
elections are a "wake-up call" to the PM, or a forceful demand for the
Government to change course.

Labour is right, though, that Boris Johnson's election proves little about the
Tories' chances at the general election. He defied the national trends because
he is a great character. Labour people were quick to blame Ken Livingstone for
his own defeat, although he is a great character too, and I think Boris would
also have beaten Oona King, who was Ken's main rival for the Labour nomination.
But Boris's victory is neither a criticism of Cameron nor much of a threat to
him.

Even before the votes were counted, Boris's win was hailed by Tory rightwingers
as a vindication of their complaints about the PM. Tim Montgomerie, editor of
the ConservativeHome website and the leader of the party's internal opposition,
wrote in The Times on Friday that Boris "is the one senior Conservative who
simultaneously appeals to core Tory voters and to a large proportion of Labour
supporters" and, if Cameron did not respond, "the party might very reluctantly
reach for the blond-coloured nuclear button".

This makes no sense. Some "core Tory voters" - not many - might applaud Boris's
defence of bankers, but it is not an obvious way to appeal to Labour supporters.
Nor is his support for immigration an obvious way to secure his right-wing base.
He appeals to all kinds of people much less because of ideology and much more
because he is an engaging personality. Or buffoon, according to taste.

The same principle applies to Ukip. The Tory right have the argument the wrong
way round. They argue that Ukip will take "right-wing" votes from the
Conservative Party unless Cameron is ruder to other European leaders and
promises tax cuts. That is not how politics works. Ukip is a protest vote if the
Tory party is unpopular: the ideology is secondary. If Cameron is seen as a
strong and competent leader, regardless of his policies, Ukip will lose support.

That leaves the option, for the Tory party, of drafting in a more popular leader
if it decides Cameron is so useless that he is going to lose the next election.
It may be that the Murdoch business, or some other scandal, could bring him
down. But even if that happened, Boris is an unlikely successor.

In the 19th and early 20th centuries, politicians were found seats in the
Commons almost by invitation. It is not so easy now, and Boris is chained to
City Hall until after the general election. And that is without even considering
whether he, entertaining as he might be as mayor of a greatcity, is the right
person to put in charge of a nation's nuclear deterrent.

As for the defeat of directly elected mayors, everywhere except Bristol (and
Doncaster), the idea that this reluctance to switch from one kind of local
democracy to another is a setback for the PM is, I'm afraid, a journalistic
fiction. Locally, it might make a difference - Bradford will not have a Respect
Party mayor, for example. For Cameron's prospects, it does not matter a bean.

Still, hailing false dawns is what the Labour Party in opposition has always
been good at, and there is another one breaking tonight. The likely election of
François Hollande as president of France will prompt a lot of guff about the
revival of European social democracy, when it would mean no such thing. The left
was swept out of government across Europe because its high spending was unfairly
seen as contributing to the fiscal crisis; now the right is unpopular because it
is responsible for austerity.

It is possible that Ed Miliband could benefit at the next election from a
similar revolt here, but last week's elections were not evidence that Cameron is
doing badly enough yet for that to happen.

twitter.com/JohnRentoul

independent.co.uk/johnrentoul

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 6:54 PM GMT

With Cameron limping from one bad week to another, a leadership contest cannot
be far away

BYLINE: NIGEL JONES

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1053 words


It was a Labour Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, who famously said that 'a week is
a long time in politics' and at the end of his roughest seven days in the job
David Cameron would doubtless agree.

Except that the next seven days, with more Leveson revelations and the Queen's
Speech both looming, look like they will be even rougher.

After Thursday's local council elections, which saw the Tories lose nearly 400
seats and Labour gain twice as many, Cameron had to watch with a rictus grin as
the Tories' sole remaining star, his fellow Old Etonian and Bullingdon Club chum
Boris Johnson, squeaked in as Mayor of London over the horror mask candidate Ken
Livingstone.

It wasn't so much a vote of confidence in adenoidal geek Ed Miliband's Labour
party - memories of the Blair-Brown disaster are still a little fresh for that
and only 12% of electors voted Labour - but it was certainly a ringing vote of
no confidence at all in Cameron's empty shell of a government.

With only 32% turning out to vote, previously loyal Tories, their patience
strained beyond breaking point by Dave's inanities,  either stayed home in their
droves, or cast their votes for UKIP, the only party that promises the only
referendum that the British people actually desire, but which Cameron has
repeatedly denied: on extracting ourselves from the unfolding disaster of the
European Union.

Of those few who did bother to vote, a vanishingly small proportion cast their
ballots for the Cameron Conservatives or their pathetic coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats, who saw their total of councillors fall below 3,000 for the
first time since their party was founded.

It is clear that the dog's breakfast that passes for Coalition policy - tax
breaks for the rich and rises for everyone else; creating more expensive levels
of the unwanted  and unecessary political class  as mayors and elected Lords;
racking up our debts yet further; ladling foreign aid to countries that either
don't need or don't appreciate it; asking 'how high?' when European bureaucrats
and judges say 'jump!'; letting rip unlimited immigration and refusing to kick
out convicted terrorists - have zero appeal for the British people.

The recriminations that followed the local elections debacle have been
predictable: a few Tory Lords from yesteryear have come leaping in to advise the
party to stick to the chosen course and not rock the boat, while the Tories have
ludicrously wheeled out another Peer, Lord Strathclyde, who looks like Billy
Bunter's dad, as the best man to deny that they are the party of the posh and
the privileged. So much for Cameron's famed PR skills.

Meanwhile, the Tories' own financial wizard, Chancellor George Osborne, has been
touring the TV studios as the official face of the Government's response to
their polls defeat. In another triumph of Dave's PR, the man who got us into
this fine mess has been trying to convince us that he is the best chap to get us
out of it, instead of paying for it with his job.

Not by changing his policies you understand, but by persisting  with the
omnishambles that has forced us into a double dip recession. Since Osborne's
economic experience is less extensive than the treasurer of your neighbourhood
snooker club, his has been an entirely unconvincing performance.

But enough of Osborne, who is merely the monkey to Dave's organ grinder. The
most interesting reaction to the elections, has not come from the party's
Grandees or the Camerloons themselves, but from a humble backbencher, Nadine
Dorries.

The member for mid-Bedfordshire, has, admittedly never been among Dave's adoring
Tory female cheerleaders: no Louise Mensch, she! Nadine, sneeringly dubbed 'Mad
Nad' by the Camerloons for her outspokenness, is a Tory rarity: being a working
class woman whose instincts are in accord with the social group - the white
working class - most ignored these days by all three mainstream parties.

As such she has from the outset been a stern critic of the 'out-of-touch posh
boys' as she calls the Cameron clique who have taken control of the once mighty
Conservative party. Like many salt-of-the-earth Tories Nadine's phoniness
detector has spotted Dave and his pals for what they are; lightweight,
unprincipled, metropolitan liberals with not a Tory bone in their jellied
bodies. And now she has told the Mail on Sunday that unless Cameron changes his
Liberal-yellow spots sharpish he's going to have to go.

Last week I called here for a new Airey Neave - the Tory backbencher who in
1974/5 organised the ousting of  Edward Heath to make way for Margaret Thatcher
- to begin collecting the 46 signatures needed for the Tory backbench body, the
1922 Committee, to call a vote of no confidence in the party leader and thus
trigger a leadership election. Now Nadine Dorries has echoed my call, adding
moreover that moves are already underway to do precisely that no later than this
Christmas.

To be honest, I don't quite believe that things  have gone this far yet. But be
assured that they may yet do so. In the coming week another troublesome woman,
Dave's erstwhile horse-riding chum Rebekah Brooks, is due to give evidence to
the Leveson inquiry on the former close links between News International' and
the Prime Minister. There has been talk of a dozen emails a day flying between
the pair.

Another Leveson witness who could be even more embarrassing for Dave is Andy
Coulson, the former News  of the World editor brilliantly hand picked by Osborne
and Cameron to be their media spokesman.

Both Brooks and Cameron are now facing charges in connection with the Hackgate
scandal, and explicit evidence linking them with Dave and Osborne's Downing
Street will be at best unhelpful, at worst politically fatal for the discredited
duo. It is indeed ironic that the man whose self-appointed mission was to
de-toxify the Tory 'brand' has proved to be pure electoral poison, making his
party perhaps terminally unpopular.

The gaffe-strewn weeks since Osborne's Budget have been a long Black Wednesday
for Dave and his misconceived project, from which there can be no crawling back.
When this realisation finally sinks in, and Tory MPs wake up to the electoral
annihilation they are facing with Dave, perhaps those 46 signatures will be
collected sooner than we can yet imagine. A week is indeed a long time in
politics.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 5:32 PM GMT

How a once great party has become utterly pointless

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1431 words


Even before the brutal kicking the Coalition parties received in Thursday's
local elections, their leaders knew the damage would be severe.

Not only had they promised us a  re-launch - or more accurately, yet another
re-launch - of the Coalition before the State Opening of Parliament next week,
but it was also hinted that there would be a Cabinet reshuffle.

Before considering the usefulness of such a reshuffle, it would be worth the
Tories and Lib Dems asking themselves what, exactly, has created the mess they
are in.

It would be helpful to Messrs Clegg and Cameron, before they give a press
conference next Tuesday about their latest renaissance, to temper what is widely
considered to be their arrogance and, instead, to reflect on why they have
alienated the public.

That will be easier said than done. One of the least attractive aspects of the
Coalition is its shameless and cynical refusal to take responsibility for any of
the failures and mistakes that have made people so reluctant to vote for it.

'The economy was in such a mess when Labour bequeathed it to us,' ministers say,
'that we had to take drastic action to put it right: and in time people will
thank us for it.' They argue that all hostility to the Government is for that
reason, and that criticism about 'posh boys', pasty taxes and Theresa May's
wobbly grasp of the calendar (revealed in the confusion over a deadline to
deport hate preacher Abu Qatada) is neither here nor there.

The economic crash certainly was Labour's fault - a lethal combination of loose
monetary policy and under-regulated banks. However, the Coalition has had two
years to make things better, and does not - with a double-dip recession - appear
even to be going in the right direction.

It is usual to observe, in this regard, that the Tories had a golden opportunity
to improve Britain, but they have squandered it. Even so, they will one day
recover - though not, at this rate, in time for the next general election.

What is less appreciated, though, is that the Lib Dems had an even more
glittering opportunity: their first chance to participate in a Government since
1945. And they have spectacularly blown it.

Their influence since 2010 has been entirely negative, proving themselves unfit
for government. For example, they will be to blame for the pointless, irrelevant
and probably doomed attempt to reform the House of Lords that threatens to
dominate the next session of Parliament.

The problem is that the Lib Dems have inflicted their cranky and unpopular
policies on the country as the price of their role as Coalition partners.

For example: despite the urgent need for far more radical spending cuts and a
huge reduction in the overall burden of taxation to stimulate consumption and
growth, the Lib Dems oppose such a programme and thus limit George Osborne's
room for manoeuvre.

They have also leant on the Tories to soft-pedal on immigration policy, and to
avoid a confrontation with the increasingly absurd European Court of Human
Rights.

The Lib Dems' hand can also be detected in the growing resistance within the
Coalition to Iain Duncan Smith's eminently sensible welfare reforms.

And the persistence in the destructive, expensive and fatuous policy of covering
our countryside and shoreline with wind turbines has, sadly, outlived its
inventor, Lib Dem Chris Huhne.

Looking to the future, we must nevertheless fear that despite this record of
failure, the Lib Dems could play a key role in helping form a Labour-led
coalition after the next general election. Although by a fluke they hold the
balance of power, the Lib Dems have proved to voters that their party can never
aspire to govern on its own.

Two years ago, Nick Clegg had a novelty value. In the televised election
debates, his brand of vacuous charm and his stunt of  pretending, unlike David
Cameron and Gordon Brown, that he was a man of the people rather than an aloof
politician, won him support. Style, such as it was, triumphed over substance.

The ruse will not work again. Next time, the public will have more than just
promises upon which to judge him and his party. They will have deeds.

And, as they comprehensively showed in Thursday's polls, they regard the Lib
Dems as a compromised, inadequate and increasingly pointless party.

To some of us, the notion of the Lib Dems in power always seemed  preposterous.
The once great party of Gladstone and Asquith had evolved into one that appeared
designed for permanent opposition.

It had become a protest party, the receptacle of votes from those disgusted by
Labour and the Tories. Recognising and exploiting this, the Lib Dems also became
an opportunist party, unburdened by principle, cashing in on local issues even
where their stance contradicted that of the party nationally. It made them, for
a time, a force in local government, and helped them acquire a few dozen MPs.

Yet the Lib Dems were never more than a third party, collecting scraps of
support from the tables of the two larger ones. They have no respect for power
because none of them ever seriously thought about the prospect of having it: and
this has been evident from their conduct in office since 2010.

However, when trying to translate local opportunism into a strategy that could
be sustained at national level, the party started to come unstuck.

Mr Clegg's first great national project, the referendum held a year ago on the
alternative vote system of proportional representation, ended in humiliation for
him.

It taught one crucial lesson that the Lib Dems have been painfully slow to
learn: that the public do not remotely share their obsession with constitutional
change. Another thing they need to learn is the reason for this: it is that most
people are quite content with things the way they are, even though the Lib Dems
bleat that we are governed undemocratically.

Most Tory MPs recognise something that Mr Cameron, if he were to agree, could
never admit in public: that his mission to improve the prosperity and governance
of Britain is being retarded by the partnership with the Lib Dems.

A party national polls suggest is now supported by about 9 per cent of the
electorate, and being overtaken by UKIP, is not one whose views deserve to carry
much weight. Mr Cameron should think very carefully about whether he is doing
himself and his party any favours by carrying on with Clegg and Co.

Sadly, we have three more years of this. Until the law was changed last autumn
to introduce fixed-term parliaments of five years, Mr Cameron could have decided
that the arrangement with the Lib Dems had served its purpose, and asked the
Queen to dissolve parliament so there could be an election.

But now the spectacle of a frustrated Tory Party and impotent Lib Dems limping
on in coalition until 2015 is likely to be so offensive to the public that, as
in the local elections, it will deeply damage both parties.

The fact is that the Tories would be the major casualties, for the Lib Dems
would perhaps jump ship and try to form a Labour-led coalition.

That, at least, should attract the hatred of the increasingly small part of the
electorate that does not despise them already. But after that the Lib Dems will
be finished, the final proof of their pointlessness delivered for all to see, as
British politics gratefully reverts to the two-party system that served it so
well before the 20th century.

Make Blair an earl!

Call me perverse if you like, but I am delighted Tony Blair is re-engaging with
British politics.

I didn't agree with a lot he did, but  he is incontestably a man of  substance
and a formidable politician. He will also upstage Ed Miliband without even
trying, which will be entertaining for the rest of us. Given his conversion to
aspects of  conservatism - such as capitalism - in his retirement, I hope the
Queen will offer Mr Blair the earldom customary for former prime ministers, and
that he will not hesitate to accept it.

Following its investigation into phone-hacking, the Culture Select Committee
this week accused three senior News International executives of misleading
Parliament. We are told the trio are unlikely to suffer the humiliation of being
dragged to the House of Commons to apologise.

I am pleased, because it would do no favours to the present Commons. In the
past, MPs were people of honour and decency who had the moral authority to
chastise delinquents. That is no longer always the case.

I am all in favour of the High Court of Parliament exercising its powers, but
only when it has the moral stature to do so.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 2:42 PM GMT

All the pillars of the Cameron delusion have now collapsed

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1138 words


That's settled, then. We shall have an openly declared Labour government again
by 2015, instead of a Labour government in all but name, as we have now.

The Tories cannot possibly win the next Election, just as they never had a hope
of winning the last one.

But in 2015 it will be even worse for them. In 2010 they fanned a wild, unhinged
hatred of Gordon Brown to get their failing vote out, despite having no policies
to offer.

Their attempts to engineer a similar scorn for Edward Miliband have failed.
Voters are now so weary of the Coalition  that they don't really care if the
Opposition is led by a goofy Marxoid teenager.

You won't notice much difference when Labour take over, except that no Labour
government would have dared to smash up our Armed Forces as Mr Cameron has done.

They would have been too scared of being accused of national treachery.

Political correctness will rule over all, as it does now. Crime and disorder
will flourish, as they do now. Mass immigration will carry on, as it does now.

The EU will continue to steal our independence, as it does now. The married
family will continue to be besieged and undermined by laws and the active
promotion of fatherless homes, as is the case now.

The welfare state will continue to swell far beyond our ability to pay for it,
and children will carry on emerging from  11 years of alleged education barely
able to read and count. New grammar schools will be illegal, as they are now.

The one good thing is that the Cameron delusion ought now  to reach an end. But
will it?

Or will Britain's conservativeminded people carry on voting stupidly and
pointlessly for the Tory Party, which hates and despises them and everything
they care for?

All the pillars of the Cameron delusion have now collapsed. The Tory Party
cannot win a majority by any method.

Nobody trusts it, and  it stands for nothing except  getting posh boys into
office.

Mr Cameron is not a secret patriot waiting for the chance to rip off his
expensive tailoring and reveal his inner Thatcher. He is exactly what he looks
like, an unprincipled chancer with limited skills in public relations.

He likes being in a coalition with the Liberal Democrats because he agrees with
them.

George Osborne is not an iron Chancellor with a severe plan to save the economy.
His cuts don't exist; he's as wedded to the big-spending welfare state as Ed
Balls or Gordon Brown are. On top of that, he's not very good  at his job.

Because so many people foolishly trusted Mr Cameron in 2010, we have wasted
several precious years. But we can bring about the collapse of the useless
Tories in 2015 by refusing to vote for them any more.

If you must vote at the next Election (I shan't), vote for the absurd Dad's Army
of UKIP if you want to. At least it does no harm.

But the real business of constructing a new pro-British party to speak for all
the abandoned, honest, patriotic, gentle people of this Disunited Kingdom can
begin only when we have chucked the Tories into a suitably stout wheelie bin and
slammed the lid down on top  of them.

Was Sylvia a victim of these 'suicide pills'?

If you won't take it from me, will you take it from Ted Hughes?

I get into great trouble for warning that 'antidepressant' pills may actually
make people worse.

Well, the renowned Poet Laureate believed that it was an 'antidepressant' that
led to the otherwise inexplicable suicide of his beautiful, talented wife Sylvia
Plath.

This sort of thing is still going on. Time for an inquiry, I think.

............................................

You might have got the impression from some reports that Speaker John Bercow is
a wicked baddie, and Mr Slippery, our leader,  a gentleman of the old school.

Normally, I'd let this go, but this week it's the opposite of the truth. Mr
Bercow is doing what a Speaker  ought to do, and making sure that Ministers in
trouble come to Parliament and face hard questioning.

Whatever his politics or his past, or the foolishnesses of his wife, Mr Bercow
is upholding our constitution and liberties, and good for him.

Mr Cameron, meanwhile, has taken to delivering cowardly and disrespectful verbal
rabbit-punches to older MPs who dare to tease him.

When Dennis Skinner, 80 but still very sharp, made a perfectly justifiable
comment, Mr Slippery hit back crudely: 'He has the right to take his pension and
I advise him to do so.'

And when David Winnick teased him lightly, Mr Slippery snapped: 'I think Russell
Brand got it just about right yesterday.'

Brand, the odious alleged comedian, had sneered about Mr Winnick's age, at a
committee hearing on drugs. Interesting  that Mr Slippery identifies with this
very nasty, coarse person. I think it tells us a lot about him.

................................................................................
...........................

The more ferocious border controls are, the more futile they tend to be.

I have held a U.S. visa for years, and obtaining the last one involved hours of
form-filling, acres of personal information, a criminal record check and an
interview. They know more about me than I can currently remember.

Yet I must still queue for ages at U.S. immigration, and be photographed and
fingerprinted, before I can get in.

Well, it's their country, and they can do what they like, but for the past 20
years or so millions of Central Americans have got into the US, founded families
and settled into jobs there, by sprinting from Tijuana into San Diego, or wading
the Rio Grande. It's the same with us.

For years and years, our border officials feebly admitted thousands of people
with tenuous claims to be refugees, and failed even to record the names of those
caught being smuggled into the country in lorries.

And then they let the EU force us to admit uncounted legions of migrants from
Eastern Europe, including former Soviet republics, who now - absurdly -  have
the same legal  right to be here as you or I.

And then they have the nerve to claim that they are making us wait hours to get
back into our own country for our own good.

Plucked from the ranks of our ineffectual, excuse-making chief constables,
Border Force chief Brian Moore quickly showed us what he was made of. He droned,
in the zombie tones of modern inflexible bureaucracy, that if there were
four-hour passport queues during the Olympics 'then so be it. We  will not
compromise on safety'.

Oh, it's for our safety, is it? No, it's not. If we were serious about that we
wouldn't have staged the stupid Olympics in the first place.

It's because, if we behaved  like an independent country and opened up passport
lines marked 'British subjects only', the EU would fine us for breaking European
law. And we'd pathetically  pay the fine.

[column

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 6, 2012 Sunday 11:43 AM GMT

George Osborne: I regret how I spun the budget... I understand the voters' pain

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS and GLEN OWEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1997 words



     ·    George Osborne vows to continue with Coalition's tough austerity
          measures
     ·    Tory MP Nadine Dorries called for David Cameron and Mr Osborne to step
          down if the party is to win the next General Election
     ·    London Mayor Boris Johnson the favourite to succeed Prime Minister


George Osborne promised to take the Tories' town hall election drubbing 'on the
chin' and admitted that mistakes in handling the Budget may have added to the
Government's problems.

His candid comments came as a maverick Tory MP launched an attack on David
Cameron and Mr Osborne, claiming both must go if the party is to win the next
General Election.

Nadine Dorries said the two men were 'so stubborn and arrogant they cannot see
the writing on the wall' and must be 'removed'.

Mr Osborne shouldered the blame for Budget rows over the so-called 'granny tax',
'pasty tax', and 'charity tax'  and cutting the 50p top tax rate.

He admitted that his moves to take less tax from the low-paid were overshadowed.

Writing in today's Mail on Sunday, he says: 'The way the Budget was presented
meant this message wasn't heard. I take responsibility for that.'

But despite this and the big Conservative losses on Thursday, he would not
abandon the Coalition's tough austerity programme.

He says: 'Let me take it on the chin. Last week's elections produced a tough
result for the Government at a tough time for the country.

'People know we've had to make unpopular decisions to fix the country's problems
but they want us to remember that times aren't easy for families.

'So they are making sure that times aren't easy for the Government either. I get
that.'

Mr Osborne said the election results showed voters wanted the Government to
'focus on the priorities that matter' and to avoid being distracted by 'less
important issues'.

But there would be no U-turns. 'One thing matters more than whether the
Government is popular at this point. It matters that it is right,' he says.

He reasserted this again during a guest appearance on the BBC's Andrew Marr
show.

Mr Osborne insisted the Government would 'learn' from the verdict delivered at
the ballot box on Thursday.

He said: 'I think what people are saying is focus on the things that really
matter, focus on the economy and on education and welfare. Focus on those
things, don't get distracted by too many other issues.'

Mr Osborne dismissed suggestions that voters had deserted the Conservatives in
the elections as a result of gay marriage proposals or Lords reform as 'clearly
not the case'.

But he said that while Parliament would debate the planned shake-up of the upper
chamber, it was not a 'priority'.

He added: 'We are focused on the really important issues that matter to people.

'Parliament can discuss these issues, Parliament is very good at discussing
these issues, but it is certainly not my priority, the priority of the
Government.

'It is not where the efforts of the Government and the executive are going to be
directed.'

The Chancellor dismissed calls by Labour leader Ed Miliband and Shadow
Chancellor Ed Balls to curb spending cuts, saying they were 'like a pair of
heavy drinkers trying to wash away problems by opening another bottle'.

In her attack on the Tory leadership, Ms Dorries said Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne
could be ousted by rebel Tory MPs in a year, and would be brought down by 'a
sneering disregard for true Conservative values'.

The criticism follows her jibe last month they were 'two posh boys who don't
know the price of milk.'

Her latest intervention came as Mail on Sunday poll showed Mr Cameron faces a
growing threat from re-elected London Mayor Boris Johnson, who is the clear
public favourite to succeed the Prime Minister.

Asked if they were more likely to vote Conservative with Mr Johnson as leader,
22 per cent of voters said yes, against 24 per cent who said no, a tiny two per
cent lead for Mr Cameron.

Significantly, 31 per cent of the Conservative faithful said they would be more
likely to vote Tory with Mr Johnson as leader, against 14 per cent who said they
would be less likely to do so.

The poll suggests Mr Johnson has created a British version of the 'Reagan
effect' that swept former Hollywood actor Ronald Reagan into the White House
despite his lack of political gravitas.

In the poll, Mr Cameron beats Mr Johnson as a wartime leader, for his handling
of the economy and, narrowly, as a 'true Tory'.

But when it comes to likeability and the common touch, Boris is streets ahead.

His appeal is illustrated by women voters who were asked if they would go on a
dinner date with him or Mr Cameron. Nearly one in two chose Mr Johnson, with
fewer than one in four for the Prime Minister.

While men picked Mr Johnson as a drinking companion over Mr Cameron, they are
less keen on him getting so close to their wives.

One in two said they would rather their wives went out to dinner with Mr
Cameron, with barely one in  five choosing the twice-married London Mayor.

In a list of potential successors to Mr Cameron, Mr Johnson scores 36, with
William Hague on 29 and Mr Osborne and David Davis on eight.

Embarrassingly for the Cabinet, Education Secretary Michael Gove (5), Home
Secretary Theresa May (4) and embattled Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt (3) trail
young Tory MP and chick-lit author Louise Mensch (7).

According to the Survation poll, voters broadly support calls by Conservative
MPs for more traditional policies.

There is big backing for tougher immigration controls, a referendum on the EU,
more welfare cuts, longer jail sentences and abolishing controversial Budget
decisions.

However, voters want Mr Osborne to slow down public spending cuts, by a margin
of 41 to 16, and support gay marriages, by 25 to 21.

Last night Wellingborough MP Peter Bone said the Tory rout on Thursday was 'the
beginning of the end of the Coalition'.

'The Lib Dems are holding us back and we have a PM with one hand tied behind his
back,' he said.

'He has to take a lesson from what Boris is doing with common sense Conservative
policies which will win. Wishy-washy Liberal Democrat watered-down coalition
policies fail. We've got to go back to being separate parties.'

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth became the first member of the Government
publicly to criticise the Coalition, saying the gay marriage plan had alienated
voters. Plans to reform the House of Lords were also unpopular.

His comments appeared to be echoed by Lib Dem deputy leader Simon Hughes, who
hinted that gay marriage and Lords reform - both championed by his boss Nick
Clegg - might be shelved.

Mr Hughes said they were 'absolutely secondary issues' and the central issue was
'sorting out the economic mess.' He added that Mr Osborne had no one but himself
to blame for the Budget backlash.

'The biggest item - taking poor people out of tax - was ruined by the Tories'
insisting that they have a change in the tax rate for people on top incomes. So
the whole story was about helping the rich.'

Reaction from Conservative MPs indicated that dissent in Conservative ranks is
spreading.

One Tory, who has been tipped for the Cabinet, said: 'If things carry on like
this there will be a leadership challenge within a year.

'People feel that there is a complete lack of clarity and direction at the top.

'The No 10 operation is getting the blame, but the real problem is with DC
(David Cameron) and Osborne. DC does things he thinks will be popular, not
things he believes. He has to drop policies like gay marriage otherwise we will
lose votes to UKIP.'

Mr Cameron insisted yesterday he was 'delighted' with the victory of Mr Johnson,
who defied the nationwide anti-Tory swing.

During a joint appearance with Mr Johnson at City Hall, the Prime Minister said:
'It was a very strong campaign by Boris and I am delighted to congratulate him.'

Despite Labour gains outside London in Thursday's elections, Mr Miliband still
lacks wholehearted support from his Party.

Asked in the poll if they were more likely to vote Labour if the leadership was
handed back to Tony Blair - who last week announced plans to 're-engage' in
politics - Labour voters opted for the former Prime Minister over Mr Miliband by
two to one.

And a former senior aide to Mr Blair and Lord Mandelson put a dampener on Mr
Miliband's claim to have made a major breakthrough.

Labour adviser Patrick Diamond warned: 'There is lot more work for Labour to do
in terms of winning back people's trust, particularly on the economy, the
deficit and tax.'

Survation interviewed 530 people online on Friday.

A marriage counsellor's take on Dave and Nick's renewal of vows this week: will
it be a new honeymoon?

By MICHAEL KALLENBACH

Like any young couple embarking on a future life together, they looked a little
awkward as the guests took their seats in the Downing Street Rose Garden just
over two years ago.

But the ceremony was a  heartwarming affair and everyone wished them well.

David Cameron took the lead, speaking confidently as Nick Clegg looked on
admiringly, though we all knew it had been  a whirlwind courtship with
commitments hastily made.

Now Nick and David have decided to renew their vows, a public declaration their
relationship has a future.

As a couples' counsellor, I applaud them. But, like any relationship under
strain, there are problems that need to be addressed.

This is a time when family should rally round to give support, but in a vipers'
pit such as Westminster, that is a little too much to hope for.

Of course, fate has not been kind to them. Money was tight when they moved in
together and things have not improved.

I am convinced that the 'power struggle' within their relationship is the issue
that needs most attention.

David is the main breadwinner and brings much more to the relationship since he
and his party won many more seats.

And while it is true that he conceded more in policy terms to win Nick over, he
and George Osborne have been the ones calling the shots.

Of course, Nick has faced disappointments. He had to swallow hard when
university tuition fees were increased. And he placed great store on electoral
reform.

To see his Alternative Vote system dismissed so unequivocally must have hurt -
and to see David gloating about it would not have helped.

Does David, I wonder, point out that, if it weren't for him, Nick wouldn't be
living such a grand lifestyle?

If he does, that can be very destructive. Understanding that differences are not
intentional and that misunderstandings are merely the result of expectations
that are not realistic can make a huge difference in a relationship.

But this couple, like many I see in my consulting rooms, find it easier to avoid
their problems rather than deal with them head on.

As Nick sulks about the place, David doesn't believe he is at fault. I imagine
him telling friends: 'That was the pact we made when we got together - that he
would be a supportive partner. He hasn't kept to his side of the bargain.'

And how are their respective families feeling now? Far from happy. There are the
mothers-in-law, for instance, always sticking their noses in: Simon Hughes, from
the Lib Dems, and Tim Montgomerie, editor of the ConservativeHome website, come
to mind.

And those 1922 Committee members Bernard Jenkin, Peter Bone, Mark Pritchard and
Charlie Elphicke who keep putting their heads in their hands, saying: 'You've
married beneath yourself, Prime Minister!'

And there's the problem children: Liam Fox and David Laws have already left
home, so has Chris Huhne, while Boris Johnson, the Tory Mayor of London, is so
angry that he continues to point out that a big mistake has been made and he
could do a much better job.

When couples decide to split up, it is indeed sad and painful, but sometimes
it's for the best. But I don't think David and Nick are on the verge of a
break-up - not yet anyway.

Michael Kallenbach is a relationship therapist who is in private practice in
Notting Hill, London, and Marlborough, Wiltshire. Previously, he was a
parliamentary correspondent.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 8:52 AM GMT

George Obsorne: I regret how I spun the budget... I understand the voters' pain

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS and GLEN OWEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2096 words


George Osborne promised to take the Tories' town hall election drubbing 'on the
chin' and admitted that mistakes in handling the Budget may have added to  the
Government's problems.

His candid comments came as a maverick Tory MP launched an attack on David
Cameron and Mr Osborne, claiming both must go if the party is to win the next
General Election.

Nadine Dorries said the two men were 'so stubborn and arrogant they cannot see
the writing on the wall' and must be 'removed'.

Mr Osborne shouldered the blame for Budget rows over the so-called 'granny tax',
'pasty tax', and 'charity tax'  and cutting the 50p top tax rate.

He admitted that his moves to take less tax from the low-paid were overshadowed.

Writing in today's Mail on Sunday, he says: 'The way the Budget was presented
meant this message wasn't heard. I take responsibility for that.'

But despite this and the big Conservative losses on Thursday, he would not
abandon the Coalition's tough austerity programme.

He says: 'Let me take it on the chin. Last week's elections produced a tough
result for the Government at a tough time for the country.

'People know we've had to make unpopular decisions to fix the country's problems
but they want us to remember that times aren't easy for families.

'So they are making sure that times aren't easy for the Government either. I get
that.'

Mr Osborne said the election results showed voters wanted the Government to
'focus on the priorities that matter' and to avoid being distracted by 'less
important issues'.

But there would be no U-turns.

'One thing matters more than whether the Government is popular at this point. It
matters that it is right,' he says.

The Chancellor dismissed calls by Labour leader Ed Miliband and Shadow
Chancellor Ed Balls to curb spending cuts, saying they were 'like a pair of
heavy drinkers trying to wash away problems by opening another bottle'.

In her attack on the Tory leadership, Ms Dorries said Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne
could be ousted by rebel Tory MPs in a year, and would be brought down by 'a
sneering disregard for true Conservative values'.

The criticism follows her jibe last month they were 'two posh boys who don't
know the price of milk.'

Her latest intervention came as Mail on Sunday poll showed Mr Cameron faces a
growing threat from re-elected London Mayor Boris Johnson, who is the clear
public favourite to succeed the Prime Minister.

Asked if they were more likely to vote Conservative with Mr Johnson as leader,
22 per cent of voters said yes, against 24 per cent who said no, a tiny two per
cent lead for Mr Cameron.

Significantly, 31 per cent of the Conservative faithful said they would be more
likely to vote Tory with Mr Johnson as leader, against 14 per cent who said they
would be less likely to do so.

The poll suggests Mr Johnson has created a British version of the 'Reagan
effect' that swept former Hollywood actor Ronald Reagan into the White House
despite his lack of political gravitas.

In the poll, Mr Cameron beats Mr Johnson as a wartime leader, for his handling
of the economy and, narrowly, as a 'true Tory'.

But when it comes to likeability and the common touch, Boris is streets ahead.

His appeal is illustrated by women voters who were asked if they would go on a
dinner date with him or Mr Cameron. Nearly one in two chose Mr Johnson, with
fewer than one in four for the Prime Minister.

While men picked Mr Johnson as a drinking companion over Mr Cameron, they are
less keen on him getting so close to their wives.

One in two said they would rather their wives went out to dinner with Mr
Cameron, with barely one in  five choosing the twice-married London Mayor.

In a list of potential successors to Mr Cameron, Mr Johnson scores 36, with
William Hague on 29 and Mr Osborne and David Davis on eight.

Embarrassingly for the Cabinet, Education Secretary Michael Gove (5), Home
Secretary Theresa May (4) and embattled Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt (3) trail
young Tory MP and chick-lit author Louise Mensch (7).

According to the Survation poll, voters broadly support calls by Conservative
MPs for more traditional policies.

There is big backing for tougher immigration controls, a referendum on the EU,
more welfare cuts, longer jail sentences and abolishing controversial Budget
decisions.

However, voters want Mr Osborne to slow down public spending cuts, by a margin
of 41 to 16, and support gay marriages, by 25 to 21.

Last night Wellingborough MP Peter Bone said the Tory rout on Thursday was 'the
beginning of the end of the Coalition'.

'The Lib Dems are holding us back and we have a PM with one hand tied behind his
back,' he said.

'He has to take a lesson from what Boris is doing with common sense Conservative
policies which will win. Wishy-washy Liberal Democrat watered-down coalition
policies fail. We've got to go back to being separate parties.'

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth became the first member of the Government
publicly to criticise the Coalition, saying the gay marriage plan had alienated
voters. Plans to reform the House of Lords were also unpopular.

His comments appeared to be echoed by Lib Dem deputy leader Simon Hughes, who
hinted that gay marriage and Lords reform - both championed by his boss Nick
Clegg - might be shelved.

Mr Hughes said they were 'absolutely secondary issues' and the central issue was
'sorting out the economic mess.' He added that Mr Osborne had no one but himself
to blame for the Budget backlash.

'The biggest item - taking poor people out of tax - was ruined by the Tories'
insisting that they have a change in the tax rate for people on top incomes. So
the whole story was about helping the rich.'

Reaction from Conservative MPs indicated that dissent in Conservative ranks is
spreading.

One Tory, who has been tipped for the Cabinet, said: 'If things carry on like
this there will be a leadership challenge within a year.

'People feel that there is a complete lack of clarity and direction at the top.

'The No 10 operation is getting the blame, but the real problem is with DC
(David Cameron) and Osborne. DC does things he thinks will be popular, not
things he believes. He has to drop policies like gay marriage otherwise we will
lose votes to UKIP.'

Mr Cameron insisted yesterday he was 'delighted' with the victory of Mr Johnson,
who defied the nationwide anti-Tory swing.

During a joint appearance with Mr Johnson at City Hall, the Prime Minister said:
'It was a very strong campaign by Boris and I am delighted to congratulate him.'

Despite Labour gains outside London in Thursday's elections, Mr Miliband still
lacks wholehearted support from his Party.

Asked in the poll if they were more likely to vote Labour if the leadership was
handed back to Tony Blair - who last week announced plans to 're-engage' in
politics - Labour voters opted for the former Prime Minister over Mr Miliband by
two to one.

And a former senior aide to Mr Blair and Lord Mandelson put a dampener on Mr
Miliband's claim to have made a major breakthrough.

Labour adviser Patrick Diamond warned: 'There is lot more work for Labour to do
in terms of winning back people's trust, particularly on the economy, the
deficit and tax.'

Survation interviewed 530 people online on Friday.

Why Cameron's dreading Rebekah's text 'X' factor

David Cameron faces the embarrassment of highly personal text messages and
emails to and from former News International chief executive Rebekah Brooks
being revealed this week.

Mrs Brooks and the Prime Minister's ex-No 10 spin doctor, Andy Coulson, who
resigned as editor of the News of the World newspaper over phone hacking, are
both due to give evidence to the Leveson Inquiry into the scandal.

It has been claimed that Mr Cameron was so close to Mrs Brooks that he texted
her up to a dozen times a day - and that Mrs Brooks has kept all the
communications.

Mr Cameron and Mrs Brooks are said to sign-off some of their text messages to
intimate friends with the friendly 'x' preferred by many habitual phone texters.

If they did so in messages to each other, it could add to the Government's
growing discomfort over the Leveson disclosures.

According to some sources, Mr Cameron sent text messages of support to Mrs
Brooks and her husband, race-horse trainer Charlie Brooks, before she  was
forced to resign over the phone-hacking affair.

Mrs Brooks is expected to be asked about her relations with politicians and
senior police officers when she appears before Lord Leveson on Friday.

She could also be pressed over Mr Cameron's admission that he had ridden a horse
loaned to Mrs Brooks by the Metropolitan Police.

Mr Coulson gives evidence to Lord Leveson on Thursday. The inquiry's lawyers
will not be able  to question Brooks or Coulson about anything that could
prejudice the continuing police investigation into phone hacking.

Both have been arrested and bailed.

Mr Cameron and seven other Cabinet Ministers will be given advance sight of
witness statements from Mrs Brooks and Mr Coulson after successfully winning
'core participant' status at an emergency hearing on Friday.

A marriage counsellor's take on Dave and Nick's renewal of vows this week: will
it be a new honeymoon?

By MICHAEL KALLENBACH

Like any young couple embarking on a future life together, they looked a little
awkward as the guests took their seats in the Downing Street Rose Garden just
over two years ago.

But the ceremony was a  heartwarming affair and everyone wished them well.

David Cameron took the lead, speaking confidently as Nick Clegg looked on
admiringly, though we all knew it had been  a whirlwind courtship with
commitments hastily made.

Now Nick and David have decided to renew their vows, a public declaration their
relationship has a future.

As a couples' counsellor, I applaud them. But, like any relationship under
strain, there are problems that need to be addressed.

This is a time when family should rally round to give support, but in a vipers'
pit such as Westminster, that is a little too much to hope for.

Of course, fate has not been kind to them. Money was tight when they moved in
together and things have not improved.

I am convinced that the 'power struggle' within their relationship is the issue
that needs most attention.

David is the main breadwinner and brings much more to the relationship since he
and his party won many more seats.

And while it is true that he conceded more in policy terms to win Nick over, he
and George Osborne have been the ones calling the shots.

Of course, Nick has faced disappointments. He had to swallow hard when
university tuition fees were increased. And he placed great store on electoral
reform.

To see his Alternative Vote system dismissed so unequivocally must have hurt -
and to see David gloating about it would not have helped.

Does David, I wonder, point out that, if it weren't for him, Nick wouldn't be
living such a grand lifestyle?

If he does, that can be very destructive. Understanding that differences are not
intentional and that misunderstandings are merely the result of expectations
that are not realistic can make a huge difference in a relationship.

But this couple, like many I see in my consulting rooms, find it easier to avoid
their problems rather than deal with them head on.

As Nick sulks about the place, David doesn't believe he is at fault. I imagine
him telling friends: 'That was the pact we made when we got together - that he
would be a supportive partner. He hasn't kept to his side of the bargain.'

And how are their respective families feeling now? Far from happy. There are the
mothers-in-law, for instance, always sticking their noses in: Simon Hughes, from
the Lib Dems, and Tim Montgomerie, editor of the ConservativeHome website, come
to mind.

And those 1922 Committee members Bernard Jenkin, Peter Bone, Mark Pritchard and
Charlie Elphicke who keep putting their heads in their hands, saying: 'You've
married beneath yourself, Prime Minister!'

And there's the problem children: Liam Fox and David Laws have already left
home, so has Chris Huhne, while Boris Johnson, the Tory Mayor of London, is so
angry that he continues to point out that a big mistake has been made and he
could do a much better job.

When couples decide to split up, it is indeed sad and painful, but sometimes
it's for the best. But I don't think David and Nick are on the verge of a
break-up - not yet anyway.

Michael Kallenbach is a relationship therapist who is in private practice in
Notting Hill, London, and Marlborough, Wiltshire. Previously, he was a
parliamentary correspondent.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 8:26 AM GMT

'Avowedly Conservative': Boris pledges to cut taxes and boost police numbers as
he signs up for second term as London Mayor

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON, RICK DEWSBURY and DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2157 words



     ·    Boris won 1,054,811 first and second preference votes
     ·    Ken finished 62,000 votes behind with 992,273
     ·    Winning margin 51.5% to 48.5%
     ·    Green party candidate Jenny Jones finishes 3rd ahead of Lib Dem Brian
          Paddick
     ·    Result delayed by faulty counting machines
     ·    Boris loses two allies; deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and fire chief
          Brian Coleman


Triumphant Boris Johnson promised he and his team would 'work our socks off' to
deliver on their election promises of cutting taxes and boosting police numbers
as he signed up for a second term as London Mayor.

Describing his programme as 'absolutely, avowedly Conservative with a big C or a
small c', Mr Johnson said he intended to serve another  four years as London's
Mayor despite talk of him becoming the next leader of the Conservative party.

He secured a tense win just before midnight, handing the Conservatives a
much-needed morale boost and ending Ken Livingstone's controversial career in
front-line politics.

Mr Johnson secured a lead of 82,000 votes on the first ballot and won by 62,000
once voters' second preferences were counted.

He beat Mr Livingstone by 1,054,811 to 992,273, securing 51.5 per cent of the
vote in the runoff - a smaller margin of victory than he managed in 2008.

Mr Johnson, who was joined by Prime Minister David Cameron at City Hall this
morning, said he planned to continue working alongside the Government to secure
investment for London.

He said: 'I think people were listening to what we had to say about taxes,
getting rid of all sorts of unnecessary expenditure, putting it where people
want to see it.

'It was a very hard-fought long campaign.

'I am grateful to the Conservative Party. They did turn out in large numbers to
help me but I think we were able to reach people across the city with a message
that resonated with them in tough times.'

'I hope very much to continue working with the Government to get the investment
that London needs."

David Cameron said he was 'delighted' by Boris Johnson's mayoral victory and
vowed the pair would work together for the good of London.

The Prime Minister praised Mr Johnson for running a "very strong" campaign and
said he had enjoyed backing his bid for re-election.

He said: 'I think it was a very strong campaign by Boris. It was based on his
record, on the excellent things he has done out there and I am delighted to
congratulate him.

'It was a campaign the whole Conservative party got behind.

'I enjoyed campaigning for Boris but now what matters is working together for
the good of London, as PM, as Mayor, and that is exactly what we are going to
do.'

He has pledged to cut council tax in the capital by 10 per cent over the next
four years and wants to push ahead with plans to introduce driverless tube
trains.

Talking on BBC's Today programme earlier this morning he said: 'My programme is
absolutely, avowedly Conservative - with a big 'c' or a small 'c'.

'It's about cutting taxes, getting rid of useless government expenditure and
focusing on the things that matter.'

Asked if he would attempt to be re-elected to parliament in two or three year's
time, allowing him to position himself as a future Tory leader, Mr Johnson told
Nick Ferrari on LBC radio: 'I'm going to say this categorically that the answer
to that is no, I don't want to do that. I want to discharge my mandate and my
duty.'

Mr Johnson's father Stanley refused to rule out the possibility of his son as
future leader saying: 'Who knows?'

Asked by the BBC why Boris bucked the national trend he said: 'Because he had
the charisma and because people believe he is a man that says what he means and
he does what he says and that's something that counts.'

Speaking at the National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) annual conference,
Education Secretary Michael Gove said the election results were 'disappointing',
but added he was 'delighted that Boris Johnson had won the race for Mayor of
London'.

'Governments go through difficult periods in mid-term,' he said, adding 'two
years into Margaret Thatcher's first term she was 18 points behind in the polls
behind David Steel and Michael Foot.

'History tells us that the important thing for us to do is to take into account
the electorate's concerns but to address people's fundamental worries and they
are the economy and making sure we reward people that are doing the right
thing.'

Mr Gove refused to be drawn on the possibility of Mr Johnson as a future Tory
leader, saying: 'I have no idea who will be leading the Tory Party when David
Cameron stands down in 20 to 25 years hence.

'The thing about Boris is that he is a brilliant Mayor of London.'

Mr Johnson's strong personal showing puts him in pole position to succeed David
Cameron as Tory leader and Prime Minister.

He picked up around 44 per cent of first-preference votes, and secured a strong
mandate by running ten or more points ahead of the Tories as a party in London.

His performance will be seized upon by disgruntled Conservatives who see his
commitment to what they see as real Tory values as a blueprint for Mr Cameron to
follow.

Allies of Mr Johnson say he will now tell Mr Cameron he should seek to emulate
his optimistic outlook and economic conservatism if he wants to revitalise the
party's support.

A source close to Mr Johnson said: 'Boris has championed cosmopolitan and
compassionate Conservatism.

He has combined that with a bone-dry approach on the economy. If Boris had been
seen as a straight Conservative, he would have lost heavily.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson, 47, made clear that he will devote himself to London
rather than national politics. He said he will not stand as an MP in the 2015
general election and will stay at City Hall until 2016.

Speaking before the final result was revealed, he said: 'If I am fortunate
enough to win I'll need four years to deliver what I've promised. And having put
trust at the heart of this election, I would serve out that term in full.

'I made a solemn vow to Londoners to lead them out of recession, bring down
crime and deliver the growth, investment and jobs that this city so desperately
needs.

Keeping that promise cannot be combined with any other political capacity.'

A clearly relieved but tired mayor used his acceptance speech to say he would
continue to 'fight for a fair deal for Londoners' and win resources from
Chancellor George Osborne - Mr Johnson's most likely opponent in a future Tory
leadership election.

His rival Mr Livingstone said: 'I would like to congratulate Boris on his
personal victory.

Whilst Cameron and Osborne are dragging the Tory party down to defeat in the
rest of Britain, not only have you won another term but I suspect this result
has settled the question of the next Tory leadership election.'

Looking back on his career, he said he had won 11 elections and lost three.

'This is the defeat I most regret,' he added.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Brian Paddick, faced humiliation. He was beaten
into fourth place by Green candidate Jenny Jones by 7,000 votes, and was not far
ahead of independent Siobhan Benita.

Mr Johnson's victory came even as the Tories were trounced by Labour in the
London Assembly elections.

Labour picked up two seats from the Tories, with Mr Johnson's deputy mayor
Richard Barnes defeated in Ealing and Hillingdon while Brian  Coleman lost in
Barnet and Camden.

The mayoral result brought a halt to the rollercoaster career of Mr Livingstone,
one of the most controversial and distinctive voices in politics.

The leader of the Greater London Council in the 1980s until Margaret Thatcher
closed it down, he served a decade on the Labour backbenches until the Blair
government created the role of London mayor.

Mr Livingstone was frozen out of the selection process and resigned to run his
first campaign as an independent.  He won easily in 2000 and ran again - this
time as the Labour candidate - in 2004.

But last night he lost a second successive election to arguably the only other
British politician instantly recognisable by his Christian name alone.

Mr Johnson paid tribute to his opponent, saying: 'Of all the left-wing
politicians I can think of, you have been amongst the most creative and
imaginative.'

He said he would happily share a 'non-taxpayer-subsidised drink' with Mr
Livingstone 'as long as you promise not to run again'.

Mr Livingstone's mayoral prospects were severely damaged by the accusation that
he has avoided thousands of pounds in income tax by funnelling his earnings
through a company. Last night he said: 'This is my last election.'

Not all senior Labour figures were hoping for a Livingstone victory, since they
regard the left-winger as a loose cannon.

The party's leader Ed Miliband also hopes that Mr Johnson, who has distanced
himself from the Coalition and its Budget, will continue to be a thorn in the
Prime Minister's side by criticising him from the Right.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

Peter Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of the
European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday

THE PETER HITCHENS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1102 words


ALL THE PILLARS OF THE CAMERON DELUSION HAVE NOW COLLAPSED

THAT'S settled, then. We shall have an openly declared Labour government again
by 2015, instead of a Labour government in all but name, as we have now. The
Tories cannot possibly win the next Election, just as they never had a hope of
winning the last one.

But in 2015 it will be even worse for them. In 2010 they fanned a wild, unhinged
hatred of Gordon Brown to get their failing vote out, despite having no policies
to offer.

Their attempts to engineer a similar scorn for Edward Miliband have failed.
Voters are now so weary of the Coalition that they don't really care if the
Opposition is led by a goofy Marxoid teenager.

You won't notice much difference when Labour take over, except that no Labour
government would have dared to smash up our Armed Forces as Mr Cameron has done.
They would have been too scared of being accused of national treachery.

Political correctness will rule over all, as it does now. Crime and disorder
will flourish, as they do now. Mass immigration will carry on, as it does now.
The EU will continue to steal our independence, as it does now. The married
family will continue to be besieged and undermined by laws and the active
promotion of fatherless homes, as is the case now.

The welfare state will continue to swell far beyond our ability to pay for it,
and children will carry on emerging from 11 years of alleged education barely
able to read and count. New grammar schools will be illegal, as they are now.

The one good thing is that the Cameron delusion ought now to reach an end. But
will it? Or will Britain's conservativeminded people carry on voting stupidly
and pointlessly for the Tory Party, which hates and despises them and everything
they care for? All the pillars of the Cameron delusion have now collapsed. The
Tory Party cannot win a majority by any method. Nobody trusts it, and it stands
for nothing except getting posh boys into office.

Mr Cameron is not a secret patriot waiting for the chance to rip off his
expensive tailoring and reveal his inner Thatcher. He is exactly what he looks
like, an unprincipled chancer with limited skills in public relations. He likes
being in a coalition with the Liberal Democrats because he agrees with them.

George Osborne is not an iron Chancellor with a severe plan to save the economy.
His cuts don't exist; he's as wedded to the big-spending welfare state as Ed
Balls or Gordon Brown are. On top of that, he's not very good at his job.
Because so many people foolishly trusted Mr Cameron in 2010

, we have wasted several precious years. But we can bring about the collapse of
the useless Tories in 2015 by refusing to vote for them any more.

If you must vote at the next Election (I shan't), vote for the absurd Dad's Army
of UKIP if you want to. At least it does no harm. But the real business of
constructing a new pro-British party to speak for all the abandoned, honest,
patriotic, gentle people of this Disunited Kingdom can begin only when we have
chucked the Tories into a suitably stout wheelie bin and slammed the lid down on
top of them.

--

WAS SYLVIA A VICTIM OF THESE 'SUICIDE PILLS'?

IF YOU won't take it from me, will you take it from Ted Hughes? I get into great
trouble for warning that 'antidepressant' pills may actually make people worse.
Well, the renowned Poet Laureate believed that it was an 'antidepressant' that
led to the otherwise inexplicable suicide of his beautiful, talented wife Sylvia
Plath. This sort of thing is still going on. Time for an inquiry, I think.

--

IT'S BORDERING ON THE RIDICULOUS

THE more ferocious border controls are, the more futile they tend to be. I have
held a US visa for years, and obtaining the last one involved hours of
form-filling, acres of personal information, a criminal record check and an
interview. They know more about me than I can currently remember.

Yet I must still queue for ages at US immigration, and be photographed and
fingerprinted, before I can get in. Well, it's their country, and they can do
what they like, but for the past 20 years or so millions of Central Americans
have got into the US, founded families and settled into jobs there, by sprinting
from Tijuana into San Diego, or wading the Rio Grande. It's the same with us.
For years and years, our border officials feebly admitted thousands of people
with tenuous claims to be refugees, and failed even to record the names of those
caught being smuggled into the country in lorries. And then they let the EU
force us to admit uncounted legions of migrants from Eastern Europe, including
former Soviet republics, who now Ð absurdly Ð have the same legal right to be
here as you or I.

And then they have the nerve to claim that they are making us wait hours to get
back into our own country for our own good.

Plucked from the ranks of our ineffectual, excuse-making chief constables,
Border Force chief Brian Moore quickly showed us what he was made of. He droned,
in the zombie tones of modern inflexible bureaucracy, that if there were
four-hour passport queues during the Olympics 'then so be it. We will not
compromise on safety'.

Oh, it's for our safety, is it? No, it's not. If we were serious about that we
wouldn't have staged the stupid Olympics in the first place. It's because, if we
behaved like an independent country and opened up passport lines marked 'British
subjects only', the EU would fine us for breaking European law. And we'd
pathetically pay the fine.

--

YOU might have got the impression from some reports that Speaker John Bercow is
a wicked baddie, and Mr Slippery, our leader, a gentleman of the old school.
Normally, I'd let this go, but this week it's the opposite of the truth. Mr
Bercow is doing what a Speaker ought to do, and making sure that Ministers in
trouble come to Parliament and face hard questioning. Whatever his politics or
his past, or the foolishnesses of his wife, Mr Bercow is upholding our
constitution and liberties, and good for him.

Mr Cameron, meanwhile, has taken to delivering cowardly and disrespectful verbal
rabbit-punches to older MPs who dare to tease him. When Dennis Skinner, 80 but
still very sharp, made a perfectly justifiable comment, Mr Slippery hit back
crudely: 'He has the right to take his pension and I advise him to do so.' And
when David Winnick teased him lightly, Mr Slippery snapped: 'I think Russell
Brand got it just about right yesterday.'

Brand, the odious alleged comedian, had sneered about Mr Winnick's age, at a
committee hearing on drugs. Interesting that Mr Slippery identifies with this
very nasty, coarse person. I think it tells us a lot about him.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday

OSBORNE: MY REGRET AT HOW I SPUN THE BUDGET

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS

LENGTH: 1196 words


George Osborne last night promised to take the Tories' town hall election
drubbing 'on the chin' and admitted that mistakes in handling the Budget may
have added to the Government's problems.

His candid comments came as a maverick Tory MP launched an attack on David
Cameron and Mr Osborne, claiming both must go if the party is to win the next
General Election.

Nadine Dorries said the two men were 'so stubborn and arrogant they cannot see
the writing on the wall' and must be 'removed'.

Mr Osborne shouldered the blame for Budget rows over the so-called 'granny tax',
'pasty tax', and 'charity tax' and cutting the 50p top tax rate.He admitted that
his moves to take less tax from the low-paid were overshadowed.

Writing in today's Mail on Sunday, he says: 'The way the Budget was presented
meant this message wasn't heard. I take responsibility for that.'

But despite this and the big Conservative losses on Thursday, he would not
abandon the Coalition's tough austerity programme.

He says: 'Let me take it on the chin. Last week's elections produced a tough
result for the Government at a tough time for the country.

'People know we've had to make unpopular decisions to fix the country's problems
but they want us to remember that times aren't easy for families. So they are
making sure that times aren't easy for the Government either. I get that.'

Mr Osborne said the election

results showed voters wanted the Government to 'focus on the priorities that
matter' and to avoid being distracted by 'less important issues'. But there
would be no U-turns.

'One thing matters more than whether the Government is popular at this point. It
matters that it is right,' he says.

The Chancellor dismissed calls by Labour leader Ed Miliband and Shadow
Chancellor Ed Balls to curb spending cuts, saying they were 'like a pair of
heavy drinkers trying to wash away problems by opening another bottle'.

In her attack on the Tory leadership, Ms Dorries said Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne
could be ousted by rebel Tory MPs in a year, and would be brought down by 'a
sneering disregard for true Conservative values'.The criticism follows her jibe
last month they were 'two posh boys who don't know the price of milk.'

Her latest intervention came as Mail on Sunday poll showed Mr Cameron faces a
growing threat from re-elected London Mayor Boris Johnson, who is the clear
public favourite to succeed the Prime Minister.

Asked if they were more likely to vote Conservative with Mr Johnson as leader,
22 per cent of voters said yes, against 24 per cent who said no, a tiny two per
cent lead for Mr Cameron.

Significantly, 31 per cent of the Conservative faithful said they would be more
likely to vote Tory with Mr Johnson as leader, against 14 per cent who said they
would be less likely to do so.

The poll suggests Mr Johnson has created a British version of the 'Reagan
effect' that swept former Hollywood actor Ronald Reagan into the White House
despite his lack of political gravitas.

In the poll, Mr Cameron beats Mr Johnson as a wartime leader, for his handling
of the economy and, narrowly, as a 'true Tory'.

But when it comes to likeability and the common touch, Boris is streets ahead.

His appeal is illustrated by women voters who were asked if they would go on a
dinner date with him or Mr Cameron. Nearly one in two chose Mr Johnson, with
fewer than one in four for the Prime Minister.

While men picked Mr Johnson as a drinking companion over Mr Cameron, they are
less keen on him getting so close to their wives. One in two said they would
rather their wives went out to dinner with Mr Cameron, with barely one in five
choosing the twice-married London Mayor.

In a list of potential successors to Mr Cameron, Mr Johnson scores 36, with
William Hague on 29 and Mr Osborne and David Davis on eight.

Embarrassingly for the Cabinet, Education Secretary Michael Gove (5), Home
Secretary Theresa May (4) and embattled Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt (3) trail
young Tory MP and chick-lit author Louise Mensch (7).

According to the Survation poll, voters broadly support calls by Conservative
MPs for more traditional policies. There is big backing for tougher immigration
controls, a referendum on the EU, more welfare cuts, longer jail sentences and
abolishing controversial Budget decisions. However, voters want Mr Osborne to
slow down public spending cuts, by a margin of 41 to 16, and support gay
marriages, by 25 to 21.

Last night Wellingborough MP Peter Bone said the Tory rout on Thursday was 'the
beginning of the end of the Coalition'.

'The Lib Dems are holding us back and we have a PM with one hand tied behind his
back,' he said.

'He has to take a lesson from what Boris is doing with common sense Conservative
policies which will win. Wishy-washy Liberal Democrat watered-down coalition
policies fail. We've got to go back to being separate parties.'

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth became the first member of the Government
publicly to criticise the Coalition, saying the gay marriage plan had alienated
voters. Plans to reform the House of Lords were also unpopular.

His comments appeared to be echoed by Lib Dem deputy leader Simon Hughes, who
hinted that gay marriage and Lords reform Ð both championed by his boss Nick
Clegg Ð might be shelved.

Mr Hughes said they were 'absolutely secondary issues' and the central issue was
'sorting out the economic mess.' He added that Mr Osborne had no one but himself
to blame for the Budget backlash.

'The biggest item Ð taking poor people out of tax Ð was ruined by the Tories'
insisting that they have a change in the tax rate for people on top incomes. So
the whole story was about helping the rich.'

Reaction from Conservative MPs indicated that dissent in Conservative ranks is
spreading.

One Tory, who has been tipped for the Cabinet, said: 'If things carry on like
this there will be a leadership challenge within a year.

'People feel that there is a complete lack of clarity and direction at the top.
The No 10 operation is getting the blame, but the real problem is with DC [David
Cameron] and Osborne. DC does things he thinks will be popular, not things he
believes. He has to drop policies like gay marriage otherwise we will lose votes
to UKIP.'

Mr Cameron insisted yesterday he was 'delighted' with the victory of Mr Johnson,
who defied the nationwide anti-Tory swing. During a joint appearance with Mr
Johnson at City Hall, the Prime Minister said: 'It was a very strong campaign by
Boris and I am delighted to congratulate him.'

Despite Labour gains outside London in Thursday's elections, Mr Miliband still
lacks wholehearted support from his Party.

Asked in the poll if they were more likely to vote Labour if the leadership was
handed back to Tony Blair Ð who last week announced plans to 're-engage' in
politics Ð Labour voters opted for the former Prime Minister over Mr Miliband by
two to one.

And a former senior aide to Mr Blair and Peter Mandelson put a dampener on Mr
Miliband's claim to have made a major breakthrough.

Labour adviser Patrick Diamond warned: 'There is lot more work for Labour to do
in terms of winning back people's trust, particularly on the economy, the
deficit and tax.'

l Survation interviewed 530 people online on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday

'BE WARNED: PARTY BOSSES ONLY NEED 46 SIGNATURES TO DITCH LEADER. THEY'LL GET
THEM

LENGTH: 1021 words


CHRISTMAS'

COMMENT

NADINE DORRIES

DAVID CAMERON stated last week that he is aiming for a 'Conservative-led'
Government in 2015. The implication being that he is not working towards a
Conservative majority. He said what many MPs have long suspected and discussed Ð
that the Prime Minister would far prefer to govern as part of a permanent
Lib-Dem coalition than with a Conservative majority which would reach out to
both the Left and the Right wings of the party.

Despite my comments of last week, in which I described David Cameron and George
Osborne as 'two arrogant posh boys who don't know the price of milk', I hold
nothing against 'posh' people.

I am ecstatic that Eton-and- Oxford educated Boris has won the London Mayoralty.
My two favourite Prime Ministers from my lifetime are Harold Macmillan (also
Eton and Oxford) and Margaret Thatcher (Oxford).

As soon as I was able to afford to do so, I Ð someone from a Liverpool council
estate Ð sent my daughters to a public school.

But I do have a problem with arrogance. And when arrogance combines with
privilege to be the root cause of bad decisions it is not a pleasant sight. In a
Prime Minister, it can have terrible consequences. Throw bad manners into the
mix and it is a recipe for disaster.

Our dismal performance in Thursday's elections show that we are sinking like a
stone in the shadow of a Labour Party that is weaker, more moribund and clueless
than it has been at any time in the past 20 years. The Labour Party, which took
the nation to the brink of bankruptcy, is striding ahead. It's not hard to see
why.

While Britons scream out for strong policies on law and order, a stable NHS and
an in-out referendum on Europe to cut us free from basket-case Southern European
economies, Cameron makes gay marriage and Lords reform his priorities. Even
those who have no deep understanding of economics recognise that we need a
strategy for growth, lower taxes, enterprise schemes to help local
entrepreneurs, free-flowing bank capital and raising tax thresholds for the
lower paid.

Osborne, however, taxes the pasties eaten by working men and women, cuts the 50p
tax band Ð sending out the message that we are the party of the rich Ð does
nothing to reduce the crippling price of petrol and gives the IMF a further £10
billion bung of taxpayers' money to bail out failing European countries.

Cameron and Osborne should be aware: Conservative MPs will not sleepwalk into
losing their seats, in the way Labour MPs did in 2010

.

Chief Whip Patrick Mcloughlin, a decent man who has become a master in the art
of political tightrope walking, can expect to be bombarded with complaints from
backbenchers. According to the rules of the backbench 1922 Committee, in order
for David Cameron's position as leader to be challenged, the chairman of the
committee needs to receive 46 signatures from Conservative MPs to signal a vote
of no confidence.

I would guess that those signatures are already coming in and will reach 46 by
Christmas. Many of the 2010 intake have been overly, slavishly loyal to the
Cameron-Osborne duo. Those same MPs are now watching their majorities slip away
and probably their Parliamentary seat along with it. Nothing quite focuses the
mind like a P45. IN ADDITION, we have to deal with increasing displays of bad
manners from the Prime Minister. There is a public expectation that if any man
or woman is to be a Prime Minister, they need certain qualities. These include
being statesmanlike, polite, well-mannered, courteous and showing a
compassionate understanding of the lives of the less well-off. It is imperative
that a Prime Minister can emote toughness, intellect and kindness in equal
measure.

Sadly, Cameron has consistently failed to demonstrate any of those qualities.
Many of us cringed at the images from the US when the perpetually grinning
Cameron visited Barack Obama; a week before the Budget, Osborne was flying
around on Air Force One, eating popcorn.

The impression was that they were two spoilt schoolboys, enjoying themselves
enormously at a time when many British families cannot afford a family holiday.

Last week, when a female Labour MP asked Cameron a question at Prime Minister's
Questions, he rudely answered her with a dismissive 'well read' but gave no
reply to her question.

He told the veteran Labour MP, Dennis Skinner, a combative figure in the House
of Commons for 40 years, to 'collect his pension'.

The previous week he told the Conservative MP Douglas Carswell, to 'get a sense
of humour', while his notorious 'Calm down, dear' comment to Angela Eagle, and
his put-down to me in the Commons when he described me as 'frustrated', have
added to the impression of gross discourtesy.

These are the actions of a petulant schoolboy, one who gives public schools a
bad name. Harold Macmillan, a genuine Tory patrician, would not have behaved in
such a way. He was the embodiment of statesmanship and behaved with good grace
at all times.

Mr Cameron also stated that he 'wouldn't go there' when asked how he felt about
merging with UKIP, given their surge in popularity.

It has become clear to me that Cameron wants to steer the Conservative party to
the Left, to remain in coalition with the pro-European, pro-wind farm, pro-green
taxes, pro-giving prisoners the vote, pro-immigration Lib Dems, who command just
nine per cent of seats in the Commons. He will avoid at all costs working with
MPs on the Right of the party, whose views chime with the popular policies of
UKIP.

This will be his big mistake, because there are more MPs to the Right of him
than he may realise.

If he continues in this vein the Right of the party may well split away,
allowing Ed Miliband's Labour to glide comfortably into No 10 at the next
Election.

This scenario can be avoided only by removing the men who are so stubborn and
arrogant they cannot see the writing on the wall.

As the number of signatures mounts up, unless there is a dramatic change of
tack, it is almost certain that David Cameron and George Osborne will be
replaced within a year. Their downfall will have been brought about by arrogance
and a sneering disregard for true Conservative values.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 6, 2012

Review: Discover: THE NETWORKER: 20 years on... 4 billion people feel the joy of
txt

BYLINE: John Naughton

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW DISCOVERY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 758 words


Here's a question: what's bigger and far more important than Facebook? Hint:
it's very low-tech and doesn't need a smartphone or even an internet connection.
And this year marks its 20th birthday, which means that in internet time it's
140 years old. Oh, and it doesn't involve LOLcats either.

Got it yet? It's SMS - text messaging to you and me. Or txt msng, if you prefer.
Two-thirds of the world's population - that's over 4 billion people - have
access to it because that's the number of people who have mobile phones, and
even the cheapest, clunkiest handset can send SMS messages. It's had a much
bigger impact on people's lives than anything dreamed up in Silicon Valley.

Interestingly, Silicon Valley played almost no role in it. SMS emerged on our
side of the Atlantic and was the brainchild of the kind of European
intergovernmental initiative that drives Ukip nuts. The first mobile phones were
analogue devices, and the market was bedevilled by incompatible technologies and
protocols - rather like the early market in fixed-line telephony in the United
States before the AT&T monopoly was established. But in 1982 a European
telephony conference decided to tackle the problem. It set up the Groupe Special
Mobile (GSM) committee and established a group of communications engineers in
Paris.

Five years later, 13 European countries signed an agreement to develop and
deploy a common mobile telephone system across Europe. The result was GSM - a
unified, open, standard-based mobile network larger than that in the United
States. The first GSM call was made by the Finnish prime minister in 1991, and
the first GSM handsets were approved for sale in May 1992.

The idea for SMS emerged during the GSM project. It was based around a really
neat trick - to transport messages on the signalling paths needed to organise
telephony during periods when those control channels were quiet. This was a
fantastic idea because it meant that there was no extra cost involved in
transporting the messages. The only restriction was that they had to be short -
no more than 160 seven-bit characters. So SMS was built into the GSM system from
the beginning.

The strange thing was that almost nobody paid any attention at first. As an
early mobile phone adopter (I could never understand why telephones had to be
tethered to the wall like goats), I noticed SMS but thought it feeble; it looked
like a truncated email. And it appeared that most other mobile users thought the
same: what could one possibly do with 160 characters? As a result, SMS use
remained low for years.

The reason for this became obvious only with hindsight. In the early days of
mobile phones only adults could have them - because they were only available on
contract and you had to be over 18 to qualify. And adults didn't seem to know
what text messages were for.

Then, in 1996, something changed: pay-as-you-go sim cards were introduced.
Suddenly teenagers could acquire mobile phones. And when they got them, boy did
they know what SMS was for. It was a tipping point. The graph turned skywards,
and it's been going in that direction ever since. SMS is now the world's most
intensively used data communication technology. One source claims that over 6
trillion texts were sent in 2010, for example, and that was more than triple the
number sent in 2007.

The story of GSM and SMS has interesting lessons for technology policy. GSM came
about largely because of Europe-wide governmental action: the establishment of a
continent-wide technical standard effectively created an enormous industry and
gave Europe a significant lead in mobile telephony. So the right-wing mantra
that governments should keep their noses out of technology policy and leave it
to the market is sometimes wrong.

Second, the story of SMS shows that the people who effectively invent a
technology - in the sense of determining its use and making it viable - are not
so much the engineers who design it as the consumers who discover what it's
really for. The telephone was originally conceived as a broadcast medium,
whereas radio was conceived as a point-to-point medium. Exactly the opposite
turned out to be true in both cases. And it was teenagers who "invented" SMS.

Finally, we need to stop being dazzled by the tech sensation du jour (Facebook,
Twitter, Angry Birds, OMGPOP etc) and focus instead on something mundane that
really works, reaches everyone, provides valuable services for poor people,
exploits nobody and is based on a sustainable business model.

So here's the most important msg 4 2day: txt is gr8.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 6, 2012

Leading article: ELECTIONS: Peril for Cameron, opportunity for Miliband

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1134 words


On Tuesday, David Cameron and Nick Clegg, battered and beleaguered, not least by
enemies within their own camps, will attempt to set aside the drubbing both have
received in the local elections, metaphorically to renew their vows as partners
in the coalition. It is, for now, "business as usual": no plan for growth, only
contrition, more deficit reduction, bouquets for Boris - narrowly re-elected
mayor for London - and a lacklustre set of bills in the Queen's Speech on
Wednesday. As one critic brutally noted: "Two losers don't equal a winning
team."

Even as Ed Miliband enjoys his first week since his election as leader secure in
the knowledge that the plotters and back-stabbers in his own party - potential
rebels driven underground by the gain of 823 seats - must, for now, put away
their blades, tomorrow it is Cameron's turn to deal with mutterings of mutiny.
On Monday, a group of Tory critics will reject "barmy policies" to launch their
alternative Queen's Speech. They will shun gay marriage and Lords reform for
deeper welfare cuts, lower taxes and greater Euroscepticism. This is traditional
right-wing territory and a reminder to the rest of us why the party needed to
detoxify. As rumours of civil war in the coalition grow, Labour has cause for
modest celebration. If it hasn't yet witnessed a breakthrough, it does now have
a genuine opportunity to build a different kind of politics. "The process of
change has just begun," Miliband said on Friday. "We've got more to do."

All three of the major parties have a whole lot more to do. While the routing of
the BNP is heartening, just 32% of the electorate chose to vote, the lowest
turnout since 2000. Many who rejected the ballot box believe they are fighting
for economic survival in a society in which New Labour's seduction by the City
has been followed by coalition policies that exact the heaviest penalties from
those who can least afford them while the rich flourish. Disaffection is
epidemic and politicians too often appear part of the problem rather than
instrumental in the search for solutions. It is imperative that changes.

What are the immediate challenges ahead for the main political parties? Labour
won 823 seats and took control of 32 councils, making advances in Scotland, the
north, the Midlands, the south and Wales. The Labour leadership is said to be
most pleased that it retained an overall majority in Glasgow. Alex Salmond's
perceived connection with News International has not been appreciated. The song
of Scottish independence may have lost some of its timbre.

Across the country, Labour attracted 38% of the vote. It requires 40% to
indicate a potential victory at the general election. Further caution is
required. In the 1999 local elections, the Conservatives won 1,348 seats, only
for William Hague to suffer a landslide defeat in 2001, Optimists, however, may
rightly argue that Labour is in revival. It has attracted more than 68,000 new
members since the last general election; its electoral machinery is once more in
decent working order. Sufficient, one hopes, to hold an inquiry into the
selection of Ken Livingstone as Labour candidate for the London mayoral contest.
Livingstone, in spite of his strong past record, personally lost London for
Labour.

The party now has a strong base across Britain. Its interminable policy reviews
are drawing to a close. Miliband, in spite of criticism, has hit home with his
attempt to define "ethical capitalism". Last week, he outlined the five bills
Labour would have proposed in the Queen's Speech, if in power. Each is couched
in the framework of a fair deal; fairness has a strong resonance with voters.
The proposals include restoring the 50p tax rate for those earning more than £
150,000 and greater restrictions on banks and bonuses. What Miliband needs to
demonstrate more vigorously is what Cameron has patently mislaid, namely
competence, vision and values.

In the space of a few weeks, the Conservative party's main electoral asset has
come to be portrayed as a vote-losing, bumbling toff. Major mishaps, beginning
with the budget, now include the abysmal handling of the referendum on mayors.
The showcase for "localism", poorly argued and without a champion, has been
resoundingly rejected; incompetence again. The danger for the Tory leadership is
that David Cameron, beset by critics within his own party and under pressure
from his coalition partners, loses his sense of political direction. He is being
pushed to the right by those who argue for a return to clear Conservative
principles, but this is perhaps a miscalculation that would lose electoral
support. The success of Ukip, drawing 14% of the vote in the seats it contested,
adds to the pressure on Cameron to get a grip; to reshuffle; to clear out the
redundant Big Ideas from the cupboard and act maturely and strategically .

Are the Tories merely suffering from midterm blues? Possibly, but there are
sharp rocks ahead that require astute navigation - a skill in short supply in
the Cameron team. The euro crisis; the continuing Murdoch fall-out, including
the future of minister Jeremy Hunt; and the knowledge that the great majority of
spending cuts are still to come make it likely that the journey ahead will be
extremely rough. However, Cameron is not to be underestimated. Aided by an
economic upturn, the lustre of leadership and electoral success may yet return.

The Lib-Dems seem to have trouble as a permanent bedfellow. They have lost 330
councillors, even though the calamities of the past few weeks are seen as
specifically Tory clangers. Clegg, none the less, is stuck. To walk away from
the coalition means electoral disaster. He argues it is the Lib Dems' duty to
endure a perpetual pasting in the name of "repairing and reforming the British
economy". Martyrdom is not popular within his party, with more than 50 Lib-Dem
MPs facing potential unemployment in 2015.

We may yet, though, have reason to be grateful for the Lib Dems' sacrifice. Nick
Clegg has pursued a policy of "differentiation", fighting for Lib Dem key
policies (with mixed results) while arguing that his party's presence in the
coalition anchors Cameron to the centre ground. As Cameron's rebels push even
harder for him to shift to the right, however disastrous, it becomes imperative
that the anchor holds fast.

Midterm elections can delude. But while the misery mounts for many, these
results have highlighted how the coalition, rent by internal tensions, appears
rudderless. The results have also flagged up that this could be Miliband's
turning point. But, as one commentator remarked, politics is not an escalator,
it is a game of snakes and ladders. For now, the dice are rolling in Labour's
favour. We congratulate the party and warmly welcome the indications that we
have an opposition again.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 6, 2012

Comment: David Cameron needs to keep his headless chickens in the coop: The
coalition will be strained to breaking point if the prime minister fails to face
down the angry Tory right

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1511 words


Rudyard Kipling offers sound advice to political parties about how to respond to
midterm election results. In triumph or disaster, the wise man treats those two
impostors the same. Since the results began rolling in, climaxing with the
dramatic cliffhanger in London that was announced minutes before midnight, two
out of three of the main parties have responded in a rational fashion. The
exception is the Conservatives. If I were David Cameron, I would worry quite a
lot about the hammering suffered by the Tories, but I would be more alarmed that
many in his party are responding to a reversal of fortune by losing their heads.

By contrast, Ed Miliband ought to be encouraged that his party has reacted in a
sensibly sober way to these elections. Sentiment among Labour people can be
summarised as encouraged but not intoxicated, which is the appropriate response
to a performance that saw gains that were meaningful without being spectacular.
Labour consolidated its dominance in the north of England, made important
strides in the Midlands, restored its historic hegemony in Wales, did better
than expected in Scotland against the Nationalists while making advances in the
south and east of England in some of the places Labour will have to win at a
general election to become the next government.

Another fillip is expected to be delivered from across the Channel today where a
pointy-headed social democrat, once widely ridiculed as a no-hoper with all the
charisma of a blancmange, is likely to supplant a showboating conservative as
president of France. All of this makes the idea of prime minister Miliband just
a little more plausible to his own party and a little more scary to his
opponents, which will be a tonic for his morale and a confidence-booster for
Labour. The internal mutters and external sniping about his flaws as a leader
will subside, at least for a while. He has gained some momentum and opened up
some space. Now the challenge is to show that he can do something with this
opportunity.

None of which means that he is on an assured march to Number 10. The important
thing is that this seems to be understood by Labour's leadership. They remember
that Michael Foot and Neil Kinnock enjoyed midterm triumphs in the 80s against
Mrs Thatcher but never went on to become prime minister. Mr Miliband has been
rightly careful to stress that Labour still has "work to do" - and a lot of it -
to win back public trust, especially on the economy. One of the senior aides who
accompanied the Labour leader on his celebratory visit to Birmingham described
it to me as "the humility in victory tour". Some humility is certainly called
for. Labour's night was marred by Ken Livingstone's failure to recapture the
mayoralty of London.

It is fair for Labour apologists to point out that the party did much better in
the election for the London Assembly. There is truth, too, in their claim that
the personality contest for the capital was something of a one-off. While Boris
Johnson over-polled his party, Ken Livingstone under-polled his. But that raises
a difficult question for the Labour leadership: why was the Labour candidacy
stitched up for a politician who was past his sell-by-date with many Londoners?
A related question was raised by Labour's defeat at the hands of George Galloway
at the Bradford West byelection. Labour needs to think quickly and deeply about
how it refreshes its selection processes to find attractive candidates for
important contests.

Taking the elections across the country, Labour's overall share of the vote, at
38%, was a sparkling wine performance rather than a champagne one. This
represents a massive improvement on its general election result of two years
ago, but Labour didn't get to the psychologically and psephologically important
threshold of 40% and fell even further short of the 43% vote share secured by
Tony Blair a year before he entered Downing Street. The pitiful turnout - only
one in three of those entitled to a vote bothered to cast it - is a further
caution against Labour becoming overconfident.

There can be no danger of that with the Lib Dems. Catastrophic is not too strong
a word to describe what has just happened to them. They went into these
elections thinking that at least they could not possibly suffer as badly as they
did last year when fury with Lib Dem "betrayals" was at its most intense. In the
12 months since, Nick Clegg has pursued a strategy of more aggressive
differentiation from the Tories in the belief that this would claw back some
credit and respect. What has that achieved? If these elections are any guide,
the effect of Mr Clegg's switch of strategy has been precisely zero. His party
took another severe beating. Over two years, they have lost more than 1,000
councillors, leaving them with fewer local representatives than at any time
since the party was created. The one impressive thing about the Lib Dems is how
they have responded to their punishment. Whatever profound despair they may be
feeling in private, they have largely managed to stay composed in public. Their
ejected councillors have displayed grace in defeat. Mr Clegg's parliamentary
party, in contrast to Mr Cameron's crew, have not done an impersonation of
headless chickens. The one advantage of all those decades that the Lib Dems
spent in opposition is that it made them a stoical and resilient lot.

David Cameron must be rather envious of that when the Tory leader contemplates
some of the hysteria erupting within his party. The prime minister and his
under-strappers have tried to shrug off their reverses as no more than "midterm
blues", but significant elements of his party have nevertheless gone into a
funk. Lurch right! Stuff the Lib Dems! Make war on Europe! Slash spending
harder! Get nasty on immigration! A cacophony of dissident Tory voices are
shouting their unsolicited advice at the prime minister.

True enough, these were bad results for the Conservatives. In contrast to last
year, when the Tory vote held up because many of the public were still prepared
to give the government the benefit of the doubt on the economy, the
Conservatives suffered serious losses. The odds on the Tories securing a
parliamentary majority at the next election look longer today than they did on
Thursday morning. The Cameroon ambition to revive the Conservatives in the great
cities of northern England has gone nowhere except backwards. They are still
without a single councillor in Newcastle, Manchester or Sheffield. In the
Liverpool mayoral election, the Tory candidate came seventh. The one bright spot
in the gloom - Boris Johnson's victory in London - also prompts the question:
what has Boris got that Dave lacks? In many ways, it is unreasonable to compare
a glorified transport commissioner who cleverly put distance between himself and
the government with a prime minister presiding over punishing austerity who has
no choice but to own everything done in the name of the coalition. But just
because a question is unreasonable doesn't prevent many Conservatives from
asking it. The answer they give is that Boris - at least in the current
incarnation of the grinning blond - is offering a more authentic, undiluted,
vibrant version of Conservatism. This argument is dangerous for the prime
minister and the coalition if it takes a hold on his party.

The Tory reverses are bringing to a head the tensions that have simmered among
Conservatives since the general election; the great, unresolved argument between
those Tories who think David Cameron failed to achieve a clean victory in 2010
because he had not modernised enough and those who believe he failed because he
was not right wing enough. The academic analysis of how voters behaved supports
the first view much more than it does the second. The Tory party tried it the
unreconstructed right's way at the general elections of 2001 and 2005 and went
down to worse defeats than they did last Thursday. Yet that has not inhibited
Tory right-wingers from seizing on these results to noisily press their agenda.
Some of them were popping up before a single result had been announced to blame
defeat on the desertion of core supporters alienated by the compromises made
with the Lib Dems and issues such as gay marriage.

Maybe gay marriage did lose the Tories some votes to Ukip. But they lost many,
many more voters over much more core issues. Their economic policy is not
producing the results that it promised; living standards are being remorselessly
squeezed; the budget was a disaster; and the run-up to these elections was
accompanied by a spectacular cluster of blunders. The Tories won't become more
competent nor discover a more fruitful economic strategy by lurching off to the
right. All that is likely to do is further alienate centrist voters and strain
relations with the Lib Dems to breaking point. The next few days will be an
important test of David Cameron's character. We will see whether he seeks to
appease the restless right of his party or faces them down. That decision may
determine the fate of the coalition.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 6, 2012

National: Election fallout: FIVE LESSONS FROM THE POLLS

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Daniel Boffey and Kevin McKenna

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 722 words


Cameron has lost his political shine

1. David Cameron was for long the party's prize asset, a politician who was able
to stand above the travails of government and look the part - but the gloss has
gone off him.

On Thursday the Tories lost control of 12 councils and 405 seats across Britain.
A bad budget, the petrol fiasco, a donations scandal and the emergence of sleazy
links to Rupert Murdoch have raised questions about whether Cameron really is
much good after all.

Where the Conservatives need to do better - in the north and in Scotland - they
show no signs of doing so. In the south their troops are demotivated by
coalition. The prospect of an outright majority (which escaped Cameron in 2010)
seems further away than ever. Ukip represents an increasing threat from the
euro-sceptic right as Cameron remains tied to the pro-EU Lib Dems.

If the economy fails to improve in the next three years, Tories are beginning to
question what their positive story will be at the next general election.

Low turnout is a problem for all parties

2. Fewer than one in three of the electorate bothered to vote (32%). And, as the
local election results show, apathy could be a killer for the coalition parties
at a general election. But for Labour, too low a turnout is unnerving. It makes
local elections unreliable indicators of future general election trends.

While Labour did well on Thursday, the turnout suggested there was not exactly a
surge of enthusiasm for Ed Miliband and his party. Labour won 38% of the vote,
compared with the Tories' 31% share, and the Liberal Democrats' 16%. But if Lib
Dem and Tory voters were to come out at a general election, those results could
look very different in 2015.

3. Elected mayors and localism flopped

A few days ago David Cameron spelt out his localism agenda: "I want a Boris in
Birmingham, I want a Boris in Leeds, I want a Boris in Bradford." He got none of
them.

His idea was that elected mayors would be pillars of his "big society" , symbols
of, and agents for, the removal of the dead hand of central government from
local communities. But city after city said no in referendums as local councils
mobilised to support the status quo.

Birmingham, Leeds and Bradford all came out against, as did Newcastle,
Wakefield, Sheffield, Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry. Only Bristol bucked
the national trend and voted in favour. Liverpool and Salford - which had
pressed ahead without referendums - elected their mayors for the first time, and
Labour won in both cities. The whole plan - which Cameron had never really sold
with any vigour - rather blew up in his face.

The Lib Dems are losing respect

4. Nick Clegg's hope has always been that the Lib Dems will be given credit for
being part of a government that takes tough decisions. Yesterday he said that he
still believed that "over time" people would come to acknowledge the "unique"
role his party is playing in coalition, combining "responsibility on the economy
with social fairness".

But exactly why that respect should grow over time is not clear. The Lib Dems
lost another 336 council seats on Thursday and now have less than 3,000
councillors in total, the least since the party was formed in 1988. In the
north, where there were no Tories to punish, voters punished governing Lib Dems
instead. If the losses continue, the local council bases from which Lib Dems are
able to launch pushes for parliamentary seats will be destroyed in many parts of
the country.

SNP is losing ground on separation debate

5. When David Cameron picks over the entrails of Thursday's town hall
evisceration, he may yet be moved to raise a glass to Glasgow. Scotland's
biggest city showed that, two years before a referendum on independence, the SNP
is struggling to win enough hearts and minds to its sacred cause of separation.

Although the SNP was left with the largest number of council seats in Scotland,
Labour took the biggest prizes. Ed Miliband's party was returned with an
unlikely majority in Glasgow and is now the largest party in Edinburgh. This
will alarm every SNP activist who believed they had all the momentum going into
the referendum campaign.

If disaffected Lib-Dem voters are prepared at this stage to plight their troth
to another Unionist party, Alex Salmond has a lot of ground to make up to
persuade enough of them to dismantle the Union.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 6, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We're not the rich and posh party;
INTERVIEW

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1453 words


CONSERVATIVE backbenchers urging the leadership to feel their pain should
perhaps spare a thought for Lord Strathclyde: the minister is now in charge of
the abolition of his own political future.

The Leader of the House of Lords finds himself, after 25 years on the front
benches, presiding over the reform of his chamber, something that will almost
certainly lead to him leaving Parliament, then having to stand for election for
the first time.

This weekend, as the Conservatives regroup after heavy losses in the local
elections, the peer uses an interview with The Sunday Telegraph to express his
sympathy for those who think the party's leadership is not focusing on true
Conservative values, one of the many reasons cited for the party's poor poll
showing.

Mr Cameron's move to the Centre, it has been claimed, has encouraged many to
turn to the UK Independence Party. "I understand these people's frustrations,"
says the peer, a senior member of the Cabinet who is also one of David Cameron's
closest friends in politics. "They want to get back to growth. They want to see
better use of public money. In the long term, tax rates will fall. We will get
that as we become more competitive.

"The reason it doesn't feel like some of the best years of the Eighties and
Nineties is because we have this hangover of all hangovers of debt ... and we
are also in a coalition."

He compares the current political landscape to the early years of Margaret
Thatcher's administration, when the party faithful had to wait for the public
finances to be rebuilt. Only then could that government unveil the tax cuts, the
bonfire of red tape and the wave of privatisation for which it would be
remembered.

Nevertheless, the peer is adamant that the Coalition is still delivering a
Conservative agenda. "Look back at what we've done over the past two years and
you will see many true Conservative policies.

"We're making work pay for people on welfare. We're improving education. We've
made it easier for people to start businesses. We've abolished ID cards."

That is true, but what about House of Lords reform? Many Tories trenchantly
oppose plans to transform the Lords into a senate of 300 or so representatives,
at least 80 per cent of whom would be elected, each for a term of 15 years. The
policy is said to bore the general public, and the Right Honourable Thomas
Galloway Dunlop du Roy de Blicquy Galbraith, second Baron Strathclyde of
Barskimming in the County of Ayr will find himself without a seat.

Just as galling for the Tory Right, Liberal Democrats are determined that the
policy be driven through.

"People have been arguing about all this for 100 years ... we've talked about
this until we are blue in the face," Lord Strathclyde says. "Both David Cameron
and Nick Clegg would like this issue brought to an end. We need to reach a
decision. Are there going to be elections on May 7, 2015 to a new senate, or
not?

"For reformers like me, I need to maintain the best of what the House of Lords
does while giving it an authority by having members elected by the people."

He steadfastly refuses to out himself as a reluctant reformer, emphasising the
different sides of this increasingly heated argument. He says that a democratic
mandate will give the Lords more weight and adds that all three parties made a
commitment to reform in their 2010 general election manifestos.

However, he trumpets the work of the Lords over the past two years and refers to
the 1999 changes under Labour that saw the exit of most hereditary peers as a
"huge expulsion of knowledge and expertise".

He also says repeatedly that there is a good chance that plans for reform may be
killed off in the Commons. A second chamber emboldened by having a democratic
mandate will challenge the supremacy of the Commons, he says.

"There is, quite rightly, a self-denying ordinance in the House of Lords at the
moment. We do not push things too far precisely because we are unelected.

The Commons will need to get used to a more authoritative second chamber that
may resist changes rather more than it does now."

There is another hurdle: a possible referendum. A recent joint committee of MPs
and peers that examined the Coalition's plans said there should be such a public
vote.

Lord Strathclyde is sceptical of such a suggestion, saying the public voted on
manifestos that set out the plan. Privately, ministers are desperate to avoid a
referendum on a topic of little interest to the public, especially when many
households are far more worried about the economy.

"A referendum is an important recommendation," the peer says. "We need to
consider very carefully the cost, the timing and the question. We haven't closed
the door on it; we want to consider the arguments carefully."

One proposal from the Lib Dems that Lord Strathclyde opposes is for all members
of the new senate to be so-called "full-time" politicians, who turn their backs
on their previous vocations.

"A poison has entered the world of politics that somehow outside interests are a
bad thing," he says. "They are actually a very positive thing. They help educate
people in politics and ensure policymakers understand the real world.
Declaration of these interests is what's important."

It seems he is a fan of Downton Abbey, as he is crestfallen at the idea of Lord
Fellowes, the creator of the television costume drama, being banned from writing
if he were to serve in such a second chamber.

"Who would want Julian Fellowes to stop writing? His work is great stuff."

Lord Strathclyde also cites the value of entrepreneurs such as the "curry king"
Gulam Noon and Lord Harris of Peckham, who continues to run the Carpetright
empire. Both men, and many others, ensure the Lords remains in touch with the
world of business.

This is not the only aspect of reform where Lord Strathclyde seems at odds with
Lib Dems. "We pledged ourselves to having proportional representation in the
Coalition Agreement, so we're a bit stuck with that."

Then, in a mischievous aside that will surely enrage his Coalition partners, he
muses on bringing back hereditary peers... "just for fun".

"Well, under these reforms the peerage would be removed from having a place in
Parliament, or in the political process. So you could conceivably bring back
having hereditary titles again, although they would have no place in the
political process. As a romantic, I love the idea."

He may love pulling the tails of Lib Dems, but it seems to take a good deal to
get under his skin. One who has managed it is Nadine Dorries, the Tory MP who
said the Prime Minister and George Osborne, the Chancellor, were "two posh boys
who don't know the price of a pint of milk".

"I thought her words were gratuitous, rude and unnecessary," Lord Strathclyde
says sternly. "They were unworthy of any Member of Parliament, let alone a
Conservative Member of Parliament. She will have to account for that herself.

The premise of this is perfectly ludicrous. We must have moved on by now from
judging people on how they speak, where they come from and what schools they
went to."

He also says it is a "monstrous characterisation" of a government that "includes
Patrick McLoughlin [the Chief Whip in the Commons] who was a working miner until
he entered the Commons, and Eric Pickles, who is not grand but is very much a
Tory grandee".

He adds: "The Conservative Party has never won office because it is elected by
rich people: it has always reached out to people of all social classes."

It is something the peer's father and grandfather both recognised. "They were
both MPs in Glasgow and they appealed to all sorts of different voters from all
sorts of backgrounds.

"The Conservative Party is best when it represents the British interest and
reaches out far beyond our own personal experience." Lord Strathclyde will
indeed have to reach out far and wide to find supporters of Lords reform, not
just on Conservative benches.

Many Tories will also be appalled by the idea that the shake-up may banish one
of the grandest of the party's grandees: Baroness Thatcher. "I have vivid and
wonderful memories of working as one of the smallest cogs in her government,"
beams the peer, 52, who served as a junior employment minister.

So how does he feel about reforms that would expel her from Parliament? "Oh
yes... good point," he says with surprise, although it seems unthinkable that
this has only now crossed his mind.

"No one has ever denied that we would miss some people and one of them would
almost certainly be Margaret Thatcher. And that would be a sadness to us all."

And has he consulted the Lady? "I've not, but I have an inkling of what she
would say. I think she would say this was not a top priority."

"I've an inkling Lady Thatcher would say this was not a top priority

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Strathclyde, front-bench veteran and leader of the Upper House,
must carry out reform that will cost him his place in Parliament
WILL WINTERCROSS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 6, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Tories are on the back foot, but Labour has a way to go to win a general
election;
INSIDE POLITICS

BYLINE: Iain Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words


How big a breakthrough are last week's election results for Ed Miliband?

Labour exceeded its own expectations on Thursday. To show that it can turn
strong national opinion poll leads into votes, it needed to make gains of at
least 700 council seats.

In the event it did better than that, ending 823 seats up.

Even Labour's narrow defeat in the London mayoralty is a blessing for Mr
Miliband, as it means he will not have to deal with a cranky Ken Livingstone in
the run up to the next general election.

In Scotland Labour also did well.

It did not, as expected, crumple under the Nationalist onslaught and even held
on to an overall majority in Glasgow, where Alex Salmond had anticipated a
historic breakthrough. In England, Labour gained 22 councils and in Wales it
took control of 10 councils out of 21.

This progress cements Mr Miliband's leadership. If he had fallen short last
week, Labour concerns about his inadequacies as a potential prime minister would
have resurfaced.

But isn't it good for the Tories that Miliband is now secure?

There will be Conservatives looking to the next general election who are
pleased, because they think Mr Miliband will be an easy opponent.

If voters are viewing elections as personality contests - witness the Boris v
Ken battle for the London mayoralty - then surely David Cameron will trump Mr
Miliband? Perhaps, but Conservatives arguing that are ignoring several important
factors. There is the underlying resilience of the Labour brand (which is quite
astonishing, considering the way that the end of boom and bust turned out). And
Mr Miliband is also showing himself to be a rather steely operator, who sticks
with it in the face of abuse.

France seems to be on the verge of electing as president a Left-wing candidate
derided as a geek. In an age when voters are suspicious of slickness, it is not
impossible that something similar could happen here if the Coalition's economic
recovery does not turn up soon.

So is Labour on course to win the next general election?

Not quite. The good news for Labour is that the results from Thursday confirm
that the party has rebuilt its vote after sinking below 30 per cent in the
Gordon Brown years.

It recorded a 38 per cent vote share on Thursday, which suggests that a big
chunk of Left-leaning voters who went Lib Dem after the Iraq war are back in the
Labour fold.

Although the results were poor for the Tories, Mr Miliband did not break through
the psychologically important 40 per cent barrier. Several Tory MPs also suggest
a complicated picture on the ground in which previously Conservative-inclined
voters abstained for a variety of reasons. One said: "In my patch turnout was
down hugely. It looks as though the C1s and C2s sat on their hands rather than
vote for Dave. But they certainly didn't switch to Ed Miliband."

In places such as Harlow - a bellwether C1 and C2 area won by Margaret Thatcher
and then Tony Blair - Labour did triumph. Such breakthroughs took place on a
very low turn out. Mr Miliband still has a lot of convincing to do to win a
general election.

How bad was it for the Lib Dems?

Very bad. In the past two decades the party has built a strong base in local
government, which was the underpinning of the Lib Dem presence in Westminster.

Following last year's poor council results, the loss of another 336 council
seats will further erode the party's activist base. It makes an already tough
general election even more difficult. In London, the party's candidate for mayor
was squeezed into a distant fourth place. Nick Clegg, who described himself
rather unwisely after the elections as sad, must be starting to wonder whether
history is repeating itself.

It is often said that in any partnership between the Tories and Liberals it is
the Liberals who get used and discarded or absorbed. Mr Clegg's message that the
Coalition was a temporary arrangement in the national interest does not seem to
be convincing voters. The decline in Lib Dem fortunes is so stark that senior
party figures wonder if the party will be all but wiped out.

How did Ukip do?

The Eurosceptic party is hailing its "best ever" set of council results. It
averaged 14 per cent of the vote in the seats where it stood and scored a few
notable victories.

The Conservative leader of Tunbridge Wells lost his seat to Ukip, but elsewhere
the party's performance was erratic. Ukip did poorly in London, where it had
been confident.

However, the Tory high command should not take too much comfort. With Labour
having rebuilt its vote to a point where the next election is set to be a close
contest, in which the Tories will need every vote they can get, Ukip is another
headache the Prime Minister

Iain Martin is a leading political commentator

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 6, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory failures are not just a slice of bad luck for PM

BYLINE: CLARE HEAL

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 448 words


IT WILL be interesting to watch the Tories play "pass the buck" and other blame
games following their disastrous showing at the local elections. So whose fault
exactly was it that they lost 350 seats? Gerald Howarth, MP for Aldershot and
Minister for International Security Strategy, was the highest profile of those
urging Cameron to make a swing for the Right and adopt more traditional
Conservative policies. "There are issues, for example, such as the proposals for
gay marriage," he said on Friday morning. "A lot of Conservatives have written
to me saying: 'I am a lifelong Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why
is this being proceeded with?' " UKIP may have experienced its best-ever
election, with Nigel Farage's eurosceptics averaging 13 per cent of the vote in
the areas they contested, usually at the expense of the Tories, but most lost
Conservative seats have gone to Labour (including in Cameron's own constituency
of Witney).

People do not abandon the Tories for Labour because they disapprove of gay
marriage. The idea is ludicrous.

Likewise, senior backbencher Bernard Jenkins suggested Cameron should
disassociate himself from Lib Dem "obsessions" such as reform of the House of
Lords. "The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follows through
on Lords reform," he insisted.

Again though, while it might be true that no one cares about Lords' reform (in
the same way that they didn't care about electoral reform either) it is not an
association with these things that has done for the Tories, it is the cuts, pure
and simple.

We have all been dutiful citizens and tightened our belts and yet things are
just as bad as ever.

The PM has said that the government will stick with its "difficult decisions" to
deal with the deficit. In doing so he sounded uncannily like one of those,
cartoon headmasters raising the cane but insisting: "This will hurt me as much
as it will hurt you."

If Cameron and Osborne think making the decisions is difficult, how does he
think the millions living with the consequences feel? Meanwhile Ed Miliband
declared Labour was "winning back people's trust" but I doubt that is the case.
The swing is not really as a result of votes for Labour; it is just that people
are heartily fed up with the coalition and want to kick back in revenge for the
broken promises and the pain they have caused.

Cameron and co can make all the "difficult decisions" they like but unless it
gets us out of this double-dip recession they will not regain voter trust in a
hurry.

It is 20 years old but the phrase coined during Bill Clinton's campaign against
George Bush Snr is as relevant as ever: "It's the economy, stupid."

? Camilla Tominey is away.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 6, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Paying for dishonesty;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 56 words


AS the three main political parties all reneged on their promises of an EU
referendum, isn't it time for a fresh voice to have a say? I urge readers to
listen to the policies of UKIP and other smaller parties. We must send a message
to the main parties that we want and deserve a Government that keeps its
promises.

John Cross, Birmingham

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Polls prove Cameron must stop acting like wishy-washy Liberal

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 572 words


IF Thursday's local election results were repeated in a General Election
tomorrow, 25 per cent of Conservative MPs would lose their seats.

Hardly a surprise, then, that Tory backbenchers have begun to think hard about
how to boost the party's standing in the polls.

Some point to the success of UKIP and argue that the party needs to shift to the
Right to win back disillusioned Conservative voters.

In Thurrock, Essex, for instance, the Tories lost control of the council to
Labour because the UKIP surge meant the anti-Labour vote was split. If that
pattern is repeated at a General Election, Ed Miliband could sweep to victory.

The solution is for David Cameron and his chums to stop acting like wishy-washy
Liberals and stiffen their Conservative backbones.

That means sticking up two fingers at the European Court of Human Rights,
getting serious about law and order and cutting taxes for those on middle
incomes.

"We need to work out a strategy for traditional Conservative voters shuffling
off and voting UKIP because they don't think our leadership is Conservative
enough," said Gary Streeter, MP for South West Devon, on Thursday night.

"The UKIP vote is about a hardcore of traditional Tory voters saying 'We don''t
like the Liberal decisions this Government is starting to take.'"

Absolute rubbish, say the Tory "modernisers" like Francis Maude. The last thing
the party should do after the country has taken a sharp Left-hand turn is shift
to the Right. The "detoxification" process begun by David Cameron must continue
- and that means more overseas aid, more green taxes and no wavering on gay
marriage.

Abandoning the centre ground at this point would be electoral suicide.

But is there a middle way? If the Prime Minister came out in favour of tougher
sentencing and embarked on another round of tax cuts, I have no doubt the
Liberal Left would accuse him of capitulating to the "blue Bennites" on his
backbenches.

But would those policies really alienate the floating voters occupying the
middle ground?

All the polling evidence suggests they would be hugely popular.

In particular, pledging to hold a referendum on our future membership of the EU
would be a surefire vote winner - and would shoot the UKIP fox.

The beauty part is, all of this could be done without abandoning the
"modernisation" project. No need to give up on wind farms and opennecked shirts.
You just introduce some genuinely Conservative measures at the same time.

Let's call this "the Boris strategy" after the Mayor of London's astonishing
victory in the face of overwhelming odds.

Boris's success demonstrates that if you combine a Liberal attitude to issues
such as gay marriage with a healthy dose of good, old-fashioned Conservatism
when it comes to the economy, the electorate will respond positively.

There's only one small problem, of course - the Lib Dems. The moment Cameron
tries to do anything remotely Tory, they start bleating about how it wasn't in
"the Coalition agreement".

Well, enough is enough. The Conservatives have six times as many seats as the
Lib Dems and that fact should be reflected in the balance of power between the
two parties.

So what if Nick Clegg throws his toys out of the pram? He's hardly going to
force an election when his party is at such a low ebb.

If the Tories want to avoid being decimated at the next election, it's time for
the Prime Minister to get in touch with his inner Tory and start laying down the
law.

Bleating

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE UK Independence Party had [...]

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 201 words


THE UK Independence Party had a good night on Thursday, polling an average of 14
per cent in those council seats where it stood for election. But in the London
mayoral election the UKIP candidate polled a disappointing two per cent. Why?

One reason is that Boris Johnson is a Eurosceptic who's repeatedly called for an
in/out EU referendum.

That means fewer Conservative voters will have defected to UKIP in London than
in the rest of the country. But there's another reason.

On the ballot paper, Lawrence Webb was described as the "Fresh Choice for
London" candidate, with not a mention of the party he was standing for.

"It was an unacceptable error by a member of staff which meant the public
support we had during the campaign wasn't realised," says Nigel Farage, the UKIP
leader.

I like Farage. I bumped into him at a party and challenged him to a drinking
competition.

Instead of telling me to get stuffed, as any other party leader would, he
immediately started lining up the vodka shots - then drank me under the table.

He's even more entertaining after a few sherbets than he is on television - but
I'd hate to see him angry. Let's hope it wasn't a member of his staff who was
responsible for the cock-up.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

END OF THE LOVE AFFAIR WITH COALITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 589 words


This is the weekend of reckoning for the coalition government. Two years after
it came to power on a wave of optimism, and with public opinion seemingly behind
it, it is in deep trouble. Now it has suffered its biggest humiliation at the
hands of the least impressive Labour leader since Neil Kinnock.

Even the Tory consolation prize, the victory of Boris Johnson in the London
mayoral election, was too close for comfort. Mr Johnson narrowly beat Ken
Livingstone, a throwback to the 1970s and a candidate more at home among the
stegosauruses of the Natural History Museum.

It is hard to overstate how bad these results were for the coalition. If they
were dreadful for David Cameron, they were disastrous for Nick Clegg. The deputy
prime minister is at least getting used to humiliation. In local elections a
year ago he lost nearly 750 councillors, as well as the referendum on his
cherished alternative vote system. The Liberal Democrats have been battling with
the UK Independence party to hang on to third place in polls and fell to fourth
place behind the Greens in London.

For Mr Cameron, however, eating dirt is new. A year ago the Tories pulled off a
coup in the local elections, gaining more than 80 councillors and beating Labour
in the popular vote. Even a few months ago they sneaked back into the lead in an
opinion poll. The prime minister, it seemed, led a charmed life.

No longer. Tory losses of more than 400 councillors and a dozen councils on
Thursday showed that reality has caught up with Mr Cameron. The results
accurately reflected the party's poll slide of recent weeks. The prime minister
had it coming and yet he seems to have been unprepared.

Looked at from Downing Street, it is no doubt easy to rationalise. All
governments suffer mid-term blues. This one, the prime minister might say, was
guaranteed thanks to careless errors - stoking up petrol panic, botching the
extradition of Abu Qatada, presiding over passport chaos at Heathrow and
managing to upset pensioners, charities and hot pasty-eaters in the budget.
Short of erecting "don't vote for us" signs nationwide, ministers could not have
done more to deter electors.

Some Tories think if the government abandoned House of Lords reform and gay
marriage their fortunes would be transformed. It would be dangerously
complacent, though, to conclude this is just nasty mid-term blues. George
Osborne's boldest budget measure was to cut the top rate of tax from 50% to 45%.
Even we, as supporters of the move, were surprised by its timing. Nigel Lawson
discovered in 1988 that cutting the top rate is controversial even in a boom.
Doing it when the economy is officially back in recession gave Labour a gift.

More than that, however, something fundamental has changed. People now regard
this as a government that fails on the three i's: it is incoherent, incompetent
and has run out of ideas. They see it collapsing under the weight of its own
internal contradictions; two parties with very little in common trying in vain
to rub along together in government.

Voters thought they liked coalition government but this love affair is over. We
have rediscovered why we did not have coalitions for all those decades since the
second world war. They deliver fudge and indecisiveness; they force ministers to
argue for policies in which they do not really believe; they create mistrust and
a lack of common purpose. In short, they do not work. Trying to keep this one
together for another three years will lead to more drift and, speak it softly, a
Miliband victory.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAMERON'S BLOND BOMBSHELL;
Amid an election drubbing for the Tories, Boris Johnson's win installs him as
heir apparent to the Conservative crown.Isabel Oakeshott reports

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Tony Grew; Adam Luck

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 3349 words


As his campaign entered its final push, Boris Johnson tried to revitalise his e
x -hausted troops by reminding them of all the hurdles they had overcome.

For weeks his team had managed to maintain a sense of humour as David Cameron's
administration lurched from one crisis to the next.

With every bungle by the Tory leadership, the mayor of London's battle for
re-election became more difficult. However, he reminded them: "We've survived
the budget, we've survived Pastygate, we've survived jerry cans, we've survived
the charity row - we've even survived being endorsed by David Cameron."

Everyone laughed, but it was not a joke. In fact, he repeated it at his victory
celebrations in the early hours of yesterday morning - emphasising what an
achievement it had been to "survive" the Cameron debacle.

Throughout his campaign, the mayor determinedly kept his distance from the prime
minister, having concluded he would win more votes on his own. The strategy paid
off - though only just.

The result was far closer than pollsters and Westminster commentators had
predicted, with Johnson just 62,500 votes ahead of Ken Livingstone.

His victory was not declared until almost midnight on Friday, a full four hours
after his advisers had expected it.

The relaxed night he had anticipated - because of the low turnout, aides
expected an early announcement - was replaced by hours of anxiety and flashes of
paranoia that he might be facing the scrapheap.

Amid rumours of lost ballot boxes and possible recounts, Johnson spent part of
the evening holed up with his campaign manager, Lynton Crosby, in a suite in a
hotel opposite the Thames-side mayoral headquarters at City Hall.

Crosby, a blunt-talking Australian, is by nature a pessimist, yet he had been
quietly confident of a comfortable win. As the hours ticked by, he became
increasingly agitated. Could he have fatally underestimated the opposition?

There were farcical scenes at the count. An electronic scanning system appeared
to fail, and the lights in the chamber where the results were due to be
announced suddenly went out. Guto Harri, Johnson's press spokesman, admitted
later that at about 7pm Team Boris thought they had lost.

A delay in declaring results from north London caused by problems at the
Alexandra Palace counting centre rattled the mayor's advisers. They feared a
sudden surge in support for Livingstone. Harri joked that he and the mayor had
cleared their desks just in case.

By 8.15pm Harri was making his first visit to the ninth-floor room in City Hall
where the press were corralled to say his man had "pipped it" and raw data
showed that Ken would not be pushed into first place by second-preference votes.
But the hours crawled by.

Many Johnson supporters had already descended on Millbank Tower, just upriver
from Westminster, to kick off a victory party, but the jubilant atmosphere
quickly faded.

"We thought we'd be celebrating by 8pm and instead we were just waiting and
waiting. People were getting quite uneasy, and very drunk," said one of
Johnson's aides.

As the night wore on, with no sign of a result, the Johnson family anxiously
gathered in the pizza restaurant downstairs.

His sister Rachel, who on the night of the 2010 general election, after the
Conservatives failed to win an overall majority, had tweeted, "It's all gone
tits up, send for Boris," now joked that she was being pressed by friends to
tweet: "It's all gone tits up, send for Ken."

By 11.45pm, gallows humour was setting in among those waiting for the result.
"Hello Londres, this is Latvia calling. Just wondering if we might have your
votes for the 1962 Eurovision song contest," one wag wrote on Twitter.

At seven minutes before midnight, however, the Tory candidate finally triumphed.
Though it had been nail-biting, even his Labour critics acknowledged that it was
a remarkable achievement given the Conservative party's national woes. Somehow,
Johnson managed to defy a 19-point lead in the polls for the Labour party
overall in London and secure another term running the capital.

This weekend he is riding high, having secured four more years in arguably the
second most influential job in British politics. The bumbling blond with the
penchant for obscure references to ancient history is no longer being dismissed
by anyone in politics as a clown.

For true blue supporters he has become a hero while Cameron is blamed for the
drubbing at the local elections, in which the Tories lost 405 councillors.

Conservative MPs - many of whom used to consider Johnson little more than a
clever show-off - are beginning to talk seriously of his potential to rescue
them from the doldrums.

Grassroots Tory supporters point to his clear right-wing stance on issues such
as tax, Europe and immigration and believe his triumph at a time when Cameron is
trailing in the polls is a lesson about the direction the party must take.

So could Johnson, who has never hidden his ambition, really be the next
Conservative prime minister?

ON Thursday evening the man himself appeared to take a relaxed attitude both to
his immediate future and his longterm prospects. After the polls closed at 10pm,
the mayor joined young members of Team Boris in a nightclub off Oxford Street,
letting down his famously dishevelled hair.

The Rose - which describes itself as a "chic, upmarket, glamorous speakeasy" -
was buzzing as they knocked back drinks, knowing it would take about 24 hours to
count the votes and there was nothing more they could do to influence the
outcome.

At some point, the private function room was opened to other guests, who
thronged round Johnson, taking pictures of the mayor on their mobile phones. He
posed gamely - but behind the facade something was troubling him. Would he get
proper credit if he beat Livingstone, he fretted to confidants? Or would people
think the Labour candidate was so bad that "a two-year-old" could have beaten
him?

Victory, it was clear to those he confided in, would not be complete without
full recognition of the scale of his achievements.When he won, he wanted
everyone to acknowledge that he was a star.

Perhaps his sweetest moment came yesterday when the prime minister, who was two
years below him at Eton, paid glowing tribute to his "very strong campaign".

Though the prime minister has far more power, his popularity appears to be
waning as Johnson's grows. Tellingly, one in 10 London Labour supporters backed
him. During the campaign, Labour activists who knocked on doors in safe red
boroughs were dismayed by how many people said they would be voting for Boris,
not because they particularly liked his policies but because they liked him and
found him fun.

With the Queen's diamond jubilee celebrations next month and the Olympic Games
in July and August, it is set to be London's - and the mayor's - summer. As a
boy, he famously wanted to be "king of the world". Prime minister might seem a
natural next step.

Those who know him are in no doubt. Sonia Purnell, his biographer, who worked
with him as a journalist in Brussels, said: "Oh gosh, yes. He quivers with
desire for the job. He talks about having a sense of destiny; he feels he was
born and bred for it. Right from day one, it's been clear from the people he's
cultivated, and the ones he hasn't minded offending, that that is the aim."

In the course of her research for her book Just Boris, Purnell interviewed a
number of Johnson's former teachers at Eton, some of whom also taught Cameron.
She found that while all remembered the mayor well, Cameron had made far less of
an impression.

"I spoke to one master who had taught both of them and remembered every detail
about Boris. Boris was clearly unforgettable. The master had also taught
Cameron, but couldn't remember a thing about him," she said.

Purnell believes that, as a King's Scholar and "first generation" Etonian,
Johnson felt he had more to prove at school than Cameron did. "From an early
age, he was practising being a star. He really crushed people in the school
debating society. He could see the power that being clever with words gave him,
and saw that he could hold a crowd."

Though he achieved only a 2:1 at Oxford, compared with Cameron's first, many
Conservatives think that of the two men, Johnson's is the superior intellect.
Purnell believes it has been painful for him to see Cameron beat him to No 10.

Indeed, from the start of Cameron's premiership, Johnson has refused to play the
part of the junior man, as was shown by a bizarre scene in the prime minister's
Downing Street office shortly after the coalition was formed.

Andrew Gimson, another of Johnson's biographers, reveals in his book, Boris: The
Rise of Boris Johnson, that the mayor was in the prime minister's office talking
about the planned spending cuts. Suddenly he grabbed a document from the PM's
desk, with details of the spending review on it, and started reading it. Cameron
jumped up and tried to get it off him, and they ended up almost chasing each
other round the room, like a couple of schoolboys.

However, the relationship should not be characterised as one of simple rivalry.
Though Johnson enjoys tweaking Cameron's tail, their relationship is largely
amiable. By and large, the prime minister is grown up enough to understand that
the jibes, such as the suggestion that the government's police cuts were to
blame for last summer's riots, are partly strategic.

"Deep down, they are actually quite close," said one of Cameron's aides. "They
text each other a lot. David gets the fact that sometimes Boris has to kick off
about this or that."

He pointed out that Cameron had been at pains to support Johnson's election
campaign, seconding staff from Conservative central office and encouraging the
Treasury to stump up extra cash for London.

If Johnson is serious about reaching No 10, he must first find a parliamentary
seat. He would then need to convince Tory MPs - many of whom still doubt he
could run the country - to back him in a leadership contest. Should Cameron fail
to deliver a healthy majority in 2015, that could happen soon afterwards. It
could mean being an MP as well as running City Hall, as his mayoral term runs to
2016; Livingstone himself initially held both jobs.

Publicly, Johnson has repeatedly denied he has his sights set on Downing Street.
During this campaign, his denials became more emphatic.

Three weeks ago, he told The Sunday Times he would hate to have to return to
Westminster as an MP and take orders from "beery whips".

But he once likened himself characteristically to the Roman nobleman
Cincinnatus, who was plucked from his farm to become a dictator. "If, like
Cincinnatus, I were to be called from my plough, then obviously it would be
wrong for me not to help out," he said when asked in April 2009 if one day he
would like the top job.

Asked yesterday if he would attempt to be re-elected to parliament in two or
three years' time, he replied: "I'm going to say this categorically, that the
answer to that is no. I don't want to do that. I want to discharge my mandate
and my duty" - which was immediately interpreted as not categorical at all.
Saying he does not "want" to stand for parliament leaves plenty of wriggle room
for a Cincinnatus moment.

Not everyone in the Tory parliamentary party is enthused by the prospect of
Johnson as leader. One of the brightest young MPs from the 2010 intake, who is
fond of the mayor, said: "He's irresistible, but potentially catastrophic. I'm
sure he now thinks anything is possible, and of course it would be great fun, in
a sort of 'Get the popcorn out, watch the movie' sort of way. But is he the
answer to this country's problems? No."

BY THE time the returning officer finally announced the mayoral result on
Friday, Johnson looked totally drained, almost shell-shocked. As he approached
the hall where the result would be declared, a young man in a suit approached
him with a football shirt bearing the legend "PM Boris". Wisely, Johnson
resisted the temptation to accept it.

In his victory speech, struggling to muster a smile, he recalled how he had been
stumped by a question from an 11-year-old while talking about his "nine-point
plan for London" on the campaign trail. What would his 10th point be if he had
one, asked the child. Unusually, Johnson had been lost for words.

Now he came up with it - a "non-taxpayer-funded libation" to celebrate victory;
in other words, a jolly good party. Those who know him well may feel he was
being economical with the truth. Few doubt the final point in his grand plan is
a triumphal libation in Downing Street.

Additional reporting: Tony Grew and Adam Luck. End of the love affair with
coalition, Editorial, page 16

Pongoo outpaces Lib Dems

It was clearly going to be a tough election night for the Liberal Democrats when
one of their candidates in Edinburgh polled fewer votes than Professor Pongoo, a
man dressed in a penguin costume.

The party's fortunes in the Scottish capital - where the Lib Dems slumped from
16 seats to just three and in doing so lost control of the council - were
symptomatic of its performance nationally.

Paying the price for being in coalition with the Tories, the Lib Dems lost a
total of 336 seats, leaving them with fewer than 3,000 councillors - the lowest
number since the party was formed in 1988.

In the London mayoral race Brian Paddick, the Lib Dem candidate, was pushed into
fourth place by the Green party.

In Salford's mayoral election Norman Owen fared even worse and lost his deposit.

Failed Lib Dem candidates queued up to blame Nick Clegg, the party leader, who
admitted it had been "a difficult and disappointing night".

Lord Oakeshott, the former Lib Dem Treasury spokesman, admitted the party might
not be able to fight the 2015 general election successfully if it suffered
another "hammering" on the scale of last week.

"We have got to face it - we have had another very substantial swathe of our
crucial activist base wiped away," Oakeshott said.

"For me, what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a nationwide,
powerful, independent force and if we have another year like this, we won't be
able to."

The party can at least take some comfort from Stockport, Greater Manchester,
where it defied expectations and prevented Labour taking control.

Even there, however, Lib Dem supporters were angry with Clegg's leadership.

"People don't seem to trust any politicians," said one. "We're being blamed for
keeping the Tories in power. This government is seen as for the rich and that
has hurt us."

Turnaround is big enough to put Miliband in No 10

Labour took full advantage of the coalition's woes on Thursday to record its
first clear victory in stand-alone local elections since 1999, write Colin
Rallings and Michael Thrasher.

The party exceeded pre-election expectations by gaining more than 800 seats and
control of an additional 32 councils.

A comprehensive analysis for The Sunday Times examined votes cast by more than
4.5m voters in more than 2,000 local council wards to calculate how the parties
would have fared if these elections had taken place in every part of the
country.

The national equivalent vote has the Tories on 33% (four points down since the
general election in 2010); Labour on 39% (up nine points) and the Lib Dems on
15% (down nine points).

Repeated at a general election, that would give Labour a sizable majority of 76
over all other parties in the House of Commons. These elections, however, are
simply one event on the road to 2015, not a forecast of its outcome.

It was important for Labour to show it can again turn support in polls into
votes at the ballot box, as well as to reconnect with voters in the south. The
iconic Basildon remained Tory but other bastions of "Essex man", such as Harlow
and Thurrock, fell to Labour.

Nor should Boris Johnson's victory in the London mayoral contest be allowed to
obscure Labour's performance in the assembly elections. It gained two
outer-London constituencies (Barnet and Camden, and Ealing and Hillingdon) with
double-digit swings compared with 2008 and is just one short of a majority in
the chamber.

In Scotland, Labour saw off much of the Scottish National party challenge in its
central-belt heartland. Glasgow was easily retained, contrary to much
pre-election speculation, and Labour took both Renfrewshire and West
Dunbartonshire from no overall control.

And south Wales is once again a sea of red as Labour gained eight councils,
taking seats from all its rivals, including Plaid Cymru.

However, Ed Miliband will be well aware that the Tories easily won the local
elections at the same point in the cycle in 2000 when William Hague was leader,
only to be humiliated in a general election a year later.

The Tories did avoid the kind of local meltdown they experienced under John
Major in the mid-1990s but were hit hard by continuing bad economic and
political headlines in the last week of the campaign.

Big swings led to them unexpectedly losing councils such as Dudley and
Southampton straight to Labour. And there was clear evidence the party has
fallen back in places such as Bolton, Chorley, Exeter and Halifax, where it
failed to win parliamentary constituencies in 2010 and which remain vital in the
building of any future Tory majority government.

That has understandably made Tory backbenchers nervous. They should remember it
is governments that lose general elections rather than oppositions that win
them, and the economy is the key to that calculation.

If the economy is showing signs of recovery by 2015, Cameron can win; if it
isn't, the Tories are likely to lose whoever is their leader, or the leader of
the opposition. Other issues will sway tiny numbers of voters by comparison.

As last year, it was the Lib Dems who suffered the most bruising experience.
Although they again outperformed their opinion poll ratings, their slump in
northern councils such as Hull, Liverpool, Newcastle and Sheffield, where they
once prospered as a left-of-centre alternative to Labour, continued apace.

In metropolitan boroughs alone they lost more than 100 councillors. They also
flunked their first post-general election local test in Scotland and Wales. In
Scotland, they lost nearly six in 10 of the seats they were defending; in Wales,
it was half. Lib Dem-led administrations in the two capitals, Edinburgh and
Cardiff, were swept aside.

Their vote did hold up rather better in some of the areas where they have
sitting MPs, including Cheltenham, Portsmouth and Eastleigh.

Nevertheless, Lord Rennard's quip that the party had been waiting 90 years to be
a victim of the mid-term blues cannot disguise its serious underlying problem.

Just 15 years ago it was the second party in local government, with more seats
than the Tories; it now has fewer councillors across the country than at any
time since the days of the Liberal/SDP alliance in 1985.

Yet there were signs of the electorate's disillusion with all traditional
political parties. Turnout in London and in the English local elections was 3-4
points down on 2008 and at its lowest for 12 years. In Salford, scarcely a
quarter of the electorate bothered to vote, despite an inaugural mayoral
contest.

UKIP showed signs of inheriting the Lib Dems' mantle as the all-purpose party of
protest but, while its vote share almost doubled in the seats it contested to
about 13%, the party made no net seat gains thanks to the way the
first-past-the-post electoral system operates.

Respect, however, made sufficient gains in Bradford to deprive Labour of an
overall majority in what should have been one of its easiest council victories.
This was perhaps the one blip, Johnson apart, on Miliband's night.

In Wyre Forest in Worcestershire there was even a revival for the Kidderminster
health campaigners who memorably captured the parliamentary seat between 2001
and 2010.

But electors were not persuaded by David Cameron's vision of directly elected
mayors - "a Boris in every city". Bristol narrowly voted in favour, but nine
cities - including Birmingham and Manchester - turned it down flat.

The authors are directors of Plymouth University's Elections Centre

'' HE QUIVERS WITH DESIRE FOR THE JOB. HE TALKS OF DESTINY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson's joshing with David Cameron is usually good-humoured,
but few doubt his ultimate aim is to reign in No 10 Mike Ferrigan - Professor
Pongoo - beat a Lib Dem
ANDREW PARSONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAMERON'S BLOND BOMBSHELL

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 3585 words


Amid an election drubbing for the Tories, Boris Johnson's win installs him as
heir apparent to the Conservative crown.

Isabel Oakeshott reports As his campaign entered its final push, Boris Johnson
tried to revitalise his e x -hausted troops by reminding them of all the hurdles
they had overcome.

For weeks his team had managed to maintain a sense of humour as David Cameron's
administration lurched from one crisis to the next.

With every bungle by the Tory leadership, the mayor of London's battle for
re-election became more difficult. However, he reminded them: "We've survived
the budget, we've survived Pastygate, we've survived jerry cans, we've survived
the charity row - we've even survived being endorsed by David Cameron."

Everyone laughed, but it was not a joke. In fact, he repeated it at his victory
celebrations in the early hours of yesterday morning - emphasising what an
achievement it had been to "survive" the Cameron debacle.

Throughout his campaign, the mayor determinedly kept his distance from the prime
minister, having concluded he would win more votes on his own. The strategy paid
off - though only just.

The result was far closer than pollsters and Westminster commentators had
predicted, with Johnson just 62,500 votes ahead of Ken Livingstone.

His victory was not declared until almost midnight on Friday, a full four hours
after his advisers had expected it.

The relaxed night he had anticipated - because of the low turnout, aides
expected an early announcement - was replaced by hours of anxiety and flashes of
paranoia that he might be facing the scrapheap.

Amid rumours of lost ballot boxes and possible recounts, Johnson spent part of
the evening holed up with his campaign manager, Lynton Crosby, in a suite in a
hotel opposite the Thames-side mayoral headquarters at City Hall.

Crosby, a blunt-talking Australian, is by nature a pessimist, yet he had been
quietly confident of a comfortable win. As the hours ticked by, he became
increasingly agitated. Could he have fatally underestimated the opposition?
There were farcical scenes at the count. An electronic scanning system appeared
to fail, and the lights in the chamber where the results were due to be
announced suddenly went out. Guto Harri, Johnson's press spokesman, admitted
later that at about 7pm Team Boris thought they had lost.

A delay in declaring results from north London caused by problems at the
Alexandra Palace counting centre rattled the mayor's advisers. They feared a
sudden surge in support for Livingstone. Harri joked that he and the mayor had
cleared their desks just in case.

By 8.15pm Harri was making his first visit to the ninth-floor room in City Hall
where the press were corralled to say his man had "pipped it" and raw data
showed that Ken would not be pushed into first place by second-preference votes.
But the hours crawled by.

Many Johnson supporters had already descended on Millbank Tower, just upriver
from Westminster, to kick off a victory party, but the jubilant atmosphere
quickly faded.

"We thought we'd be celebrating by 8pm and instead we were just waiting and
waiting. People were getting quite uneasy, and very drunk," said one of
Johnson's aides.

As the night wore on, with no sign of a result, the Johnson family anxiously
gathered in the pizza restaurant downstairs.

His sister Rachel, who on the night of the 2010 general election, after the
Conservatives failed to win an overall majority, had tweeted, "It's all gone
tits up, send for Boris," now joked that she was being pressed by friends to
tweet: "It's all gone tits up, send for Ken."

By 11.45pm, gallows humour was setting in among those waiting for the result.
"Hello Londres, this is Latvia calling. Just wondering if we might have your
votes for the 1962 Eurovision song contest," one wag wrote on Twitter.

At seven minutes before midnight, however, the Tory candidate finally triumphed.
Though it had been nail-biting, even his Labour critics acknowledged that it was
a remarkable achievement given the Conservative party's national woes. Somehow,
Johnson managed to defy a 19-point lead in the polls for the Labour party
overall in London and secure another term running the capital.

This weekend he is riding high, having secured four more years in arguably the
second most influential job in British politics. The bumbling blond with the
penchant for obscure references to ancient history is no longer being dismissed
by anyone in politics as a clown.

For true blue supporters he has become a hero while Cameron is blamed for the
drubbing at the local elections, in which the Tories lost 405 councillors.

Conservative MPs - many of whom used to consider Johnson little more than a
clever show-off - are beginning to talk seriously of his potential to rescue
them from the doldrums.

Grassroots Tory supporters point to his clear right-wing stance on issues such
as tax, Europe and immigration and believe his triumph at a time when Cameron is
trailing in the polls is a lesson about the direction the party must take.

So could Johnson, who has never hidden his ambition, really be the next
Conservative prime minister? ON Thursday evening the man himself appeared to
take a relaxed attitude both to his immediate future and his longterm prospects.
After the polls closed at 10pm, the mayor joined young members of Team Boris in
a nightclub off Oxford Street, letting down his famously dishevelled hair.

The Rose - which describes itself as a "chic, upmarket, glamorous speakeasy" -
was buzzing as they knocked back drinks, knowing it would take about 24 hours to
count the votes and there was nothing more they could do to influence the
outcome.

At some point, the private function room was opened to other guests, who
thronged round Johnson, taking pictures of the mayor on their mobile phones. He
posed gamely - but behind the facade something was troubling him. Would he get
proper credit if he beat Livingstone, he fretted to confidants? Or would people
think the Labour candidate was so bad that "a two-year-old" could have beaten
him? Victory, it was clear to those he confided in, would not be complete
without full recognition of the scale of his achievements.

When he won, he wanted everyone to acknowledge that he was a star.

Perhaps his sweetest moment came yesterday when the prime minister, who was two
years below him at Eton, paid glowing tribute to his "very strong campaign".

Though the prime minister has far more power, his popularity appears to be
waning as Johnson's grows. Tellingly, one in 10 London Labour supporters backed
him. During the campaign, Labour activists who knocked on doors in safe red
boroughs were dismayed by how many people said they would be voting for Boris,
not because they particularly liked his policies but because they liked him and
found him fun.

With the Queen's diamond jubilee celebrations next month and the Olympic Games
in July and August, it is set to be London's - and the mayor's - summer. As a
boy, he famously wanted to be "king of the world". Prime minister might seem a
natural next step.

Those who know him are in no doubt. Sonia Purnell, his biographer, who worked
with him as a journalist in Brussels, said: "Oh gosh, yes. He quivers with
desire for the job. He talks about having a sense of destiny; he feels he was
born and bred for it. Right from day one, it's been clear from the people he's
cultivated, and the ones he hasn't minded offending, that that is the aim."

In the course of her research for her book Just Boris, Purnell interviewed a
number of Johnson's former teachers at Eton, some of whom also taught Cameron.
She found that while all remembered the mayor well, Cameron had made far less of
an impression.

"I spoke to one master who had taught both of them and remembered every detail
about Boris. Boris was clearly unforgettable. The master had also taught
Cameron, but couldn't remember a thing about him," she said.

Purnell believes that, as a King's Scholar and "first generation" Etonian,
Johnson felt he had more to prove at school than Cameron did. "From an early
age, he was practising being a star. He really crushed people in the school
debating society. He could see the power that being clever with words gave him,
and saw that he could hold a crowd."

Though he achieved only a 2:1 at Oxford, compared with Cameron's first, many
Conservatives think that of the two men, Johnson's is the superior intellect.
Purnell believes it has been painful for him to see Cameron beat him to No 10.

Indeed, from the start of Cameron's premiership, Johnson has refused to play the
part of the junior man, as was shown by a bizarre scene in the prime minister's
Downing Street office shortly after the coalition was formed.

Andrew Gimson, another of Johnson's biographers, reveals in his book, Boris: The
Rise of Boris Johnson, that the mayor was in the prime minister's office talking
about the planned spending cuts. Suddenly he grabbed a document from the PM's
desk, with details of the spending review on it, and started reading it. Cameron
jumped up and tried to get it off him, and they ended up almost chasing each
other round the room, like a couple of schoolboys.

However, the relationship should not be characterised as one of simple rivalry.
Though Johnson enjoys tweaking Cameron's tail, their relationship is largely
amiable. By and large, the prime minister is grown up enough to understand that
the jibes, such as the suggestion that the government's police cuts were to
blame for last summer's riots, are partly strategic.

"Deep down, they are actually quite close," said one of Cameron's aides. "They
text each other a lot. David gets the fact that sometimes Boris has to kick off
about this or that."

He pointed out that Cameron had been at pains to support Johnson's election
campaign, seconding staff from Conservative central office and encouraging the
Treasury to stump up extra cash for London.

If Johnson is serious about reaching No 10, he must first find a parliamentary
seat. He would then need to convince Tory MPs - many of whom still doubt he
could run the country - to back him in a leadership contest. Should Cameron fail
to deliver a healthy majority in 2015, that could happen soon afterwards. It
could mean being an MP as well as running City Hall, as his mayoral term runs to
2016; Livingstone himself initially held both jobs.

Publicly, Johnson has repeatedly denied he has his sights set on Downing Street.
During this campaign, his denials became more emphatic.

Three weeks ago, he told The Sunday Times he would hate to have to return to
Westminster as an MP and take orders from "beery whips".

But he once likened himself characteristically to the Roman nobleman
Cincinnatus, who was plucked from his farm to become a dictator. "If, like
Cincinnatus, I were to be called from my plough, then obviously it would be
wrong for me not to help out," he said when asked in April 2009 if one day he
would like the top job.

Asked yesterday if he would attempt to be re-elected to parliament in two or
three years' time, he replied: "I'm going to say this categorically, that the
answer to that is no. I don't want to do that. I want to discharge my mandate
and my duty" - which was immediately interpreted as not categorical at all.
Saying he does not "want" to stand for parliament leaves plenty of wriggle room
for a Cincinnatus moment.

Not everyone in the Tory parliamentary party is enthused by the prospect of
Johnson as leader. One of the brightest young MPs from the 2010 intake, who is
fond of the mayor, said: "He's irresistible, but potentially catastrophic. I'm
sure he now thinks anything is possible, and of course it would be great fun, in
a sort of 'Get the popcorn out, watch the movie' sort of way. But is he the
answer to this country's problems? No."

BY THE time the returning officer finally announced the mayoral result on
Friday, Johnson looked totally drained, almost shell-shocked. As he approached
the hall where the result would be declared, a young man in a suit approached
him with a football shirt bearing the legend "PM Boris". Wisely, Johnson
resisted the temptation to accept it.

In his victory speech, struggling to muster a smile, he recalled how he had been
stumped by a question from an 11-year-old while talking about his "nine-point
plan for London" on the campaign trail. What would his 10th point be if he had
one, asked the child. Unusually, Johnson had been lost for words.

Now he came up with it - a "non-taxpayer-funded libation" to celebrate victory;
in other words, a jolly good party. Those who know him well may feel he was
being economical with the truth. Few doubt the final point in his grand plan is
a triumphal libation in Downing Street.

Additional reporting: Tony Grew and Adam Luck. End of the love affair with
coalition, Editorial, page 16 Pongoo outpaces Lib Dems It was clearly going to
be a tough election night for the Liberal Democrats when one of their candidates
in Edinburgh polled fewer votes than Professor Pongoo, a man dressed in a
penguin costume.

The party's fortunes in the Scottish capital - where the Lib Dems slumped from
16 seats to just three and in doing so lost control of the council - were
symptomatic of its performance nationally.

Paying the price for being in coalition with the Tories, the Lib Dems lost a
total of 336 seats, leaving them with fewer than 3,000 councillors - the lowest
number since the party was formed in 1988.

In the London mayoral race Brian Paddick, the Lib Dem candidate, was pushed into
fourth place by the Green party.

In Salford's mayoral election Norman Owen fared even worse and lost his deposit.

Failed Lib Dem candidates queued up to blame Nick Clegg, the party leader, who
admitted it had been "a difficult and disappointing night".

Lord Oakeshott, the former Lib Dem Treasury spokesman, admitted the party might
not be able to fight the 2015 general election successfully if it suffered
another "hammering" on the scale of last week.

"We have got to face it - we have had another very substantial swathe of our
crucial activist base wiped away," Oakeshott said.

"For me, what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a nationwide,
powerful, independent force and if we have another year like this, we won't be
able to."

The party can at least take some comfort from Stockport, Greater Manchester,
where it defied expectations and prevented Labour taking control.

Even there, however, Lib Dem supporters were angry with Clegg's leadership.

"People don't seem to trust any politicians," said one. "We're being blamed for
keeping the Tories in power. This government is seen as for the rich and that
has hurt us."

Labour took full advantage of the coalition's woes on Thursday to record its
first clear victory in stand-alone local elections since 1999, write Colin
Rallings and Michael Thrasher.

The party exceeded pre-election expectations by gaining more than 800 seats and
control of an additional 32 councils.

A comprehensive analysis for The Sunday Times examined votes cast by more than
4.5m voters in more than 2,000 local council wards to calculate how the parties
would have fared if these elections had taken place in every part of the
country.

The national equivalent vote has the Tories on 33% (four points down since the
general election in 2010); Labour on 39% (up nine points) and the Lib Dems on
15% (down nine points).

Repeated at a general election, that would give Labour a sizable majority of 76
over all other parties in the House of Commons. These elections, however, are
simply one event on the road to 2015, not a forecast of its outcome.

It was important for Labour to show it can again turn support in polls into
votes at the ballot box, as well as to reconnect with voters in the south. The
iconic Basildon remained Tory but other bastions of "Essex man", such as Harlow
and Thurrock, fell to Labour.

Nor should Boris Johnson's victory in the London mayoral contest be allowed to
obscure Labour's performance in the assembly elections. It gained two
outer-London constituencies (Barnet and Camden, and Ealing and Hillingdon) with
double-digit swings compared with 2008 and is just one short of a majority in
the chamber.

In Scotland, Labour saw off much of the Scottish National party challenge in its
central-belt heartland. Glasgow was easily retained, contrary to much
pre-election speculation, and Labour took both Renfrewshire and West
Dunbartonshire from no overall control.

And south Wales is once again a sea of red as Labour gained eight councils,
taking seats from all its rivals, including Plaid Cymru.

However, Ed Miliband will be well aware that the Tories easily won the local
elections at the same point in the cycle in 2000 when William Hague was leader,
only to be humiliated in a general election a year later.

The Tories did avoid the kind of local meltdown they experienced under John
Major in the mid-1990s but were hit hard by continuing bad economic and
political headlines in the last week of the campaign.

Big swings led to them unexpectedly losing councils such as Dudley and
Southampton straight to Labour. And there was clear evidence the party has
fallen back in places such as Bolton, Chorley, Exeter and Halifax, where it
failed to win parliamentary constituencies in 2010 and which remain vital in the
building of any future Tory majority government.

That has understandably made Tory backbenchers nervous. They should remember it
is governments that lose general elections rather than oppositions that win
them, and the economy is the key to that calculation.

If the economy is showing signs of recovery by 2015, Cameron can win; if it
isn't, the Tories are likely to lose whoever is their leader, or the leader of
the opposition. Other issues will sway tiny numbers of voters by comparison.

As last year, it was the Lib Dems who suffered the most bruising experience.
Although they again outperformed their opinion poll ratings, their slump in
northern councils such as Hull, Liverpool, Newcastle and Sheffield, where they
once prospered as a left-of-centre alternative to Labour, continued apace.

In metropolitan boroughs alone they lost more than 100 councillors. They also
flunked their first post-general election local test in Scotland and Wales. In
Scotland, they lost nearly six in 10 of the seats they were defending; in Wales,
it was half. Lib Dem-led administrations in the two capitals, Edinburgh and
Cardiff, were swept aside.

Their vote did hold up rather better in some of the areas where they have
sitting MPs, including Cheltenham, Portsmouth and Eastleigh.

Nevertheless, Lord Rennard's quip that the party had been waiting 90 years to be
a victim of the mid-term blues cannot disguise its serious underlying problem.

Just 15 years ago it was the second party in local government, with more seats
than the Tories; it now has fewer councillors across the country than at any
time since the days of the Liberal/SDP alliance in 1985.

Yet there were signs of the electorate's disillusion with all traditional
political parties. Turnout in London and in the English local elections was 3-4
points down on 2008 and at its lowest for 12 years. In Salford, scarcely a
quarter of the electorate bothered to vote, despite an inaugural mayoral
contest.

UKIP showed signs of inheriting the Lib Dems' mantle as the all-purpose party of
protest but, while its vote share almost doubled in the seats it contested to
about 13%, the party made no net seat gains thanks to the way the
first-past-the-post electoral system operates.

Respect, however, made sufficient gains in Bradford to deprive Labour of an
overall majority in what should have been one of its easiest council victories.
This was perhaps the one blip, Johnson apart, on Miliband's night.

In Wyre Forest in Worcestershire there was even a revival for the Kidderminster
health campaigners who memorably captured the parliamentary seat between 2001
and 2010.

But electors were not persuaded by David Cameron's vision of directly elected
mayors - "a Boris in every city". Bristol narrowly voted in favour, but nine
cities - including Birmingham and Manchester - turned it down flat.

The authors are directors of Plymouth University's Elections Centre Britain's
new political map The Tories were seeing red across England and Wales as Labour
opened up a six-point lead in the share of the national vote. If repeated at a
general election, Labour would win a majority of 76 Defying political gravity
Boris Johnson outperformed his party, winning more first preference votes than
Ken Livingstone in eight of London''s 14 constituencies. In the assembly
elections, those numbers were reversed with Labour winning eight and the Tories
six Boris Johnson v Ken Livingstone First preference vote Enfield & Haringey
Enfield & Haringey Barnet & Camden Barnet & Camden Brent & Harrow Brent & Harrow
Havering & Redbridge Havering & Redbridge North East North East Ealing &
Hillingdon City & East City & East Ealing & Hillingdon West Central West Central
Greenwich & Lewisham Lambeth & Southwark Greenwich & Lewisham South West South
West Lambeth & Southwark Merton & Wandsworth Merton & Wandsworth Bexley &
Bromley Croydon & Sutton Bexley & Bromley Croydon & Sutton London Assembly Final
result Orkney Islands Shetland Islands Conservative Labour Lib Dem Independent
SNP No overall control No election Share of vote Labour 39% Conservative 33% Lib
Dem 15% House of Commons Projection 2012 Labour 363 seats +105 Conservative 225
seats +82 Lib Dem 32 seats -25 Others 30 seats +2

'' HE QUIVERS WITH DESIRE FOR THE JOB. HE TALKS OF DESTINY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson's joshing with David Cameron is usually good-humoured,
but few doubt his ultimate aim is to reign in No 10 Mike Ferrigan - Professor
Pongoo - beat a Lib Dem
ANDREW PARSONS
Source: Rallings and Thrasher

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

DISASTER WILL WORRY TORIES

BYLINE: ANDREW HAWKINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 144 words


THE party in Government usually takes a hit in local elections.

But the scale of Thursday's defeat will be enough to make many Tory MPs worry as
the 2015 General Election begins to loom.

Many of the 2010 intake won only after several attempts and they will be in no
mood to show patience for the Cameron project.

It is not lost on them that the party has not won a General Election outright
for 20 years. Then there is the low turnout - suggesting many Conservative
supporters sat on their hands - and UKIP's success.

We can now expect louder calls for a return to traditional Tory policies such as
low taxes instead of Lords reform and gay marriage.

The Tories need to do more to reconnect with their core vote.

Even Boris's win presents a threat to David Cameron, putting the London Mayor in
a strong position to challenge him if the Tories fail to win outright in 2015.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

IT'S PAARRGHTY POLITICS, DAVID

BYLINE: MARK AUSTIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 432 words


ON Wednesday a painting depicting the world's most famous scream of desperation
was sold for pounds 74million.

Two days later any prying camera lens in David Cameron's Downing Street den
could have picked up a similar picture for nothing.

And unlike the mysterious man in Edvard Munch's work of art, we know what Mr
Cameron's hand over ears "scream" is all about.

His party's poor showing in the local elections was not just a normal bout of
the mid-term blues experienced by so many governments. No, the Prime Minister
knows much of the damage was self-inflicted.

Six weeks ago things were going surprisingly well for a Coalition intent on
imposing swingeing cuts. They had, by and large, seemed to have persuaded voters
of the need for austerity.

But an unpopular Budget sparked a series of policy mishaps and misjudgments that
shook the faith of the public.

Issues such as charity donations, Abu Qatada's extradition, border controls and
links with Murdoch have all had an impact at the polls.

And there may be a more serious problem. There are signs that the Government's
reputation for economic credibility has taken a hit. The double-dip recession
has shaken confidence in the Coalition strategy.

And if questions about the Government's competence extend to its handling of the
economy then there could be trouble ahead.

Even the good news for the Prime Minister was, in a sense, bad news. Boris
Johnson's victory in London was more about Boris than the Tories.

In contrast, the scream coming from Labour HQ will be one of relief. The results
remove the assumption that Labour is unelectable under Ed Miliband.

It lifts the pressure from an Opposition leader who's been struggling to
convince those inside and outside the party that he's the right person for the
job.

But Labour still has a long way to go to win a General Election.

And the big picture hasn't really changed. Who wins that next election will
still come down to just one thing... who is right on the economy.

If there is a recovery in the next two or three years, Mr Cameron will benefit
enormously. If there isn't, it's Labour's to lose.

In the next few days the Prime Minister and his Lib Dem deputy, Nick Clegg, will
produce a renewed display of Coalition togetherness.

But MPs on both sides will be doing their best to tear them apart.

The Lib Dems will be blaming their implosion on the union with the Tories.

And some Tories will be encouraging Cameron to turn right to stop UKIP
plundering Conservative votes.

The tensions are there and the election results make them worse.

There'll be plenty more screams emanating from Downing Street.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In the frame... Cam as Munch's The Scream

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 6, 2012 Sunday 11:08 AM GMT

Lord Strathclyde: the reluctant reformer;
Conservative backbenchers urging the leadership to feel their pain should
perhaps spare a thought for Lord Strathclyde: the minister is now in charge of
the abolition of his own political future.

BYLINE: By Robert Watts Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1419 words


The Leader of the House of Lords finds himself, after 25 years on the front
benches, presiding over the reform of his chamber, something that will almost
certainly lead to him leaving Parliament, then having to stand for election for
the first time.

This weekend, as the Conservatives regroup after heavy losses in the local
elections, the peer uses an interview with The Sunday Telegraph to express his
sympathy for those who think the party's leadership is not focusing on true
Conservative values, one of the many reasons cited for the party's poor poll
showing.

Mr Cameron's move to the Centre, it has been claimed, has encouraged many to
turn to the UK Independence Party. "I understand these people's frustrations,"
says the peer, a senior member of the Cabinet who is also one of David Cameron's
closest friends in politics.

"They want to get back to growth. They want to see better use of public money.
In the long term tax rates will fall. We will get that as we become more
competitive.

"The reason it doesn't feel like some of the best years of the Eighties and
Nineties is because we have this hangover of all hangovers of debt ... and we
are also in a coalition."

He compares the current political landscape with the early years of Margaret
Thatcher's administration, when the party faithful had to wait for the public
finances to be rebuilt.

Only then could that government unveil the tax cuts, the bonfire of red tape and
the wave of privatisation for which it would be remembered.

Nevertheless, the peer is adamant that the Coalition is still delivering a
Conservative agenda. "Look back at what we've done over the past two years and
you will see many true Conservative policies.

"We're making work pay for people on welfare. We're improving education. We've
made it easier for people to start businesses. We've abolished ID cards."

That is true, but what about House of Lords reform? Many Tories trenchantly
oppose plans to transform the Lords into a senate of 300 or so representatives,
at least 80 per cent of whom would be elected, each for a term of 15 years.

The policy is said to bore the general public, and the Right Honourable Thomas
Galloway Dunlop du Roy de Blicquy Galbraith, second Baron Strathclyde of
Barskimming in the County of Ayr will find himself without a seat.

Just as galling for the Tory Right, Liberal Democrats are determined that the
policy is driven through.

"People have been arguing about all this for 100 years ... we've talked about
this until we are blue in the face," Lord Strathclyde says.

"Both David Cameron and Nick Clegg would like this issue brought to an end. We
need to reach a decision. Are there going to be elections on May 7, 2015 to a
new senate or not?

"For reformers like me, I need to maintain the best of what the House of Lords
does while giving it an authority given it to by having members elected by the
people."

He steadfastly refuses to out himself as a reluctant reformer, emphasising the
different sides of this increasingly heated argument.

He says that a democratic mandate will give the Lords more weight and adds that
all three parties made a commitment to reform in their 2010 general election
manifestos.

However, he trumpets the work of the Lords over the past two years and refers to
the 1999 changes under Labour that saw the exit of most hereditary peers as a
"huge expulsion of knowledge and expertise".

He also says repeatedly that there is a good chance that plans for reform may be
killed off in the Commons. A second chamber emboldened by having a democratic
mandate will challenge the supremacy of the Commons, he says.

"There is, quite rightly, a self-denying ordinance in the House of Lords at the
moment. We do not push things too far precisely because we are unelected.

"The Commons will need to get used to a more authoritative second chamber that
may resist changes rather more than it does now."

There is another hurdle: a possible referendum. A recent joint committee of MPs
and peers that examined the Coalition's plans said there should be such a public
vote.

Lord Strathclyde is sceptical of such a suggestion, saying the public voted on
manifestos that set out the plan. Privately, ministers are desperate to avoid a
referendum on a topic of little interest to the public, especially when many
households are far more worried about the economy.

"A referendum is an important recommendation," the peer says. "We need to
consider very carefully the cost, the timing and the question. We haven't closed
the door on it; we want to consider the arguments carefully."

One proposal from the Lib Dems that Lord Strathclyde opposes is for all members
of the new senate to be so-called "full-time" politicians, who turn their backs
on their previous vocations.

"A poison has entered the world of politics that somehow outside interests are a
bad thing," he says. "They are actually a very positive thing. They help educate
people in politics and ensure policy-makers understand the real world.
Declaration of these interests is what's important."

It seems he is a fan of Downton Abbey, as he is crestfallen at the idea of Lord
Fellowes, the creator of the television costume drama, from being banned from
writing if he was to serve in such a second chamber. "Who would want Julian
Fellowes to stop writing? His work is great stuff."

Lord Strathclyde also cites the value of entrepreneurs such as the "curry king"
Gulam Noon and Lord Harris of Peckham, who continues to run the Carpetright
empire. Both men, and many others, ensure the Lords remains in touch with the
world of business.

This is not the only aspect of reform where Lord Strathclyde seems at odds with
Lib Dems. "We pledged ourselves having proportional representation in the
Coalition Agreement, so we're a bit stuck with that."

Then, in a mischievous aside that will surely enrage his Coalition partners, he
muses on bringing back hereditary peers ... "just for fun".

"Well, under these reforms the peerage would be removed from having a place in
Parliament, or in the political process. So you could conceivably bring back
having hereditary titles again, although they would have no place in the
political process. As a romantic, I love the idea."

He may love pulling the tails of Lib Dems, but it seems to take a good deal to
get under his skin. One who has managed it is Nadine Dorries, the Tory MP who
last month said the Prime Minister and George Osborne, the Chancellor, were "two
posh boys who don't know the price of a pint of milk".

"I thought her words were gratuitous, rude and unnecessary," Lord Strathclyde
says sternly. "They were unworthy of any Member of Parliament, let alone a
Conservative Member of Parliament.

"She will have to account for that herself. The premise of this is perfectly
ludicrous. We must have moved on by now from judging people on how they speak,
where they come from and what schools they went to."

He also says it is a "monstrous characterisation" of a government that "includes
Patrick McLoughlin [the Chief Whip in the Commons] who was a working miner until
he entered the Commons, and Eric Pickles, who is not grand but is very much a
Tory grandee".

He adds: "The Conservative Party has never won office because it is elected by
rich people: it has always reached out to people of all social classes."

It is something the peer's father and grandfather both recognised. "They were
both MPs in Glasgow and they appealed to all sorts of different voters from all
sorts of backgrounds.

"The Conservative Party is best when it represents the British interest and
reaches out far beyond our own personal experience."

Lord Strathclyde will indeed have to reach out far and wide to find supporters
of Lords reform, not just on Conservative benches.

Many Tories will also be appalled by the idea that the shake-up may banish one
of the grandest of the party's grandees: Baroness Thatcher.

"I have vivid and wonderful memories of working as one of the smallest cogs in
her government," beams the peer, 52, who served as a junior employment minister.

So how does he feel about reforms that would expel her from Parliament? "Oh
yes... good point," he says with surprise, although it seems unthinkable that
this has only now crossed his mind.

"No one has ever denied that we would miss some people and one of them would
almost certainly be Margaret Thatcher. And that would be a sadness to us all."

And has he consulted the Lady? "I've not, but I have an inkling of what she
would say. I think she would say this was not a top priority."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

NOW STAND UP FOR TORY VALUES

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 742 words


DAVID Cameron is struggling to contain civil war in the Coalition following a
painful setback in local elections for both Government parties.

Last night the Prime Minister was warned to rein in wind turbine Toryism' as
senior Conservative MPs prepared to publish an alternative programme for
Government, demanding more radical tax and spending policies.

Seeking to draw a line under the Government's most turbulent period, Mr Cameron
admitted the polls took place against a difficult national backdrop' but
insisted ministers were doing the right thing for our country'.

However he faces an immediate challenge from senior figures on the Right of his
party who want him to stand up to the Liberal Democrats.

They plan to unveil an alternative Queen's Speech within days, setting out 20
Bills they argue would kickstart the faltering economy and boost Conservative
support. Tory hearts

were lifted last night as Boris Johnson appeared on course to defy political
gravity with a knife-edge defeat of Labour's Ken Livingstone in the London
mayoral election, the biggest ballot-box test before the next General Election.

Mr Johnson, whose victory would put him in pole position to succeed Mr Cameron,
brushed aside suggestions that he would return to Parliament as an MP in 2015 to
battle for the leadership.

But Tory MPs pointed out that the London Mayor had outperformed his party in the
capital while refusing to apologise for traditional Eurosceptic, low-tax Tory
principles.

Unease has been growing on Conservative back benches at the power and influence
of Mr Clegg in the Coalition, with MPs complaining that Mr Cameron has been
forced to water down policies on Europe, tax cuts, human rights, NHS reforms and
the family.

Right-wingers led by David Davis and John Redwood will argue that a more radical
economic strategy is needed, proposing targeted tax cuts, deeper spending cuts
and an end to expensive environmental regulation.

The Prime Minister is under pressure to champion more traditional Conservative
policies on law and order and education.

Eurosceptic Tories also want Mr Cameron to consider offering a referendum on
Britain's future in the EU.

Though the Lib Dems would be likely to walk out of the Coalition if he did so,
some MPs suggest he could announce a poll to coincide with the next General
Election, even if it meant running a minority Conservative government for the
last few months of the Parliament.

They suggest such a dramatic move would energise Conservative support on
election day.

Tory MPs drew some comfort from the fact that Labour's performance, while solid
at around 38 per cent of the vote to the Tories' 31 per cent, did not indicate a
party cruising towards General Election victory.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell told the Huffington Post website: These results show
why we need to deliver the EU referendum we promised when in opposition. UKIP
cost us a number of seats in council elections.

If repeated in a General Election, this will mean us losing dozens of seats and
make an overall majority less likely. More wind-turbine Toryism is not the
answer.'

Stewart Jackson MP called for an end to barmy' policies. David Cameron is on
notice that he does need to raise his game,' he said.

He needs to focus on bread-and-butter issues like jobs and mortgages and public
services and, above all, to develop a clear route map to growth, and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him and barmy policies such as
Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either don't like or don't care
about.

There is a growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their
views are not being listened to.'

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister, called for Mr Cameron to overrule the
Lib Dems on more issues.

Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one sixth of the Coalition,
not one half of the Coalition,' she said.

David can listen rather more to Conservative MPs, who represent the real people
of this country, and give rather less regard to the Liberal Democrat
intellectual urban elite, with their student politics idea of reforming the
constitution and taking forward green policies.'

Centrist Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were gagging' for some more
traditional Right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

But senior figures including Foreign Secretary William Hague insisted that
abandoning the centre ground and shifting to the Right would be futile.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

THE PRICE OF TREATING US WITH CONTEMPT

LENGTH: 1621 words


COMMENTARY

BY MAX HASTINGS

Many will remember Henry Kissinger's joke about the 1980s Iran-Iraq war: It is a
pity they can't both lose'. That is the way millions of British people felt as
they trudged to the polls, as if to a gallows, for Britain's rag-bag of
elections.

Seldom in modern history has the electorate felt so disenchanted with all the
parties vying for its support.

Tories ask what is Tory about David Cameron. Labour voters inspect the rabble
heading their own party as if they were greenfly on the roses. Many of the
dwindling band of Lib Dems look on their representatives in the Coalition as
traitors to every potty value they hold dear.

The election turnout and outcome - a triumph for the Apathy Party no matter how
many seats Labour gained - highlights disenchantment with the political process.

Most conspicuous was the expected victory of Boris Johnson in the London mayoral
election. He professes to be a Conservative, but in truth is the sole member and
spokesperson of the Boris Party, a self-promotional vehicle of supertanker
proportions.

It is dismaying that he has become the most popular Conservative in Britain.
Johnson is an undisputed whizz as a TV quiz-show panellist. But it is crazy to
speak of him as a prospective prime minister. If Boris reached Downing Street,
government would become a permanent pier-end panto, probably with a strip show
thrown in.

Johnson's defenders say he upholds proper' Conservative values such as
Euroscepticism, a small state and low taxation. This is true but surely the
British people deserve better than a comic, cad and serial bonker, however
entertaining.

But we should not mock what happened on Thursday. The condition of our politics,
the low esteem which ministers command, are serious business. That Boris Johnson
should be seriously discussed as a rival to David Cameron reflects the depth of
the mess the Government has got itself into. The truth is that we are being
ruled in a way which resembles the management of a bankrupt company by
receivers.

Ministers talk only to each other, and do not consult mere shareholders - the
electorate.

The Coalition Cabinet started life with some bold flourishes of radicalism, but
has now lapsed into the role of caretaker.

Preserving the Coalition until 2015 has become an end in itself. Cameron spends
too much time worrying about what Nick Clegg thinks, rather than what the
British people think.

Clegg asserted last week that LibDems are once more feeling proud of themselves:
We are locally and nationally doing good things, fair things, in difficult
circumstances.' Yet anybody who makes a shopping list of changes Britain needs -
everything from imposing rigorous university entry criteria to embracing an
energy policy which gives wind turbines the giant raspberry they deserve - will
find that LibDems oppose the lot of them.

They blight any prospect of making Britain competitive, and serve only as a
drogue anchor on government. Just 57 Cleggie MPs, nine per cent of the Commons,
sustain a veto, and Cameron lets them get away with it.

After the LibDems' miserable showing on Thursday, Clegg should be rehoused in a
kennel in Downing Street's back yard. As for the Conservatives, Margaret
Thatcher used to talk about our people' - meaning natural Tory voters - and the
importance of keeping them on side.

This government, by contrast, treats its natural constituency with contempt. At
every turn, ministers trample on the sensibilities of Middle England.

A couple of weeks ago I talked to a friend who has always been a pillar of the
Tory Party - serving four terms in local government. Now, she says: I'm really
not sure I want to stand again for this Conservative Party. If the best they can
offer us is gay marriage, it is not for me.' When Britain faces huge challenges,
why is the Prime Minister committing his authority on an issue so footling as
gay marriage?

My councillor friend cited another reason for her own alienation: she sees the
Coalition's policy of so-called localism as a sham. She says: We looked at a
wind farm proposal and turned it down, partly because so many people opposed it,
partly because the economics didn't add up. But the Department of Energy just
overruled us. Where is the localism in that?'

When the Tories are in danger of losing the support of such people, they are
losing their compass.

I repeated her remarks to a party grandee, who responded vaguely: It's a very
difficult time.'

But it need not be as difficult as it is, if ministers recovered the
electorate's shrinking faith in their competence, conviction and common sense.

The fuel crisis provoked by jerry-can-in-the-garage minister Francis Maude
lingers in everybody's memory. The fiasco over border control queues at Heathrow
has intensified doubts about Theresa May's fitness to be Home Secretary.

It should have been obvious to her that it was foolish to slash the immigration
service's budget and tighten airport security simultaneously.

But by sacking the Border Agency and not improving immigration checks, we are
left with the worst of all possible outcomes. Illegal immigrants and indeed
legal ones continue to pour into the country at a rate which outrages public
opinion, while genuine tourists face a Spanish Inquisition.

The economy remains in desperate straits. Nobody ever cared for George Osborne's
overbearing conceit, but his abilities commanded respect - until his clumsy and
wildly unpopular Budget. The Chancellor deserves full support for his
determination to cut the national deficit. But he has placed too little emphasis
on cutting state spending, too much on maximising tax revenue.

The 20 per cent VAT rate is a significant check on consumer activity, especially
in the catering and hospitality industry.

Osborne acted bravely in cutting the 50 per cent top tax rate, but unfortunately
this move collided with public outrage about a new outbreak of bankers' pillage.

It is a grievous political problem that our society is increasingly deeply
divided between an absurdly privileged few who loot their companies' coffers
without shame and the vast majority who are hurting badly.

At the bottom of the scale, Treasury carelessness in tinkering with tax credits
means that some people are now better off jobless than working part-time -
precisely the opposite of what reform of the benefit system was meant to
achieve.

None of this sounds like fairness to any voters.

Meanwhile, Europe is in chaos and nobody knows what British EU policy is - which
helps to explain the large UKIP protest vote on Thursday.

Admittedly, there have been some big policy initiatives since the Coalition took
office. Education Secretary Michael Gove certainly deserves high praise for his
radical schools programme. Elsewhere, however, including NHS and benefits
reform, we shall not know for years whether they have worked: there seem grounds
for caution.

After 18 months in which David Cameron seemed invulnerable to personal attack,
he is now assailed from all sides. Beyond the familiar mocking of his
toffishness, the much more serious charge is that nobody - including some of his
closest colleagues - really knows why he wants to be prime minister beyond being
the tenant of Downing Street.

Some claim that he has no heart; others that he lacks bottom' (that
old-fashioned but potent word for depth, roots, grounding, principle).

His Cabinet lacks a Michael Heseltine, a natural star who nonetheless rose the
hard way, making his own fortune. It lacks a Norman Tebbit, who nobody liked but
was tough as old boots and brilliantly understood what grass-roots Tories were
thinking.

It lacks a Willie Whitelaw, Thatcher's deputy prime minister, an old-fashioned
Tory squire who looked a bumbling idiot but was in truth notably shrewd.

Willie would have spotted most of Cameron's banana skins 20 yards before he trod
on them.

In the absence of such people, the PM relies for counsel on old friends, most of
whom he met at Eton or Oxford. Many are clever, in the sense that they have
passed lots of exams. But almost none possesses the precious gift of wisdom, of
which every successful government needs a spoonful.

David Cameron may justly complain that he is obliged to rule Britain through a
coalition, at a time when we have run out of money. But he wanted the job,
asserted his own fitness for it.

Now it is his business to prove it, to display the grip conspicuously absent in
past months.

It has always been Cameron's misfortune to govern at a time when the problems
and challenges would be so great that a so-so prime minister would not suffice:
he needed to be a great one. The local election results suggest that the British
people think he has fallen short of such high achievement.

Cameron has shown himself to be a charming, fluently assured greeter, standing
immaculately tailored and coiffured at the entrance to the ballroom. But now he
needs to do much more, to lead the dance in a fashion worthy of Britain at this
troubled hour.

If he and his Government merely carry on as they have been doing for six months
past, then come the next general election they are likely to find themselves
turned off the floor.

Should France elect such a flat-earther as socialist Francois Hollande as its
president tomorrow, the British might just be foolish enough to put Ed Miliband
in Downing Street.

The truth is, however, that voters seem reluctant to grant any one party mastery
of our affairs.

Perhaps the grimmest prospect now facing this country is that coalition
government, with its chronic compromises and weaknesses, could become our
natural condition.

The Cameron-Clegg combo may seem pretty wet, but imagine the future under a
Labour-LibDem partnership. It might happen. Then it would really be time to take
to the boats.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

A GOOD NIGHT, ED, BUT DON'T CROW YET

LENGTH: 515 words


ANALYSIS

BY TONY TRAVERS

The 2012 local elections were bad for the Conservatives, but by no means as bad
as some of the mid-term blues that have hit governments in the past.

Although Labour has made respectable progress, it cannot see gains of a little
over 800 councillors as evidence it will certainly win a 2015 general election.

Labour's vote share was about 38 per cent, way above some of its poll ratings a
few months ago, but not as impressive as the 42 per cent it achieved during the
Tory governments of the late 1980s and 1990s. Back then, the Tories sank as low
as 27 per cent.

If Ed Miliband is to be sure of national success, he needs to see Labour poll
over 40 per cent in local elections for several years running.

Of the smaller parties, Ukip made good progress in terms of vote share in seats
where they stood, though they did not win any new councillors.

The party's surge is evidence of dissident Conservatives making a protest. In
the past, Ukip has been able to make occasional and exciting interventions into
British voting, but has subsequently faded away. It has generally done well when
the Tories are unpopular - something the Lib Dems once did. Ukip, the Greens and
other minor parties can expect to prosper more as an opportunity for protest
voting in future.

So just how bad were these results for the Conservatives? Their national vote
share was 31 per cent, well down on last year. However, their loss of seats was
far smaller than those suffered by Mrs Thatcher or Tony Blair in their worst
years.

For example, more than once during the 1980s, Mrs Thatcher lost 1,000 seats in a
year, and in 1999 and 2003, Mr Blair suffered similar losses. Yet both went on
to win the next general elections.

For the Lib Dems, who have lost their protest vote' status, this result is
another body blow added to the one they suffered last year. They have lost more
than 300 councillors and have slumped to a total of under 3,000 across Britain.
This is their lowest number since the mid-1980s and is sure to spark growing
disquiet within the party's rank and file.

Next year, there will be shire county elections, with the prospect of a further,
possibly worse, battering. Fewer councillors means fewer activists and thus, the
inevitability of fewer MPs.

Local elections should be about clean streets, bins, council tax and a decent
environment. Inevitably, though, they are used as a real-time opinion poll about
David, Ed and Nick. In reality some perfectly good Conservative and Liberal
Democrat councillors will have lost their seats because of the Coalition's
recent shambolic activities.

However, London's City Hall race, between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone,
showed what an extraordinary vote-winner Boris is. With his party well behind
Labour in the national vote, Johnson radically out-performed the Tories across
the capital.

These elections have worsened the political weather for David Cameron, with the
risk they will empower his enemies within his party. He will now also need to
keep an eye out for Boris, whose popularity will not be lost on the Tory
faithful.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

UKIP RAGE AT WARSI'S BNP JIBE

BYLINE: BY DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 160 words


TORY co-chairman Baroness Warsi was the subject of an foul-mouthed broadside
from a senior Ukip spin doctor after she linked the party to the BNP.

Gawain Towler unleashed a tirade after Lady Warsi told the BBC yesterday that it
was interesting' that a rise in Ukip candidates corresponded with a drop in the
number fielded by its racist rival.

Mr Towler immediately wrote on Twitter to his 1,700 followers: **** off Warsi,
you b****'.

He soon deleted his comment, and wrote: Shouldn't have said that, [I]
apologise.' But he insisted that his anger had been justified, calling Lady
Warsi contemptible'.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage brushed off the row, saying the language was no worse
than that used in TV political satire The Thick Of It.

The Tories have been left rattled by Ukip, which despite failing to make gains
in terms of seats, took thousands of Conservative votes with an unashamedly
Right-wing agenda that is anti-Brussels and tough on immigration.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Read Telegraph blogs at telegraph.co.uk/blogs

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 60 words


Daniel Knowles

The Tories have far more to fear from a Lib-Lab pact than from Ukip.

Will Heaven

Argentina's crass Falklands Olympics advert is the lowest form of diplomacy.

Donata Huggins

The knives are being sharpened for Cameron.

Ed West

Conservatism is doomed. Head for the hills.

Follow @TelegraphBlogs on Twitter Join us on Facebook at
facebook.com/telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The turnout was low because politicians show no vision for the future;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 389 words


SIR - Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, interviewed on BBC radio about the
election results, appeared to draw the conclusion that the electorate now trust
Labour and his financial proposals and do not trust the Tory party and George
Osborne.

The fact is that about 12 people in 100 voted Labour and 10 people in 100 voted
Tory. Presumably the electorate fail to vote because they feel that whoever they
vote for will make no difference.

I did vote, but only had the opportunity of voting for the three main parties -
and look what a mess they have got us into.

Until we have politicians who have a vision for our country in 25 and 50 years'
time, we will always have the polished clones now positioning themselves for the
next election and their substantial salaries and pensions.

J R Humphrys Hildersham, Cambridgeshire

SIR - The Tory debacle has not been caused by the economy alone - or more
precisely the Budget omnishambles. Who'd have believed, for example, that a
Tory-led administration would be proposing to wreck the House of Lords and
promote homosexual marriage, both without any electoral mandate? David Leonard
London E1

SIR - There was a very low turnout because the voice of the people has not been
listened to.

There was a drop in the Conservatives' vote because they allow the Liberal
Democrats too much power in the Government. The Liberal Democrats lost votes
because they forced an unwanted referendum and are pushing for further unwanted
changes to the House of Lords.

The Ukip vote increased because a message is being sent to the Government. The
Labour result is a natural recovery after so much lost support in recent years.

I am thankful I have never supported any political party, but always cast a vote
in an election.

Rev Dr Ralph S Werrell Kenilworth, Warwickshire

SIR - How very apt was Matt's cartoon yesterday: "I don't even want the party I
voted for."

Jeremy Brewer Chesterfield, Derbyshire

SIR - A return to core Tory values is what the country needs and what David
Cameron needs to save his premiership. He must prove to us that he means what he
says through concrete actions, as he won't fool us again with sound bites and
smiles. Jean Maigrot Diss, Norfolk

SIR - Voting Labour isn't going to bring our money back. They are the party who
wasted it in the first place.

Elizabeth Davies Papworth Everard, Cambridgeshire

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bonkers Lib Dem policies cost us Tory seats, MPs tell Cameron;
Prime Minister urged to stand up to Coalition partners over gay marriage and
Lords reform CONSERVATIVE PARTY Election Special

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 544 words


DAVID CAMERON must scrap "bonkers" Liberal Democrat demands such as same sex
marriage and Lords reform after bruising defeats in the local elections, senior
Conservatives have warned.

One leading backbencher, Peter Bone, even claimed that the results spelt "the
beginning of the end of the Coalition", as MPs claimed the alliance with the Lib
Dems had cost them around 400 council seats.

The Prime Minister is likely to come under pressure to change direction from the
Right of his party, as the UK Independence Party gained its biggest share of the
vote in local elections.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, insisted that the results were in the
"normal range" for a mid-term government and would not have led to an overall
victory for Labour in a general election. He also said that it was not a "matter
of going Right or Left".

But more than a dozen Conservative MPs broke ranks to criticise the Government.

Mark Pritchard, a senior member of the 1922 backbench committee and MP for The
Wrekin, issued a strong warning to the Conservative leadership to pay attention
to the party faithful.

"No 10 need to listen to their Conservative backbenchers and the Conservative
Party grass roots more often, and to their minority and junior Coalition
partners less often," he said.

"It would be misguided to just put this down to mid-term blues."

Tim Yeo, the MP for South Suffolk, also said that the Prime Minister needed to
stand up to the Lib Dems more often.

"Voters are getting impatient and we need to talk about issues that matter to
them," he said. "Top of the list that doesn't matter is House of Lords reform.

"I would like the Prime Minister to be able to say to Nick Clegg: 'I'm very
sorry, mate, but we'll put this one a bit further down the agenda for now.' "For
Lords reform to be top of the list in the Queen's Speech next week, most voters
will think he has gone bonkers."

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, asked Mr Cameron to drop "barmy Lib Dem
policies" such as same sex marriage and Lords reform that risk alienating party
members.

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister and Tory MP for Epping Forest, also
blamed the Lib Dems for losing the Conservatives votes with their "student
politics" of environmentalism and constitutional reform.

The first Conservative to come out for a swing to the Right was Gerald Howarth,
a defence minister who also served in Margaret Thatcher's government.

"There are issues, for example, like the proposals for gay marriage," he told
the BBC. "A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying, 'I am a lifelong
Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being proceeded with?'"
There was also discontent among MPs who saw their local councils lose overall
control to Labour.

Gary Streeter, the MP for Devon South West, said many voters did not perceive
the Government to be "competent", as Plymouth city council fell to Labour.

Robert Halfon, a member of the modernising 301 Group and MP for Harlow, where
the council also swung to Labour control, said Conservatives needed to "show
once again we're the party of aspiration, opportunity and fairness".

Lib Dem sources said that it would not make sense for the Coalition to swing to
the Right when hundreds of seats had been lost to Labour and barely any to Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron is likely to come under pressure from the Right of the
Conservative Party to change direction
EDDIE MULHOLLAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories 'scared of Ukip's as it increases share of vote;
PARTY SQUABBLES

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 396 words


A SENIOR Conservative has been accused of underestimating the UK Independence
Party after she suggested that its growing popularity is linked to the decline
of the British National Party.

Baroness Warsi, the co-chairman of the Tory party, suggested Ukip would pick up
votes in places where the extreme far-Right British National Party was no longer
putting up candidates.

"Where Ukip is fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but
they're not this time, I think that will have an impact," she said. "There are
members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political parties, but it is an
interesting mix there in terms of the number of candidates."

Her remarks drew an angry response from Paul Nuttall, the deputy leader of Ukip,
as the Eurosceptic party gained its biggest ever vote share in local elections.
Mr Nuttall said Lady Warsi's comments were "disgraceful" and "a sign that the
Conservatives are very scared of Ukip".

Gawain Towler, a Ukip spokesman even used an offensive word to describe the
Conservative peer on his Twitter feed, before quickly withdrawing his opinion
after he was accused of "unparliamentary language". "Deleted, out of order on my
part", he added, before apologising.

Ukip increased its support by about five percentage points, winning
approximately 14 per cent of the total vote and in some areas beating the
Liberal Democrats.

Its biggest win was ousting the Tory leader of Tunbridge Wells council but it
still ended the day with no extra councillors overall. Nigel Farage, the party's
leader, called it "good steady progress".

The party fielded about 700 candidates, while the BNP put up just 130 because of
a shortage of funding and defections.

The BNP suffered a major setback, losing six council seats. Nick Griffin, the
party's leader, said on Twitter: "Hammered by Labour - same as everyone. No
surprise, no disgrace."

The surge in support for Ukip worried some backbench Conservative MPs.

Gary Streeter, the MP for Devon South West, said: "We need to work out a
strategy, certainly in the West Country, for dealing with the issue of
traditional voters shuffling off and voting Ukip because they don't think our
leadership is Conservative enough," he said.

David Willetts, the Conservative universities minister, said Lady Warsi's
comments were down to "incorrect arithmetic". "The Government has a robust
approach to Europe," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Bonkers Lib Dem ideas cost us, MPs tell Cameron;
CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 530 words


DAVID Cameron must scrap "bonkers" Liberal Democrat demands such as gay marriage
and Lords reform after bruising defeats in the local elections, senior
Conservatives have warned.

One backbencher, Peter Bone, even claimed that the results spelled "the
beginning of the end of the Coalition", as MPs claimed the alliance with the Lib
Dems cost them around 400 council seats.

The Prime Minister is likely to come under pressure to change direction from the
Right of his party, as the UK Independence Party gained its biggest ever share
of the vote in local elections.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, insisted that the results were in the
"normal range" for a midterm government and would not have led to an overall
victory for Labour in a general election.

But more than a dozen Conservative MPs broke ranks to criticise the Government.
Mark Pritchard, a member of the 1922 backbench committee and MP for The Wrekin,
issued a strong warning to the Tory leadership to pay attention to the party
faithful.

"No10 need to listen to their Conservative backbenchers and the Conservative
Party grass roots more often, and to their minority and junior Coalition
partners less often," he said. "It would be misguided to just put this down to
midterm blues."

Tim Yeo, MP for South Suffolk and the longest-serving in the Commons, also said
that the Prime Minister needed to stand up to the Lib Dems more often.

"Voters are getting impatient and we need to talk about issues that matter to
them," he said. "Top of the list that doesn't matter is House of Lords reform.

"I would like the Prime Minister to be able to say to Nick Clegg: 'I'm very
sorry, mate, but we'll put this one a bit further down the agenda for now.'

"For Lords reform to be top of the list in the Queen's Speech next week, most
voters will think he has gone bonkers."

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, echoed his comments with a plea for Mr
Cameron to drop "barmy Lib Dem policies" like gay marriage and Lords reform.

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister, also blamed the Lib Dems for losing the
Conservatives votes with their "student politics".

The first Conservative to come out for a swing to the Right was Gerald Howarth,
a defence minister who also served in Margaret Thatcher's government.

"There are issues, for example, like the proposals for gay marriage," he told
the BBC. "A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying, 'I am a lifelong
Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being proceeded with?'"

There was also discontent among MPs who saw their local councils lose overall
control to Labour.

Gary Streeter, MP for Devon South West, said many voters did not perceive the
Government to be "competent", as Plymouth fell to Labour.

Robert Halfon, a member of the modernising 301 Group and MP for Harlow, where
the council also swung to Labour control, said Conservatives needed to "show
once again we're the party of aspiration, opportunity and fairness".

Sources in the Lib Dems said that it would not make sense for the Coalition to
swing to the Right when hundreds of seats had been lost to Labour and barely any
to Ukip.

"Top of the list of things that doesn't matter is House of Lords reform

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Staff count votes cast in the mayoral and London Assembly elections,
but voters in other cities declined to follow the capital
MIGUEL MEDINA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Now even Mandelson backs call for a vote on Europe

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 252 words


FORMER Labour Cabinet Minister Lord Mandelson sparked surprise yesterday by
calling for a national referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

He claimed a poll would give his fellow Brussels backers a chance to build a new
consensus of support for the EU in Britain.

And he argued that a Yes vote would lay the ground for Britain to join the euro.

Lord Mandelson's remarks, in a lecture at Mansfield College, Oxford, angered
Eurosceptics after the Labour government in which he played a key role
repeatedly blocked calls for a referendum.

He said the time was ripe for the first binding national poll on Britain's links
with Brussels since the Common Market referendum in 1973. He said: "The British
public need to engage with what is at stake. The European mandate that the Heath
government secured in the 1970s belongs to another time and another generation.

"I believe a fresh referendum on this will be necessary because the political
parties cannot reconcile their own differences."

He added: "A referendum would be a healthy means of re-establishing a consensus.

"I do not believe that pro-European Labour and Liberal Democrats can leave it to
the Conservative ultrasceptics to make all the running over Europe."

Lord Mandelson's intervention came days after his former ally Tony Blair
signalled his desire to make a political comeback.

But critics of the EU were unimpressed.

Ukip Euro MP Godfrey Bloom said: "I welcome Peter Mandelson's conversion to the
referendum campaign but it is a little late in the day."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Too late? Mandelson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron has taken core Tory voters for granted;
DAILY EXPRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 358 words


IT IS not unusual for governing parties to suffer serious reverses in mid-term
local elections. And very often they bounce back well before the subsequent
general election comes into view.

When the Tories were being led in opposition by William Hague they gained nearly
1,400 council seats in May 1999. But come the 2001 general election those gains
melted away and Labour won another landslide.

So Labour and Ed Miliband, with only around half that number of gains, would be
foolish to think that this year's local election results mean they are heading
back to power. But there is an added factor at work this year that should give
David Cameron extra cause for concern.

The arrival of UKIP as a significant force in British politics has given
disgruntled Conservatives an alternative choice. In seats where UKIP stood on
Thursday it attracted 14 per cent of the vote despite having no chance of
returning significant numbers of councillors.

Even though they knew UKIP would not win in many places, lots of traditional
Conservatives voted for it because they feel so alienated by the policies Mr
Cameron has been espousing.

So the Prime Minister would be deeply complacent to suppose they will
automatically return to the fold simply because at the next general election he
can argue that a vote for UKIP will be a "wasted" vote.

Whether it be on energy policy, grammar schools, tax, law and order, foreign
aid, the human rights regime or defence cuts, once dogged Tory voters have been
left deeply disappointed by the policies of the Government.

But for most it is the issue of Europe that has proved decisive. Despite
hundreds of thousands of signatures calling for a referendum on leaving the EU
being handed to him by this newspaper and a massive rebellion by backbench
Tories pressing for the same, the Prime Minister has dismissed all concerns.

He says he does not want one because he wishes Britain to remain inside the EU.
But that is for the people to decide and if he believes in the case for staying
in he should put it to them and trust their judgment.

Unless he does so his prospects of winning back the voters he has lost will be
slim indeed.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GEORGE OSBORNE promised he would [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 405 words


GEORGE OSBORNE promised he would vet every proposal to pay a state employee a
higher salary than the Prime Minister. "Anyone who wishes to pay a public
servant more than the PM will have to put it before the Chancellor. I am not
expecting a long queue," he boasted. Yet this week we learned that already 101
new public sector posts with higher salaries than David Cameron's have been
created by the coalition and they've been vetted not by Osborne but by his
dimwitted Lib Dem deputy Danny Alexander. Was the part-time Chancellor too busy
being chief Tory strategist to live up to his pledge? CAROLINE SPELMAN, the
minister for the drought, has been doing her bit to make the Government sound
even more out of touch. She told MPs: "I encourage people who have borehole
capacity to abide by the restrictions that apply to those who do not have a
private supply of water." People without a private supply of water, indeed.
Perhaps they should store the stuff in jerry cans.

JOHN BERCOW was in Tory bad books after summoning David Cameron to answer
questions on the Murdoch affair. But that same day Bercow hosted a dinner in
honour of youngsters from non-privileged backgrounds whom he has helped secure
paid work placements in Parliament. Some of those young people attended and
their talent shone through. No Speaker is perfect but Bercow does a good job in
letting MPs hold ministers to account. His heart is in the right place too.

CONSERVATIVE chairman Baroness Warsi has tried to link the rise of UKIP to the
decline of the BNP. Not only is such a smear contemptible but it is also
idiotic. The implication that Tory high command believes voters who want Britain
to leave the EU have neo-Nazi sympathies will disgust traditional Conservatives
everywhere. She has got to go.

THE law that makes squatting a criminal offence passed on to the Statute Book
this week and will become active in September. It is a rare example of a
government reacting to legitimate concern by framing a new law to protect decent
people from a growing menace. It would be churlish not to say well done.

BEAST of Bolsover Dennis Skinner came off worst in a Commons tussle with David
Cameron. The Prime Minister recommended that he should step down and start
drawing his pension. Labour colleagues were appalled at Cameron's rudeness. But
the underlying lesson here is that if an MP is to be exempted from derision he
shouldn't specialise in dishing it out.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Clegg face MPs' fury over poll disaster

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 649 words


DAVID Cameron faced an angry Coalition backlash last night after both Tories and
Lib Dems suffered a severe local election drubbing.

Tory MPs were openly calling for a return to traditional Conservative policies
and an end to the appeasement of Nick Clegg after their vote share slumped to 31
per cent.

And Lib Dems were blaming their alliance with the Tories after the party's
roster of councillors slumped to the lowest level in its history.

Grassroots Lib Dems branded their leader "catastrophe Clegg" after they lost
nearly half their council seats.

In contrast, Ed Miliband was celebrating Labour winning more than 770 council
seats and gaining control of 31 authorities including Birmingham and Cardiff. A
downcast Mr Cameron yesterday apologised to the more than 400 Tory councillors
who lost their seats but vowed not to change course.

He said: "I'm sorry for the hardworking councillors who have lost their seats
obviously against a diffi-cult national backdrop.

"These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is
take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt and the deficit, the broken
economy that we inherited.

"And we'll go on making those decisions because we've got to do the right thing
for our country."

The Prime Minister was left particularly embarrassed by a string of Tory losses
to Labour in his Oxfordshire constituency in Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

And his plan for elected mayors was crumbling after the move was rejected in
referendums in Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry, although Bristol backed the
idea.

Tory MPs urged the Prime Minister to spend less time pleasing his Lib Dem
coalition partners and listen more to voters' concerns on immigration, crime and
Europe.

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough and a former ministerial aide, said: "David
Cameron is on notice that he needs to raise his game.

Barmy "He needs to focus on bread and butter issues like jobs, mortgages and
public services.

"He needs to develop a clear route map to growth and stop fixating on the agenda
of a liberal clique around him and their barmy policies such as Lords reform and
gay marriage which people either don't like or don't care about. There is a
growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their views aren't
being listened to."

Mr Jackson said that for every ex-Labour or Liberal voter attracted to
Cameron-style conservatism "three or four" could switch to Ukip.

He said: "That is not a great recipe for success."

Eleanor Laing, Tory MP for Epping Forest, called for a "rebalancing" of the
Coalition. She said: "Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one
sixth of the Coalition, not one half of the Coalition." Meanwhile, the Lib Dems
hit out at the Tories after an equally grim night at the polls. The party got 16
per cent of the vote but its number of councillors fell below 3,000 for the
first time. A senior Lib Dem source said: "In many cities, there just aren't any
Tory councillors so the only way to kick the Government is to kick the Lib Dems
and that is what has happened."

Deputy Prime Minister Mr Clegg admitted to being "really sad" about the results
for his party.

In contrast, Labour leader Mr Miliband went on a whistlestop tour of victory
spots including Birmingham and Southampton after his party scored a 38 per cent
share of the vote, up three per cent from a year earlier.

He told supporters: "More people put their faith in us yesterday than in the
elections a year ago, and I'm pleased they've done that. But I know we've got
more work."

Allies hope the result will quell continuing doubts about his leadership.

Labour exceeded expectations and regained its Glasgow powerbase despite a strong
challenge from the Scottish Nationalists.

But many MPs believed apathy had been the real winner on Thursday after turnout
slumped to 30 per cent, the lowest level for 12 years.

opinion: page 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: TIM IRELAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP CELEBRATES RECoRd SHARE oF VoTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 153 words


NIGEL Farage was yesterday celebrating a record local election vote for his UK
Independence Party.

The anti-EU party won up to 14 per cent of the vote in wards where it put up
candidates and netted more than 150,000 votes across the country.

It came second in more than 100 seats, increasing expectations that Ukip will
overtake the Lib Dems as Britain's third party.

Activists were disappointed to get only five per cent in the Greater London
Assembly elections, behind the Greens who got eight per cent.

Insiders blamed an error that left the party's name off ballot papers with only
the slogan "a fresh choice for London" appearing instead.

Nationally Ukip's significant vote share was not reflected in the number of new
councillors.

Mr Farage said: "Our share of the vote is going up and up very steadily but we
haven't quite got to the level where we are bursting through and winning council
seats in very large numbers."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MACER HALL;
COMMENT Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 369 words


MANY Conservatives are beginning to doubt whether David Cameron has his heart
set on leading the party to their dream of a genuine Tory-majority Government in
2015.

Earlier this week, the Prime Minister irritated many of his own activists by
claiming that the choice of the next election would be between "Labour or a
Conservative-led government".

To the horror of the faithful, the remark suggested he was resigned to another
term in cahoots with Nick Clegg's dripping-wet Lib Dems.

His aides dismissed that remark as a gaffe and insist the Prime Minister is up
for the fight. But if Tory activists were disgruntled after that slip, they are
boiling with rage today.

The sight of hundreds of hard-working Tory councillors losing their jobs, added
to the nasal crowing by a triumphant Ed Miliband on the streets, will make many
question where their party is going. Even loyal frontbenchers were openly
stating yesterday that Mr Cameron has to return to core Tory principles if he
wants to be a winner.

The Prime Minister must be worrying that the Tory awkward squad in the Commons
is becoming the mainstream while too many once diehard Tory voters are turning
in exasperation to the UK Independence Party.

The Tory losses should not be over-exaggerated: Labour regained many seats in
areas where it had been obliterated four years ago and gabbling Mr Miliband
hardly looked like a future Prime Minister yesterday. But Mr Cameron will be in
trouble if he cannot fire up his own supporters.

He is being eclipsed by Boris Johnson as the Tory's best vote-winning asset. For
all his buffoonery, Mr Johnson has won support by with some unequivocal
anti-European Union and pro-business messages.

Mr Cameron needs to remember that, unlike the Labour and the Lib Dems, the Tory
Party is a ruthless machine that rapidly ejects any leader who is not up to the
job.

Earlier this year, after backing tough sentences for rioters and standing up to
the EU, Mr Cameron's popularity was soaring. Months of blunders and sucking up
to Mr Clegg have wasted that success.

Mr Cameron must use next week's Queen's Speech Parliamentary programme and his
imminent Cabinet reshuffle to show that his heart really is in being a truly
Tory Prime Minister.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CONSERVATIVE chairman Baroness Warsi has [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 57 words


CONSERVATIVE chairman Baroness Warsi has tried to link the rise of UKIP to the
decline of the BNP. Not only is such a smear contemptible but it is also
idiotic. The implication that Tory high command believes voters who want Britain
to leave the EU have neo-Nazi sympathies will disgust traditional Conservatives
everywhere. She has got to go.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Clegg face MPs' fury over poll disaster

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 816 words


DAVID Cameron faced an angry Coalition backlash last night after both Tories and
Lib Dems suffered a severe local election drubbing.

Tory MPs were openly calling for a return to traditional Conservative policies
and an end to the appeasement of Nick Clegg after their vote share slumped to 31
per cent.

And Lib Dems were blaming their alliance with the Tories after the party's
roster of councillors slumped to the lowest level in its history.

Grassroots Lib Dems branded their leader "catastrophe Clegg" after they lost
nearly half their council seats.

In contrast, Ed Miliband was celebrating Labour winning more than 770 council
seats and gaining control of 31 authorities including Birmingham and Cardiff. A
downcast Mr Cameron yesterday apologised to the more than 400 Tory councillors
who lost their seats but vowed not to change course.

He said: "I'm sorry for the hardworking councillors who have lost their seats
obviously against a diffi-cult national backdrop.

"These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is
take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt and the deficit, the broken
economy that we inherited.

"And we'll go on making those decisions because we've got to do the right thing
for our country."

The Prime Minister was left particularly embarrassed by a string of Tory losses
to Labour in his Oxfordshire constituency in Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

And his plan for elected mayors was crumbling after the move was rejected in
referendums in Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry, although Bristol backed the
idea.

Tory MPs urged the Prime Minister to spend less time pleasing his Lib Dem
coalition partners and listen more to voters' concerns on immigration, crime and
Europe.

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough and a former ministerial aide, said: "David
Cameron is on notice that he needs to raise his game.

Barmy "He needs to focus on bread and butter issues like jobs, mortgages and
public services.

"He needs to develop a clear route map to growth and stop fixating on the agenda
of a liberal clique around him and their barmy policies such as Lords reform and
gay marriage which people either don't like or don't care about. There is a
growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their views aren't
being listened to."

Mr Jackson said that for every ex-Labour or Liberal voter attracted to
Cameron-style conservatism "three or four" could switch to Ukip.

He said: "That is not a great recipe for success."

Eleanor Laing, Tory MP for Epping Forest, called for a "rebalancing" of the
Coalition. She said: "Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one
sixth of the Coalition, not one half of the Coalition." Meanwhile, the Lib Dems
hit out at the Tories after an equally grim night at the polls. The party got 16
per cent of the vote but its number of councillors fell below 3,000 for the
first time. A senior Lib Dem source said: "In many cities, there just aren't any
Tory councillors so the only way to kick the Government is to kick the Lib Dems
and that is what has happened."

Deputy Prime Minister Mr Clegg admitted to being "really sad" about the results
for his party.

In contrast, Labour leader Mr Miliband went on a whistlestop tour of victory
spots including Birmingham and Southampton after his party scored a 38 per cent
share of the vote, up three per cent from a year earlier.

He told supporters: "More people put their faith in us yesterday than in the
elections a year ago, and I'm pleased they've done that. But I know we've got
more work."

Allies hope the result will quell continuing doubts about his leadership.

Labour exceeded expectations and regained its Glasgow powerbase despite a strong
challenge from the Scottish Nationalists.

But many MPs believed apathy had been the real winner on Thursday after turnout
slumped to 30 per cent, the lowest level for 12 years.

OPINION: PAGE 14

COUNCILLORS RESULTS GAINS LOSSES CONSERVATIVE 1 From no overall control:
Winchester LABOUR 31 From no overall control: Birmingham, Bridgend, Burnley,
Cannock Chase, Carlisle, Chorley, Derby, Exeter, Glasgow, Newcastle-under-Lyme,
Newport, North East Lincolnshire, Norwich, Nuneaton & Bedworth, Reading,
Renfrewshire, Rossendale, Sefton, Swansea, Thurrock, Torfaen, West
Dunbartonshire, Wirral From Conservative: Dudley, Great Yarmouth, Harlow,
Plymouth, Redditch, Southampton From Independent / Other: Blaenau Gwent, Merthyr
Tydfi l SNP 2 From no overall control: Angus, Dundee CONSERVATIVE 7 To no
overall control: Gloucester, Hart, Monmouthshire, Southend-on-Sea, Vale of
Glamorgan, Worcester, Wyre Forest LABOUR 1 To no overall control: Midlothian
LIBERAL DEMOCRAT 1 To no overall control: Cambridge PLAID CYMRU 1 To no overall
control: Gwynedd LABOUR 2,158 739 gain TORIES 1,005 405 loss LIB DEM 431 336
loss SNP 424 57 gain PLAID CYMRU 158 41 loss OTHERS 85 COUNCILS WHERE POWER HAS
CHANGED HANDS

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: TIM IRELAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Boris Johnson wins London mayoral election: Politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 3514 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of the announcement of the result of
the London mayoral election, where Boris Johnson is tipped to beat Ken
Livingstone.

FULL TEXT

12.40am: Here's an early morning summary.[#xfffd] Boris Johnson has been
re-elected as London's mayor, but by a narrower lead than expected. After a
count that dragged on until midnight, Johnson beat Ken Livingstone by 51.5% to
48.5% - a margin of three points. Johnson's victory came after the Conservatives
suffered heavy defeats in the local elections, and it will renew interest in how
he has managed to develop a more attractive form of Conservatism than that
promulgated by his rival, David Cameron. Livingstone said Johnson's victory had
probably "settled the question of the next Tory leadership election".

[#xfffd] Ken Livingstone has announced that he will not stand for election
again. During the mayoral contest he dodged questions about whether he would
stand again if he lost. But, in his speech at the count, he said this was his
last election. It marks the end of a long and extraordinary career in London
electoral politics which at times saw Livingstone confounding political rivals
as powerful as Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair.

That's it from me. Thanks for the comments.

12.22am: Boris Johnson's speech was quite unremarkable, but Ken Livingstone's
was more interesting, partly because took a swipe at the media, which he seemed
to blame for contributing to his defeat (and also for encouraging cities outside
London to reject mayors, but fostering anti-politics sentiment), but largely
because it's the speech that marks the end of Livingstone's remarkable career in
electoral politics.

He said that under Ed Miliband Labour had won in every part of the country. He
predicted that Johnson would be the next Tory leader, saying: "I suspect this
result has settled the question of the next Tory leadership election." And then
he spoke about his own future, or non-future, in poltics.

This is my last election. Forty one years ago, almost to the day, I won my first
election promosing to build good council housing and introduce a free bus pass
for pensioners. Now I have lived long enough to get one myself. I did not think
I necessary would at the time. Since then I have won 11 more elections and lost
three. But the one that I most regret losing is this. This is the defeat I most
regret, because these are the worst time for 80 years and Londoners needed a
mayor to help them get through this very difficult period.

12.19am: Here's an audioBoo with Boris Johnson's acceptance speech.

I'll post Ken Livingstone's too if anyone puts it on audioBoo.

12.08am: Here are the results in more detail.

First round

Boris Johnson (Conservative) - 971,931Ken Livingstone (Labour) - 889,918Jenny
Jones (Green) - 98,913Brian Paddick (Lib Dem) - 91,774James Webb (Ukip) -
43,274Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) - 28,751

And here are the second round figures, after second preferences have been taken
into account

Johnson - 1,054,811 (82,880 from second preferences)Livingstone - 992,273
(102,355 from second preferences)

Johnson - 51.53%Livingstone - 48.47%

12.01am: Ken Livingstone is speaking now.

He says Boris Johnson's result has settled the outcome of the next Conservative
leadership election.

He congratulated Jenny Jones on coming third. But that is not a sleight on Brian
Paddick, he says. He says it's not Paddick's fault that the Lib Dems did so
badly. Nick Clegg was to blame, he says.

In the assembly elections Labour made "striking gains", he says.

He says this is his last election.

[#xfffd] Livingstone announces he will not stand again for election.

He says this is the one defeat he most regrets. Because "these are the worst
times for 80 years". Londoners needed a mayor who could help. He is sincerely
sorry.

This was not a conflict between two men. It was about the lives of 8 million
Londoners. He says newspapers demean themselves when they fill their pages with
smears. He wonders whether this played a role in cities outside London deciding
not to have mayors.

He wonders what might have happened if the BBC had gone ahead with its Question
Time debate, and let mayoral candidates appear on the Today programme. There was
"bias" in the media, he says.

11.56pm:Boris Johnson is speaking now.

He says London is going through a neo-Victorian renaissance. Visitors to the
Olympics will witness all the regenetion going on. Johnson says he wants to
ensure that young Londoners are able to take the jobs created.

He says he will fight for a good deal for London.

It has been a gruelling campaign. He is sorry to see the loss of Conservative
colleagues on the assembly.

He says he also wants to compliment Ken Livingstone. He said nice things about
Livingstone four years ago. "A fat lot of good it did me," he says. But he is
going to repeat them, in the belief that hope will triumph over experience. He
says he hopes they can have the "non-taxpayer funded drink" that he promised
four years ago.

(Johnson said in 2008 he would like to catch up with Livingstone for a drink.
That never materialised. Livingstone, I think, said once Johnson would only want
to meet up with him if he (Livingstone) had blonde hair and grew breasts.)

11.55pm: Here are the figures after second round preferences were taken into
account.

Boris Johnson - 1,054,811

Ken Livingstone - 992,273

11.53pm: Boris Johnson has been declared the winner.

11.49pm: How are the results going to be announced? Tom Clark has a theory.

If announcer goes through GLA results - D'Hount formula & all - b4 mayor every
journo on deadline will die

- Tom Clark (@guardian_clark) May 4, 2012

11.46pm: If you are fed up waiting, you could always watch Boris Johnson's
victory speech from 2008.

It lasts just over four minutes.

11.42pm: Here's the note sent out by London Elects about an hour ago explaining
why there has been a delay in getting the final result from Brent & Harrow.

All batches of ballot papers were registered and scanned. Two batches went to
storage without some ballot papers being manually entered as required. Manual
entry is required when a scanner cannot read a ballot paper - for example if a
ballot paper is damaged. It is not an issue with the scanners.The issue was
identified during the verification stage. These two batches are being
re-processed. To make this happen as quickly as possible we have separated out
into several smaller batches. This is why the progress screens appear to show a
changing number of verified ballot papers.We will declare as soon as possible
but it is obviously important that every vote is counted.

11.39pm: At City Hall the candidates have apparently been summoned to hear the
final results.

11.36pm: More from Twitter.

At last !tony travers on the london local elections.Is he on a continuous loop ?

- Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour) May 4, 2012

Punditry on BBC now reduced to agreeing that every ballot paper has to be
counted. Please, no more

- Alex Belardinelli (@abelardinelli) May 4, 2012

The World Darts Championships puts on a rather better show at the Ally Pally
than this utter shambles... Phil Taylor for mayor

- Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound) May 4, 2012

11.24pm: The result is either due in seven minutes,10 minutesor half an hour
(Sky), depending on who you believe.

11.23pm: Sky's Adam Boulton says they are determined to get the result out
before midnight.

London latest officials racing to declare final result before midnight. If not
new mayor will have to take office a day later by law.

- adamboulton (@adamboultonSKY) May 4, 2012

11.22pm: We're almost there.

Are we nearly there!??? Apparently theBrent and Harrow recount is done and
London election results are about to be announced ..soon.

- Helene Mulholland (@lnmulholland) May 4, 2012

11.11pm: The Newsnight pundits panel is quite lively tonight. Alastair Campbell
seemed to concede that Labour would have done better in London with a different
candidate. When it was put to him that another Labour candidate would have won,
he said that was "entirely possible". And Miranda Green, the Lib Dem
representative (she used to be Paddy Ashdown's press secretary), said "Brian
Paddick was not Lembit Opik - that was his great strength [when the Lib Dems
were selecting a candidate]", which is about as faint as praise can get.

Kirsty Wark also had a good line. She said, I think, that a Tory had told her
that David Cameron had been described as a Tony Blair mark 2. Instead he was
worried that Cameron was turning out to be a Tony Blair grade 2.

11.09pm: Paul Goodman, the former Tory MP, has posted this on Twitter.

Official: London Mayoral result will now be filed even later than one of Boris's
columns.

- Paul Goodman (@PaulGoodmanCH) May 4, 2012

Goodman used to work with Johnson at the Telegraph, so he knows all about
Johnson's adherence to deadlines.

10.58pm: But I have got some company in the live blogging world as we wait for
London to sort itself out.The Tory MEP Daniel Hannan has resumed his elections
live blog at the Telegraph.He's just put up a post about Jenny Jones.

Jenny Jones, the delightful archaeologist who contested the London mayoralty for
the Greens, has beaten Brian Paddick, the LibDem, in the battle for third place.
Jenny is a proper radical, who extends the logic of her politics to the EU,
clocking it for the racket it is. She is a strong supporter of the campaign for
an In/Out referendum. It will be interesting to see whether the BBC, which
always treats the LibDems generously, can come up with a formula that justifies
their being bracketed with the big two rather than with the Greens and UKIP. I'm
sure it'll manage.

10.55pm: The news gets worse and worse.

So we've now got the returning officers version on the Brent Mayoral count hold
up. 2 batches of votes weren't scanned or counted...

- adamboulton (@adamboultonSKY) May 4, 2012

...because they were damaged. they are being counted now but it may take till
midnight.

- adamboulton (@adamboultonSKY) May 4, 2012

10.46pm: We're focusing on the contest between Boris Johnson and Ken
Livingstone, but the London mayoral elections have also seen the Lib Dems do
dreadfully. Brian Paddick, the Lib Dem candidate, seems to have been pushed into
fourth place, behind the Greens, on less than 5% of the vote. On Newsnight just
now Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, said that it was inevitable that
the third party got squeezed in a contest like this. But that ignores the fact
that, in the mayoral contest, the Lib Dems are now the fourth party. And it does
not explain why Paddick is doing so badly when he got 10% of the vote in 2008,
and Hughes got 15% of the vote when he stood for the Lib Dems in 2004.

10.45pm: London Elects have explained the reason for the latest delay.

LondonElects statement handed to us at count, explains that delay in result is
cos some damaged ballot papers couldn't be scanned

- Paul Waugh (@paulwaugh) May 4, 2012

10.31pm: Grim news from Evan Davis.

This does not look good at the London count. They've turned the lights off in
the chamber where the result will be announced.

- Evan Davis (@EvanHD) May 4, 2012

The Mirror's James Lyons is in despair too.

Will we have a President of France before a Mayor of London? #ffs

- JamesLyons (@MirrorJames) May 4, 2012

10.29pm: Tim Donovan, the BBC's London political editor, says that it is "very,
very certain" that Boris Johnson will be elected mayor.

He says the delay has been caused by the discovery of two ballot boxes
containing papers that have not been counted. They are now being counted by
hand.

10.27pm: I liked this from the BBC's David Cornock.

Don't worry if you've just landed at Heathrow - probably still time to get your
passport checked before heading to the mayoral count

- David Cornock (@davidcornock) May 4, 2012

10.14pm: While we're waiting, this post from Paul Waugh is worth reading if you
want more on how Ken Livingstone came to be selected as Labour's candidate for
London mayor. Here's an extract.

Ken backers wanted the London selection fast-tracked. He had the profile and
organisation on the ground and knew he had a great chance. But Ken sceptics
wanted to delay the selection to 2011, knowing that Boris was only selected a
mere 6 months before coming from nowhere to win City Hall.

Harriet Harman and party general secretary Ray Collins could have vetoed the
faster London timetable. Yet they were persuaded that the London Labour Party -
which has many Ken backers in its number - needed to be rebuilt and that it
would take two years to do so.

But just imagine if this NEC sub committee had decided to separate out the two
races. They could still have finalised the leadership race in September, but
perhaps decided to hold off the London selection until the following year. That
way, bigger names than Oona King (who was thrashed by Ken) could have had a
chance to stand, same some insiders.

Alan Johnson, who was mooted by some as the perfect candidate to take on Boris
(great backstory, former London postman and former Home Secretary, utterly
likeable), had only just been re-elected to Westminster in May 2010. He was
literally and mentally knackered, a friend tells me. He couldn't let down his
Hull constituents so soon.

10.10pm: The Evening Standard's Joe Murphy says YouGov has won the London
mayoral polling contest.

Battle of mayoral polls:YouGov in Standard was clear winner again. Com Res next.
Populus in Times (12pt lead) not so close

- Joe Murphy (@JoeMurphyLondon) May 4, 2012

10.04pm: Here are the figures in the mayoral contest with results in from 13 of
the 14 London constituencies.

Boris Johnson: 913,154Ken Livingstone: 822,835Jenny Jones: 94,183Brian Paddick:
85,964I've taken the figures from the BBC.

10.02pm: The Daily Mail's Tim Shipman has been told the Boris Johnson is still
on course for victory.

Talk of Boris-Ken recount overdone. Concerns a few thousand votes. 'The result
doesn't hang on it' says a Tory source with fingers crossed

- Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound) May 4, 2012

10.00pm: More news from City Hall.

So, with one seat left, Boris on 912k votes to Ken 826k. Gap now 86k votes.
Result they say will be another 30mins min

- Paul Waugh (@paulwaugh) May 4, 2012

9.52pm: My colleague Dave Hill says he's heard that they have found two more
ballot boxes from Brent & Harrow to count.

9.48pm: Bad news for anyone hoping to go home, or go to bed. There seem to be
further delays.

Here's PoliticsHome's Paul Waugh on Twitter.

Latest intel from Ally Pally: one whole box of votes still not scanned in.

- Paul Waugh (@paulwaugh) May 4, 2012

And here's ITV's Tim Gatt

Oh not more delays... RT @peterdominiczak: Hearing they are hand-counting in
Brent and Harrow.

- Tim Gatt (@TimGattITV) May 4, 2012

9.39pm: James Forsyth at Coffee House says Boris Johnson will be a force in the
land if, as expected, he wins tonight.Boris will now be a force in the land. He
represents a distinct brand of vote-winning Conservatism. It'll be intriguing to
see how he uses his new found status: will he use it to push for lower-taxes and
Euroscepiticism, or will he stick to London and the Olympics for the next few
months at least? In the Daily Telegraph today Fraser Nelson has set out a
similar argument at more length.

Whatever result is announced tonight, Boris Johnson has already emerged as the
champion of a new strain of British Conservatism. London is now a Labour city,
and yesterday's election ought to have been a walkover for its candidate, Ken
Livingstone. Yet Boris will either win, or come very close to doing so, because
he has established an appeal far broader than that of David Cameron's party. He
has done so not by apologising for Conservatism, but by embodying its virtues -
and his success has been astonishing. Even his detractors are beginning to
wonder if the clown prince might just be on to something.

If all this causes you great alarm, you might want to read this post from Tim
Bale at Coffee House. He thinks the idea of Johnson becoming prime minister is
"almost certainly fantasy politics".

For an alternative view, read Christopher Hope at the Telegraph.He has
identified three scenarios that could lead to Johnson getting the top job.

9.22pm: The Evening Standard's Joe Murphy wrote a blog recently saying there
should be an inquest in the Labour party into how the party selected Ken
Livingstone as its candidate in London.While Boris Johnson is more popular than
his party in London, Livingstone is less popular than his.

Labour figures have generally resisted the temptation to criticise Livingstone
in public. But Frank Dobson has virtually told that BBC that he thought
Livingstone was the wrong candidate.

Asked "Did you choose the wrong candidate?" Frank Dobson replied: "The Labour
Party in London chose the candidate we've got."

- Andy McSmith (@andymcsmith) May 4, 2012

Dobson also insisted that the Tories chose the right candidate.

Maybe it's also a combination of the Tories choosing the right candidate. I
remember saying several months ago that Boris might win provided all those
people who say "I might vote for Boris, he's a bit of a card" - if all the
people who like him because he's a bit of a card turn out out, he might just
scrap over the line.

Of course, Dobson is not a neutral witness on the subject of Livingstone. He was
Labour's official mayoral candidate in 2000, when Livingstone won as an
independent. Dobson came in third with just 13% of the vote.

9.16pm: Tony Travers, the LSE local government expert, is telling the BBC that
it "still isn't clear" what's going to happen. The message does not seem to be
going down in the press room, where I expect everyone wants a result soon.

9.12pm: Michael Thrasher, the University of Plymouth psephologist, has told Sky
News that it would take a "very spectacular result indeed" for Boris Johnson not
to win the London mayoral contest not given the lead he has built up. "Like you,
I think Johnson will be relected London mayor," he told Adam Boulton.

9.07pm:Here are the London assembly results that have come in so far.Thirteen of
the 14 constituencies have declared.

Another 11 seats are allocated on a city-wide basis, using the additional member
system, a form of PR.

9.02pm: If you like facts and figures, these two Political Studies Association
briefing papers on the London mayoral contest may interest you.

[#xfffd] A briefing note from Tony Travers and Patrick Dunleavy.

[#xfffd] A slideshow briefing on the contest.

9.00pm: It's "not long to go", according to the official London Elects twitter
feed.

@themightywab Results not declared yet for Mayor of London. Not long to go.

- London Elects (@londonelects) May 4, 2012

8.53pm: Here's some Twitter comment on the contest.

From the Daily Mirror's Kevin Maguire

London Mayor will be close. Boris ahead 108,000 with 2 areas to go. Was 150,000
ahead 1st round '08 before 2nd prefs split pretty evenly

- Kevin Maguire (@Kevin_Maguire) May 4, 2012

From the BBC's Andrew Neil

So much for me saying result imminent. In danger of cliffhanger turning into
boring wait.

- Andrew Neil(@afneil) May 4, 2012

From the Guardian's James Ball

I reckon Enfield and Haringey will close Boris/Ken gap to 90k-92k with one more
result. It'll end up at 85k on 1st prefs. #vote2012

- James Ball (@jamesrbuk) May 4, 2012

8.49pm: Boris Johnson's press team are claiming victory, according to the BBC.

8.46pm: Bob Neill, the Conservative communities minister, told journalists in
the press room at City Hall that a Boris Johnson victory would be good for
London.

A Boris victory would be good news for London. There would be continued value
for money in the way that the city's run, continuation of imaginative policies,
continued investment in London's transport network, and, in particular,
improvements in the jobs agenda.

8.30pm: Boris Johnson is expected to be named as the winner of the London
mayoral elections soon and I'll be covering the result here.Earlier we were
covering the mayoral and local election results on a separate live blog, but I'm
afraid the software couldn't stand the excitement and the blog crashed.

The election experts are already saying thatJohnson has won. This is what
YouGovs' Peter Kellner told the BBC about an hour ago.

[Boris Johnson] has a clear lead. It is currently running at about 4 percentage
points. Boris was up 1 point from four years ago. Ken is up 3 points from four
years ago. So the gap has closed by 2. The gap was 6. The gap is now 4. It may
change very slightly with the remaining 5 seats. But not by much.

[What we are seeing with second preferences] is that Ken is slightly ahead, but
there's not much in it. So if Boris is coming out 3 or 4 points ahead on the
first count, as I think he wil, that's too big a lead for Ken to overturn. So my
prediction is that Boris will be up at around 51 and a half, 52%, Ken 48, 48 and
a half per cent. A tantalisingly narrow vote. But I think it is just wide
enough, with the figures we've got, to say Boris has won.

And here are the latest figures, with results in from 12 of the 14 London
consitutuencies. I've taken the numbers from the BBC.

Boris Johnson: 861,367Ken Livingstone: 753,436Jenny Jones: 86,568Brian PaddickL
80,005

You can find the detailed numbers on the London Elects website.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Comment: Thatcherism with a posh accent is a toxic proposition: Discontent among
voters and in the Tory party itself is focused on the leadership cabal, and the
torturous issue of class

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 723 words


Feel the Tory pain. Harlow, Great Yarmouth, Reading, Plymouth, Thurrock - all
bywords for the kind of places that decide British elections, and all wins for
Labour. Ukip polling an average of 13% wherever it stood. Those half-baked plans
for directly elected mayors met with hostility or complete indifference.

The low chatter of Tory angst that has simmered since the budget has risen in
volume and urgency. Almighty rows have broken out within the Conservative
family, but the emerging critique of what's gone wrong is far from convincing.

There may be something in the idea - put about by the Tory right - that
loyalists are dismayed by the leadership's embrace of metropolitan liberalism.
However, the reality is hard-bitten Tories have little to complain about: any
leftward pull from the Lib Dems usually turns out to be a canard; the gleeful
noise that accompanies cuts show Thatcherism in rude health; the welfare state
and NHS are under assault. Moreover, large swaths of the public remain in full
accord with the supposed need for austerity, are happy to watch benefit
claimants being thrown the wolves, and are not yet sold on the idea of Labour
coming back to power. So what is going on?

Three factors speak for themselves: the state of the economy, the rising cost of
living, and the government's incompetence. But the third blurs into something
even more troubling to the Tory soul: the shortcomings of the coterie who
currently lead the party, and the torturous issue of class.

Could it be that if the Tories are going to stick to the ideology they pursued
in the 1980s, their party is best fronted by the kind of people on whom it
depends for votes? Thirty years ago, when its project was piloted by politicians
who had a keen sense of how millions of Britons thought and lived, the party won
four elections. But Thatcherism with a posh accent is a toxic proposition,
revealing Conservatism not as the empowering, aspirational force that once
seized imaginations but a tangle of cynical ideas that shores up the old elites.

In London, Boris Johnson has to some extent smoothed over the issue of his
background thanks to his veneer of nonconformity, his shape-shifting politics,
and his distance from the Osborne-Cameron cabal. But since the budget, and the
decision to cut the 50p tax rate, the Tories have been gripped by class-based
anxiety. Nadine Dorries is easily dismissed as irrelevant, but her attacks on
the "posh boys" jangled nerves.

Rachel Sylvester, the Times columnist, recently wrote of the inner circle's
"toe-curlingly patronising" attitude to Eric Pickles and Sayeeda Warsi, both of
whom embody a Conservatism reflective of working-class aspiration, rather than
upper-class entitlement. Tim Montgomerie, editor of ConservativeHome, expresses
deep concern that the leadership is neglecting the aspirational "grafters" whose
votes are essential.

Meanwhile, when Labour mocks the frontbench's backgrounds, the voices that would
once have accused them of class warfare are silent. Class is back, and it was
the Tories who put it there.

This is not an existential crisis. Conservatism remains deeply rooted in the
fabric of English life. It expresses a huge dislike of organised labour, a
belief in private property, and a defining suspicion of the state. It will never
go away - but as Conservatives concluded between the mid-1960s and the early
21st century, its best public faces are people with an understanding of ordinary
lives.

Hand the party to bluebloods, and the same basic plotline may well play out
again and again - as manifested not just in this current turbulence, but the
failure to win the last general election, and the fact that Cameron and Osborne
have yet to communicate any vision for the country. In its absence, the prime
minister is reduced to either hammily claiming that he understands ordinary
lives or getting angry, as if his troubles are an offence to the natural order.
Was Norman Tebbit like that? Was Margaret Thatcher?

Five decades ago, grouse moors Conservatism seemed to breathe its last with the
doomed Alec Douglas-Home, chosen for the leadership via the old method, whereby
a charmed circle would disappear into a country house and pick its man. "We
can't go wrong with a shooting gent," one of them said. But they did, and at
this rate, they will again.

john.harris@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Comment: Round table: The day Labour got back in the running: The local election
results can be seen as a vote against the coalition, for the union, or a caution
against complacency

BYLINE: Round table

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 891 words


Polly Toynbee

The centre ground has shifted

This was an excellent day for Labour - and it needed to be. George Osborne's
growth-killing economic strategy coupled with his kamikaze budget caught the
coalition at a deservedly low ebb. Add in David Cameron's Murdoch contamination
and Labour could have devised no better run-in to the local elections than this.
Two years after its most catastrophic result ever, Labour is back in the
running. It's a contender.

The centre ground itself has shifted - though Cameron's failure to win last time
shows the centre was never as far right as some old New Labourites pretend.
Labour's double-headed attack on the government as both incompetent and unfair
has gained traction because it's so self-evidently, undeniably and shockingly
true. That may not yet convert into a conviction that Labour would be more
competent but it's halfway there. Nothing Labour leaders were saying yesterday
suggested complacency.

The shock Labour needs to absorb is the loss of more than two thirds of the
electorate to stay-at-home, none-of-the-aboves. Anger with the clumsy and cruel
coalition was not enough to get them out. Before the next election Labour needs
to find brazenly bold, good reasons why people should vote.

Polly Toynbee is a Guardian columnist

John Curtice

Salmond has lost his shine

Buoyed by their success 12 months ago, the SNP opted to heighten expectations of
what they might be able to achieve this time around. Above all, they engaged in
much loose talk of being able to take control of Glasgow. Yet, like any
spectacular election victory, last year's success, largely occasioned by a
dismal Labour campaign, was never going to be easy to emulate. And so it proved.
The SNP did record gains, but did not capture Glasgow and failed to come close
to being the largest party. As a result Alex Salmond, who has been somewhat
battered and bruised during the last week as a result of his apparent
willingness to be cosy with Rupert Murdoch, now no longer looks like a man who
can necessarily command all before him.

Meanwhile, Scottish Labour has got itself back on to its feet. It is a long way
from recapturing its one-time position as Scotland's premier party - but its new
leader, Johann Lamont, has undoubtedly done enough to dispel doubts about
whether she was the right person for the job. Her task now is to show that not
only can she win votes for her party but also for the union, too.

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

Paul Goodman

Future agony for Cameron

The real lesson of the local elections is not that they tell us anything new but
that they remind us of what we know already - that the prime minister faces the
most agonising strategic plight of any Conservative leader in modern times. And
what is to come is likely to make it worse, rather than better.

The Queen's speech relaunch will be overshadowed by Leveson - as Cameron himself
will be until the summer break. This uncertain landscape makes creating a sense
of momentum and carrying out a cabinet reshuffle more difficult. Cameron is also
under pressure from his left, in the form of the Liberal Democrats. Their
position is better than might be expected. They have stuck with coalition and
not split. But the loss of scores of local councillors can only increase the
pressure on Nick Clegg to differentiate his party from the Tories. That means
more rows and paralysis.

But Cameron is also besieged from the right - not only by the familiar presence
of his unhappy backbenchers but by the emerging force of Ukip, which hit 13%
yesterday. Evidence suggests that the new voters it is drawing previously backed
the Tories. Even half that share in a general election would guarantee a Labour
government. Finally, the nature of MPs is changing. The expenses scandal has
speeded their transformation from distant representatives to would-be local
champions, desperate to prove to their suspicious voters that they put
constituency needs before the party whip. This is already the most rebellious
Commons since the war, and the bulk of the cuts are yet to come.

Paul Goodman is executive editor of ConservativeHome and a former Conservative
MP

Laura McAllister

Wales's verdict on the coalition

Labour conducted a clever campaign in Wales - making sure this was a
Westminster-orientated vote. The party motivated voters by saying: this is an
opportunity to give the coalition a bloody nose. It deliberately contested the
election on that basis, and it worked. Except in a few instances, there wasn't a
sense of this being about local issues. These elections were fought entirely as
a verdict on the coalition, which of course Wales didn't vote for in 2010.

Plaid Cymru has not performed as well as it would have liked, but I don't see a
bout of soul-searching in the wake of these results. The party is in a period of
renewal. It has just elected a new leader, Leanne Wood, who has only been in the
post for six weeks. She is a different kind of leader for Plaid, which has made
the decision to reposition itself as a party for the whole of Wales. She's
female, a first-language English speaker and from the south. But again, these
elections come far too soon after her appointment to see whether this new
direction will bring dividends.

Laura McAllister is professor of governance at the University of Liverpool's
Management School

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Front: Election drubbing piles pressure on Cameron: Narrow victory for Johnson
in London: Tories lose 400 seats across Britain

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words


David Cameron is under intense pressure to change the course of his government
after suffering a severe electoral defeat that saw Labour chalk up gains across
the country, and Ken Livingstone run Boris Johnson closer than expected in the
London mayoral contest.

The prime minister's hopes that the elections would represent a chance to turn
the page on a catalogue of errors since the disastrous budget were dashed as the
Conservative right immediately called on their leader to be more assertive over
his Liberal Democrat partners.

Ed Miliband, seizing control of 32 councils across the country, claimed Labour
was back on the people's side, but promised he would work hard every day to win
the electorate's trust. His aides, delighted by a strong showing in Scotland and
southern England, admitted Labour had benefited from Tory abstainers as well as
converts.

Senior Liberal Democrats warned that another set of results like yesterday's
would spell the end of the party as an independent nationwide force.

In an acerbic attack on the government, Lord Oakeshott, the former Liberal
Democrat Treasury spokesman, said the party would only recover popularity if
growth is restored to the economy. He said: "The Treasury looks like a beached
whale after the tide has gone out - there is the odd spout about yet more cuts
but basically they are clueless and helpless."

The deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, said he was "really sad" at the results,
and promised to continue to play his role in rescuing the economy. He will
appear in a BBC interview today where he will argue he is still radicalised by
office. He will insist the party can recover by 2015.

Despite a late wobble Johnson won a second term as London mayor, beating Ken
Livingstone by 3%, a closer contest than the polls had predicted. Johnson got
1,054,811 first and second preference votes in total. Livingstone scored 992,273
votes, and said he was truly sorry to Londoners for failing to win, adding this
was his last election. He added: "I suspect this result has settled the question
of the next Tory leadership election."

Labour activists rounded on Livingstone for crassly insulting Jewish voters. In
seats with strong Jewish communities, such as Barnet, the Labour candidate
outpolled his Tory rival by 21,000, yet in the mayoral election in the same seat
Johnson beat Livingstone by 24,000.

But Johnson easily outpolled his Conservative colleagues across the London
assembly elections, where Labour made sweeping gains, underlining the extent to
which Johnson's personality and politics had immunised him from the Tories'
suddenly plummeting popularity.

The Green candidate, Jenny Jones, just pulled ahead of the Liberal Democrat
Brian Paddick in the race for third place, polling 4.48%, with Paddick on 4.16%.

Johnson, now installed as the man most likely to eventually succeed Cameron as
Conservative leader, is to tell the prime minister an eclectic winning formula
includes remaining "bone dry" on the economy so long as it is accompanied by a
clear, compassionate Conservatism. He promised yesterday to serve a full term to
2016, beyond the next election.

But Stewart Jackson, the former parliamentary aide to Northern Ireland secretary
Owen Patterson, warned: "David Cameron is on notice that he does need to raise
his game. He needs to focus on bread and butter issues like jobs and mortgages
and public services and, above all, to develop a clear route map to growth, and
stop fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him and barmy policies
such as Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either don't like or don't
care about."

He added: "There is a growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers
that their views are not being listened to. If you get one Labour or Liberal
voter to vote Conservative at the general election but lose three or four others
to Ukip, you are not going to win the election."

Some Tories, led by David Davis and John Redwood, are expected to demand that
next week's Queen's speech highlights crime, immigration and Europe.

Cameron's aides have already started discussions on whether to offer a
referendum on Europe in the party's election manifesto, and make this known
before the European elections in 2014 as a way of spiking the guns of Ukip.

Lord Mandelson, the former business secretary, yesterday called for a referendum
on Europe, but said it was many years off, after the euro had been stabilised.

Cameron did not offer his backbenchers any immediate initiative by response,
saying the results reflect a government dealing with "difficult times".

"Obviously, when you're taking difficult decisions to bring the country out of
the broken economy that Labour left us, there aren't easy decisions," he said.
The foreign secretary, William Hague, promised the coalition would not be
veering to left or right.

Cameron and Clegg will appear together at a joint event on Tuesday before the
Queen's speech - then Cameron's government risks being engulfed again in two
days of Leveson inquiry hearings.

In a further blow to Cameron's domestic agenda, voters in every English city
save Bristol decisively rejected the idea of directly elected mayors. . Eight
other cities have rejected plans to replace local council cabinets with directly
elected mayors.

Captions:

Boris Johnson makes his victory speech last night as Ken Livingstone looks on
Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Front: Across the country, Labour returns as credible rival to Tories: Miliband
can find much to cheer him in these results, says Jonathan Freedland, but they
heap misery on the Liberal Democrats

BYLINE: Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 911 words


The smiles were Boris Johnson's, but the greatest relief belonged to Ed
Miliband. With the London result dramatic, but easily written off as a special
case - thanks to the peculiar chemistry of two opposing personalities, one more
popular than his party, the other much less - Miliband and Labour could
celebrate having passed what US politics would call a threshold test, clearing a
hurdle essential if Labour is, once again, to be a plausible contender for
government.

The party did not shatter records or vastly exceed expectations. But it won in
southern England as well as in the east, the Midlands and the north. Labour got
the blood pumping again in its Welsh heartlands and staved off what would have
been a disastrous defeat to the Scottish Nationalists in Glasgow. Taken
together, these did not herald a party set to storm Downing Street: Labour won
about 38% of the popular vote, still short of the magic 40% deemed indicative of
general election victory, and way off the 43% Tony Blair recorded in local polls
in 1996. But if the gains were not sufficient - as Miliband himself put it,
Labour still has "work to do" - they are certainly necessary.

For they offer reassurance on multiple counts, a reassurance that even the
grinning blond of London's City Hall could not spoil. It starts with the fear of
what might be called Bradford West syndrome. There were some Labour high-ups who
worried that George Galloway's upset byelection victory in March might presage a
new era in which antagonism towards the coalition was plentiful, but found other
outlets besides Labour. The nationalists were the most obvious alternative in
Scotland, but Ukip, Respect, assorted local independents and even the BNP were
all held to threaten Labour's franchise on opposition in England.

As Thursday turned into Friday, that fear receded. True, Ukip notched up a
serious 12% of the popular vote and Galloway's party made respectable inroads in
Bradford itself. But the larger story was that Labour ensured most of the
anti-coalition vote remained its own. (As for the BNP, it collapsed, losing
every seat it held.)

One Conservative-leaning strategist reckons Labour's achievement was modest -
reaching a level they should have reached a year ago - but that it will still be
enough to secure Miliband's leadership until the next general election. It
certainly buys him the rest of 2012. On Sunday he is likely to see another
centre-left leader, once also widely mocked as a no-hoper, anointed as president
of France. Those conservative commentators who once laughingly talked of
establishing a Don't Underestimate Ed Miliband Association might consider
reviving their plan.

Besides London, David Cameron will struggle to spot shafts of light in the
gloom. His party suffered deep losses. In the Liverpool mayoral election, the
Tory candidate came seventh - rendering forlorn the fond Cameroonian hope of a
revival in the northern cities.

Even the London result, when it finally came, offered slim consolation. It was
clearly sui generis, thanks to a Labour candidate, in Ken Livingstone, so
saddled with decades-old baggage he was unable to deliver the entire Labour vote
in what is now, as the assembly results proved, a Labour city. But it has also
entrenched Boris Johnson as the PM's most potent rival, with a base from which
he can launch a future challenge.

But the one comfort available to the prime minister is also the most important.
He has a resource denied those world leaders who have been punished for imposing
austerity in the midst of recession: time. While Nicolas Sarkozy faces the
voters tomorrow, Cameron's date with the electorate is three years away. He will
hope that in the interim he will see the economy improve, the government get its
act together and the serial shambles of spring 2012 become a distant memory.

Still, he now knows one prior asset has diminished in value. Last year Tory
support held up, a sign that voters accepted his insistence that the government
was clearing up a mess inherited from Labour and that it was spreading the
economic pain evenly. Patience with that argument is wearing thin. It is
Cameron's recession now and, thanks to the abolition of the 50p rate, not many
still believe "we are all in it together".

In the meantime, the PM has to fend off nervous colleagues who, alarmed by Ukip,
are already advocating a shift rightward. One Tory backbencher confessed he was
"gagging" for some traditional Conservative red meat. Cameron will have to do
his best not to reveal his exasperation as he explains that when a party loses
votes to its left, it is potty to move right.

Not that he could make that move even if he wanted to. He is in a coalition.
Which brings us to the Liberal Democrats, who did as badly this time as when
they were battered, beaten and left for dead a year ago. Having lost 700
councillors in 2011, they lost an extra 300-plus yesterday, leaving them with
fewer councillors now than at any point since their merged party was formed.
Their base in local government, the key to Liberal survival over the decades, is
eroding fast. They are a starving man living on his reserves of fat; soon the
hunger will eat into the muscle. The same could be said of British politics
itself. The latest attempt at improving engagement was rebuffed: only one city,
Bristol, opted to install a directly elected mayor, the rest said no. And ponder
on this number: two in three of those who were eligible did not vote at all.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Elections 2012: London: Result: Later and closer than expected,
Johnson wins

BYLINE: Helene Mulholland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 749 words


Boris Johnson gave the Conservatives a much needed boost as he secured a second
London mayoral term after beating his Labour rival Ken Livingstone in a bitterly
fought rematch.

After weeks of intensive campaigning on both sides and a count that went on well
into the night, Johnson denied Livingstone a second political comeback after
being declared the winner of the London-wide election on a tighter than expected
margin of three percentage points (51.53% to 48.47%) - the narrowest to date in
the London mayoral election.

Following a long wait in a nail biting final result delayed until minutes before
midnight due to glitches in the counting process, Johnson promised to devote his
second four-year term to "fighting for a good deal for Londoners", while
Livingstone announced he had fought his last election following a defeat he
described as the one "I most regret" in a political career spanning more than
four decades.

Johnson's re-election victory provided a consolation prize for Conservatives,
who lost around 400 council seats, on a grim day for both coalition parties. But
the mayoral race offered no such cheer to the Liberal Democrats, who for the
first time came fourth behind the Green party.

The result gave closure to a bitterly fought campaign. Johnson admitted in his
victory speech it had been a "long and gruelling" campaign.

But while Johnson held on to his job, Richard Barnes, one of Johnson's deputy
mayors, was among those to be bounced out of City Hall on a day of mixed results
for the Tories in London, which saw the assembly group lose two of its 11 seats.

Livingstone's defeat was partly offset by four gains for Labour, making it the
largest group on the assembly with 12 seats.

The Liberal Democrats lost one of their three seats, while the Green party
maintained two. The opposition numbers are not enough to block Johnson's budget,
which requires a two-thirds majority on the 25 strong assembly.

Johnson, who campaigned on a nine-point plan for "jobs and growth" pledged to
make sure Londoners, especially young people in the city, were "ready to take
the jobs" that are being created.

He also paid tribute to his Labour rival, saying: "Of all the left-wing
politicians I can think of during your long period in office . . . you have been
the most creative and the most original. And, if only you will promise not to
stand again, I much look forward to having that non-taxpayer funded drink that
we have so far not managed to fit into our diaries."

For Livingstone, the result marked the end of a long political career which
began when he was elected as a Labour councillor in Lambeth in 1971. Johnson not
only retains the keys to City Hall but will preside over the Olympic Games in
London this summer, as well as strengthening his position in the party ahead of
an expected return to Westminster in 2015 or 2016.

Tensions mounted after the final result was significantly delayed when two
batches of ballot papers had to be re-processed for the Brent and Harrow
constituency count. The long wait for a result saw Labour perform twists and
turns, with Livingstone's camp privately admitting they had lost by
mid-afternoon, before then denying they had conceded defeat.

As more votes were counted, Labour claimed predictions Johnson would storm to
victory were looking more uncertain as results from areas where Labour expected
strong support had yet to declare.

But the hoped for turnaround never materialised.

The results will add to the woes of the Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, but were
personally disappointing for Brian Paddick. The former senior police officer
delivered a more polished performance than during his previous campaign in 2008,
when he finished in third place.

Tony Travers, director of the Greater London group at the London School of
Economics, said: "Labour did very well in London and Ken did significantly less
well." Johnson is expected to turn up to City Hall chamber on Saturday to sign
in.

Meanwhile, the UK Independence party was rueing the decision to list the party
"Fresh Choice for London", rather than Ukip on the ballot paper, ahead of
results that were expected to see the party left without a seat on the assembly
for a second time. Party leader Nigel Farage said the blunder probably meant
large numbers of would-be supporters assumed Ukip was not taking part in the
ballot and gave their vote to someone else.

51.53%

Boris Johnson's share of the vote, against 48.47% for Ken Livingstone - a far
tighter margin than predicted in the polls

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Elections 2012: London: The race: Labour swing narrows gap but Boris
on course to win

BYLINE: Helene Mulholland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 740 words


Boris Johnson appeared on course to win another four-year term as London mayor
as voting returns indicated he had beaten his Labour rival, Ken Livingstone, in
a tightly fought race.

Some predicted that Johnson's expected win over Livingstone, on a low turnout of
around 35%, could be on a narrower margin than in 2008.

As the count continued into the evening, Peter Kellner, president of pollsters
YouGov, predicted an 8% swing to Labour on the London assembly, and 1% swing to
Livingstone in the mayoral race, narrowing Johnson's majority.

He pointed out that had Livingstone matched Labour's swing, "he would have won
by a landslide".

Indications that Johnson was set to return to City Hall will be met with relief
in Downing Street at the end of a day which saw the Tories lose close to 400
seats in the local elections.

While the result appeared to promise a boost to the Conservatives, there was
little to cheer the Liberal Democrats in the mayoral race, as they looked set to
end in fourth place - or even fifth.

Early results showed the party behind the Greens (on 5%) and only narrowly ahead
of independent candidate Siobhan Benita. The former Whitehall civil servant
managed to galvanise voters despite being excluded from hustings as a minority
candidate standing for the first time.

The result will be personally disappointing for Brian Paddick. The former senior
police officer delivered a more polished performance than during his previous
campaign in 2008, when he finished in third place.

A win means Johnson not only retains the keys to City Hall but will preside over
the Olympic Games in London this summer. It also strengthens his position within
the Conservative party before an expected return to Westminster in 2015 or 2016.

But Labour claimed early predictions that Johnson would storm to victory looked
more uncertain as the remaining results were due from areas where support for
Livingstone was expected to be stronger.

The shadow Olympics minister, Tessa Jowell, chair of Livingstone's campaign,
cast doubt on the assumption the Tory candidate would "walk away with it".

"It's quite different now," she told the BBC. "It's obviously a very, very tight
race, tighter than I thought it was going to be, and let's see."

As Johnson looked set to hold on to his job, some fellow Conservatives on the
assembly lost theirs. Richard Barnes, one of Johnson's deputy mayors, was among
those to be bounced out of City Hall. He was defeated by Labour's Onkar Sahota
in Ealing and Hillingdon. In Barnet and Camden, Tory Brian Coleman saw his
majority of nearly 20,000 overturned by Labour's Andrew Dismore.

The Conservatives were predicted to lose three of their 11 seats. Labour looked
likely to come out as the biggest group in the assembly, adding at least three
seats to its current slate of eight.

For Livingstone, a second defeat at the hands of Johnson is widely seen as the
end of a political career that has spanned more than four decades. He worked
hard to woo outer boroughs, which had cost him crucial votes in 2008. But the
tactic did not fully succeed against his rival, who outperformed him on charisma
in a contest in which personality played a large part.

Tony Travers, director of the Greater London group at the London School of
Economics, said: "Ken's baggage was significant. Boris enormously outperformed
the Tories on a really rotten day for them in the capital."

As the results continued to come in, the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, told the
BBC: "There was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said: 'Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory,' and it looks like he may . . . we'll wait and see, but
if he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and
George Osborne, rather than because of it."

If he secures his predicted win, Johnson is expected to turn up to City Hall
chamber today to sign in alongside the 25 newly elected assembly members
responsible for scrutinising him for the next four years. Johnson is also
expected to outline his plans for the next few months.

Meanwhile, Ukip was rueing the decision to list the party as "Fresh Choice for
London", rather than Ukip, on the ballot paper. Party leader Nigel Farage said
the blunder probably meant large numbers of would-be supporters assumed Ukip was
not taking part in the ballot and gave their vote to someone else.

Captions:

Siobhan Benita, the independent candidate for mayor who could push the Lib Dems
out of the top three places

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Elections 2012: London: Greens advance, but BNP in meltdown

BYLINE: Rajeev Syal and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 285 words


Smaller political parties received mixed results in the local elections. While
the British National party faces obliteration, other parties made gains across
the country.

The far-right BNP is facing political meltdown after losing six council seats on
the night and seeing its share of the vote drop by as much as half in some of
its former bastions. It failed to make any gains. The party now has just three
councillors left from a high of 57 three years ago and has been wiped out in
Burnley, one of its original heartlands.

In London, the BNP poured resources into the assembly election, but with
counting under way it appeared it had fallen short. The party lost seats in key
areas such as Epping Forest and Pendle.

This year it stood substantially fewer candidates than in previous years, with
no one representing the party in several of its previous strongholds in
Yorkshire and the north-east.

The Green party was celebrating a night of steady progress after it added to its
number of councillors and defended existing strongholds.

The Greens took 34 seats - an increase of 11 - winning in target areas such as
Reading and Dudley, and defending all six seats in Norwich. They were also third
in the list of London-wide assembly members.

The UK Independence party has been averaging 13% of the vote in the seats it
contested - five points higher than a year ago - making 2012 a record year for
Nigel Farage's Eurosceptics.

The English Democrats, a nationalist party, lost two seats, but retained the
position of the mayor of Doncaster.

On the back of George Galloway's victory in Bradford West, Respect won five
seats on the city council. The number of residents' associations winning seats
increased by five to 21.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Elections 2012: The parties: Tory right calls for end to 'barmy'
policies and a return to core values: Poor performance by party leads to
Eurosceptic fears that Ukip could overtake Conservatives in 2014 European poll

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 890 words


The Tory right has seized on the party's poor performance in the local elections
across Britain to demand a return to traditional Conservative values amid
growing unease at the influence of the Liberal Democrats over the coalition.

Eurosceptic Tories will intensify their campaign to renegotiate Britain's
relationship with the EU after a strong performance by the UK Independence
party, which is now in a strong position to overtake the Conservatives in the
next elections to the European parliament in 2014.

There are suggestions that Ukip could even top the poll, complicating David
Cameron's preparations for the general election in 2015.

Stewart Jackson, who resigned as parliamentary private secretary to the Northern
Ireland secretary, Owen Paterson, last year after voting in favour of a
referendum on Britain's relationship with the EU, called for an end to "barmy"
policies.

Jackson told Radio 4's the World at One: "David Cameron is on notice that he
does need to raise his game. He needs to . . . stop fixating on the agenda of a
liberal clique around him and barmy policies such as Lords reform and gay
marriage, which people either don't like or don't care about."

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister who is close to the rightwing former
defence secretary Liam Fox, pointed out that Tories in her Epping Forest
constituency had "bucked the national trend" by focusing on core Conservative
issues such as keeping council tax low. Such success showed the need to face
down the Lib Dems in the coalition, she said.

"David (should) listen rather more to Conservative MPs, who represent the real
people of this country, and give rather less regard to the Liberal Democrat
intellectual urban elite, with their student-politics idea of reforming the
constitution and taking forward green policies," she told the World at One.

Laing also said that Cameron should widen his circle of advisers to include more
experienced figures. "Margaret Thatcher said: 'Every prime minister needs a
Willie.' She meant Willie Whitelaw, who was her great adviser and the solid
person who stood beside her and gave her advice. It is a pity David does not, at
the moment, take advice from a person like that."

William Hague, the foreign secretary, insisted the prime minister would not be
changing direction. "We will carry on with what is essential for the country,
which is turning around the country's finances and economy," Hague told the
Today programme. "It is not a matter of going to the right or the left." But
Eurosceptic Tories are to demand an intensification of their campaign to reshape
Britain's relationship with the EU. George Eustice, the prime minister's former
press secretary, who is a leading figure in the new Eurosceptic Fresh Start
group, told the Guardian last week that his group is embarking on a painstaking
examination of every policy area.

"You may need to have an approach that picks away at powers year after year
relentlessly, an objective of having an ever looser union with the EU, rather
than think you are going to do it all overnight," Eustice said.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, showed that his party will remain a threat to the
Tories up to the next election when he suggested there was no difference between
the main parties. "We have a Conservative leader that believes in green taxes,
that won't bring back grammar schools, that believes in continuing with total
open-door migration from eastern Europe and refuses to give us a referendum on
the EU," he said. "What difference does it make whether we have Miliband or
Cameron in Downing Street?"

The threat posed by Ukip has prompted speculation that the Tories could try to
pre-empt Farage by pledging to hold a referendum on Britain's relationship with
the EU. Lord Mandelson, one of the most pro-European cabinet ministers of the
last government, created some space for a referendum by calling for a poll as
the best way of re-establishing a consensus about Britain's position within the
EU.

Downing Street may struggle to agree a referendum with the Liberal Democrats.
This means the prime minister could be forced to include one in the Tory
manifesto for the 2015 general election.

But some senior Tories say it is important not to overstate the Ukip threat,
though it is possible the party could win the European parliamentary elections
in 2014. "The Ukip vote hasn't really translated into seats," one senior figure
said. "You could see them winning the European parliamentary elections.

"Of course, most of their candidates are the most appalling and awful people.
They seem to do quite well saying they want to be elected to the European
parliament while wanting to pull us out of the EU."

There will also be nerves about holding an EU referendum. "I'm not sure there
will be a referendum. We've sort of been there before with Tony Blair's
promissory note of a referendum on the EU constitution. We don't know what is
going to happen in the eurozone. If there were a referendum we would have to be
careful about the public voting to take us out without thinking through the
economic and political consequences."

One veteran said the results showed the Tories face an uphill battle. "At the
very least we need to remain the largest party in the Commons. At the very best
we need to be able to form a government on our own. But in both cases we face an
uphill task."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Elections 2012: England: Chipping Norton (up)set How Labour snatched
PM's spiritual home

BYLINE: Esther Addley

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 842 words


Chipping Norton on a quiet weekday afternoon makes an unlikely setting for an
electoral upset. The tea shops in the pretty Cotswold-stone town centre
yesterday were doing a steady trade in pots of Earl Grey, while 4x4s idled in
bunches to pounce on coveted parking spots. In the Blue Boar, an elderly man
dozed beside a fireplace in a scene unchanged for centuries.

In its modest way, however, Chipping Norton provided one of the more startling
headlines of the election, when it became one of three wards claimed by Labour
from the Conservatives on West Oxfordshire district council.

Startling, because these were not just any wards. If Witney Central and Witney
East are in the administrative heart of David Cameron's constituency, Chipping
Norton might be described as the prime minister's spiritual home, the town
around which his moneyed set of occasionally troublesome pals cluster. All three
wards turned from blue to red.

It was near here, at the home of Rebekah Brooks, that Cameron rode a borrowed
police horse, and shared a "tiny" Christmas "side conversation" with the son of
a media mogul about the imminent BSkyB adjudication.

The result was striking, too, because of the overwhelming dominance of the
Conservatives in this well-off corner of rural England. Until Thursday's
elections, Labour had just one councillor in West Oxfordshire, against four
Liberal Democrats - and 44 Conservatives.

So should Cameron be worried? David Price, wrapped up in flat cap, cravat and
Barbour, can't quite decide. On the one hand, he says, these council elections
are "always a blip". "It has no national consequence whatsoever".

On the other hand, however, Price - a committed Tory who describes his own
politics as "to the right of Genghis Khan" and believes "the sooner the Liberal
Democrats are wiped off the face of the earth the better" - detects a growing
lack of faith in the Tory leader among friends and neighbours. "He is certainly
not being Conservative enough."

He thinks Tory voters may have stayed away over Europe, and the failure to hold
a referendum on withdrawal. Price didn't vote - he lives outside any wards being
contested - but takes a long pause when asked if he would ever take his vote
elsewhere. "I think there will come a time when the Tories will have to take
Ukip very seriously indeed."

Chris Branson, shopping with her husband, Peter, voted Conservative, because
they deserve a chance. "I just feel that Labour left us in such a mess, how does
somebody expect whoever takes over to sort that in two years?"

When she got home, however, "I read the blurb from the Labour candidate that I
should have read before I went, and I thought, that bloke has done a lot for
this town. I said, 'I don't know if I voted for the right person.'"

"Well I voted Labour yesterday," says her husband, to her surprise. In part it
was because he felt they had run a better campaign, "but it was also the fact
that he put on his pamphlet that he wanted to balance the balance of power,
which appealed to me."

He is normally a Lib Dem voter, but the party didn't field a candidate in the
ward, nor were Lib Dems standing in Witney East or Witney Central - two Lib Dem
gains that were also helped by a lack of Labour candidates standing, facts the
Tories blamed on a pact.

"We have lost tonight because of a coalition between the opposition parties who
got together and (have) not fought each other in seats where they thought they
could target us and win," said Barry Norton, the Conservative council leader.
But Chris Johnson, the Labour constituency chair who acted as agent for the
Witney candidates, denied that.

"There were no deals. We had no discussions with the Liberal Democrats," he
says. "Our policy is to put up candidates wherever we can." The problem they had
in deep blue West Oxfordshire, he said, was that willing Labour candidates were
not always easy to find.

To Rob Evans, the winning candidate, his victory is not such a striking result
as it might appear. "This has always been a working town of the Cotswolds.
People here reject the 'Chipping Norton set'. They have never really been part
of it."

On the doorsteps, people talked about the budget and the national economy, and
also about shops shutting in the town centre, and their worries about local
jobs. "We are a vulnerable market town. I think people just wanted to have a
more secure view of the economy." The Guardian failed to reach Patrick McHugh,
his defeated Tory rival.

Evans's victory will be sweet, but it remains a small one. Labour's four members
on the council will now join four Lib Dems and 41 Conservatives.

"Given the views of the majority of the people, it's right that West Oxfordshire
has a Conservative council," says Johnson. "But it ought not to be as
disproportionate as it was. All those other views need to have representation
too."

Captions:

Ginger group

Red gingerbread men celebrate Labour's triumph yesterday in Chipping Norton,
where the party claimed the ward from the Conservatives on West Oxfordshire
council Photograph: John Robertson for the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Unitary

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 282 words


Blackburn with Darwen

* Lab

Lab gain 7/C lose 3/Ind lose 3/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 45/C 14/LD 5

Derby

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 6/LD lose 3/C lose 2/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 28/C 14/LD 9

Halton

* Lab

Lab gain 6/Ind lose 3/LD lose 2/C lose 1

New council: Lab 50/LD 4/C 2

Hartlepool*

* Lab

Lab down 8/Ind down 3/LD down 2/C down 1

New council: Lab 21/Ind 9/C 3

Kingston-upon-Hull

* Lab

Lab gain 5/LD lose 5

New council: Lab 39/LD 17/C 2/Ind 1

Milton Keynes

* No overall control

Lab gain 7/Ind lose 4/LD lose 2/C lose 1

New council: C 20/Lab 16/LD 15

North East Lincolnshire

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 5/UKIP gain 1/LD lose 4/C lose 2

New council: Lab 25/C 12/LD 4/UKIP 1

Peterborough

* Conservative

Lab gain 5/LD gain 1/C lose 3/Ind lose 2/Eng Dem lose 1

New council: C 33/Lab 11/Ind 6/LD 4/Lib 3

Plymouth

* Lab gain from Conservative

Lab gain 6/C lose 5/UKIP lose 1

New council: Lab 31/C 26

Portsmouth

* Liberal Democrat

LD gain 3/Lab gain 2/C lose 5

New council: LD 26/C 12/Lab 4

Reading

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 4/Green gain 1/C lose 2/LD lose 2/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 26/C 12/LD 4/Green 3/Ind 1

Slough

* Lab

Lab gain 8/C lose 3/Ind lose 3/LD lose 1/Lib lose 1

New council: Lab 35/C 5/LD 1

Southampton

* Lab gain from Conservative

Lab gain 11/C lose 10/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 30/C 16/LD 2

Southend-on-Sea

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 2/Ind gain 1/C lose 3

New council: C 25/LD 10/Ind 10/Lab 6

Swindon*

* Conservative

Lab up 7/C down 8/Ind down 1

New council: C 29/Lab 24/LD 4

Thurrock

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 2/UKIP gain 1/C lose 3

New council: Lab 26/C 20/Ind 2/UKIP 1

Warrington

* Lab

Lab gain 7/LD lose 5/C lose 2

New council: Lab 41/LD 12/C 4

Wokingham

* Conservative

LD gain 1/Ind gain 1/C lose 2

New council: C 43/LD 10/Ind 1

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Metro

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 503 words


Barnsley

* Lab

Lab gain 9/Ind lose 8/C lose 1

New council: Lab 52/Ind 6/C 5

Birmingham

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 20/C lose 11/LD lose 9

New council: Lab 77/C 28/LD 15

Bolton

* Lab

Lab gain 6/C lose 4/LD lose 2

New council: Lab 41/C 16/LD 3

Bradford

* No overall control

Respect gain 5/Lab gain 2/C lose 3/LD lose 3/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 45/C 24/LD 8/Ind 5/Respect 5/Green 3

Bury

* Lab

Lab gain 10/C lose 7/LD lose 3

New council: Lab 36/C 12/LD 2/Ind 1

Calderdale

* No overall control

Lab gain 7/C lose 4/Ind lose 2/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 20/C 17/LD 12/Ind 2

Coventry

* Lab

Lab gain 8/C lose 6/LD lose 1/Soc lose 1

New council: Lab 43/C 11

Doncaster

* Lab

Lab gain 6/LD lose 3/Ind lose 3

New council: Lab 50/C 9/LD 3/Ind 1

Dudley

* Lab gain from Conservative

Lab gain 13/Green gain 1/C lose 13/UKIP lose 1

New council: Lab 41/C 30/Green 1

Gateshead

* Lab

Lab gain 5/LD lose 4/Lib lose 1

New council: Lab 55/LD 11

Kirklees

* No overall control

Lab gain 5/Green gain 1/Ind gain 1/LD lose 4/C lose 3

New council: Lab 32/C 18/LD 10/Green 5/Ind 4

Knowsley

* Lab

Lab gain 4/LD lose 4

New council: Lab 63

Leeds

* Lab

Lab gain 8/LD lose 6/C lose 2

New council: Lab 63/C 19/LD 10/Ind 5/Green 2

Liverpool

* Lab

Lab gain 10/LD lose 9/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 73/LD 10/Lib 3/Green 2/Ind 1/Vacant 1

Manchester

* Lab

Lab gain 12/LD lose 12

New council: Lab 87/LD 9

Newcastle-upon-Tyne

* Lab

Lab gain 6/LD lose 6

New council: Lab 51/LD 26/Ind 1

North Tyneside

* Lab

Lab gain 8/Ind gain 1/C lose 6/LD lose 3

New council: Lab 43/C 13/LD 3/Ind 1

Oldham

* Lab

Lab gain 10/LD lose 7/C lose 3

New council: Lab 43/LD 14/C 2/Vacant 1

Rochdale

* Lab

Lab gain 10/C lose 5/LD lose 5

New council: Lab 42/C 13/LD 5

Rotherham

* Lab

Lab gain 4/C lose 3/BNP lose 1

New council: Lab 58/C 4/Ind 1

Salford

* Lab

Lab gain 8/C lose 3/LD lose 3/Ind lose 2

New council: Lab 52/C 8

Sandwell

* Lab

Lab gain 8/C lose 6/LD lose 1/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 68/C 2/Ind 2

Sefton

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 8/LD lose 3/C lose 2/Ind lose 2/UKIP lose 1

New council: Lab 36/LD 20/C 8/Ind 2

Sheffield

* Lab

Lab gain 11/LD lose 11

New council: Lab 61/LD 21/Green 2

Solihull

* Conservative

Green gain 1/R gain 1/C lose 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 28/LD 11/Lab 6/Green 5/R 1

South Tyneside

* Lab

Lab gain 9/Ind lose 8/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 48/Ind 4/C 1/UKIP 1

St Helens

* Lab

Lab gain 5/LD lose 4/C lose 1

New council: Lab 40/LD 5/C 3

Stockport

* No overall control

Lab gain 3/R gain 1/Ind lose 2/C lose 1/LD lose 1

New council: LD 28/Lab 20/C 11/Ind 3/R 1

Sunderland

* Lab

Lab gain 8/C lose 6/LD lose 1/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 64/C 8/Ind 3

Tameside

* Lab

Lab gain 4/C lose 3/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 52/C 5

Trafford

* Conservative

Lab gain 3/C lose 3

New council: C 34/Lab 25/LD 4

Wakefield

* Lab

Lab gain 12/C lose 9/Ind lose 3

New council: Lab 52/C 11

Walsall

* No overall control

Ind gain 2/Lab gain 1/C lose 3

New council: Lab 28/C 24/LD 5/Ind 3

Wigan

* Lab

Lab gain 5/C lose 4/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 63/Ind 9/LD 2/C 1

Wirral

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 7/C lose 5/LD lose 2

New council: Lab 37/C 22/LD 7

Wolverhampton

* Lab

Lab gain 9/C lose 9

New council: Lab 44/C 13/LD 3

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Non-Metro

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1047 words


Adur

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 25/Ind 2/LD 1/Lab 1

Amber Valley

* Conservative

Lab gain 6/C lose 4/BNP lose 2

New council: C 24/Lab 21

Basildon

* Conservative

Lab gain 3/C lose 3

New council: C 26/Lab 14/LD 2

Basingstoke & Deane

* Conservative

Lab gain 3/Ind gain 1/C lose 2/LD lose 2

New council: C 32/Lab 14/LD 11/Ind 3

Bassetlaw

* Lab

Lab gain 7/C lose 7

New council: Lab 34/C 11/Ind 3

Brentwood

* Conservative

LD gain 2/Lab gain 1/C lose 3

New council: C 26/LD 8/Lab 2/Ind 1

Broxbourne*

* Conservative

C down 7/Ind down 1

New council: C 27/Lab 3

Burnley

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 8/LD lose 7/BNP lose 1

New council: Lab 26/LD 14/C 5

Cambridge

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Lab gain 4/C gain 1/LD lose 4/Green lose 1

New council: LD 21/Lab 19/Ind 1/C 1

Cannock Chase

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 7/LD lose 4/Lib lose 2/C lose 1

New council: Lab 24/C 12/LD 5

Carlisle

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 4/C lose 2/LD lose 2

New council: Lab 27/C 20/LD 2/Ind 2/Vacant 1

Castle Point

* Conservative

New council: C 25/Ind 16

Cheltenham

* Liberal Democrat

Ind gain 1/C lose 1

New council: LD 25/C 11/Ind 4

Cherwell

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/C lose 2

New council: C 41/Lab 6/LD 3

Chorley

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 4/C lose 3/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 24/C 20/Ind 2/LD 1

Colchester

* No overall control

Lab gain 1/LD gain 1/C lose 2

New council: LD 27/C 22/Lab 8/Ind 3

Craven

* Conservative

LD gain 1/Ind gain 1/C lose 2

New council: C 16/Ind 10/LD 4

Crawley

* Conservative

Lab gain 3/C lose 3

New council: C 21/Lab 16

Daventry*

* Conservative

Lab up 4/C down 4/LD down 1/Ind down 1

New council: C 29/Lab 6/LD 1

Eastleigh

* Liberal Democrat

LD gain 2/Ind lose 2

New council: LD 40/C 4

Elmbridge

* Conservative

LD gain 1/R gain 1/Ind gain 1/C lose 3

New council: C 31/R 21/LD 6/Ind 1/Vacant 1

Epping Forest

* Conservative

C gain 2/R gain 2/LD lose 2/BNP lose 1/Ind lose 1

New council: C 39/R 12/LD 4/Ind 2/Lab 1

Exeter

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 5/LD lose 4/Lib lose 1

New council: Lab 24/C 11/LD 5

Fareham

* Conservative

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 24/LD 6/Ind 1

Gloucester

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: C 18/Lab 9/LD 9

Gosport

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/C gain 1/Ind lose 3

New council: C 24/Lab 5/LD 5

Great Yarmouth

* Lab gain from Conservative

Lab gain 5/C lose 4/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 21/C 18

Harlow

* Lab gain from Conservative

Lab gain 5/C lose 4/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 20/C 13

Harrogate

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/C lose 1

New council: C 33/LD 17/Ind 3/Lib 1

Hart

* Conservative lose to NOC

R gain 3/Ind gain 1/C lose 4

New council: C 15/LD 10/R 8/Ind 2

Hastings

* Lab

Lab gain 5/C lose 4/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 22/C 10

Havant

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/C lose 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 34/Lab 3/LD 1

Hertsmere

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: C 34/Lab 5

Huntingdonshire

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/UKIP gain 1/Ind gain 1/C lose 2/LD lose 1

New council: C 39/LD 7/UKIP 3/Ind 2/Lab 1

Hyndburn

* Lab

Lab gain 5/C lose 5

New council: Lab 23/C 9/Ind 3

Ipswich

* Lab

Lab gain 4/C lose 3/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 32/C 12/LD 4

Lincoln

* Lab

Lab gain 7/C lose 6/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 24/C 8/Ind 1

Maidstone

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/Ind gain 1/LD lose 2

New council: C 30/LD 19/Ind 5/Lab 1

Mole Valley

* No overall control

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council: LD 19/C 16/Ind 6

Newcastle-under-Lyme

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 8/C lose 4/LD lose 2/UKIP lose 2

New council: Lab 32/C 16/LD 11/Vacant 1

North Hertfordshire

* Conservative

Lab gain 3/LD lose 2/C lose 1

New council: C 33/Lab 10/LD 6

Norwich

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 3/C lose 2/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 21/Green 15/LD 3

Nuneaton & Bedworth

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 8/Green gain 1/C lose 6/Ind lose 3

New council: Lab 25/C 8/Green 1

Oxford

* Lab

Lab gain 3/LD lose 3

New council: Lab 29/LD 13/Green 5/Ind 1

Pendle

* No overall control

Lab gain 2/BNP lose 1/Ind lose 1

New council: Lab 18/C 18/LD 12/BNP 1

Preston

* Lab

Lab gain 2/C lose 1/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 31/C 19/LD 5/Ind 2

Purbeck

* No overall control

New council: C 12/LD 10/Ind 2

Redditch

* Lab gain from Conservative

Lab gain 4/C lose 3/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 15/C 14

Reigate & Banstead

* Conservative

C gain 2/Green gain 1/R lose 2/LD lose 1

New council: C 37/R 5/Ind 4/Green 3/LD 2

Rochford

* Conservative

New council: C 31/LD 4/R 2/Green 2

Rossendale

* Lab gain from NOC

Lab gain 7/Ind gain 1/C lose 7/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 24/C 9/Ind 2/LD 1

Rugby*

* Conservative

C down 3/LD down 2/Lab down 1

New council: C 25/Lab 10/LD 6/Ind 1

Runnymede

* Conservative

New council: C 36/R 6

Rushmoor*

* Conservative

Lab up 5/UKIP up 1/C down 5/LD down 4

New council: C 25/Lab 11/UKIP 3

South Cambridgeshire

* Conservative

C gain 1/Ind gain 1/LD lose 2

New council: C 33/LD 16/Ind 7/Lab 1

South Lakeland

* Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 2/LD gain 2/C lose 4

New council: LD 34/C 14/Lab 3

St Albans

* No overall control

Lab gain 4/LD lose 4

New council: C 29/LD 19/Lab 8/Green 1/Ind 1

Stevenage

* Lab

Lab gain 3/C lose 3

New council: Lab 30/C 6/LD 3

Stratford-on-Avon

* Conservative

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council: C 33/LD 16/Ind 4

Stroud

* No overall control

Lab gain 5/C lose 4/Green lose 1

New council: C 21/Lab 16/LD 6/Green 5/Ind 3

Tamworth

* Conservative

Lab gain 4/C lose 4

New council: C 18/Lab 11/Ind 1

Tandridge

* Conservative

New council: C 34/LD 6/Ind 2

Three Rivers

* Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 2/LD lose 1/Eng Dem lose 1

New council: LD 28/C 14/Lab 6

Tunbridge Wells

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/UKIP gain 1/Ind gain 1/C lose 2/LD lose 1

New council: C 37/LD 5/Ind 2/Lab 2/UKIP 2

Watford

* Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 2/C lose 1/LD lose 1

New council: LD 23/Lab 8/Green 3/C 2

Welwyn Hatfield

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/Ind gain 1/C lose 3

New council: C 34/Lab 11/LD 2/Ind 1

West Lancashire

* Conservative

Lab gain 5/C lose 5

New council: C 28/Lab 26

West Oxfordshire

* Conservative

Lab gain 3/C lose 3

New council: C 41/Lab 4/LD 4

Weymouth & Portland

* No overall control

Lab gain 4/C lose 2/LD lose 2

New council: C 14/Lab 11/LD 8/Ind 3

Winchester

* Conservative gain from NOC

C gain 2/Lab gain 1/LD lose 2/Ind lose 1

New council: C 29/LD 25/Lab 2/Ind 1

Woking

* Conservative

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 21/LD 15

Worcester

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 3/Green gain 1/Ind lose 2/C lose 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 17/Lab 15/LD 2/Green 1

Worthing

* Conservative

C gain 1/LD gain 1/Ind lose 2

New council: C 24/LD 12/Ind 1

Wyre Forest

* Conservative lose to NOC

Ind CHC gain 3/Lab gain 1/C lose 4

New council: C 20/Ind CHC 8/Lab 8/Lib 4/Ind 2

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Analysis: Neither spectacular ... nor
catastrophic

BYLINE: Tony Travers

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 705 words


Labour has started the long haul back to power in local government in England
and Wales. The story in Scotland, as so often, is more complex. But as Ed
Miliband surveys his extended empire, he can particularly comfort himself that
his party has started to rebuild itself (and thus its activist base) in the
south of England. Seats gained in Reading, Cambridge, Southampton, Basildon,
Harlow, Thurrock and Exeter suggest Labour is able to reassert itself at last in
areas that had been difficult for years.

Labour also won control of councils in its traditional South Wales heartland,
often with double-digit seat gains. Cardiff, Torfaen, Blaenau Gwent, Bridgend,
Merthyr Tydfil and Neath Port Talbot all saw big shifts of seats. Cardiff, a
major prize, saw control shift from a Liberal Democrat minority administration
to Labour.

With the party in power at Westminster for 13 years up to 2010, Labour had lost
thousands of councillors across Britain. From a zenith of almost 11,000 in 1996,
the tally had slumped to 4,436 in 2009 - a precipitous decline that threatened
the party's activist base outside Scotland, Wales and urban centres in the north
of England. The Conservatives, by contrast, had seen their total number of
councillors rise from 4,276 in 1996 to almost 10,000 in 2008. From now on, the
Tories can expect continuous attrition at local elections as long as they stay
in government nationally.

Thursday's polls have brought Labour more than 700 new seats, while the
Conservatives lost around 400 and the Liberal Democrats lost around 300. Ukip's
share of the vote has risen on the back of Tory woes. The BNP lost seats and
appears to be in near-fatal decline. Labour did as well or slightly better than
expected and the Lib Dems slightly worse.

The national equivalent vote share - that is, an estimate of how these local
results would translate into a general election - shows Labour on 38%, the
Conservatives on 31% and the Lib Dems on 16%.

Other candidates received 15% of the vote, the second-highest total ever
recorded for "not-Con-Lab-Lib".

This is Labour's best national showing since the general election of 2001, when
they received 42% of the vote. For the Conservatives, it is their worst since
1997 and for the Lib Dems one of their lowest levels of support in local
elections since the late 1980s (apart from last year, when they had a similar
vote share).

In Scotland, Labour faced a very different challenge from that in England and
Wales from the enfeebled Westminster coalition parties. The Scottish National
party, enjoying relatively strong support as against when these elections were
last fought in 2007 (a year earlier than those south of the border), gained a
modest number of seats, as did Labour, which held Glasgow against some
expectations.

Labour's Joe Anderson won 57% of the votes cast to become the first directly
elected mayor of Liverpool, with independent Liam Fogarty (8%) coming second
ahead of Richard Kemp for the Liberal Democrats. In Salford, Ian Stewart won for
Labour.

The referendums held in other cities, to decide whether to introduce mayors,
produced a "no" in many places. Bristol, however, voted "yes", while Doncaster
voted to keep its mayor.

Thus, only a handful of the major cities in England will now go forward with
powerful mayors. The rejection of the mayoral model may have been influenced by
the Conservatives' unpopularity. David Cameron, like Tony Blair before him, has
been a strong supporter of mayors, as have senior Tory Michael Heseltine and
Labour's Andrew Adonis. It is likely the toxicity of the Tory brand shifted
sentiment away from the concept. It is also possible that many British voters
are less comfortable with "presidential-type" public officials than national
politicians appear to be. Having said this, Londoners, according to opinion
polls, think their mayor has been a success.

Labour will be broadly content with its 2012 local election results, though they
were not spectacular. Miliband, right, has made steady progress but this does
not mean he will win the next general election. For Cameron, things were bad but
not catastrophic. All is still to play for.

Tony Travers is director of the Greater London group at the London School of
Economics

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: London assembly

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 671 words


* Barnet & Camden

Lab Maj: 21299 (12.75%)

Andrew Dismore Lab 74,677 (44.69%)

Brian Coleman* Con 53,378 (31.95%)

Audrey Poppy Green 17,904 (10.72%)

Chris Richards LD 13,800 (8.26%)

Michael Corby UKIP 7,331 (4.39%)

Turnout: 41.96% (change: -4.90%)

* Bexley & Bromley

Con Maj: 47768 (28.41%)

James Cleverly* Con 88,482 (52.63%)

Josie Channer Lab 40,714 (24.22%)

Sam Webber LD 11,396 (6.78%)

David Coburn UKIP 10,771 (6.41%)

Jonathan Rooks Green 9,209 (5.48%)

Donna Treanor BNP 7,563 (4.50%)

Turnout: 40.50% (change: -8.63%)

* Brent & Harrow

Lab Maj: 29796 (20.54%)

Navin Shah* Lab 70,400 (48.53%)

Sachin Rajput Con 40,604 (27.99%)

Charlotte Henry LD 15,690 (10.82%)

Shahrar Ali Green 10,546 (7.27%)

Mick McGough UKIP 7,830 (5.40%)

Turnout: 37.06% (change: -5.09%)

* City & East

Lab Maj: 65535 (48.39%)

John Biggs* Lab 107,667 (62.97%)

John Moss Con 24,923 (14.58%)

Chris Smith Green 10,891 (6.37%)

Richard Macmillan LD 7,351 (4.30%)

Paul Borg BNP 7,031 (4.11%)

Kamran Malik CUParty 6,774 (3.96%)

Steven Woolfe UKIParty 5,243 (3.07%)

Paul Davies CommLeague 1,108 (0.65%)

Turnout: 33.71% (change: -5.25%)

* Croydon & Sutton

C Maj: 9418 (6.12%)

Steve O'Connell* Con 60,152 (39.11%)

Louisa Woodley Lab 50,734 (32.98%)

Abigail Lock LD 21,889 (14.23%)

Winston McKenzie UKIP 10,757 (6.99%)

Gordon Ross Green 10,287 (6.69%)

Turnout: 38.45% (change: -6.71%)

* Ealing & Hillingdon

Lab Maj: 3110 (1.90%)

Onkar Singh Sahota Lab 65,584 (40.04%)

Richard Barnes* Con 62,474 (38.14%)

Michael Cox LDem 11,805 (7.21%)

Mike Harling Green 10,877 (6.64%)

Helen Knight UKIParty 6,750 (4.12%)

Dave Furness BritishNP 4,284 (2.62%)

Ian Edward NF 2,035 (1.24%)

Turnout: 37.30% (change: -4.23%)

* Enfield & Haringey

Lab Maj: 36741 (25.41%)

Joanne McCartney* Lab 74,034 (51.20%)

Andy Hemsted Con 37,293 (25.79%)

Dawn Barnes LD 13,601 (9.41%)

Peter Krakowiak Green 12,278 (8.49%)

Peter Staveley UKIP 4,298 (2.97%)

Marie Nicholas BNP 3,081 (2.13%)

Turnout: 37.70% (change: -5.20%)

* Greenwich & Lewisham

Lab Maj: 38037 (28.87%)

Len Duvall* Lab 65,366 (49.61%)

Alex Wilson Con 27,329 (20.74%)

Roger Sedgley Green 12,427 (9.43%)

John Russell LD 9,393 (7.13%)

Barbara Raymond PBProfit 6,873 (5.22%)

Paul Oakley UKIP 4,997 (3.79%)

Roberta Woods BNP 3,551 (2.70%)

Tess Culnane NF 1,816 (1.38%)

Turnout: 36.62% (change: -5.66%)

* Havering & Redbridge

C Maj: 3899 (2.75%)

Roger Evans* Con 53,285 (37.59%)

Mandy Richards Lab 49,386 (34.84%)

Lawrence Webb UKIP 9,471 (6.68%)

Malvin Brown Res Ass 8,239 (5.81%)

Farrukh Islam LD 6,435 (4.54%)

Robert Taylor BNP 5,234 (3.69%)

Haroon Saad Green 5,207 (3.67%)

Mark Twiddy Eng Dem 2,573 (1.81%)

Richard Edmonds NF 1,936 (1.37%)

Turnout: 36.37% (change: -8.21%)

* Lambeth & Southwark

Lab Maj: 52702 (33.44%)

Val Shawcross* Lab 83,239 (52.81%)

Michael Mitchell Con 30,537 (19.37%)

Rob Blackie LD 18,359 (11.65%)

Jonathan Bartley Green 18,144 (11.51%)

James Fluss UKIParty 4,395 (2.79%)

Daniel Lambert SP (GB) 2,938 (1.86%)

Turnout: 37.26% (change: -4.00%)

* Merton & Wandsworth C hold

C Maj: 9981 (6.61%)

Richard Tracey* Con 65,197 (43.15%)

Leonie Cooper Lab 55,216 (36.54%)

Lisa Smart L D 11,904 (7.88%)

Roy Vickery Green 11,307 (7.48%)

Mazhar Manzoor UKIP 3,717 (2.46%)

Thamilini Kulendran Ind/Other 2,424 (1.60%)

James Martin SP (GB) 1,343 (0.89%)

Turnout: 40.15% (change: -6.03%)

* North East

Lab Maj: 65535 (34.47%)

Jennette Arnold* Lab 101,902 (53.08%)

Naomi Newstead Con 35,714 (18.60%)

Caroline Allen Green 29,677 (15.46%)

Farooq Qureshi LD 13,237 (6.89%)

Paul Wiffen UKIP 6,623 (3.45%)

Ijaz Hayat Ind 4,842 (2.52%)

Turnout: 38.33% (change: -4.57%)

* South West

C Maj: 19262 (11.10%)

Tony Arbour* Con 69,151 (39.84%)

Lisa Homan Lab 49,889 (28.74%)

Munira Wilson LD 28,947 (16.68%)

Daniel Goldsmith Green 17,070 (9.84%)

Jeff Bolter UKIP 8,505 (4.90%)

Turnout: 39.52% (change: -5.88%)

* West Central

C Maj: 29131 (19.90%)

Kit Malthouse* Con 73,761 (50.39%)

Todd Foreman Lab 44,630 (30.49%)

Susanna Rustin Green 12,799 (8.74%)

Layla Moran LD 10,035 (6.86%)

Elizabeth Jones UKIP 5,161 (3.53%)

Turnout: 38.41% (change: -4.74%)

Captions:

Staff at the mayoral and assembly counting centre at Alexandra Palace, London
Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Mayors

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 289 words


LONDON

* Elected: Boris Johnson

(First Count)

Boris Johnson Con 971,931 (44.01%)

Ken Livingstone Lab 889,918 (40.30%)

Jenny Jones Green 98,913 (4.48%)

Brian Paddick LD 91,774 (4.16%)

Siobhan Benita Ind 83,914 (3.80%)

Lawrence Webb UKIP 43,274 (1.96%)

Carlos Cortiglia BNP 28,751 (1.30%)

(Second Count)

Eliminated: Jenny Jones, Brian Paddick, Siobhan Benita, Lawrence Webb, Carlos
Cortiglia

Distribution of Jones, Paddick, Benita, Webb and Cortiglia's votes. 82,880
second-preference votes went to Johnson, 102,355 to Livingstone

Boris Johnson Con 1,054,811

Ken Livingstone Lab 992,273

Turnout 38%

SALFORD

* Elected: Ian Stewart

(First Count)

Ian Stewart Lab 20,663 (46.05%)

Karen Garrido C 8,055 (17.95%)

Bernard Gill UKIP 3,368 (7.51%)

Pat Ward Ind 2,665 (5.94%)

Norman Owen LD 2,148 (4.79%)

Eddy O'Sullivan BNP 2,026 (4.51%)

Paul Massey Ind 1,995 (4.45%)

Michael Felse Eng Dem 1,616 (3.60%)

Joe O'Neill Green 1,273 (2.84%)

Michael Moulding (Comm Action) 1,065 (2.37%) Eliminated: Michael Felse, Bernard
Gill, Paul Massey, Michael Moulding, Joe O'Neill, Eddy O'Sullivan, Norman Owen,
Pat Ward

(Second Count)

Distribution of Felse's, Gill's, Massey's, Moulding's, O'Neill's, O'Sullivan's,
Owen's and Ward's votes

Ian Stewart Lab 23,459

Karen Garrido Con 10,071

Electorate 174,800; Turnout 44,874 (25.67%)

LIVERPOOL

* Elected: Joe Anderson

(First Count)

Joe Anderson Lab 58,448 (59.33%)

Liam Fogarty Ind 8,292 (8.42%)

Richard Kemp LD 6,238 (6.33%)

John Coyne Green 5,175 (5.25%)

Tony Mulhearn TUSC 4,792 (4.86%)

Steve Radford Lib 4,442 (4.51%)

Tony Caldeira C 4,425 (4.49%)

Adam Heatherington UKIP 2,352 (2.39%)

Paul Rimmer Eng Dem 1,400 (1.42%)

Jeff Berman Liverpool Ind 1,362 (1.38%)

Mike Whitby BNP 1,015 (1.03%)

Peter Tierney NF 566 (0.57%)

Electorate 319,758; Turnout 98,507 (30.81%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Scotland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 485 words


Aberdeen

* NOC

C gain 1/Ind lose 4/LD lose 6/Lab gain 9

New council: C 3/Ind 3/LD 5/Lab 17/SNP 15

Aberdeenshire

* NOC

Lab gain 2/C gain 1/SNP gain 7/Green gain 1/Ind lose 2/LD lose 9

New council: Lab 2/C 14/SNP 28/Green 1/Ind 11/LD 12

Angus

* SNP

LD lose 1/Lab lose 1/C lose 1/SNP gain 3

New council: LD 1/Lab 1/C 4/SNP 15/Ind 8

Argyll & Bute

* NOC

SNP gain 3/LD lose 2/C gain 2/Ind lose 3

New council: SNP 12/Vac 3/LD 4/C 4/Ind 13

Clackmannanshire

* NOC

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Ind 1/Lab 8/C 1/SNP 8

Comhairle nan Eilean Siar

* Ind

SNP gain 3/Lab gain 1/Ind lose 4

New council: SNP 7/Lab 3/Ind 21

Dumfries & Galloway

* NOC

Ind gain 5/LD lose 2/C lose 3

New council: Ind 7/LD 1/Lab 15/SNP 10/C 14

Dundee

* SNP

C lose 2/SNP gain 2/Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council: C 1/SNP 16/Ind 1/LD 1/Lab 10

East Ayrshire

* NOC

Lab lose 1/C lose 1/Ind gain 1/SNP gain 1

New council: Lab 14/C 2/Ind 1/SNP 15

East Dunbartonshire

* NOC

Lab gain 2/C lose 2

New council: LD 3/Ind 3/Lab 8/SNP 8/C 2

East Lothian

* NOC

C gain 1/LD lose 4/Lab gain 3

New council: C 3/Ind 1/SNP 9/Lab 10

East Renfrewshire

* NOC

Lab gain 2/C lose 1/Ind lose 1/SNP gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 8/C 6/Ind 2/SNP 4

Edinburgh

* NOC

Lab gain 5/SNP gain 5/Green gain 3/LD lose 13

New council: Lab 20/C 11/SNP 18/Green 6/LD 3

Falkirk

* NOC

New council: Ind 3/SNP 13/Lab 14/C 2

Fife

* NOC

UKIP lose 1/LD lose 11/Lab gain 11/C lose 1/Ind lose 2/SNP gain 4

New council: LD 10/Lab 35/C 3/Ind 4/SNP 26

Glasgow

* Lab

LD lose 5/Lab gain 5/Ind lose 7/SNP gain 7

New council: LD 1/Lab 44/C 1/Ind 1/SNP 27/Green 5

Highland

* NOC

LD lose 6/Lab gain 2/SNP gain 4

New council: LD 15/Lab 8/Ind 35/SNP 22

Inverclyde

* NOC

LD lose 1/Lab gain 2/Ind lose 1/SNP gain 1/Lib lose 1

New council: LD 2/Lab 10/C 1/Ind 1/SNP 6

Midlothian

* NOC

Green gain 1/LD lose 2/Lab lose 2/Ind gain 1/SNP gain 2

New council: Green 1/Lab 8/Ind 1/SNP 8

Moray

* NOC

Lab gain 1/C gain 1/Ind lose 2

New council: Lab 3/C 3/Ind 10/SNP 10

North Ayrshire

* NOC

SNP gain 4/LD lose 2/Lab lose 1/C lose 1

New council: SNP 12/Lab 11/C 1/Ind 6

North Lanarkshire

* Lab

SNP gain 5/LD lose 1/Lab gain 1/C lose 1/Ind lose 4

New council: SNP 26/Lab 41/Ind 3

Orkney Islands

* Ind

New council: Ind 21

Perth & Kinross

* NOC

LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C lose 1/Ind gain 2

New council: LD 5/Lab 4/C 10/Ind 4/SNP 18

Renfrewshire

* Lab

Ind gain 1/SNP lose 2/LD lose 2/Lab gain 3

New council: Ind 1/SNP 15/LD 1/Lab 22/C 1

Scottish Borders

* NOC

Ind gain 3/LD lose 4/C lose 2/SNP gain 3

New council: Ind 9/LD 6/C 10/SNP 9

Shetland Islands

* Ind New council: Ind 22

South Ayrshire

* NOC

C lose 2/SNP lose 1/Lab gain 3

New council: C 10/Ind 2/SNP 9/Lab 9

South Lanarkshire

* NOC

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1/C lose 4/SNP gain 4

New council: LD 1/Lab 33/C 3/Ind 2/SNP 28

Stirling

* NOC

LD lose 3/SNP gain 2/Green gain 1

New council: Lab 8/C 4/SNP 9/Green 1

West Dunbartonshire

* Lab

SNP lose 3/Lab gain 4/Ind lose 1

New council: SNP 6/Lab 12/Ind 3/SSP 1

West Lothian*

* NOC

SNP gain 2/Lab gain 2/Ind lose 3

New council: SNP 15/Lab 16/C 1/Ind 1

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

National: Election results 2012: Wales

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 327 words


Blaenau Gwent

* Lab

Ind lose 17/Lab gain 17

New council: Ind 9/Lab 33

Bridgend

* Lab

LD lose 3/Lab gain 12/C lose 5/Ind lose 4

New council: LD 3/Lab 39/C 1/Ind 10/PC 1

Caerphilly

* Lab

PC lose 12/Lab gain 20/Ind lose 8

New council: PC 20/Lab 50/Ind 3

Cardiff

* Lab

PC lose 4/LD lose 18/Lab gain 33/C lose 9/Ind lose 2

New council: PC 2/LD 16/Lab 46/C 7/Ind 4

Carmarthenshire

* NOC

Ind lose 8/PC lose 3/LD lose 1/Lab gain 12

New council: Ind 24/PC 27/Lab 23

Ceredigion

* NOC

Ind gain 3/PC lose 1/LD lose 2

New council: Ind 15/PC 19/LD 7/Lab 1

Conwy

* NOC

Lab gain 3/C lose 5/Ind gain 4/PC lose 2

New council: LD 5/Lab 10/C 13/Ind 19/PC 12

Denbighshire

* NOC

PC lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab gain 12/C lose 9/Ind lose 3

New council: PC 7/LD 1/Lab 18/C 9/Ind 12

Flintshire

* NOC

LD lose 2/Lab gain 8/C lose 1/Ind lose 5

New council: PC 1/LD 7/Lab 30/C 8/Ind 24

Gwynedd

* NOC

PC lose 2/Vac lose 1/LD lose 2/Llais gain 3/Ind gain 1

New council: PC 37/Vac 1/LD 2/Lab 4/Llais 13/Ind 18

Merthyr Tydfil

* Lab

Ind lose 9/LD lose 4/Lab gain 13

New council: Ind 9/UKIP 1/Lab 23

Monmouthshire

* NOC

Ind lose 2/PC lose 1/LD gain 6/Lab gain 4/C lose 7

New council: Ind 3/LD 10/Lab 11/C 19

Neath Port Talbot

* Lab

Ind lose 3/PC lose 7/LD lose 3/Lab gain 13

New council: Ind 8/PC 4/Lab 52

Newport

* Lab

LD lose 8/Lab gain 16/C lose 8

New council: LD 1/Lab 37/C 10/Ind 2

Pembrokeshire

* Ind

Lab gain 4/C lose 2/Ind lose 2

New council: PC 5/LD 1/Lab 9/C 3/Ind 42

Powys

* Ind

Ind gain 1/PC lose 1/LD lose 3/Lab gain 2/C gain 1

New council: Ind 48/LD 8/Lab 7/C 10

Rhondda, Cynon, Taff

* Lab

Ind lose 1/PC lose 9/LD lose 2/Lab gain 12

New council: Ind 4/PC 9/LD 1/Lab 60/C 1

Swansea

* Lab

Ind lose 10/PC lose 1/LD lose 10/Lab gain 22/C lose 1

New council: Ind 7/LD 12/Lab 49/C 4

Torfaen

* Lab

C lose 1/Ind lose 7/LD lose 1/Lab gain 9

New council: C 4/Ind 8/PC 2/Lab 30

Vale of Glamorgan

* NOC

Lab gain 10/C lose 14/Ind gain 3/UKIP gain 1

New council: Lab 22/C 11/Ind 7/UKIP 1/PC 6

Wrexham

* NOC

Ind lose 1/PC lose 2/LD lose 7/Lab gain 10

New council: C 5/Ind 19/PC 1/LD 4/Lab 23

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Leading Article: Local elections 2012: Fed up, not fired up

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 834 words


Only one eligible voter in every three participated in the local elections. This
was the worst turnout percentage since 2000. Twelve years ago, however, when the
local polls last sank to this level of turnout, the economy was booming and New
Labour commanded the scene unchallenged. There was not much to complain about
and no viable alternative government either. Accordingly, participation dropped,
not just in local elections but in the general election of 2001, which also set
a record low.

None of those conditions applies in 2012. Now, the economy is in recession for
the second time in three years and times are hard. There is much to complain
about. The party battle, moreover, is fierce. An angry public and a close
contest ought to have been a recipe for high turnout. Yet more than two-thirds
of voters decided not to take part. This lack of engagement is the most eloquent
of all the political messages of these elections and the one that the parties
need to take most seriously. Most voters are fed up, not fired up.

If that message is to be shared equally, however, the same cannot be said for
the message sent by the one-third who did vote on Thursday. All the parties had
something to celebrate from yesterday's results, albeit very mutedly in the case
of the Liberal Democrats, but all had wounds to lick too. But there can be no
disagreement that the principal victor this week has been the Labour party and
the principal loser the Conservative party.

Labour increased its share of the vote on Thursday for the second year. Now it
has profited by these extra votes to make major captures of seats and councils.
These wins are significant, none more so than the recapture of Birmingham, where
Labour made a remarkable 20 gains in 40 contests. If this was an offensive
success, the defence of Glasgow was scarcely less impressive in the face of yet
another SNP advance. Victories in the London assembly and the recapture of
Cardiff mean that Labour did well in the largest cities of England, Scotland and
Wales. Indeed, one of the most striking consequences of this week's voting is
that Labour is now the only party in Britain with real electoral heft in all
parts of the country.

That reconsolidation was underscored by Labour's wins in parts of England with
which Gordon Brown lost connection so disastrously. Successes in Southampton,
Norwich, Exeter and Plymouth, all now Labour-run, mark the first reliable signs
of a Labour electoral rebound in important southern cities. The capture from the
Tories of Dudley, Harlow and Thurrock shows that these classic swing areas are
back in play too. But Ed Miliband was right not to boast. Labour made relatively
little impact in other traditional southern battlegrounds such as Swindon and
Watford. And Labour's projected national share of the poll, at 38% in
mid-recession, is only two points up on 2011 and far short of the 47% that Tony
Blair achieved in 1995.

The Conservatives, by contrast, were decisive losers. A year ago, the Tories
surprised even themselves by the resilience of their local election performance
in the face of the early phases of austerity. This year, the picture is
completely different, down four points, losing more than a dozen authorities,
pushed back by a resurgent Labour in Wales, again making no impact in Scotland
or the northern English cities. And not in other cities, either. As of this
week, there is not only no Tory councillor in Manchester or Newcastle but none
in Norwich or Oxford. The Cameron project has stalled.

The Liberal Democrats have few straws to clutch at. For the second year running,
they were down at 16% of the total, better than most of their opinion poll
scores, but still far adrift of their mid-20s in pre-coalition times. Hanging on
to Portsmouth and South Lakeland was good news for Nick Clegg's increasingly
battered claim to be a party of the north as well as the south, but the reverses
in Wales and Scotland were dire and the general picture is of a party being
forced back into the political centreground, as the tactical anti-Tory
alternative to Labour across large parts of the south. The calls for Clegg to
quit may gather force.

In an election in which voters were disinclined to vote, and tended to vote no
in referendums, this could have been a good week for the minor parties. Yet,
with the exceptions of the SNP, whose advance continued even while Labour
improved too, and Ukip, which took sufficient votes from the Tories in some
parts of England to alarm some Conservative MPs who share Ukip views, the
smaller parties did not do particularly well. Plaid Cymru lost its shop-window
authority in Gwynedd, the Greens held their own without making big inroads, and
the Galloway effect was limited to Bradford. In a week where gain and pain was
widely shared, perhaps the one cause for unequivocal celebration was the poor
showing of the British National party, which waned at exactly the time that its
sister party waxed so influentially on the other side of the Channel.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Leading article: Local governance: Mayor culpa

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 663 words


In the end it was not Red Ken versus Blue Boris, it was simply Boris against
Ken. In a city that routed the Tories in its assembly election, the personality
factor loomed larger than the call of the old tribes in the mayoral race.

It was closer than some had predicted, but Londoners preferred the shambolic
incumbent with a way of raising a smile to the old hand making his fourth
straight run for this particular job, some 31 years after he had first run the
capital through its long-abolished council. Ken Livingstone's undoubted past
accomplishments - such as the congestion charge and paving the way for civil
partnerships - were overshadowed by a talent for creating divisions. Last night
he looked like a man whose great come-backs lay behind him. Boris Johnson's grip
of pressing responsibilities, such as housing, is faltering at best, but he has
proved less catastrophic than some had feared. Encouraged by a media that leaned
his way, Londoners have decided to hang on to a champion whom they can trust not
to swallow the party script and never to make the deadliest mistake in
contemporary politics - which is to sound like a politician.

Amid a revolt against the old partisan order - a revolt evident in strong
showings for Ukip and the Greens - David Cameron's promise of maverick mayors
all round might have been expected to resonate, but his rallying cry of "a Boris
for every town" fell flat. The coalition proposed directly elected mayors for
England's dozen biggest cities outside the metropolis, but of the 10 which
staged referendums on Thursday, nine flipped their thumbs down. There will be a
knock-on effect on the move to elect police chiefs. That scheme, too, would
surely have been rebuffed if it were on the ballot. As it was not, though the
elections will go ahead in the autumn, without a simultaneous poll for city
mayors, the turnout will be dire.

Across the north, resistance to appointing another well-paid politician killed
the idea. In Birmingham, meanwhile, Yes campaigners focused too much on business
support, as opposed to reaching out to the public. Britain's second city was one
of several in which divisions in council party groupings played a part - with
canvassers barred from mentioning the mayoralty for fear of opening factional
divisions. Questions about the power balance between the mayor and the council
were never convincingly dealt with and even those few voters paying attention
were left without any idea about how paralysis would be avoided in the event of
political cohabitation.

The decisive factor, however, was less the substance or even the dire
communication of the idea, but rather its source. Electors may not like the
political system, but they are even less keen on the politicians who operate in
it. So when the latter come up with plans to overhaul the former, these are not
regarded as straightforward proposals for reform, but schemes shaped by ulterior
motives. We saw that first with John Prescott's dream of a north-east assembly,
then with Nick Clegg's hopes for the alternative vote and now once again with
David Cameron's push for mayors. All three promised more power for the ballot
box, but all three have fallen victim to it, through plebiscites. Even Bristol,
the one city that leaned the other way yesterday, may have done in reflexive
reaction against the local Lib Dems, who campaigned for a No.

Engineering this sort of an electoral double negative would be unattractive,
even if it were feasible. But securing reform through straightforward success in
referendums in which voters pass judgment on all sorts of issues not on the
ballot appears a lost cause. Regarded as products of a failing system,
politicians are deemed too tainted to fix it. That leaves representative
democracy in a sclerotic bind. Any party serious about forging a new politics
must now consider putting specific plans in its manifesto, securing a mandate
for them in the traditional way - and then simply getting on with it.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Leading article: Local governance: Mayor culpa

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 658 words


Most of the country did not look on with any great envy at the great Ken and
Boris show in the capital, which finally drew to a close last night. Their
campaign for London's City Hall was more characterised by big egos and rows
about personal tax affairs than serious arguments over policy. But the clash of
two figures so well-known to the public as to be exclusively referred to by
their first names at least attracted more attention than the battles between
unknown councillors elsewhere. And in a world where party loyalties are not what
they once were, the tide is running in favour of contests where the personality
factor looms larger than the call of the old political tribes.

Amid a revolt against the old partisan order - a revolt evident in strong
showings for Ukip and the Greens in those parts of the country where they stood
- David Cameron's promise of a maverick mayors all round might have been
expected to resonate. Instead, his rallying cry of "a Boris for every town" fell
flat. The coalition agreement proposed directly elected bosses for England's
dozen biggest cities outside the metropolis, but of the 10 which staged
referendums on Thursday, nine flipped their thumbs down. In some cities, such as
Sheffield, defeat was by a crushing margin of two to one. New mayoralties were
the cornerstone of the coalition's strategy to regenerate Britain's city; amid a
double-dip recession that strategy now lies in tatters. There will be a knock-on
effect, too, on the move to elect police chiefs. That scheme, surely, would also
have been rebuffed if it were on the ballot. As it was not, the elections will
go ahead in the autumn. Now, however, they will happen without a simultaneous
poll for a city mayor, reducing interest and very likely depressing voter
turn-out to dire depths.

Across the north, resistance to appointing another well-paid politician killed
the idea. In Birmingham, meanwhile, Yes campaigners focused too much on winning
business support, as opposed to reaching out to the public. Britain's second
city was one of several in which division within council party groupings played
a part - with canvassers barred from mentioning the mayoralty for fear of
ripping open factional divisions. Questions about the balance of power between
the mayor and the council were never convincingly dealt with and even those few
voters paying attention were left with little idea about how paralysis would be
avoided in the event of political cohabitation.

The decisive factor, however, was less the substance or even the dire
communication of the idea, but rather its source. Electors may not like the
political system, but they are even less keen on the politicians who operate in
it. So when the latter come up with plans to overhaul the former, these are not
regarded as straightforward proposals for reform, but schemes shaped by ulterior
motives. We saw that first with John Prescott's dream of a north-east assembly,
then with Nick Clegg's hopes for the alternative vote, and now once again with
David Cameron's push for mayors. All three promised more power for the ballot
box, but all three have fallen victim to it, through plebiscites. Even Bristol,
the one city that leaned the other way yesterday, may have done in reflexive
reaction against the local Liberal Democrats who campaigned for a No.

Engineering this sort of an electoral double negative would be unattractive,
even if it were feasible. But securing reform through straightforward success in
referendums in which voters pass judgment on all sorts of issues not on the
ballot increasingly appears a lost cause. Regarded as products of a failing
system, politicians are deemed too tainted to fix it. That leaves representative
democracy in a sclerotic bind. Any party that is serious about forging a new
politics must now consider putting specific plans in its manifesto, securing a
mandate for them in the traditional way - and then simply getting on with it.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 5, 2012
                                 First Edition

Siobhan Benita achieves a 'fantastic' result;
INDEPENDENT SUCCESS

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 159 words


A month ago, Siobhan Benita was barely known.Yesterday the only independent
candidate for London Mayor picked up similar levels of support to the Liberal
Democrat and Green candidates and far more than Ukip and the BNP.

She said she had achieved a "fantastic" result and made clear she wanted to
pursue a career in the capital's politics, suggesting that she could work
alongside the new mayor if invited.

Ms Benita, 40, left her job as a civil servant in the Department of Health,
saying that she would offer a "fresh, modern, alternative" policy platform. She
received precious little television exposure and could count on only a handful
of volunteer workers.

But her independent stance appears to have won over thousands of wavering
voters, particularly left-inclined voters. Ms Benita said: "This is definitely
not the end for me. What this election has shown is that we need a different
type of politics. We are seeing that across the rest of the country."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 5, 2012
                                 First Edition

Right-wingers press the PM to drop 'liberal' policies;
CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 242 words


Alarm bells rang in the Conservatives' headquarters yesterday over the party's
weak showing in some of the marginal seats that will determine the next general
election.

Although the Tories avoided a meltdown in the local council elections, and will
blame the reverses on mid-term blues, their performance nationally was at the
worst end of expectations. Defeats across Britain, partly fuelled by defections
of former supporters to the UK Independence Party, provoked recriminations in
Conservative ranks.

The results have emboldened Tory right-wingers to press David Cameron to adopt a
tougher stance on issues including Europe, immigration and taxation. He faced
immediate calls from some MPs - and even one minister - to stop pressing ahead
with "liberal" policies such as reform of the Lords and championing gay
marriage.

Across the electoral battleground of south Essex, the Tories struggled to hold
on to crucial swing voters. Labour won control of Thurrock, where the incumbent
Conservative MP has a majority of only 92, and of Harlow, which has alternated
between Tory and Labour control since the 1970s.

The Tory vote crumbled in Southampton, one of whose Westminster seats Labour
holds by 192, and in Plymouth, both of whose MPs have small majorities. In the
volatile West Midlands, the Conservatives lost both Dudley and Redditch and were
routed in Birmingham. Their support also slumped in the North-West, which has a
high number of marginal seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 5, 2012
                                 First Edition

Baroness Warsi deflects Ukip's rise by linking it to fall of BNP;
UKIP

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 218 words


The gloomy news for the Tories was compounded by signs that they were losing
support to the UK Independence Party (Ukip).

The anti-EU party picked up few seats, but averaged about 14 per cent in the
wards it contested.

Leader Nigel Farage said the party was making "steady progress", adding: "Our
share of the vote is going up and up and up, very steadily, very surely."

But Baroness Warsi, the Tory co-chairwoman, led an attack yesterday against Ukip
as she linked its rise to the rapid decline of the far-right British National
Party, which lost all six of the council wards it was defending.

She said: "Where Ukip is fielding candidates that the BNP did last time but not
this time, I think that will have an impact."

Justine Greening, the Transport Secretary, warned that voting for Ukip could
hand council seats to Labour. "Ukip voters themselves need to think about what
the outcome is that they want to achieve with their vote," she said.

The BNP suffered a major setback in the local elections, losing six council
seats. Campaign group Hope Not Hate said the results left the BNP with just
three councillors in England.

A message to activists on the party''s website said: "How can Labour take seats
off us when Miliband is so unpopular? Is there something wrong with the British
National Party or the public?"

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 1:46 AM GMT

Leading article: A good result, but Labour must beware a false dawn;
It was not a general election, and voters knew they could give the Coalition a
bloody nose

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 753 words


Ed Miliband had reason to look pleased. The election results were every bit as
good for Labour as he could have hoped. In the spinning that preceded the count,
the Conservatives set the Opposition a target of winning at least 700 council
seats from the other parties to look credible, in the clear belief they would
not reach it. Labour sailed past that figure yesterday.

In Scotland, Labour thwarted Scottish Nationalists' high hopes of seizing
Glasgow city council. In Wales, Labour scored its best result since local
government reorganisation in 1996. Even the London mayoral race - the one Labour
had privately given up for lost - turned out to be much closer than most of the
polling had anticipated.

The Conservatives can justifiably attribute their losses to the kind of
unpopularity that afflicts governments after a couple of years in office - the
so called mid-term blues. But losing about 400 councillors in a single day is a
body blow to any party. That is 400 fewer committed activists putting life into
the party at local level.

The picture for the Liberal Democrats overall is, if anything, even bleaker,
since they lost about two of every five council seats they were defending,
though they were able to take some comfort in gains made in places where they
have a sitting MP. This included even Eastleigh, whose MP, Chris Huhne, has had
a dismal year personally, but where his party now has 40, out of 44, council
seats. For the Liberal Democrats, the results will inevitably prompt question
about whether they should put more distance between themselves and their
coalition partner.

Within the Conservative Party, the results are bringing to the surface
long-rumbling discontent with David Cameron's leadership. The Prime Minister
will inevitably feel his party tugging him to the right - trying, for example,
to persuade him to abandon gay marriage and reform of the House of Lords. These
issues are not on most people's political radar, but they are symbolic issues
which aggravate the Tory faithful and go part of the way to explain the
continuing rise of the UK Independence Party. Abandoning them might buy Mr
Cameron some peace within his party, but would not win over anyone thinking of
voting Labour.

Overall, if the voters had divided as they did yesterday in a general election,
Labour would be back in power with a commanding majority, and Ed Miliband would
be marching triumphantly into 10 Downing Street. But there is the rub. It was
not a general election, and voters knew they could give the Coalition a bloody
nose without having to ask themselves whether they wanted Ed Miliband and Ed
Balls running the country in place of David Cameron and George Osborne.

Opinion polls show that, although the Labour Party is gaining from the
Government's troubles, trust in Ed Miliband is not increasing, or not to
anything like the same extent. And even if it were, there is no point in Labour
or anyone else clamouring for an immediate election, because the Coalition has
brought in fixed-term parliaments, meaning that it is another three years before
the voters have to choose a new government. Nor, with their current levels of
support, will either coalition partner want to force an election sooner.

The scale of Labour's local election victories has bought Ed Miliband time; talk
of replacing him with someone who has more popular appeal will be silenced for
the foreseeable future. While secure in his position as Leader of the
Opposition, however, he is not established as a prime minister-in-waiting.
Because of that, the week's successes may yet turn out to be Labour's false
dawn.

Huge Labour gains leave Coalition with identity crisis Boris Johnson passes the
winning post - but it was no easy ride to victory'Red Ken' finally reaches the
end of the lineClegg punished with his party's worst-ever resultsMPs turn fire
on Cameron after dismal showingLabour takes power across the country - and
Miliband tightens grip on his partyLeading article: A good result, but Labour
must beware a false dawn Steve Richards: Labour (and Ed Miliband) are no longer
doomed Andrew Grice: Bruised and battered, Clegg will struggle to sell Coalition
relaunchProfessor John Curtice: Labour's making progress, but it's still some
way from No 10Chris Bryant: The naked and the dead - just a couple of the things
you meet while canvassingGalloway's Respect wins in Bradford again'Chipping
Norton set' desert the ToriesCities reject Cameron's dream of mayors for
allSalmond setback as Scots nationalists fail in Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 1:46 AM GMT

MPs turn fire on Cameron after dismal showing;
Backbenchers urge PM to adopt more right-wing policies after failure at the
polls

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 619 words


Alarm bells rang in the Conservatives' headquarters yesterday over the party's
weak showing in some of the marginal seats that will determine general election
victory.

Although the Tories avoided a meltdown in the local council elections, and will
blame the reverses on mid-term blues, their performance nationally was at the
worst end of expectations. Defeats in every part of Britain, partly fuelled by
defections of former supporters to the UK Independence Party (Ukip), provoked
recriminations in Conservative ranks.

The results have emboldened Tory right-wingers to press David Cameron to adopt a
tougher stance on issues including Europe, immigration and taxation. He faced
immediate calls from his own ranks to stop pressing ahead with "liberal"
policies such as reform of the House of Lords and championing gay marriage.

Across the electoral battleground of south Essex, the Tories struggled to hold
on to crucial swing voters. Labour won control of Thurrock, where the incumbent
Conservative MP has a majority of just 92, and of Harlow.

The Tory vote crumbled in Southampton, one of whose Westminster seats Labour
holds by 192, and in Plymouth, both of whose MPs have small majorities. In the
volatile West Midlands, the Conservatives lost both Dudley and Redditch and were
routed in Birmingham, losing 11 of the 18 seats that they were defending.

Their support also slumped in the North-West of England, which has a high number
of marginal constituencies, losing three of the four seats it was defending in
Oldham and four in Bolton. The gloomy news for the Tories was compounded by
signs that they were losing support to Ukip. The anti-EU party picked up few
seats, but averaged about 14 per cent in the wards it contested.

Mr Cameron faced calls from his MPs - and even one minister - to pay more
attention to his own supporters' views and to abandon Liberal Democrat-inspired
priorities. Gerald Howarth, the Defence Minister, condemned moves to reform the
Lords and support gay marriage. The Peterborough MP, Stewart Jackson, a former
ministerial aide, urged the Prime Minister to "stop fixating on the agenda of a
liberal clique".

Eleanor Laing, the Epping Forest MP, said he should listen "rather more to
Conservative MPs who represent the real people of this country" and less to the
"Liberal Democratic intellectual urban elite with the student politics ideas of
reforming the constitution and taking forward green policies".

Baroness Warsi, the Tory co-chairwoman, led an attack yesterday against Ukip as
she linked Ukip's rise to the rapid decline of the far-right British National
Party, which lost all six of the council wards it was defending.

She said: "Where Ukip is fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last
time but they're not this time, I think that will have an impact."

Huge Labour gains leave Coalition with identity crisis Boris Johnson passes the
winning post - but it was no easy ride to victory'Red Ken' finally reaches the
end of the lineClegg punished with his party's worst-ever resultsMPs turn fire
on Cameron after dismal showingLabour takes power across the country - and
Miliband tightens grip on his partyLeading article: A good result, but Labour
must beware a false dawn Steve Richards: Labour (and Ed Miliband) are no longer
doomed Andrew Grice: Bruised and battered, Clegg will struggle to sell Coalition
relaunchProfessor John Curtice: Labour's making progress, but it's still some
way from No 10Chris Bryant: The naked and the dead - just a couple of the things
you meet while canvassingGalloway's Respect wins in Bradford again'Chipping
Norton set' desert the ToriesCities reject Cameron's dream of mayors for
allSalmond setback as Scots nationalists fail in Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 1:46 AM GMT

Boris Johnson passes the winning post - but it was no easy ride to victory;
Johnson seals second term as Mayor by narrow margin amid chaos counting the
votes

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: HEI-FI-NEWS

LENGTH: 664 words


Boris Johnson clinched a narrow victory last night as the battle to become
London Mayor reached a dramatic and chaotic finale. The Conservative incumbent
saw off Ken Livingstone's bid to return to City Hall with a slim majority,
beating his Labour challenger by 51.53 per cent to 48.47 per cent.

Mr Johnson just made it across the finishing-line once second-preference votes
were redistributed. But the count was mired in controversy after it was delayed
for hours by the discovery of two boxes of uncounted ballots from Harrow and
Brent in north-west London.

When the results were finally declared at 11.55pm, the Green candidate Jenny
Jones secured a personal triumph by finishing third, followed by the Liberal
Democrat Brian Paddick and the independent Siobhan Benita.

The last-minute drama followed an acrimonious campaign in which the two
front-runners - reprising their contest of 2008 - swapped insults.

Mr Johnson's team had focused on his challenger's controversial tax
arrangements, while Labour responded by branding the current Mayor a joker who
had distanced himself from his party.

Polls on the eve of the election gave Mr Johnson a six-point lead. But as the
votes were tallied yesterday, it became clear the gap between the long-standing
foes was much narrower than expected.

An agonising wait ensued for the Tory and Labour teams as the uncounted ballots
were discovered, problems emerged with the electronic counting machines and a
counting centre suffered a power cut.

Labour sources, who had previously conceded defeat, suggested supporters who
disliked Mr Livingstone had not been able to bring themselves to back his Tory
rival when the reached the voting booth.

Mr Johnson plans to kick off a second term with a reshuffle of his senior team
and by ordering hundreds of new Routemaster buses for the capital.

His re-election in Labour-leaning London would have a wider significance in
Conservative politics as it would establish him as the obvious successor to
David Cameron.

The Independent disclosed yesterday that the Mayor's allies expect him to stand
for Parliament at the next general election, which is due in 2015.

Under this scenario, he would combine the roles of Mayor and MP for one year
before returning full-time to national politics.

For Mr Livingstone, his defeat marks the end of political career dating back to
the 1960s. He protested yesterday that the campaign had been "dominated by
smears and trivialities".

Results: Electorate 5,804,790, turnout 2,208,475 (38.05%, -5.81%)

First Count

Boris Johnson (C) 971,931 (44.01%, +0.81%)

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 889,918 (40.30%, +3.30%)

Jenny Jones (Green) 98,913 (4.48%, +1.28%)

Brian Paddick (LD) 91,774 (4.16%, -5.64%)

Siobhan Benita (Ind) 83,914 (3.80%, +3.58%)

Lawrence Webb (UKIP) 43,274 (1.96%, +1.03%)

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) 28,751 (1.30%, -1.58%)

Eliminated: Siobhan Benita, Carlos Cortiglia, Jenny Jones, Brian Paddick,
Lawrence Webb

Second Count

Distribution of Benita's, Cortiglia's, Jones's, Paddick's and Webb's votes:

Boris Johnson (C) 1,054,811

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 992,273

Elected: Boris Johnson

Huge Labour gains leave Coalition with identity crisis Boris Johnson passes the
winning post - but it was no easy ride to victory'Red Ken' finally reaches the
end of the lineClegg punished with his party's worst-ever resultsMPs turn fire
on Cameron after dismal showingLabour takes power across the country - and
Miliband tightens grip on his partyLeading article: A good result, but Labour
must beware a false dawn Steve Richards: Labour (and Ed Miliband) are no longer
doomed Andrew Grice: Bruised and battered, Clegg will struggle to sell Coalition
relaunchProfessor John Curtice: Labour's making progress, but it's still some
way from No 10Chris Bryant: The naked and the dead - just a couple of the things
you meet while canvassingGalloway's Respect wins in Bradford again'Chipping
Norton set' desert the ToriesCities reject Cameron's dream of mayors for
allSalmond setback as Scots nationalists fail in Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 5, 2012 Saturday 12:41 AM GMT

Boris Johnson re-elected London Mayor on a grim day for Conservatives

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words


Labour was today celebrating significant gains in council elections across
Britain, but failed to win the mayoral race in London, where Boris Johnson's
victory provided a consolation prize for Conservatives on a grim day for both
coalition parties.

The Conservative polled 1,054,811 to the Labour candidate's 992,273 following a
deeply personal and bitter campaign battle that saw the two men clash furiously
in public and in private.

Mr Johnson vowed to continue "fighting for a good deal for Londoners" from
government as he thanked voters for giving him a "new chance".

The Mayor outperformed his party, which suffered a significant drubbing
nationally, but failed to secure the massive win predicted by polls over recent
days that had put him as far as 12 points ahead.

Early results in the contest also suggested the incumbent was significantly in
the lead and even senior Labour figures conceded the Tory was poised to win. But
later count declarations saw the gap reduce, fuelling speculation Mr Johnson's
victory was not the done deal that had been tipped.

No candidate won enough votes in the first round to secure victory, meaning
second preferences had to be counted.

Labour secured eight of the London Assembly's 14 first-past-the-post
constituencies, gaining two from the Tories, which left them with six.

Results: Electorate 5,804,790, turnout 2,208,475 (38.05%, -5.81%)

First Count

Boris Johnson (C) 971,931 (44.01%, +0.81%)

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 889,918 (40.30%, +3.30%)

Jenny Jones (Green) 98,913 (4.48%, +1.28%)

Brian Paddick (LD) 91,774 (4.16%, -5.64%)

Siobhan Benita (Ind) 83,914 (3.80%, +3.58%)

Lawrence Webb (UKIP) 43,274 (1.96%, +1.03%)

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) 28,751 (1.30%, -1.58%)

Eliminated: Siobhan Benita, Carlos Cortiglia, Jenny Jones, Brian Paddick,
Lawrence Webb

Second Count

Distribution of Benita's, Cortiglia's, Jones's, Paddick's and Webb's votes:

Boris Johnson (C) 1,054,811

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 992,273

Elected: Boris Johnson

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 5, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: When PR goes bad: UKIP aide sorry for Twitter rant at Warsi

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 511 words


Baroness Warsi, who may soon be the ex-chairman of the Conservative Party,
picked up a curious but meaningless fact and gave it air time on live
television.

In 2008, the BNP fought 19 per cent of the seats that were up for grabs; in
2012, 5 per cent - a drop of 14 percentage points. In 2008, the UK Independence
Party contested 14 per cent, and in 2012, 28 per cent - up 14 percentage points.
Baroness Warsi suggested that this coincidence might imply, "a sort of a link
up" between the two parties.

Gawain Towler, spokesman for UKIP, heard this, lost his rag, and tweeted: "Warsi
**** off. How dare you. Bitch."

Challenged by other Twitter users, Towler backed down in stages. He first
apologised first for the "tone" of the tweet, maintaining that he had a right to
be angry. Then he conceded that his language was "not parliamentary". Then he
deleted the offending tweet and put out a second, less qualified apology.

The UKIP leader Nigel Farage made light of it. "One of my press officers said
something he perhaps shouldn't have said but hey - anyone who watches The Thick
Of It knows in politics bad language does get used," he said.

Lib Dems' long wait for the blues

The challenge for politicians who are getting slaughtered in elections, as the
Liberal Democrats were yesterday, is finding something positive to say without
sounding disconnected from reality. The prize this time goes to Ed Davey, who
wittily drew attention to the fact that the Lib Dems have never sustained losses
like this before because they have not been in government since the 1920s. He
said: "We've been waiting for mid-term blues for around 90 years"

Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg's dark night did, howver, have one ray of light.
Lembit Opik, the patron saint of lost causes, called for him to resign. So his
job is safe.

And Galloway's biggest fan is...

"I've got 30 million items on Google. Ed Miliband has four million. I have
150,000 followers on Twitter and 12,800 videos on YouTube, so anyone who wants
to know what I really think can easily find this out," George Galloway has
announced in the current issue of The Lady magazine, to explain how he pulled
off that astonishing by-election victory in Bradford with no help from the mass
media.

But when I go into George Galloway's Twitter feed, it tells me he has just under
74,000 followers, not 150,000, and when I google him, my machine counts 4.4
million entries, compared with over 20 million for Ed Miliband. Not one to
undersell himself, old George.

Welsh king's eagles are grounded

Though the Flag Institute has given it official approval, the striking banner of
three golden eagles on a green backdrop, flown at the battle of Agincourt by
King Owain Gwynedd and the men of Caernarfonshire, is not going to be flown
permanently over Caernarfon Castle, though it may be raised on an "appropriate
days".

The Caernarfonshire Association has told the Daily Post that they are
"disappointed" that an ancient Welsh flag takes less precedence than the flag of
the EU, but the Welsh environment agency, Cadw, says that it's a matter of
'protocol'.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

A good result, but Labour must beware a false dawn;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 601 words


Ed Miliband had reason to look pleased. The election results were every bit as
good for Labour as he could have hoped. In the spinning that preceded the count,
the Conservatives set the Opposition a target of winning at least 700 council
seats from the other parties to look credible, in the clear belief they would
not reach it. Labour sailed past that figure yesterday.

In Scotland, Labour thwarted Scottish Nationalists' high hopes of seizing
Glasgow city council. In Wales, Labour scored its best result since local
government reorganisation in 1996. Even the London mayoral race - the one Labour
had privately given up for lost - turned out to be much closer than most of the
polling had anticipated.

The Conservatives can justifiably attribute their losses to the kind of
unpopularity that afflicts governments after a couple of years in office - the
so called mid-term blues. But losing about 400 councillors in a single day is a
body blow to any party. That is 400 fewer committed activists putting life into
the party at local level.

The picture for the Liberal Democrats overall is, if anything, even bleaker,
since they lost about two of every five council seats they were defending,
though they were able to take some comfort in gains made in places where they
have a sitting MP. This included even Eastleigh, whose MP, Chris Huhne, has had
a dismal year personally, but where his party now has 40, out of 44, council
seats. For the Liberal Democrats, the results will inevitably prompt question
about whether they should put more distance between themselves and their
coalition partner.

Within the Conservative Party, the results are bringing to the surface
long-rumbling discontent with David Cameron's leadership. The Prime Minister
will inevitably feel his party tugging him to the right - trying, for example,
to persuade him to abandon gay marriage and reform of the House of Lords. These
issues are not on most people's political radar, but they are symbolic issues
which aggravate the Tory faithful and go part of the way to explain the
continuing rise of the UK Independence Party. Abandoning them might buy Mr
Cameron some peace within his party, but would not win over anyone thinking of
voting Labour.

Overall, if the voters had divided as they did yesterday in a general election,
Labour would be back in power with a commanding majority, and Ed Miliband would
be marching triumphantly into 10 Downing Street. But there is the rub. It was
not a general election, and voters knew they could give the Coalition a bloody
nose without having to ask themselves whether they wanted Ed Miliband and Ed
Balls running the country in place of David Cameron and George Osborne.

Opinion polls show that, although the Labour Party is gaining from the
Government's troubles, trust in Ed Miliband is not increasing, or not to
anything like the same extent. And even if it were, there is no point in Labour
or anyone else clamouring for an immediate election, because the Coalition has
brought in fixed-term parliaments, meaning that it is another three years before
the voters have to choose a new government. Nor, with their current levels of
support, will either coalition partner want to force an election sooner.

The scale of Labour's local election victories has bought Ed Miliband time; talk
of replacing him with someone who has more popular appeal will be silenced for
the foreseeable future. While secure in his position as Leader of the
Opposition, however, he is not established as a prime minister-in-waiting.
Because of that, the week's successes may yet turn out to be Labour's false
dawn.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

MPs turn fire on Cameron after dismal showing;
Backbenchers urge PM to adopt more right-wing policies after failure at the
polls CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


Alarm bells rang in the Conservatives' headquarters yesterday over the party's
weak showing in some of the marginal seats that will determine general election
victory.

Although the Tories avoided a meltdown in the local council elections, and will
blame the reverses on mid-term blues, their performance nationally was at the
worst end of expectations. Defeats in every part of Britain, partly fuelled by
defections of former supporters to the UK Independence Party (Ukip), provoked
recriminations in Conservative ranks.

The results have emboldened Tory right-wingers to press David Cameron to adopt a
tougher stance on issues including Europe, immigration and taxation. He faced
immediate calls from his own ranks to stop pressing ahead with "liberal"
policies such as reform of the House of Lords and championing gay marriage.

Across the electoral battleground of south Essex, the Tories struggled to hold
on to crucial swing voters. Labour won control of Thurrock, where the incumbent
Conservative MP has a majority of just 92, and of Harlow.

The Tory vote crumbled in Southampton, one of whose Westminster seats Labour
holds by 192, and in Plymouth, both of whose MPs have small majorities. In the
volatile West Midlands, the Conservatives lost both Dudley and Redditch and were
routed in Birmingham, losing 11 of the 18 seats that they were defending.

Their support also slumped in the North-West of England, which has a high number
of marginal constituencies, losing three of the four seats it was defending in
Oldham and four in Bolton. The gloomy news for the Tories was compounded by
signs that they were losing support to Ukip. The anti-EU party picked up few
seats, but averaged about 14 per cent in the wards it contested.

Mr Cameron faced calls from his MPs - and even one minister - to pay more
attention to his own supporters' views and to abandon Liberal Democrat-inspired
priorities. Gerald Howarth, the Defence Minister, condemned moves to reform the
Lords and support gay marriage. The Peterborough MP, Stewart Jackson, a former
ministerial aide, urged the Prime Minister to "stop fixating on the agenda of a
liberal clique".

Eleanor Laing, the Epping Forest MP, said he should listen "rather more to
Conservative MPs who represent the real people of this country" and less to the
"Liberal Democratic intellectual urban elite with the student politics ideas of
reforming the constitution and taking forward green policies".

Baroness Warsi, the Tory co-chairwoman, led an attack yesterday against Ukip as
she linked Ukip's rise to the rapid decline of the far-right British National
Party, which lost all six of the council wards it was defending.

She said: "Where Ukip is fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last
time but they're not this time, I think that will have an impact."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 5, 2012 Saturday 11:52 PM GMT

'Be warned: Party bosses only need 46 signatures to ditch the leader. They'll
get them by Christmas': Nadine Dorries attacks David Cameron

BYLINE: NADINE DORRIES

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1027 words


By NADINE DORRIES, Conservative MP for mid-Bedfordshire

David Cameron stated last week that he is aiming for a 'Conservative-led'
Government in 2015.

The implication being that he is not working towards a Conservative majority.

He said what many MPs have long suspected and discussed - that the Prime
Minister would far prefer to govern as part of a permanent Lib-Dem coalition
than with a Conservative majority which would reach out to both the Left and the
Right wings of the party.

Despite my comments of last week, in which I described David Cameron and George
Osborne as 'two arrogant posh boys who don't know the price of milk', I hold
nothing against 'posh' people.

I am ecstatic that Eton-and-Oxford educated Boris has won the London Mayoralty.
My two favourite Prime Ministers from my lifetime are Harold Macmillan (also
Eton and Oxford) and Margaret Thatcher (Oxford).

As soon as I was able to afford to do so, I - someone from a Liverpool council
estate - sent my daughters to a public school.

But I do have a problem with arrogance. And when arrogance combines with
privilege to be the root cause of bad decisions it is not a pleasant sight.

In a Prime Minister, it can have terrible consequences. Throw bad manners into
the mix and it is a recipe for disaster.

Our dismal performance in Thursday's elections show that we are sinking like a
stone in the shadow of a Labour Party that is weaker, more moribund and clueless
than it has been at any time in the past 20 years.

The Labour Party, which took the nation to the brink of bankruptcy, is striding
ahead. It's not hard to see why.

While Britons scream out for strong policies on law and order, a stable NHS and
an in-out referendum on Europe to cut us free from basket-case Southern European
economies, Cameron makes gay marriage and Lords reform his  priorities.

Even those who have no deep understanding of economics recognise that we need a
strategy for growth, lower taxes, enterprise schemes to help local
entrepreneurs, free-flowing bank capital and raising tax thresholds for the
lower paid.

Osborne, however, taxes the pasties eaten by working men and women, cuts the 50p
tax band - sending out the message that we are the party of the rich - does
nothing to reduce the crippling price of petrol and gives the IMF a further £10
billion bung of taxpayers' money to bail out failing European countries.

Cameron and Osborne should be aware: Conservative MPs will not sleepwalk into
losing their seats, in the way Labour MPs did in 2010.

Chief Whip Patrick Mcloughlin, a decent man who has become a master in the art
of political tightrope walking, can expect to be bombarded with complaints from
backbenchers.

According to the rules of the backbench 1922 Committee, in order for David
Cameron's position as leader to be challenged, the chairman of the committee
needs to receive 46 signatures from Conservative MPs to signal a vote of no
confidence.

I would guess that those signatures are already coming in and will reach 46 by
Christmas.

Many of the 2010 intake have been overly, slavishly loyal to the Cameron-Osborne
duo.

Those same MPs are now watching their majorities slip away and probably their
Parliamentary seat along with it. Nothing quite focuses the mind like a P45.

In addition, we have to deal with increasing displays of bad manners from the
Prime Minister. There is a public expectation that if any man or woman is to be
a Prime Minister, they need certain qualities.

These include being statesmanlike, polite, well-mannered, courteous and showing
a compassionate understanding of the lives of the less well-off.

It is imperative that a Prime Minister can emote toughness, intellect and
kindness in equal measure.

Sadly, Cameron has consistently failed to demonstrate any of those qualities.

Many of us cringed at the images from the U.S. when the perpetually grinning
Cameron visited Barack Obama; a week before the Budget, Osborne was flying
around on Air Force One, eating popcorn.

The impression was that they were two spoilt schoolboys, enjoying themselves
enormously at a time when many British families cannot afford a family holiday.

Last week, when a female Labour MP asked Cameron a question at Prime Minister's
Questions, he rudely answered her with a dismissive 'well read' but gave no
reply to her question.

He told the veteran Labour MP, Dennis Skinner, a combative figure in the House
of Commons for 40 years, to 'collect his pension'.

The previous week he told the Conservative MP Douglas Carswell, to 'get a sense
of humour', while his notorious 'Calm down, dear' comment to Angela Eagle, and
his put-down to me in the Commons when he described me as 'frustrated', have
added to the impression of gross discourtesy.

These are the actions of a petulant schoolboy, one who gives public schools a
bad name.

Harold Macmillan, a genuine Tory patrician, would not have behaved in such a
way. He was the embodiment of statesmanship and behaved with good grace at all
times.

Mr Cameron also stated that he 'wouldn't go there' when asked how he felt about
merging with UKIP, given their surge in popularity.

It has become clear to me that Cameron wants to steer the Conservative party to
the Left, to remain in coalition with the pro-European, pro-wind farm, pro-green
taxes, pro-giving prisoners the vote, pro-immigration Lib Dems, who command just
nine per cent of seats in the Commons.

He will avoid at all costs working with MPs on the Right of the party, whose
views chime with the popular policies of UKIP.

This will be his big mistake, because there are more MPs to the Right of him
than he may realise.

If he continues in this vein the Right of the party may well split away,
allowing Ed Miliband's Labour to glide comfortably into No 10 at the next
Election.

This scenario can be avoided only by removing the men who are so stubborn and
arrogant they cannot see the writing on the wall.

As the number of signatures mounts up, unless there is a dramatic change of
tack, it is almost certain that David Cameron and George Osborne will be
replaced within a year.

Their downfall will have been brought about by arrogance and a sneering
disregard for true Conservative values.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 6:38 PM GMT

I've got your back, Dave... honest: Boris tipped to be next party leader after
London triumph as beleaguered PM faces demands for return to traditional Tory
values

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN and DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3997 words



     ·    SCROLL DOWN FOR THE RESULTS IN YOUR AREA
     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS: Labour +32, Tories -12 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +823, Tories -405, Lib Dems -336
     ·    LONDON MAYORAL: Boris Johnson wins second term by 3% margin
     ·    Cameron: 'I think it was a very strong campaign by Boris'
     ·    Odds of Boris becoming next Conservative Party leader slashed to 4-1
     ·    Describes his politics as 'avowedly conservative, with a big C or a
          small c'
     ·    Councillors turn on 'catastrophe Clegg' as his party loses 50% of
          seats
     ·    Jubilant Miliband egged during a victory walkabout in Southampton


Boris Johnson is being tipped to become the next Tory leader following his
triumph in the London Mayoral race and a humiliating drubbing at the polls for
David Cameron.

The Prime Minister has been left struggling to contain civil war in the
Coalition with members of his own party demanding a return to traditional Tory
values after a loss of 12 councils and 405 seats.

Last night the PM was warned to rein in 'wind turbine Toryism' as senior
Conservative MPs prepared to publish an alternative programme for Government,
demanding more radical tax and spending policies.

Scroll down for results and videos

Mr Johnson won in London by a far more narrow margin than had been expected,
beating Labour rival Ken Livingstone by just three percent on second preference
votes after failing to gain more than 50 per cent in the first round.

Nevertheless his victory remained one of the only positives for the Tories and
he is now expected to tell Mr Cameron that the party must adopt his style of
'compassionate cosmopolitan Conservatism' if they are to stand a chance of
victory at the 2015 general election.

The rivalry between the two former Eton pupils has been the source of much
speculation since their days at Oxford and while Mr Johnson announced his
intention to serve another full four-year term as London mayor, many within the
party want to see him return to the Commons.

One activist wrote on the party website: 'Despite the kicking they have received
I don't hear a single Tory drawing the obvious conclusion that they need to
change their policies or their leader or both.

'Unless Boris becomes our next Prime Minister it will be Miliband.'

Speaking on BBC's Today programme this morning, Mr Johnson said he wouldn't
stand as an MP at the next general election in three years and described his
brand of politics as 'absolutely avowedly conservative, with a big C or a small
c'

He added: 'I think what people saw in this election was two very clear choices
and one of them basically involved taking London backwards to the 1970s and the
doctrines of Bolivarian revolutionary socialism, the sort-of champagne
socialist, Cuban cigar-rolling approach to life and that wasn't what I was
offering.

'I was offering, in tough times, a cost-effective sensible approach, working
with the Government, working with the private sector, to take the city forward.'

Following his victory Bookmakers William Hill have slashed the odds of Johnson
becoming the next Tory leader to 4-1.

In a brief speech at city hall today Mr Johnson promised he and his team would
'work our socks off' to deliver on their election promises and prepare London
for the Olympics.

He said: 'We now have 87 days left to get the greatest city on the world ready
for the Olympic and Paralympic games..

'Can we get it ready? I think we can.'

Mr Cameron today said he was 'delighted' Johnson's victory and vowed the pair
would work together for the good of London.

Speaking at City Hall, Mr Cameron said: 'I think it was a very strong campaign
by Boris. It was based on his record, on the excellent things he has done out
there and I am delighted to congratulate him.

'It was a campaign the whole Conservative party got behind.

'I enjoyed campaigning for Boris but now what matters is working together for
the good of London, as PM, as Mayor, and that is exactly what we are going to
do.'

Seeking to draw a line under the Government's most turbulent period, Mr Cameron
admitted the polls took place against a 'difficult national backdrop' but
insisted ministers were doing the 'right thing for our country'.

However he faces an immediate challenge from senior figures on the Right of his
party who want him to stand up to the  Liberal Democrats.

They plan to unveil an alternative Queen's Speech within days, setting out 20
Bills they argue would kickstart the faltering economy and boost Conservative
support.

Senior MPs do not believe issues such as gay marriage and Lords reform have had
much impact on Tory support.

They argue mid-term unpopularity is inevitable for a government embarked on a
far more radical programme of spending cuts than anything Margaret Thatcher
attempted. But they say Chancellor George Osborne has failed to embark on
austerity quickly enough and needs to take urgent steps on tax and regulation to
boost growth.

Former shadow home secretary Mr Davis said: 'If we were halfway through the cuts
programme, I think the position we are in would be fine. The real issue is
whether we have done enough and the pain justifies the gain.

'In 1981, the budget was ferociously unpopular but it delivered the medicine,
produced economic recovery and delivered Margaret Thatcher a landslide.

'It was inevitable, if we did the job properly, that there was going to be
unpopularity half way through. If we had had 50 per cent of the cuts already, we
would be quite happy to be where we are, but we've only had ten per cent. There
is plenty more misery to come.

'The question is whether the economic strategy will work. There is quite a lot
of doubt about whether we are going to get enough growth to do the job. We won't
balance the books without growth, we won't get employment down without growth
and we won't make people feel better without growth.'

Mr Redwood said: 'The coalition needs to change its approach to the economy,
with policies that give priority to faster economic growth.'

Tory hearts were lifted last night as Boris Johnson defied political gravity
with a knife-edge defeat of Labour's Ken Livingstone in the London mayoral
election, the biggest ballot-box test before the next General Election.

Mr Johnson, whose victory put him in pole position to succeed Mr Cameron,
brushed aside suggestions that he would return to Parliament as an MP in 2015 to
battle for the leadership.

But Tory MPs pointed out that the London Mayor had outperformed his party in the
capital while refusing to apologise for traditional Eurosceptic, low-tax Tory
principles.

Unease has been growing on Conservative back benches at the power and influence
of Mr Clegg in the Coalition, with MPs complaining that Mr Cameron has been
forced to water down policies on Europe, tax cuts, human rights, NHS reforms and
the family.

Right-wingers led by David Davis and John Redwood will argue that a more radical
economic strategy is needed, proposing targeted tax cuts, deeper spending cuts
and an end to expensive environmental regulation.

The Prime Minister is under pressure to champion more traditional Conservative
policies on law and order and education.

Eurosceptic Tories also want Mr Cameron to consider offering a referendum on
Britain's future in the EU.

Though the Lib Dems would be likely to walk out of the Coalition if he did so,
some MPs suggest he could announce a poll to coincide with the next General
Election, even if it meant running a minority Conservative government for the
last few months of the Parliament.

They suggest such a dramatic move would energise Conservative support on
election day.

Tory MPs drew some comfort from the fact that Labour's performance, while solid
at around 38 per cent of the vote to the Tories' 31 per cent, did not indicate a
party cruising towards General Election victory.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell told the Huffington Post website: 'These results show
why we need to deliver the EU referendum we promised when in opposition.

UKIP cost us a number of seats in council elections.

'If repeated in a General Election, this will mean us losing dozens of seats and
make an overall majority less likely. More wind-turbine Toryism is not the
answer.'

Stewart Jackson MP called for an end to 'barmy' policies. 'David Cameron is on
notice that he does need to raise his game,' he said.

'He needs to focus on bread-and-butter issues like jobs and mortgages and public
services and, above all, to develop a clear route map to growth, and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him and barmy policies such as
Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either don't like or don't care
about.

'There is a growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their
views are not being listened to.'

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister, called for Mr Cameron to overrule the
Lib Dems on more issues.

'Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one sixth of the Coalition,
not one half of the Coalition,' she said.

'David can listen rather more to Conservative MPs, who represent the real people
of this country, and give rather less regard to the Liberal Democrat
intellectual urban elite, with their student politics idea of reforming the
constitution and taking forward green policies.'

Centrist Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some
more traditional Right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

But senior figures including Foreign Secretary William Hague insisted that
abandoning the centre ground and shifting to the Right would be futile.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenNOC No ChangeAberdeenshireNOC No ChangeAdurCON No Change    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

SNP gain from NOCArgyll & ButeNOC No Change    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

LAB No ChangeBlaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

LAB gain from NOC   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

LAB gain from NOC Calderdale

NOC No Change Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

LAB gain from NOC   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

NOC No ChangeCastle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  ClackmannanshireNOC No Change    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

IND No Change ConwyNOC No Change    Coventry

LAB No Change    CravenCON No Change    CrawleyCON No Change    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

NOC No Change    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterLAB No ChangeDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries &
GallowayNOC No Change DundeeSNP gain from NOCEast AyrshireNOC No ChangeEast
DunbartonshireNOC No ChangeEast LothianNOC No ChangeEast RenfrewshireNOC No
ChangeEastleighLD No ChangeEdinburghNOC No ChangeElmbridgeCON No ChangeEpping
ForestCON No ChangeExeterLAB gain from NOCFalkirkNOC No ChangeFarehamCON No
Change FifeNOC No ChangeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadLAB No ChangeGlasgowLAB
gain from NOC Gloucester CON lose to NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddPC lose to NOCHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateCON No ChangeHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandNOC No ChangeHuntingdonshireCON No ChangeHyndburnLAB No
Change InverclydeNOC No ChangeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesNOC No ChangeKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeedsLAB No Change Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolLAB No ChangeMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianLAB lose to NOCMilton KeynesNOC No ChangeMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNOC No ChangeNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeLAB gain from NOCNewcastle upon TyneLAB No
ChangeNewportLAB gain from NOCNorth AyrshireNOC No ChangeNorth East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireCON No ChangeNorth LanarkshireLAB No
ChangeNorth TynesideLAB No ChangeNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyIND No ChangeOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshireIND No ChangePendleNOC No ChangePerth & KinrossNOC No
ChangePeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysIND No ChangePreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchLAB gain from CONReigate & BansteadCON No
ChangeRenfrewshireLAB gain from NOCRhondda Cynon TaffLAB No ChangeRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendaleLAB gain from NOC Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyCON No ChangeRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersNOC No ChangeSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldLAB No ChangeShetlandIND No ChangeSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullCON No ChangeSouth AyrshireNOC No ChangeSouth
CambridgeshireCON No ChangeSouth LakelandLD No ChangeSouth LanarkshireNOC No
ChangeSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingNOC No Change

Stockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudNOC No ChangeSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaLAB gain from NOCSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversLD No ChangeThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsCON No ChangeVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldLAB No ChangeWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonLAB No ChangeWatfordLD No ChangeWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireLAB gain from NOCWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianNOC No ChangeWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingCON No ChangeWokinghamCON No ChangeWolverhamptonLAB No
ChangeWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingCON No ChangeWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

A good night, Ed, but don't crow yet

By Tony Travers  Professor of Government, London School of Economics

The 2012 local elections  were bad for the Conservatives, but by no means as bad
as  some of the mid-term blues that have hit governments in the past.

Although Labour has made respectable progress, it cannot see gains of a little
over 800 councillors as evidence it will certainly win a 2015 general election.

Labour's vote share was about 38 per cent, way above some of its poll ratings a
few months ago, but not as impressive as the 42 per cent it achieved during the
Tory governments of the late 1980s and 1990s. Back then, the Tories sank as low
as 27 per cent.

If Ed Miliband is to be sure of national success, he needs to see Labour poll
over 40 per cent in local elections for several years running.

Of the smaller parties, Ukip made good progress in terms of vote share in seats
where they stood, though they did not win any new councillors.

The party's surge is evidence of dissident Conservatives making a protest. In
the past, Ukip has been able to make occasional and exciting interventions into
British voting, but has subsequently faded away. It has generally done well when
the Tories are unpopular - something the Lib Dems once did. Ukip, the Greens and
other minor parties can expect to prosper more as an opportunity for protest
voting in future.

So just how bad were these results for the Conservatives? Their national vote
share was  31 per cent, well down on last year. However,  their loss of seats
was far smaller than those suffered by Mrs Thatcher or Tony Blair in their worst
years.

For example, more than once during the  1980s, Mrs Thatcher lost 1,000 seats in
a year,  and in 1999 and 2003, Mr Blair suffered similar losses. Yet both went
on to win the next  general elections.

For the Lib Dems, who have lost their 'protest vote' status, this result is
another body blow added to the one they suffered last year. They have lost more
than 300 councillors and have slumped to a total of under 3,000 across Britain.
This is their lowest number since the mid-1980s and is sure to spark growing
disquiet within the party's rank and file.

Next year, there will be shire county elections, with the prospect of a further,
possibly worse, battering. Fewer councillors means fewer activists and thus, the
inevitability of fewer MPs.

Local elections should be about clean streets, bins, council tax and a decent
environment. Inevitably, though, they are used as a real-time opinion poll about
David, Ed and Nick. In reality some  perfectly good Conservative and Liberal
Democrat councillors will have lost their seats because of the Coalition's
recent shambolic activities.

However, London's City Hall race, between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone,
showed what an extraordinary vote-winner Boris is. With his  party well behind
Labour in the national vote, Johnson radically out-performed the Tories across
the capital.

These elections have worsened the political weather for David Cameron, with the
risk they will empower his enemies within his party. He will now also need to
keep an eye out for Boris, whose popularity will not be lost on the Tory
faithful.

Clegg and Co on the rocks says one of his own peers

Nick Clegg was last night warned by one of his own peers that the Liberal
Democrats could cease to be a viable force at the next general election.

The Deputy Prime Minister said he was 'saddened' after the Lib Dems lost more
than 300 councillors, or 40 per cent of the seats they contested.

The party's slump means it now has fewer than 3,000 councillors for the first
time since the 1980s.

Lord Oakeshott, a key ally of Vince Cable, warned the party could not afford to
fight the next general election if it received a similar 'hammering'.

He said: 'We have got to face it - we have had another very substantial swathe
of our crucial activist base wiped away.

'For me, what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a nationwide,
powerful, independent force, and if we have another year like this, we won't be
able to. Unless there is a change, both coalition partners and our country are
heading for the rocks.'

John Curtice, professor in politics at Strathclyde University, said the Lib
Dems' base was at 'serious risk of disappearing entirely'.

He said: 'Nick Clegg's claims that voters are starting to listen to the party
have been shown to have not any credibility to them at all.'

PM'S PLAN FOR CITY MAYORS IS GIVEN A BIG THUMBS DOWN

David Cameron's hope of putting a 'Boris in every city' is in tatters after
voters rejected plans for elected mayors.

The Prime Minister had claimed  his proposals would boost local accountability.

But they were dismissed - often  by very large margins - by the  electorates in
Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, Sheffield,  Nottingham, Coventry,
Wakefield  and Bradford.

Leeds was also expected to reject the plans. Only Bristol voted Yes, while
Doncaster decided to retain its directly elected mayor, the English Democrat
Peter Davies, and Liverpool voted in Labour's council leader Joe Anderson as its
first elected mayor. The city accepted a deal in February which would install a
mayor in return for £130million in additional government funds.

The widespread rejection of his pet project is a bitter blow to the Prime
Minister, who has sought in vain to make localism a defining principle of his
government.

He had attempted to drum up support for the plans by citing the example of Boris
Johnson in London. But critics of the proposals condemned them on the grounds
that they would have led to the creation of yet another expensive tier of
bureaucracy.

The blueprint for elected mayors was drawn up by Mr Cameron's policy guru Steve
Hilton.  It will be scant consolation to him that the Yes vote in Bristol may
have been influenced by the fact that Mr Cameron made his keynote speech backing
the plans in that city last month.

The results are also a blow for Labour, which had hoped to ride the party's
rising political tide to win the high profile posts. Senior Labour MP Sion Simon
quit Parliament to run for Mayor of Birmingham. Shadow work and pensions
secretary Liam Byrne also planned to walk out to fight for the post.

Housing Minister Grant Shapps defended the mayoral referendums, saying: 'People
should have the right to decide how they are governed in their local area.' He
added: 'The whole point is to give people a say. No one is forcing mayors on
anyone.'

But Tory MP Douglas Carswell, a passionate advocate of more local powers,
accused the Government of seeking to impose a one-size-fits-all model on each
city. He said: 'The case in favour of dispersing power outward and downward from
Whitehall remains strong.

Perhaps the lesson from yesterday is that directly elected mayors ain't the way
to do it.'

However Lib Dem support held up well in areas where there they had sitting MPs
and a strong activist base. Mr Clegg insisted his party would 'continue to play
our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

Speaking outside his £2million London home, he said: 'I am really sad that so
many colleagues and friends, Liberal Democrat councillors, who have worked so
hard, so tirelessly for so many years for communities and families in their
local areas have lost their seats.'

He added: 'I am determined that we will continue to play our role in rescuing,
repairing and reforming the British economy.'

However the party was facing a near wipe-out on the Greater London Assembly,
where its mayoral candidate Brian Paddick was struggling to even come fourth.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik even said Mr Clegg should quit as party leader -
but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Mr Opik called for Mr Clegg to be replaced with a figure from the left of the
party to win back disgruntled activists.

Tim Farron, the party president, also suggested the defeats had been down to the
Coalition.

He said: 'I am sorry, genuinely sorry. Those guys lost their seats last night
not through their fault but through our fault, because of where we are
nationally, being in government.'

In Sunderland, councillor Paul Dixon, who lost his seat to the Labour candidate,
blamed Mr Clegg for his defeat.

Mr Dixon said: 'I put it down to the Nick Clegg and his cronies in Government.

'It's definitely all down to the national issues and it's a shame people have
not voted on the local issues.

'Nick Clegg should take a real hard look at what they are doing as it has been
really bad tonight. He needs to listen, he's got to do something.

'Come the next general election we will also start to lose our MPs if he doesn't
do something now.'

 The Lib Dem leadership was also told to quit getting 'bogged down' in Lords
reform and an overhaul of the Commons by one of its own MPs.

John Pugh said the Coalition should focus on jobs and think 'very hard' before
diving into constitutional reform.

Mr Pugh, the Lib Dem MP for Southport, said: 'Nick is not directly responsible
for them losing their seats, but certainly the way the Coalition presents itself
is a problem for local Liberal Democrats as they are trying to do the best for
their community.'

Danny Alexander, the Lib Dem chief secretary to the Treasury, said that all the
main parties were committed to reforming the House of Lords.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 1:46 PM GMT

Cameron can only win with true Tory values

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL COMMENT

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 599 words


For David Cameron, it could have been worse. The Tory vote in the local
elections, though down on four years ago, did not collapse. Boris Johnson was
triumphantly re-elected Mayor of London.

Labour, while enjoying success outside its heartlands, barely matched the
performance of William Hague' s Conservatives in 2000, the year before they were
routed in the General Election.

But the electorate did deliver a very clear message to the Prime Minister: they
want him to stop pandering so much to the Liberal Democrats (who now have fewer
councillors than at any time in their history) and govern as a Tory.

As defence minister Gerald Howarth remarked, the party's natural supporters are
bewildered by the decision to prioritise fringe issues such as gay marriage and
House of Lords reform when the country is struggling to escape the worst slump
since the 1930s.

People want to see a radical plan to create growth and jobs - which means
slashing red tape, cutting taxes and shrinking the bloated public spending.

Families getting up to go to work each day want real action to tackle the
shameful culture of welfarism. They want Mr Cameron to deliver on his promises
to curb immigration and the EU's powers.

Instead voters see a country that has slid into a double dip recession. To their
great credit, Mr Cameron and the Chancellor have brought Labour's deficit under
control - but spending on the likes of housing benefit continues to rise.

Their limited action to reduce migration and the insidious influence of
Brussels, while welcome, has not satisfied a disillusioned public which
delivered a significant protest vote to UKIP.

Boris Johnson - a Eurosceptic who advocates a small state and low taxes and who,
crucially, is not handcuffed to the Lib Dems - showed what can be achieved by
sticking to core Conservative values.

Yes, he was fighting a personality contest against an awful, antediluvian
opponent in Ken Livingstone, but voters also recognised he'd slashed waste and
frozen taxes in his first term in office.

Tory MPs say the second message on the doorstep was that people want Mr Cameron
to get a grip, in the wake of a truly dreadful six weeks which included the fuel
strike crisis, the Abu Qatada debacle, the revelations over cash-foraccess and
the BSkyB affair.

Worst of all was the botched and badly explained Budget, which lifted thousands
more low earners out of paying any taxes, but which is remembered only for the
granny tax, the pasty tax, helping the wealthy by axing the 50p tax rate and the
assault on charitable giving.

The public will forgive the Tory Party many things - but only if it lives up to
its reputation for economic competence.

The results represented a good(ish) night for Labour but Ed Miliband - while now
far more secure in his job after winning 38 per cent of the vote - hardly made
the breakthrough required of a party facing a mid-term government in the middle
of an economic crisis.

For example, his seven point lead over the Tories compares to a 16 point
advantage enjoyed by Mr Cameron over Labour at the 2008 local elections.

So, all is far from lost for the Prime Minister. Most Tories understand the
shackles imposed by the Lib Dems will never let him do all he or they want.

What is certain, however, is that the country will not forgive a government
which fails to take the brave steps required to fix the economy and give the
country a hope of a brighter future.

Mr Cameron remains a man of genuine appeal and undoubted ability. He has three
years until the election to prove his economic competency and his Tory
principles. But the clock is ticking.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 1:18 PM GMT

Boris, by a blond whisker: Johnson clinches mayoral victory and thanks rival Ken
for helping him win

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1543 words



     ·    Boris won 1,054,811 first and second preference votes
     ·    Ken finished 62,000 votes behind with 992,273
     ·    Winning margin 51.5% to 48.5%
     ·    Green party candidate Jenny Jones finishes 3rd ahead of Lib Dem Brian
          Paddick
     ·    Result delayed by faulty counting machines
     ·    Boris loses two allies; deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and fire chief
          Brian Coleman


Boris Johnson seized victory in the London mayoral election last night - ending
Ken Livingstone's controversial career in front-line politics.

The Tory mayor secured a tense win just before midnight, handing the
Conservatives a much-needed morale boost after a miserable day at the polls.

Mr Johnson secured a lead of 82,000 votes on the first ballot and won by 62,000
once voters' second preferences were counted.

He beat Mr Livingstone by 1,054,811 to 992,273, securing 51.5 per cent of the
vote in the runoff - a smaller margin of victory than he managed in 2008.

Mr Johnson's strong personal showing puts him in pole position to succeed David
Cameron as Tory leader and Prime Minister.

He picked up around 44 per cent of first-preference votes, and secured a strong
mandate by running ten or more points ahead of the Tories as a party in London.

His performance will be seized upon by disgruntled Conservatives who see his
commitment to what they see as real Tory values as a blueprint for Mr Cameron to
follow.

Allies of Mr Johnson say he will now tell Mr Cameron he should seek to emulate
his optimistic outlook and economic conservatism if he wants to revitalise the
party's support.

A source close to Mr Johnson said: 'Boris has championed cosmopolitan and
compassionate Conservatism.

He has combined that with a bone-dry approach on the economy. If Boris had been
seen as a straight Conservative, he would have lost heavily.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson, 47, made clear that he will devote himself to London
rather than national politics. He said he will not stand as an MP in the 2015
general election and will stay at City Hall until 2016.

Speaking before the final result was revealed, he said: 'If I am fortunate
enough to win I'll need four years to deliver what I've promised. And having put
trust at the heart of this election, I would serve out that term in full.

'I made a solemn vow to Londoners to lead them out of recession, bring down
crime and deliver the growth, investment and jobs that this city so desperately
needs.

Keeping that promise cannot be combined with any other political capacity.'

A clearly relieved but tired mayor used his acceptance speech to say he would
continue to 'fight for a fair deal for Londoners' and win resources from
Chancellor George Osborne - Mr Johnson's most likely opponent in a future Tory
leadership election.

His rival Mr Livingstone said: 'I would like to congratulate Boris on his
personal victory.

Whilst Cameron and Osborne are dragging the Tory party down to defeat in the
rest of Britain, not only have you won another term but I suspect this result
has settled the question of the next Tory leadership election.'

Looking back on his career, he said he had won 11 elections and lost three.

'This is the defeat I most regret,' he added.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Brian Paddick, faced humiliation. He was beaten
into fourth place by Green candidate Jenny Jones by 7,000 votes, and was not far
ahead of independent Siobhan Benita.

Mr Johnson's victory came even as the Tories were trounced by Labour in the
London Assembly elections.

Labour picked up two seats from the Tories, with Mr Johnson's deputy mayor
Richard Barnes defeated in Ealing and Hillingdon while Brian  Coleman lost in
Barnet and Camden.

The mayoral result brought a halt to the rollercoaster career of Mr Livingstone,
one of the most controversial and distinctive voices in politics.

The leader of the Greater London Council in the 1980s until Margaret Thatcher
closed it down, he served a decade on the Labour backbenches until the Blair
government created the role of London mayor.

Mr Livingstone was frozen out of the selection process and resigned to run his
first campaign as an independent.  He won easily in 2000 and ran again - this
time as the Labour candidate - in 2004.

But last night he lost a second successive election to arguably the only other
British politician instantly recognisable by his Christian name alone.

Mr Johnson paid tribute to his opponent, saying: 'Of all the left-wing
politicians I can think of, you have been amongst the most creative and
imaginative.'

He said he would happily share a 'non-taxpayer-subsidised drink' with Mr
Livingstone 'as long as you promise not to run again'.

Mr Livingstone's mayoral prospects were severely damaged by the accusation that
he has avoided thousands of pounds in income tax by funnelling his earnings
through a company. Last night he said: 'This is my last election.'

Not all senior Labour figures were hoping for a Livingstone victory, since they
regard the left-winger as a loose cannon.

The party's leader Ed Miliband also hopes that Mr Johnson, who has distanced
himself from the Coalition and its Budget, will continue to be a thorn in the
Prime Minister's side by criticising him from the Right.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

Peter Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of the
European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 8:34 AM GMT

Now stand up for Tory values! Cameron faces Coalition civil war as Boris's
triumph is overshadowed by local election battering

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3241 words


Now stand up for Tory values! Cameron  faces Coalition civil war as Boris's
triumph is overshadowed by local election battering


     ·    SCROLL DOWN FOR THE RESULTS IN YOUR AREA
     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS: Labour +32, Tories -12 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +823, Tories -405, Lib Dems -336
     ·    LONDON MAYORAL: Boris Johnson wins second term by 3% margin
     ·    Councillors turn on 'catastrophe Clegg' as his party loses 50% of
          seats
     ·    Miliband hit with an egg during a victory walkabout in Southampton


David Cameron is struggling to contain civil war in the Coalition following a
painful setback in local elections for both Government parties.

Last night the Prime Minister was warned to rein in 'wind turbine Toryism' as
senior Conservative MPs prepared to publish an alternative programme for
Government, demanding more radical tax and spending policies.

Seeking to draw a line under the Government's most turbulent period, Mr Cameron
admitted the polls took place against a 'difficult national backdrop' but
insisted ministers were doing the 'right thing for our country'.

Scroll down for live results and videos

However he faces an immediate challenge from senior figures on the Right of his
party who want him to stand up to the  Liberal Democrats.

They plan to unveil an alternative Queen's Speech within days, setting out 20
Bills they argue would kickstart the faltering economy and boost Conservative
support.

Tory hearts were lifted last night as Boris Johnson defied political gravity
with a knife-edge defeat of Labour's Ken Livingstone in the London mayoral
election, the biggest ballot-box test before the next General Election.

Mr Johnson, whose victory put him in pole position to succeed Mr Cameron,
brushed aside suggestions that he would return to Parliament as an MP in 2015 to
battle for the leadership.

But Tory MPs pointed out that the London Mayor had outperformed his party in the
capital while refusing to apologise for traditional Eurosceptic, low-tax Tory
principles.

Unease has been growing on Conservative back benches at the power and influence
of Mr Clegg in the Coalition, with MPs complaining that Mr Cameron has been
forced to water down policies on Europe, tax cuts, human rights, NHS reforms and
the family.

Right-wingers led by David Davis and John Redwood will argue that a more radical
economic strategy is needed, proposing targeted tax cuts, deeper spending cuts
and an end to expensive environmental regulation.

The Prime Minister is under pressure to champion more traditional Conservative
policies on law and order and education.

Eurosceptic Tories also want Mr Cameron to consider offering a referendum on
Britain's future in the EU.

Though the Lib Dems would be likely to walk out of the Coalition if he did so,
some MPs suggest he could announce a poll to coincide with the next General
Election, even if it meant running a minority Conservative government for the
last few months of the Parliament.

They suggest such a dramatic move would energise Conservative support on
election day.

Tory MPs drew some comfort from the fact that Labour's performance, while solid
at around 38 per cent of the vote to the Tories' 31 per cent, did not indicate a
party cruising towards General Election victory.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell told the Huffington Post website: 'These results show
why we need to deliver the EU referendum we promised when in opposition.

UKIP cost us a number of seats in council elections.

'If repeated in a General Election, this will mean us losing dozens of seats and
make an overall majority less likely. More wind-turbine Toryism is not the
answer.'

Stewart Jackson MP called for an end to 'barmy' policies. 'David Cameron is on
notice that he does need to raise his game,' he said.

'He needs to focus on bread-and-butter issues like jobs and mortgages and public
services and, above all, to develop a clear route map to growth, and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him and barmy policies such as
Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either don't like or don't care
about.

'There is a growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their
views are not being listened to.'

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister, called for Mr Cameron to overrule the
Lib Dems on more issues.

'Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one sixth of the Coalition,
not one half of the Coalition,' she said.

'David can listen rather more to Conservative MPs, who represent the real people
of this country, and give rather less regard to the Liberal Democrat
intellectual urban elite, with their student politics idea of reforming the
constitution and taking forward green policies.'

Centrist Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some
more traditional Right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

But senior figures including Foreign Secretary William Hague insisted that
abandoning the centre ground and shifting to the Right would be futile.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenNOC No ChangeAberdeenshireNOC No ChangeAdurCON No Change    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

SNP gain from NOCArgyll & ButeNOC No Change    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

LAB No ChangeBlaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

LAB gain from NOC   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

LAB gain from NOC Calderdale

NOC No Change Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

LAB gain from NOC   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

NOC No ChangeCastle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  ClackmannanshireNOC No Change    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

IND No Change ConwyNOC No Change    Coventry

LAB No Change    CravenCON No Change    CrawleyCON No Change    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

NOC No Change    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterLAB No ChangeDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries &
GallowayNOC No Change DundeeSNP gain from NOCEast AyrshireNOC No ChangeEast
DunbartonshireNOC No ChangeEast LothianNOC No ChangeEast RenfrewshireNOC No
ChangeEastleighLD No ChangeEdinburghNOC No ChangeElmbridgeCON No ChangeEpping
ForestCON No ChangeExeterLAB gain from NOCFalkirkNOC No ChangeFarehamCON No
Change FifeNOC No ChangeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadLAB No ChangeGlasgowLAB
gain from NOC Gloucester CON lose to NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddPC lose to NOCHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateCON No ChangeHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandNOC No ChangeHuntingdonshireCON No ChangeHyndburnLAB No
Change InverclydeNOC No ChangeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesNOC No ChangeKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeedsLAB No Change Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolLAB No ChangeMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianLAB lose to NOCMilton KeynesNOC No ChangeMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNOC No ChangeNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeLAB gain from NOCNewcastle upon TyneLAB No
ChangeNewportLAB gain from NOCNorth AyrshireNOC No ChangeNorth East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireCON No ChangeNorth LanarkshireLAB No
ChangeNorth TynesideLAB No ChangeNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyIND No ChangeOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshireIND No ChangePendleNOC No ChangePerth & KinrossNOC No
ChangePeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysIND No ChangePreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchLAB gain from CONReigate & BansteadCON No
ChangeRenfrewshireLAB gain from NOCRhondda Cynon TaffLAB No ChangeRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendaleLAB gain from NOC Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyCON No ChangeRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersNOC No ChangeSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldLAB No ChangeShetlandIND No ChangeSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullCON No ChangeSouth AyrshireNOC No ChangeSouth
CambridgeshireCON No ChangeSouth LakelandLD No ChangeSouth LanarkshireNOC No
ChangeSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingNOC No Change

Stockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudNOC No ChangeSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaLAB gain from NOCSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversLD No ChangeThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsCON No ChangeVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldLAB No ChangeWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonLAB No ChangeWatfordLD No ChangeWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireLAB gain from NOCWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianNOC No ChangeWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingCON No ChangeWokinghamCON No ChangeWolverhamptonLAB No
ChangeWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingCON No ChangeWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

A good night, Ed, but don't crow yet

The 2012 local elections  were bad for the Conservatives, but by no means as bad
as  some of the mid-term blues that have hit governments in the past.

Although Labour has made respectable progress, it cannot see gains of a little
over 800 councillors as evidence it will certainly win a 2015 general election.

Labour's vote share was about 38 per cent, way above some of its poll ratings a
few months ago, but not as impressive as the 42 per cent it achieved during the
Tory governments of the late 1980s and 1990s. Back then, the Tories sank as low
as 27 per cent.

If Ed Miliband is to be sure of national success, he needs to see Labour poll
over 40 per cent in local elections for several years running.

Of the smaller parties, Ukip made good progress in terms of vote share in seats
where they stood, though they did not win any new councillors.

The party's surge is evidence of dissident Conservatives making a protest. In
the past, Ukip has been able to make occasional and exciting interventions into
British voting, but has subsequently faded away. It has generally done well when
the Tories are unpopular - something the Lib Dems once did. Ukip, the Greens and
other minor parties can expect to prosper more as an opportunity for protest
voting in future.

So just how bad were these results for the Conservatives? Their national vote
share was  31 per cent, well down on last year. However,  their loss of seats
was far smaller than those suffered by Mrs Thatcher or Tony Blair in their worst
years.

For example, more than once during the  1980s, Mrs Thatcher lost 1,000 seats in
a year,  and in 1999 and 2003, Mr Blair suffered similar losses. Yet both went
on to win the next  general elections.

For the Lib Dems, who have lost their 'protest vote' status, this result is
another body blow added to the one they suffered last year. They have lost more
than 300 councillors and have slumped to a total of under 3,000 across Britain.
This is their lowest number since the mid-1980s and is sure to spark growing
disquiet within the party's rank and file.

Next year, there will be shire county elections, with the prospect of a further,
possibly worse, battering. Fewer councillors means fewer activists and thus, the
inevitability of fewer MPs.

Local elections should be about clean streets, bins, council tax and a decent
environment. Inevitably, though, they are used as a real-time opinion poll about
David, Ed and Nick. In reality some  perfectly good Conservative and Liberal
Democrat councillors will have lost their seats because of the Coalition's
recent shambolic activities.

However, London's City Hall race, between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone,
showed what an extraordinary vote-winner Boris is. With his  party well behind
Labour in the national vote, Johnson radically out-performed the Tories across
the capital.

These elections have worsened the political weather for David Cameron, with the
risk they will empower his enemies within his party. He will now also need to
keep an eye out for Boris, whose popularity will not be lost on the Tory
faithful.

Clegg and Co on the rocks says one of his own peers

Nick Clegg was last night warned by one of his own peers that the Liberal
Democrats could cease to be a viable force at the next general election.

The Deputy Prime Minister said he was 'saddened' after the Lib Dems lost more
than 300 councillors, or 40 per cent of the seats they contested.

The party's slump means it now has fewer than 3,000 councillors for the first
time since the 1980s.

Lord Oakeshott, a key ally of Vince Cable, warned the party could not afford to
fight the next general election if it received a similar 'hammering'.

He said: 'We have got to face it - we have had another very substantial swathe
of our crucial activist base wiped away.

'For me, what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a nationwide,
powerful, independent force, and if we have another year like this, we won't be
able to. Unless there is a change, both coalition partners and our country are
heading for the rocks.'

John Curtice, professor in politics at Strathclyde University, said the Lib
Dems' base was at 'serious risk of disappearing entirely'.

He said: 'Nick Clegg's claims that voters are starting to listen to the party
have been shown to have not any credibility to them at all.'

PM'S PLAN FOR CITY MAYORS IS GIVEN A BIG THUMBS DOWN

David Cameron's hope of putting a 'Boris in every city' is in tatters after
voters rejected plans for elected mayors.

The Prime Minister had claimed  his proposals would boost local accountability.

But they were dismissed - often  by very large margins - by the  electorates in
Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, Sheffield,  Nottingham, Coventry,
Wakefield  and Bradford.

Leeds was also expected to reject the plans. Only Bristol voted Yes, while
Doncaster decided to retain its directly elected mayor, the English Democrat
Peter Davies, and Liverpool voted in Labour's council leader Joe Anderson as its
first elected mayor. The city accepted a deal in February which would install a
mayor in return for £130million in additional government funds.

The widespread rejection of his pet project is a bitter blow to the Prime
Minister, who has sought in vain to make localism a defining principle of his
government.

He had attempted to drum up support for the plans by citing the example of Boris
Johnson in London. But critics of the proposals condemned them on the grounds
that they would have led to the creation of yet another expensive tier of
bureaucracy.

The blueprint for elected mayors was drawn up by Mr Cameron's policy guru Steve
Hilton.  It will be scant consolation to him that the Yes vote in Bristol may
have been influenced by the fact that Mr Cameron made his keynote speech backing
the plans in that city last month.

The results are also a blow for Labour, which had hoped to ride the party's
rising political tide to win the high profile posts. Senior Labour MP Sion Simon
quit Parliament to run for Mayor of Birmingham. Shadow work and pensions
secretary Liam Byrne also planned to walk out to fight for the post.

Housing Minister Grant Shapps defended the mayoral referendums, saying: 'People
should have the right to decide how they are governed in their local area.' He
added: 'The whole point is to give people a say. No one is forcing mayors on
anyone.'

But Tory MP Douglas Carswell, a passionate advocate of more local powers,
accused the Government of seeking to impose a one-size-fits-all model on each
city. He said: 'The case in favour of dispersing power outward and downward from
Whitehall remains strong.

Perhaps the lesson from yesterday is that directly elected mayors ain't the way
to do it.'

However Lib Dem support held up well in areas where there they had sitting MPs
and a strong activist base. Mr Clegg insisted his party would 'continue to play
our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

Speaking outside his £2million London home, he said: 'I am really sad that so
many colleagues and friends, Liberal Democrat councillors, who have worked so
hard, so tirelessly for so many years for communities and families in their
local areas have lost their seats.'

He added: 'I am determined that we will continue to play our role in rescuing,
repairing and reforming the British economy.'

However the party was facing a near wipe-out on the Greater London Assembly,
where its mayoral candidate Brian Paddick was struggling to even come fourth.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik even said Mr Clegg should quit as party leader -
but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Mr Opik called for Mr Clegg to be replaced with a figure from the left of the
party to win back disgruntled activists.

Tim Farron, the party president, also suggested the defeats had been down to the
Coalition.

He said: 'I am sorry, genuinely sorry. Those guys lost their seats last night
not through their fault but through our fault, because of where we are
nationally, being in government.'

In Sunderland, councillor Paul Dixon, who lost his seat to the Labour candidate,
blamed Mr Clegg for his defeat.

Mr Dixon said: 'I put it down to the Nick Clegg and his cronies in Government.

'It's definitely all down to the national issues and it's a shame people have
not voted on the local issues.

'Nick Clegg should take a real hard look at what they are doing as it has been
really bad tonight. He needs to listen, he's got to do something.

'Come the next general election we will also start to lose our MPs if he doesn't
do something now.'

 The Lib Dem leadership was also told to quit getting 'bogged down' in Lords
reform and an overhaul of the Commons by one of its own MPs.

John Pugh said the Coalition should focus on jobs and think 'very hard' before
diving into constitutional reform.

Mr Pugh, the Lib Dem MP for Southport, said: 'Nick is not directly responsible
for them losing their seats, but certainly the way the Coalition presents itself
is a problem for local Liberal Democrats as they are trying to do the best for
their community.'

Danny Alexander, the Lib Dem chief secretary to the Treasury, said that all the
main parties were committed to reforming the House of Lords.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 2:26 AM GMT

Tory humiliation as Labour gain 823 seats: Cameron says 'sorry' after defeat
(but Boris looks pretty happy as he is victorious over Ken)

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 5368 words



     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS: Labour +32, Tories -12 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +823, Tories -405, Lib Dems -336
     ·    Labour on course for big gains in local elections, with 39% of the
          vote against Tories with 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Councillors turn on 'catastrophe Clegg' as his party loses 50% of
          seats
     ·    Coalition civil war as Tories urge Cameron to ditch 'barmy liberal'
          policies like gay marriage and Lords reform
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b***h' after she
          linked their best result yet with the decline of the BNP
     ·    Respect takes five seats from Labour in Bradford after by-election
          victory
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Miliband hit with an egg during a victory walkabout in Southampton
     ·    Boris Johnson is victorious over Ken in London


Prime Minister David Cameron today apologised to hundreds of Conservative
councilors who lost their seats as the party suffered a crushing defeat to
Labour who went beyond the 700 positions they were expected to win.

Labour had claimed 823 seats when counting closed last night and the Tories lost
405 councillors - more than a third of their regional power.

The figure gave Labour 32 more councils, while Tories had lost 12 and Lib Dems
lost one. Lib Dems had lost 336 seats - more than expected - in a particularly
bad defeat for the party.

But Mr Miliband's success was overshadowed later in the day as he was hit with
an egg during a victory walk in Southampton.

Scroll down for live results and videos

The politician was giving a TV interview when a man in a hat came through the
throng and slapped the egg on to his shoulder.

The egg broke on to Mr Miliband's jacket, which he quickly removed and gave to
an aide as the man ran off down the street. He finished the interview in just a
shirt and tie, made an exit and went back to his car.

After being hit and removing his dirtied jacket, Mr Miliband joked that the man
was 'obviously not one of my fans'.

He later Tweeted: 'For those wondering about egg's origins, fairly sure it
wasn't free range but nothing can take away from cracking result in
Southampton...'

Despite the unsavory incident, Mr Miliband was clearly pleased with Labour's
results as he declared that the party was 'winning back the trust' of voters.

Mr Cameron said the elections had taken place against a 'difficult national
backdrop' but insisted the Government was doing the 'right thing for our
country' through spending cuts.

The bruised Conservatives were given some relief last night with a narrow
victory for Boris Johnson over Ken Livingstone in London.

A late fightback from Mr Livingstone wasn't enough to topple bookies' favourite
Boris - who won by 62,000 votes and a margin of 51.5 per cent to 48.5 per cent.

The Tory leader said: 'I am sorry for all the hard-working Conservative
councillors who lost their seats, obviously against a difficult national
backdrop.

'These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is
take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt, deficit and broken economy
that we've inherited and we will go on making those decisions and we've got to
do the right thing for our country.'

Mr Cameron added: 'When you are trying to bring the country out of the debt, the
deficit and the broken economy that Labour left us, there aren't easy decisions
but we've got to make sure we do everything to demonstrate that we are on the
side of people who work hard and do the right thing for themselves and their
families.'

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are on course for an even worse defeat as they lose
around half of their seats, meaning they will drop below 3,000 councillors for
the first time in their history.

Dejected councillors rounded on their struggling leader - unpopular with voters
after endless policy betrayals - and warned the party faced obliteration at the
next general elections in 2015.

According to the Guardian, the Lib Dem performance is worse than last year.

In 2011, they lost 41 per cent of seats they were defending. This year, they've
lost 44 per cent.

It's a devastating and embarrassing blow for leader Nick Clegg, who has been
talking about how voters were 'really starting to understand us'.

But Mr Clegg insists his party is 'determined' to 'continue to play our role' in
Government dealing with the economic crisis.

The polls closed at 10pm on Thursday with just 32 per cent of the 29million
eligible voters visiting polling station. The turnout was the lowest for 12
years.

The Conservative defeat sparked a frantic reaction from Tory MPs with some
blaming the weather and many urging the party to ditch their Coalition partners.



Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they had suffered a 'bad night' as voters
punished them for a poorly received budget.

The Prime Minister will be most embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

In a further blow, Mr Cameron's dream of elected mayors in Britain's major
cities looks to be in tatters after Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry rejected
proposals for elected mayors.

Only the voters of Bristol bucked the national trend and voted in favour of a
city mayor.

Ed Miliband yesterday hailed his party's successes as a sign that Labour was
'winning back trust' and regaining ground lost in the 2010 general election. He
said the party was 'exceeding expectations'.

But the Labour leader was careful to avoid sounding triumphalist over the polls
insisting that there was still 'more work to do'.

Mr Miliband celebrated with supporters in Birmingham where Labour has taken 20
seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib Dem administration to give it 77
councillors on the 120-member city council.

He said: 'People are suffering and we have got to show people that Britain can
be better than it is.'

With low turnouts indicating voter apathy he added: 'What worries me is that
there are people who think politics can't change things for them. There are lots
of people who think that politics can't answer the problems in their lives.

'I'm determined that Labour shows that we can do that, that actually people can
put their faith in us.

'More people put their faith in us yesterday than in the elections a year ago,
and I'm pleased they've done that.

'But I know we've got more work to do to convince those that didn't vote for us
yesterday that actually we can change Britain for them.'

Speaking later in Worcester, Mr Miliband said: 'I came here to say thank you to
the people of Worcester because, in increasing numbers, they put their trust in
Labour yesterday.

'For the first time in more than a decade, the Conservatives have lost overall
control of the council.

'Labour is changing. We are getting back in touch with people. We campaigned
here on issues like housing, youth jobs and bus services, which really matter
here.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls told the BBC: 'I think for the Conservatives this is
quite a big day, because I don't think this is mid-term blues.

'But for Labour, it shows us there is still a challenge there, we have got to
keep working hard.'

Mr Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his association with
David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said ''Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory'' and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

Labour's triumphant result has seen bookies slash their odds about Labour
winning the next general Election with an overall majority, from 13/8 to 6/4
favourites, and have lengthened the Conservatives from 2/1 to 9/4.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Lib Dems were not spared pain, being left without a representative on
several powerful councils as voters punished the beleaguered leader for a string
of u-turns on issues such as student fees, VAT, Remploy factories, a failed
attempt at voting reform and benefits cuts.

Lord Prescott tweeted: 'The Lib Dems have less than 3000 councillors for the
first time ever. Welcome to #ArmaCleggon'.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik said the results reinforced his campaign for Mr
Clegg to quit as party leader - but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Lib Dem grassroots were also rounding on Mr Clegg, with Sunderland's only Lib
Dem councillor Paul Dixon telling the Deputy PM to 'open his eyes' and warning
that the party could be obliterated in national elections.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg said he was 'really sad' but insisted his party would
'continue to play our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

LIB DEMS ARE BEATEN IN EDINBURGH... BY A PENGUIN

Lib Dems faced yet more humiliation in one local council election - after being
beaten by a man dressed as penguin.

Professor Pongoo, whose real name is Mike Ferrigan, is an independent candidate
in the Pentland Hills ward for the City of Edinburgh Council.

With a total of 444 votes, he received more than both the Liberal Democrat
candidate and the Green party candidate.

The Liberal Democrat candidate Stuart Bridges received just 370 and Phyl Stuart
Meyer from the Green party got 322.

Mr Ferrigan carried out his entire campaign dressed in a penguin costume and
even promised to go to every full council meeting dressed as Professor Pongoo.

The Pentland Hills ward was one of the first to be declared at the count on
Friday.

The three seats were won by SNP Bill Henderson, Labour's Ricky Henderson and
Conservative Dominic Heslop.

With the potential for further blows for the Liberal Democrats in Scottish local
elections and the London mayoral contests, Mr Clegg said the coalition was in a
'difficult mid-term period'.

And despite big gains, it was not all celebrations for Labour. George Galloway's
Respect Party took five council seats in Bradford - including the leader - just
weeks after inflicting an humiliating by-election defeat on Labour.

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: 'We took the head off the rotten
fish that is the Bradford city council. We defeated a council leader who sat
there, apparently impregnable and utterly complacent, for a decade and a half or
more.'

Another outside party that increased its votes was the UK Independence Party
which said is making 'steady progress', despite seeing only limited gains in the
local council elections.

'Our share of the vote is going up and up and up, very steadily, very surely,'
party leader Nigel Farage told BBC News.

Labour also had success in Scotland.

With around two-thirds of the country's 32 authorities declared, both the SNP
and Labour had achieved some high-profile victories.

Labour became the biggest party in Edinburgh following a massive collapse in the
Lib Dem vote.

The Lib Dems, previously Edinburgh's largest party, have been reduced to a rump
of just three councillors, with former city council leader Jenny Dawe their
highest-profile casualty.

Labour has taken 20 council seats, leaving the Lib Dems` former council
coalition partners the SNP with 18. The Conservatives took 11 seats and the
Greens took three.

Labour appear to have taken the lead in the battle for control of Scotland's
largest local authority, Glasgow City Council. Although all the results there
have not been declared, the Nationalists cannot win a majority on the council.

Green Party ccouncillor Martin Ford, who almost derailed Donald Trump's plans
for a £1 billion golf resort, was among those who successfully defended his seat
in he East Garioch ward of Aberdeenshire Council.

The results in England have seen big gains for outsider parties with UKIP making
breakthroughs across England and Wales where it is currently averaging 13% of
the vote.

Tories were quick to blame the poor results on 'mid-term blues'. They pointed to
a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that 'apathy' had played
a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

'These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote,' he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work with the Lib Dems.

'Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats,' he said.

There were even calls for a change in direction from the leadership as Cameron
struggles to contain civil war within the coalition.

Senior backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy
rather than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

She said: 'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up.
We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to
rain on Labour's parade,' he said.

Former ministerial aide Stewart Jackson told BBC Radio 4's The World at One that
Cameron needed to abandon 'barmy liberal' policies.

He said: 'David Cameron, I think, is on notice that he does need to raise his
game.

'He needs to concentrate on bread and butter issues likes jobs and mortgages and
public services and above all develop a clear route map to growth and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique and barmy policies such as Lords
reform and gay marriage.'

Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

'If the tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too much, we have got to be a
little more small ''c'' and big ''C'' conservative on crime, law and order, some
of our traditional policies. That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed
gagging, to see,' he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth pinned some of the blame for the Tories' poor
performance on support for policies such as gay marriage and House of Lords
reform. They are seen by some in the party as symptoms of a too-strong Liberal
Democrat influence within the coalition.

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said swinging to the right would be a 'bonkers'
strategy for the senior coalition partner.

Lord Oakeshott, a former Treasury spokesman, demanded a u-turn on cuts and new
policies on growth and spending. He said the Treasury resembled 'a beached
whale'.

Labour jumped on their success as a sign that voters were rejecting Tory
spending cuts.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said: 'I think this is a very encouraging
result. We won councils we did not expect to win, we won in the south and we won
councils where we lost MPs at the last election.

'I think this is very important progress - despite a very bad election defeat
two years ago we have got the biggest share of the vote this year. We are back
in touch and making progress. This has given people strong Labour councils to
protect them from the damage the Coalition is doing.

'People are worried about their living standard and their jobs and the
Government has not listened to them.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties, including a backlash over the granny tax, pasty tax and links to
the Murdoch media empire.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour had tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

Thirty councils and 1,223 seats are up for grabs north of the border. The SNP is
hoping to build on the 363 seats it won in 2007, while Labour aims to make gains
on its 348 seats. Both will be closely watching results for Glasgow City
Council: a key battleground for the two parties.

Labour celebrated its election success in Wales with a mini victory parade by a
statue of one its most famous politicians. First Minister Carwyn Jones, Shadow
Secretary Peter Hain and a hoard of party members hit Cardiff City Centre just a
few hours after taking control of nine of the country's councils.

They gathered by the statue of the late Labour MP and NHS founder Aneurin Bevan
in Queen Street to spell out their vision for its local authorities.

Among its major victories included winning the 'big three' of Cardiff, Swansea
and Newport - completing a hat trick over rivals the Liberal Democrats, who
suffered a torrid time.

Labour also managed to snatch the Vale of Glamorgan from the Conservatives as
well make gains from Plaid Cymru. Upsets for the nationalists included seeing
their Caerphilly councillor Ron Davies - a former Labour MP and UK government
cabinet minister - lose his seat.

A rapper from chart-toppers Goldie Lookin' Chain even won a seat on his local
council in Wales.

Singer Rhys Hutchings - who helped write the songs 'Your Missus is a Nutter' and
'Guns Don't Kill People Rappers Do' - was elected as a Labour candidate.

Rhys, 36, who goes by the stage name Xain, put his music career on hold to fight
for a seat in his home city of Newport, South Wales.

He said: 'A lot of people think politics is for older people and retired people
who have got bored with playing golf. 'It's for the future, I will be working
for the people of Newport to make it a better place.'

Rhys took the St Julian's ward in Newport from the Lib-Dems. 'Guns Don't Kill
People Rappers Do" reached number 3 in the charts in 2004.

The wins showed the strength of the Labour victories across the UK. Party
sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great Yarmouth
as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

UKIP CALLS BARONESS WARSI A B**** AS SHE LINKS THEIR RISE TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP were tipped to do well as the results poured in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest battle is Nick Clegg, who is on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one Lib
Dem source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

The Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which
is might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will all have revealed their
results later by later today.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

Two in ten Labour voters said they would be voting for Boris instead of Ken,
according to the poll. Had they remained loyal to their party roots Ken
Livingstone would have been expected to win.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenNOC No ChangeAberdeenshireNOC No ChangeAdurCON No Change    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

SNP gain from NOCArgyll & ButeNOC No Change    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

LAB No ChangeBlaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

LAB gain from NOC   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

LAB gain from NOC Calderdale

NOC No Change Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

LAB gain from NOC   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

NOC No ChangeCastle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  ClackmannanshireNOC No Change    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

IND No Change ConwyNOC No Change    Coventry

LAB No Change    CravenCON No Change    CrawleyCON No Change    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

NOC No Change    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterLAB No ChangeDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries &
GallowayNOC No Change DundeeSNP gain from NOCEast AyrshireNOC No ChangeEast
DunbartonshireNOC No ChangeEast LothianNOC No ChangeEast RenfrewshireNOC No
ChangeEastleighLD No ChangeEdinburghNOC No ChangeElmbridgeCON No ChangeEpping
ForestCON No ChangeExeterLAB gain from NOCFalkirkNOC No ChangeFarehamCON No
Change FifeNOC No ChangeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadLAB No ChangeGlasgowLAB
gain from NOC Gloucester CON lose to NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddPC lose to NOCHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateCON No ChangeHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandNOC No ChangeHuntingdonshireCON No ChangeHyndburnLAB No
Change InverclydeNOC No ChangeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesNOC No ChangeKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeedsLAB No Change Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolLAB No ChangeMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianLAB lose to NOCMilton KeynesNOC No ChangeMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNOC No ChangeNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeLAB gain from NOCNewcastle upon TyneLAB No
ChangeNewportLAB gain from NOCNorth AyrshireNOC No ChangeNorth East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireCON No ChangeNorth LanarkshireLAB No
ChangeNorth TynesideLAB No ChangeNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyIND No ChangeOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshireIND No ChangePendleNOC No ChangePerth & KinrossNOC No
ChangePeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysIND No ChangePreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchLAB gain from CONReigate & BansteadCON No
ChangeRenfrewshireLAB gain from NOCRhondda Cynon TaffLAB No ChangeRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendaleLAB gain from NOC Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyCON No ChangeRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersNOC No ChangeSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldLAB No ChangeShetlandIND No ChangeSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullCON No ChangeSouth AyrshireNOC No ChangeSouth
CambridgeshireCON No ChangeSouth LakelandLD No ChangeSouth LanarkshireNOC No
ChangeSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingNOC No Change

Stockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudNOC No ChangeSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaLAB gain from NOCSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversLD No ChangeThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsCON No ChangeVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldLAB No ChangeWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonLAB No ChangeWatfordLD No ChangeWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireLAB gain from NOCWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianNOC No ChangeWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingCON No ChangeWokinghamCON No ChangeWolverhamptonLAB No
ChangeWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingCON No ChangeWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 2:20 AM GMT

'Thanks Ken': Boris Johnson clinches narrow mayoral victory by a blond whisker
and credits his rival with helping him win

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1890 words



     ·    Boris won 1,054,811 first and second preference votes
     ·    Ken finished 62,000 votes behind with 992,273
     ·    Winning margin 51.5% to 48.5%
     ·    Green party candidate Jenny Jones finishes 3rd ahead of Lib Dem Brian
          Paddick
     ·    Result delayed by faulty counting machines
     ·    Boris loses two allies; deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and fire chief
          Brian Coleman


Boris Johnson seized victory in the London mayoral election last night - ending
Ken Livingstone's controversial career in front-line politics.

The Tory mayor secured a tense win just before midnight, handing the
Conservatives a much-needed morale boost after a miserable day at the polls.

Mr Johnson secured a lead of 82,000 votes on the first ballot and won by 62,000
once voters' second preferences were counted.

He beat Mr Livingstone by 1,054,811 to 992,273, securing 51.5 per cent of the
vote in the runoff - a smaller margin of victory than he managed in 2008.

Mr Johnson's strong personal showing puts him in pole position to succeed David
Cameron as Tory leader and Prime Minister.

He picked up around 44 per cent of first-preference votes, and secured a strong
mandate by running ten or more points ahead of the Tories as a party in London.

His performance will be seized upon by disgruntled Conservatives who see his
commitment to what they see as real Tory values as a blueprint for Mr Cameron to
follow.

Allies of Mr Johnson say he will now tell Mr Cameron he should seek to emulate
his optimistic outlook and economic conservatism if he wants to revitalise the
party's support.

A source close to Mr Johnson said: 'Boris has championed cosmopolitan and
compassionate Conservatism.

He has combined that with a bone-dry approach on the economy. If Boris had been
seen as a straight Conservative, he would have lost heavily.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson, 47, made clear that he will devote himself to London
rather than national politics. He said he will not stand as an MP in the 2015
general election and will stay at City Hall until 2016.

The Mayoral Election Results in full

Boris Johnson (Con) - 1,054,811*

Ken Livingstone (Lab) - 992,273*

Jenny Jones (Green) - 98,913

Brian Paddick (Lib) - 91,774

Siobhan Benita (Ind) - 83,914          Lawrence Webb (UKIP) - 43,274

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) - 28,751

* after first and second preferences were added

Speaking before the final result was revealed, he said: 'If I am fortunate
enough to win I'll need four years to deliver what I've promised. And having put
trust at the heart of this election, I would serve out that term in full.

'I made a solemn vow to Londoners to lead them out of recession, bring down
crime and deliver the growth, investment and jobs that this city so desperately
needs.

Keeping that promise cannot be combined with any other political capacity.'

A clearly relieved but tired mayor used his acceptance speech to say he would
continue to 'fight for a fair deal for Londoners' and win resources from
Chancellor George Osborne - Mr Johnson's most likely opponent in a future Tory
leadership election.

His rival Mr Livingstone said: 'I would like to congratulate Boris on his
personal victory.

Whilst Cameron and Osborne are dragging the Tory party down to defeat in the
rest of Britain, not only have you won another term but I suspect this result
has settled the question of the next Tory leadership election.'

Looking back on his career, he said he had won 11 elections and lost three.

'This is the defeat I most regret,' he added.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Brian Paddick, faced humiliation. He was beaten
into fourth place by Green candidate Jenny Jones by 7,000 votes, and was not far
ahead of independent Siobhan Benita.

Mr Johnson's victory came even as the Tories were trounced by Labour in the
London Assembly elections.

Labour picked up two seats from the Tories, with Mr Johnson's deputy mayor
Richard Barnes defeated in Ealing and Hillingdon while Brian  Coleman lost in
Barnet and Camden.

The mayoral result brought a halt to the rollercoaster career of Mr Livingstone,
one of the most controversial and distinctive voices in politics.

The leader of the Greater London Council in the 1980s until Margaret Thatcher
closed it down, he served a decade on the Labour backbenches until the Blair
government created the role of London mayor.

Mr Livingstone was frozen out of the selection process and resigned to run his
first campaign as an independent.  He won easily in 2000 and ran again - this
time as the Labour candidate - in 2004.

But last night he lost a second successive election to arguably the only other
British politician instantly recognisable by his Christian name alone.

Mr Johnson paid tribute to his opponent, saying: 'Of all the left-wing
politicians I can think of, you have been amongst the most creative and
imaginative.'

He said he would happily share a 'non-taxpayer-subsidised drink' with Mr
Livingstone 'as long as you promise not to run again'.

Mr Livingstone's mayoral prospects were severely damaged by the accusation that
he has avoided thousands of pounds in income tax by funnelling his earnings
through a company. Last night he said: 'This is my last election.'

Not all senior Labour figures were hoping for a Livingstone victory, since they
regard the left-winger as a loose cannon.

The party's leader Ed Miliband also hopes that Mr Johnson, who has distanced
himself from the Coalition and its Budget, will continue to be a thorn in the
Prime Minister's side by criticising him from the Right.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

Peter Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of the
European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 1:28 AM GMT

'Thanks Ken': Boris Johnson clinches narrow mayoral victory over Ken Livingstone
and credits his rival with helping him win

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2514 words



     ·    Boris won 1,054,811 first and second preference votes
     ·    Ken finished 62,000 votes behind with 992,273
     ·    Winning margin 51.5% to 48.5%
     ·    Green party candidate Jenny Jones finishes 3rd ahead of Lib Dem Brian
          Paddick
     ·    Result delayed by faulty counting machines
     ·    Boris loses two allies; deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and fire chief
          Brian Coleman


Boris Johnson will serve another four years as London mayor after winning a
dramatic election battle with Labour rival Ken Livingstone.

The result was finally announced a few minutes before midnight after delays
caused by faulty counting machines in Brent and Harrow.

Mr Johnson thanked Londoners for their votes, his wife for her support and paid
a cheeky tribute to Ken Livingstone who staged a late fightback to narrow the
margin of victory to just 62,000 votes - after first and second preferences had
been counted.

The win will take the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative council
seats for David Cameron after an otherwise disastrous 24 hours for the Tories.

Addressing the crowd at City Hall, Mr Johnson vowed to continue 'fighting for a
good deal for Londoners' as he thanked voters for giving him a 'new chance'.

He said: 'In just 84 days time london will welcome the world and the world will
find a City Hall administration that is getting on with its work, together with
government, and directing scarce resources to what matters for Londoners.

'Cutting council tax, getting more police out on the street, investing in the
great transport, housing and regeneration projects that will create 200,00 jobs
over the next four years.

'And with our apprentice schemes and the other means to our disposal I will
dedicate myself to making sure that Londoners and above all young Londoners are
ready to take the jobs that this amazing city creates.

'And I will continue to fight for a good deal for Londoners. A good deal from
the Govermnent that will help us deliver prosperity for everyone in the city.'

The final result - a margin of 51.5% to 48.5% - defied polls that placed him 6
points ahead of his rival.

But despite a late surge, Mr Livingstone never looked likely to topple Mr
Johnson, the clear bookie's favourite.

The 66-year-old former mayor looked close to tears during his own speech. He
revealed it would be his 'last election' and said he was 'sincerely sorry' he
had failed to win for Londoners.

He said: 'This is my last election. Forty one years ago, almost to the day, I
won my first election

promising to build good council housing and introduce a free bus pass for
pensioners.

'Now I have lived long enough to get one myself. I did not think I necessary
would at the time.

Since then I have won 11 more elections and lost three.

'But the one that I most regret losing is this

'This is the defeat I most regret, because these are the worst time for 80 years
and Londoners needed a mayor to help them get through this very difficult
period.'

Green party candidate Jenny Jones heaped more misery on the Liberal Democrats by
pipping Brian Paddick into fourth place.

Independent Siobhan Benita finished fifth ahead of UKIP and the BNP.

Victory will be bittersweet for Boris, who'll need to appoint a new deputy.

His loyal number two, Richard Barnes lost his seat in Ealing and Hillingdon to
Labour's Dr Onkar Singh Sahota.

Dr Sahota's narrow victory was predicted, but it is still a major blow for Mr
Johnson.

Another fallen ally is Brian Coleman, chair of the London fire authority, who
has lost his Barnet and Camden seat to Labour's Andrew Dismore.

The Mayoral Election Results in full

Boris Johnson (Con) - 1,054,811*

Ken Livingstone (Lab) - 992,273*

Jenny Jones (Green) - 98,913

Brian Paddick (Lib) - 91,774

Siobhan Benita (Ind) - 83,914          Lawrence Webb (UKIP) - 43,274

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) - 28,751

* after first and second preferences were added

Defeat is likely to spell the end of Ken's 30-year political career and he even
admitted today that he will concentrate on his gardening if his bid fails.

'My immediate future is not affected by winning or losing. My sister-in-law has
just moved into a new house and I promised I'd go and sort out her garden on the
bank holiday,' Ken said.

'I'm just hoping it doesn't rain. It's completely overgrown and I love sorting
out old gardens.

'Beyond that, I'll have to wait until Tuesday. Either I'll be back in City Hall
signing off on the fares reduction, or I'll be thinking of something else to
do.'

Mr Livingstone said he has not decided what he will do if he is not returned to
City Hall.

He said: 'I feel a great sense of relief. I started campaigning 23 months ago
with the Labour primary with Oona [King] and since October I've been out
campaigning to rebuild the Labour Party in parts of London where it had fallen
into disrepair.

'What we'll see tonight is clearly that Labour will be the largest party in
London. Beyond that it's all speculation.'

Nationally the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners have been
haemorrhaging support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing
off Ken Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he
had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win.

As he rode his bike from his London home this morning, Mr Johnson - who was the
bookie's favourite - told the Evening Standard: 'I'm feeling good. I'm
optimistic. I wouldn't say confident, as it's a bit early, but optimistic.

'I'm not sure what I'll be doing tonight but I hope I'll be celebrating.'

Meanwhile Mr Livingstone said his campaign had been dogged by negative smears
and may have derailed votes for city mayors elsewhere in England.

'The nature of the campaign this time was awful. I came into politics to discuss
issues but this campaign has been dominated by smears and trivialities,' he
said.

'I wonder to what extent all those voters in cities who have voted against
having their own elected mayors have been put off by the unsatisfactory nature
of this campaign.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his
association with David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said "Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory" and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.

'I backed Ken Livingstone, I think he was the best mayor London's had so far. I
think he would be a better mayor for London on Tube fares and jobs and housing
than Boris Johnson who, let's be honest, is a bit of a joker, a bit of a
buffoon.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 5, 2012 Saturday 12:18 AM GMT

Boris is back in City Hall: Conservative clinches narrow mayoral victory over
Ken Livingstone after dramatic Labour fightback

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2098 words



     ·    Boris won 1,054,811 first and second preference votes
     ·    Ken finished 62,000 votes behind with 992,273
     ·    Green party candidate Jenny Jones finishes 3rd ahead of Lib Dem Brian
          Paddick
     ·    Result delayed by faulty counting machines
     ·    Boris loses two allies; deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and fire chief
          Brian Coleman


Boris Johnson will serve another four years as London mayor after winning a
dramatic election battle with Labour rival Ken Livingstone.

The result was finally announced a few minutes before midnight after delays
caused by faulty counting machines in Brent and Harrow.

Mr Johnson thanked Londoners for their votes, his wife for her support and paid
a cheeky tribute to Ken Livingstone who staged a late fightback to narrow the
margin of victory to just 62,000 votes - after first and second preferences had
been counted.

The win will take the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative council
seats for David Cameron after an otherwise disastrous 24 hours for the Tories.

Victory is bittersweet for Boris, who'll need to appoint a new deputy.

His loyal number two, Richard Barnes this afternoon lost his seat in Ealing and
Hillingdon to Labour's Dr Onkar Singh Sahota.

Dr Sahota's narrow victory was predicted, but it is still a major blow for Mr
Johnson.

Another fallen ally is Brian Coleman, chair of the London fire authority, who
has lost his Barnet and Camden seat to Labour's Andrew Dismore.

Defeat is likely to spell the end of Ken's 30-year political career and he even
admitted today that he will concentrate on his gardening if his bid fails.

'My immediate future is not affected by winning or losing. My sister-in-law has
just moved into a new house and I promised I'd go and sort out her garden on the
bank holiday,' Ken said.

'I'm just hoping it doesn't rain. It's completely overgrown and I love sorting
out old gardens.

'Beyond that, I'll have to wait until Tuesday. Either I'll be back in City Hall
signing off on the fares reduction, or I'll be thinking of something else to
do.'

Mr Livingstone said he has not decided what he will do if he is not returned to
City Hall.

He said: 'I feel a great sense of relief. I started campaigning 23 months ago
with the Labour primary with Oona [King] and since October I've been out
campaigning to rebuild the Labour Party in parts of London where it had fallen
into disrepair.

'What we'll see tonight is clearly that Labour will be the largest party in
London. Beyond that it's all speculation.'

Nationally the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners have been
haemorrhaging support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing
off Ken Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he
had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win.

As he rode his bike from his London home this morning, Mr Johnson - who was the
bookie's favourite - told the Evening Standard: 'I'm feeling good. I'm
optimistic. I wouldn't say confident, as it's a bit early, but optimistic.

'I'm not sure what I'll be doing tonight but I hope I'll be celebrating.'

Meanwhile Mr Livingstone said his campaign had been dogged by negative smears
and may have derailed votes for city mayors elsewhere in England.

'The nature of the campaign this time was awful. I came into politics to discuss
issues but this campaign has been dominated by smears and trivialities,' he
said.

'I wonder to what extent all those voters in cities who have voted against
having their own elected mayors have been put off by the unsatisfactory nature
of this campaign.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his
association with David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said "Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory" and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.

'I backed Ken Livingstone, I think he was the best mayor London's had so far. I
think he would be a better mayor for London on Tube fares and jobs and housing
than Boris Johnson who, let's be honest, is a bit of a joker, a bit of a
buffoon.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

TAKE THE TOP JOB OFF BOZO & GIVE IT TO BOJO;
TORY POLL DISASTER KNIVES OUT FOR CAM CON GRASSROOTS WANT DAVE OUT..AND BORIS IN

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 610 words


FURIOUS Tory activists last night demanded the party oust blundering David
Cameron and parachute in Boris Johnson.

They lashed out after the PM topped off a disastrous few weeks with a
humiliating mauling at the local elections.

He was openly accused of being incompetent, out of touch and too close to the
equally bungling Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg.

As the knives were out for Mr Cameron, Mr Johnson was last night on course to
remain London mayor in a close-fought race with arch-rival Ken Livingstone.

One Tory activist wrote on a Conservative website: "Despite the kicking they
have received I don't hear a single Tory drawing the obvious conclusion that
they need to change their policies or their leader or both. Unless Boris is our
next Prime Minister it will be Miliband."

Another added: "Britain says, 'Dave no, Boris yes'."

Outspoken Tory MP Peter Bone said the results were "the beginning of the end of
the Coalition".

He urged the PM to "take a lesson from what Boris is doing". Activists believe
Mr Johnson could be shuttled into Parliament in 2014 or 2015.

But International Development Secretary Andrew Mitchell moved to head off the
idea yesterday. He said: "I think one can dismiss those sort of frothy
comments."

Mr Johnson himself attempted to calm the growing clamour by insisting he could
not be an MP and Mayor at the same time.

But despite his assurances, the PM was last night facing growing pressure from
the Tory right to pursue a more traditional Conservative agenda on crime,
immigration and the EU to shore up the party's haemorrhaging support to the UK
Independence Party.

Nigel Farage's anti-EU party recorded its best ever local election result with a
14% share of the vote in the areas it fielded candidates.

Ex-ministerial aide Stewart Jackson warned Mr Cameron he must do better. He
said: "He's on notice that he does need to raise his game. He needs to stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him and barmy policies such as
Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either don't like or don't care
about."

In a blistering article in his local newspaper yesterday, he also labelled Mr
Cameron "gratuitously offensive" for dismissing UKIP supporters as "fruitcakes"
and "closet racists".

Arch Cameron critic Mark Pritchard, secretary of the 1922 Committee of backbench
MPs, added: "No 10 needs to listen more often to the Conservative backbenchers
and the Conservative Party grassroots and less often to the Coalition junior and
minority partner, the Liberal Democrats."

Loyal Tory Devon MP Gary Streeter went even further, demanding Mr Cameron got a
grip. He added: "People expect many things from a Conservative government, but
they don't expect incompetence."

Veteran Tory MP Eleanor Laing also weighed in, urging Mr Cameron to "remember
that the Liberal Democrats make up one-sixth of the Coalition, not one-half of
the Coalition". Cllr Vivien Pengelly, who lost her position as Conservative
leader of Plymouth City Council, blamed the PM for her defeat. She said: "David
Cameron will be knowing in the next week or so exactly how I feel. He must
listen to the people." of e d xt e She laid fault at the Government's door for
the "Jeremy Hunt fiasco" - the scandal over the Culture Secretary's links with
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. 's - e-'s A small number of Cameron loyalists
were prepared to defend him yesterday. Maria Miller, minister for disabled
people, said: "What we need to do now is to stay true to what we're doing, which
is coming together in the national interest to clear up the mess that Labour
left this country in. We need to stay in the middle, not looking left, not
looking right." l-m rd en e y ot

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEST MAN? Boris with wife Marina on election night WOE 3 Cameron COUNT
J Alexandra Palace in North London

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HE'S BOHIND YOU;
COALITION GETS A BATTERING AT POLLS Cam sees Tories trounced Threat from Boris
is growing

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 911 words


DAVID Cameron was facing his biggest Tory revolt last night after a local
election horror show - with Boris Johnson breathing down his neck.

The London Mayor was on the brink of victory - and another four-year stint in
charge of the capital - showing he's got the muchneeded winning touch.

It opened up the serious possibility that the maverick Tory could be called by
nervous MPs to be their new leader.

Despite a knife-edge finish against bitter opponent Ken Livingstone, Boris was
on target to buck a landslide national trend. Everywhere else, millions of
voters switched from Tory to Labour and Ed Miliband.

The jubilant opposition leader said last night: "Labour is back, and we're on
your side. We are a party winning back people's trust, regaining ground."

Of the 4,700 council seats up for grabs yesterday, his party gained a massive
823.

That left the Tories losing 406, sparking a raft of open abuse for the PM from
his own side. Even one of his Tory ministers turned on him.

Miserable Lib Dems also got another kick in the ballots from voters, losing 335
seats - almost half of theirs up for grabs.

Labour won 38 per cent of the vote across Britain, pushing the Tories down to 31
per cent and leaving the Libs on 16.

In London, Boris vowed he would serve out his full term until 2016, insisting he
would not combine it "with any other political capacity".

But that still left him with enough wriggle room to run for Parliament again at
the next General Election in 2015 and do both jobs for a year.

UKIP was another big winner yesterday, polling an unexpectedly high 13 per cent
in the seats it fought and hitting the Tory vote hard.

A series of Conservative MPs hit out at the Premier over the horror result,
blaming it on the six weeks of "omni-shambles" that started with the the Botched
Budget - as well as Coalition fudges.

Senior Tory MP Stewart Jackson said Mr Cameron was "on notice to raise his
game".

And in an extraordinary outburst, defence minister Gerald Howarth attacked the
PM's plans to reform the Lords and legalise gay marriage.

He said: "There is no mandate for this. Do we need to do this at a time when the
nation is preoccupied with restoring the public finances?

He later told The Sun: "We need to focus on the economy and not be distracted by
other things. And we must not upset the core vote."

Usually-loyal Tory MP Gary Streeter also broke ranks to brand Mr Cameron "not
Conservative enough". He said people felt clobbered by stealth hikes in the
Budget such as the Pasty Tax and Caravan Tax.

It also emerged that veteran Tory MPs David Davis and John Redwood will next
week publish their own Queen's Speech to rival the Government's one, packed full
of "true blue" bills.

Mr Cameron said sorry to "hard-working Conservative councillors" who lost their
seats. But he insisted he would "go on making difficult decisions to deal with
the debt, deficit and broken economy that we've inherited".

Labour posted strong results all over the country, beating even their most
optimistic predictions.

They made big inroads in Tory heartlands around East Anglia and the South Coast.
They stole the barometer Essex town of Harlow and took back the distant targets
of Great Yarmouth and Exeter too. In Wales, they regained Cardiff, Swansea and
Newport councils.

The Lib Dem meltdown of last year continued as they suffered their worst
election result - leading to more pressure on their leader, Deputy PM Nick
Clegg.

The party's councillors dipped below 3,000 for the first time since it was
formed in 1988.

Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott said: "If we have another year like this, we won't
be able to fight a general election as a national force". Mr Clegg said he was
"really sad", adding he was determined to stay on the Coalition's course.

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

my View

By TOM NEWTON DUNN Political Editor

SO what, you say. How does any of this matter for the national picture?

The Lib Dems are still in despair. Labour are still getting support as Brits
rebel against the Government austerity drive.

But for the Tories, the dynamic changed powerfully yesterday. This is what
happens when you get arrogant and forget why you're in it, and who you're in it
for.

What's worse for Cameron, every Tory MP will be wondering if Boris should be in
his shoes.

WHAT THE X GOING ON?

LIVERPOOL

COPS stepped in over a ballot box bust-up between Lib Dem councillor Brian
Spencer and Labour's Mark Johnson.

NEWPORT

GOLDIE Lookin' Chain rapper Rhys Hutchings, 36, won a council seat for Labour.
He said: "I'll work for the people."

PLYMOUTH

A-LEVEL student Kate Taylor, 18, won for Labour to be one of the UK's youngest
councillors. She said: "I'm honoured."

EDINBURGH

A LIB Dem was pummelled in the polls - by a man in a penguin suit. Red-faced
Stuart Bridges trailed climate activist Mike "Professor Pongoo" Ferrigan.

LONDON

UKIP blew the chance to win two seats after listing itself on ballot papers as
simply "Fresh Choice for London".

LONDON ELECTION CANDIDATE VOTES Result after 12 of 14 constituencies Candidate
Party First pref votes % Con Boris Johnson 861,367 44.8 Lab Ken Livingstone
753,436 39.2 Lib Dem Brian Paddick 80,005 4.17 Green Jenny Jones 86,568 4.51
Siobhan Benita Ind 73,362 3.82 Lawrence Webb 38,790 2.02 UKIP Carlos Cortiglia
25,839 1.35 BNP COUNCIL ELECTIONS RESULTS Councils Total +/-Party Councillors 75
Labour 2158 32 +823 42 6205 Conservative 999 -12 -406 Liberal Democrats 425 -1
-335 SNP 424 +2 +57 Plaid Cymru 158 -1 -41 Others 650 -2 -132 No overall control
50 -18

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pongoo . . . voter visit
Overjoyed ... jubilant leader Red Ed shakes hands with supporters as Labour
celebrates victory in Birmingham
Over and out ... Cameron with staff after London poll

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

HE'S BOHIND YOU;
CAM'S COALITION IN COUNCIL POLL CARNAGE Mayor winner Boris is threat PM target
as Tories trounced

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 994 words


BORIS Johnson was breathing down David Cameron's neck last night - as the ONLY
ray of light in a local election disaster for the Coalition.

The London Mayor celebrated a fresh four-year stint in charge of the capital -
proving he has got the much-needed winning touch.

It opened up the serious possibility that the maverick Tory could be called by
nervous MPs to be their new leader.

Labour's Ken Livingstone - who polled 48.5 per cent of the vote to Boris's 51.5
- conceded: "I suspect this result has settled the next Tory leadership
election." Ken - who used to be mayor until Boris ousted him - vowed NOT to
stand again, declaring: "This is my last election."

The rivals heard the results just before midnight after a 14-hour count beset
with mishaps and cock-ups.

A power cut paralysed counting machines at Alexandra Palace early in the day,
then there were reports voting slips were chewed up by machines and had to be
counted by hand.

At 11pm election officials in Brent and Harrow revealed batches of ballot papers
had not been properly processed and needed re-doing. Boris, 47, bucked a
landslide national trend with his win.

Everywhere else, millions of voters switched from Tory to Labour and Ed
Miliband.

The Opposition leader declared: "Labour is back, and we're on your side. We are
a party winning back people's trust, regaining ground."

Of the 4,700 council seats up for grabs yesterday, his party gained a massive
823.

That left the Tories losing 406, sparking a raft of open abuse for the PM from
his own side. Even one of his Tory ministers turned on him. Miserable Lib Dems
also got another kick in the ballots from voters, losing 335 seats - almost half
of theirs up for grabs. Their candidate for London Mayor Brian Paddick came
FOURTH - behind the Green Party's Jenny Jones.

Labour won 38 per cent of the vote across Britain, pushing the Tories down to 31
per cent and leaving the Libs on 16.

In London, Boris vowed he would serve out his full term until 2016, insisting he
would not combine it "with any other political capacity".

But that still left him with enough wriggle room to run for Parliament again at
the next General Election in 2015 and do both jobs for a year.

UKIP was another big winner yesterday, polling an unexpectedly high 13 per cent
in the seats it fought and hitting the Tory vote hard.

A series of Conservative MPs hit out at the PM over the horror result, blaming
it on the six weeks of "omni-shambles" that started with the botched Budget - as
well as Coalition fudges.

Senior Tory MP Stewart Jackson said Mr Cameron was "on notice to raise his
game".

And in an extraordinary outburst, defence minister Gerald Howarth attacked the
PM's plans to reform the Lords and legalise gay marriage. He said: "Do we need
to do this at a time when the nation is preoccupied with restoring the public
finances?

He later told The Sun: "We need to focus on the economy and not be distracted."

Usually-loyal Tory MP Gary Streeter also broke ranks to brand Mr Cameron "not
Conservative enough".

And it emerged that veteran Tory MPs David Davis and John Redwood will next week
publish their own Queen's Speech, packed full of "true blue" bills. Mr Cameron
said sorry to "hardworking Conservative councillors" who lost their seats.
Labour posted strong results all over the country. They made big inroads in Tory
heartlands around East Anglia and the South Coast.

They stole the barometer Essex town of Harlow and took back Great Yarmouth and
Exeter too. In Wales, they regained Cardiff, Swansea and Newport councils.

The Lib Dem meltdown of last year continued as they suffered their worst
election result, piling pressure on Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg.

The party's councillors dipped below 3,000 for the first time since it was
formed in 1988.

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

my View

By TOM NEWTON DUNN Political Editor

SO what, you say. The Government always gets a mid-term kicking. How does any of
this really matter for the national picture?

For two of the three main parties, little has changed.

The Lib Dems are still in despair, hurtling towards sure electoral oblivion at
the same breakneck speed.

Labour are still getting a lot of support as Brits rebel against the
Government's biting austerity drive.

But despite yesterday's celebrations, 'Red Ed' still hasn't cut through yet as a
realistic occupant of No 10 in most people's minds.

However, for the Tories, the dynamic did change yesterday, and powerfully. The
dire result made their "omni-shambles" a hard electoral reality.

Or this is what happens when you get arrogant and forget why you're in it, and
who you're in it for.

What's worse for Cameron, from this morning every single Tory MP will be quietly
wondering whether proven winner Boris Johnson should now be in his shoes.

WHAT THE X GOING ON?

LIVERPOOL

COPS stepped in over a ballot box bust-up between Lib Dem councillor Brian
Spencer and Labour's Mark Johnson.

NEWPORT

GOLDIE Lookin' Chain rapper Rhys Hutchings, 36, won a council seat for Labour.
He said: "I'll work for the people."

PLYMOUTH

A-LEVEL student Kate Taylor, 18, won for Labour to be one of the UK's youngest
councillors. She said: "I'm honoured."

EDINBURGH

A LIB Dem was pummelled in the polls - by a man in a penguin suit. Red-faced
Stuart Bridges trailed climate activist Mike "Professor Pongoo" Ferrigan.

LONDON

UKIP blew the chance to win two seats after listing itself on ballot papers as
simply "Fresh Choice for London".

LONDON ELECTION CANDIDATE VOTES Result after 12 of 14 constituencies Candidate
Party Total votes % Con Boris Johnson 1,054,811 51.5 Lab Ken Livingstone 992,273
48.4 Jenny Jones 98,913 4.48 Green Lib Dem Brian Paddick 91,774 4.16 Siobhan
Benita 83,914 3.8 Ind Lawrence Webb 43,274 1.96 UKIP Carlos Cortiglia 28,751 1.3
BNP COUNCIL ELECTIONS RESULTS Councils Total +/- Total +/-Party Councillors 75
Labour 2158 32 +823 42 6205 Conservative 999 -12 -406 Liberal Democrats 425 -1
-335 SNP 424 +2 +57 Plaid Cymru 158 -1 -41 Others 650 -2 -132 No overall control
50 -18

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pongoo . . . voter visit
Overjoyed ... jubilant leader Red Ed shakes hands with supporters as Labour
celebrates victory in Birmingham
Over and out ... Cameron with staff after London poll

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Boris is a threat to stricken Cameron

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words


DAVID Cameron faced his biggest Tory revolt last night after a local election
horror show - with Boris Johnson breathing down his neck.

Despite a knife-edge finish against Ken Livingstone, the London Mayor was on the
brink of victory - opening up a real chance he could be called by nervous MPs to
be the new Tory leader.

Everywhere else, millions of voters switched from Tory to Labour.

Jubilant opposition leader Ed Miliband said: "Labour is back."

Of 4,700 council seats across the UK, Labour won an extra 823, the Tories lost
406 and Lib Dems dropped 335.

Labour got 38 per cent of the vote, pushing the Tories down to 31 per cent and
the Libs to 16. UKIP also hit the Tories hard, polling 13 per cent in the seats
it fought.

Tory MPs blamed the horror result on the six weeks of "omni-shambles" that
started with the Botched Budget.

Mr Cameron said sorry to "hard-working Conservative councillors" who lost their
seats - but insisted he would "go on making difficult decisions to deal with the
debt".

Scottish Election Special - Pages 12 & 13

Difficult

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Popular ... Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

HE'S BOHIND YOU;
COALITION GETS A BATTERING AT POLLS

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1015 words


WHAT WHAT LIVERPOOL COPS stepped in over a ballot box bust-up between Lib Dem
councillor Brian Spencer and Labour's Mark Johnson.

NEWPORT GOLDIE Lookin' Chain rapper Rhys Hutchings, 36, won a council seat for
Labour. He said: "I'll work for the people."

PLYMOUTH A-LEVEL student Kate Taylor, 18, won for Labour to be one of the UK's
youngest councillors.

She said: "I'm honoured."

ON? ON? EDINBURGH A LIB Dem was pummelled in the polls - by a man in a penguin
suit. Red-faced Stuart Bridges trailed climate activist Mike "Professor Pongoo"
Ferrigan.

Pongoo ... voter visit LONDON UKIP blew the chance to win two seats after
listing itself on ballot papers as simply "Fresh Choice for London".

lCam sees Tories trounced lThreat from Boris is growing DAVID Cameron was facing
his biggest Tory revolt last night after a local election horror show - with
Boris Johnson breathing down his neck.

The London Mayor was on the brink of victory - and another four-year stint in
charge of the capital - showing he's got the muchneeded winning touch.

It opened up the serious possibility that the maverick Tory could be called by
nervous MPs to be their new leader.

Despite a knife-edge finish against bitter opponent Ken Livingstone, Boris was
on target to buck a landslide national trend. Everywhere else, millions of
voters switched from Tory to Labour and Ed Miliband.

The jubilant opposition leader said last night: "Labour is back, and we're on
your side. We are a party winning back people's trust, regaining ground."

Of the 4,700 council seats up for grabs yesterday, his party gained a massive
823.

That left the Tories losing 406, sparking a raft of open abuse for the PM from
his own side. Even one of his Tory ministers turned on him.

Miserable Lib Dems also got another kick in the ballots from voters, losing 335
seats - almost half of theirs up for grabs.

Labour won 38 per cent of the vote across Britain, pushing the Tories down to 31
per cent and leaving the Libs on 16.

In London, Boris vowed he would serve out his full term until 2016, insisting he
would not combine it "with any other political capacity".

But that still left him with enough wriggle room to run for Parliament again at
the next General Election in 2015 and do both jobs for a year.

UKIP was another big winner yesterday, polling an unexpectedly high 13 per cent
in the seats it fought and hitting the Tory vote hard.

A series of Conservative MPs hit out at the Premier over the horror result,
blaming it on the six weeks of "omni-shambles" that started with the the Botched
Budget - as well as Coalition fudges.

Senior Tory MP Stewart Jackson said Mr Cameron was "on notice to raise his
game".

And in an extraordinary outburst, defence minister Gerald Howarth attacked the
PM's plans to reform the Lords and legalise gay marriage.

He said: "There is no mandate for this. Do we need to do this at a time when the
nation is preoccupied with restoring the public finances? He later told The Sun:
"We need to focus on the economy and not be distracted by other things. And we
must not upset the core vote."

Usually-loyal Tory MP Gary Streeter also broke ranks to brand Mr Cameron "not
Conservative enough". He said people felt clobbered by stealth hikes in the
Budget such as the Pasty Tax and Caravan Tax.

It also emerged that veteran Tory MPs David Davis and John Redwood will next
week publish their own Queen's Speech to rival the Government's one, packed full
of "true blue" bills.

Mr Cameron said sorry to "hard-working Conservative councillors" who lost their
seats. But he insisted he would "go on making difficult decisions to deal with
the debt, deficit and broken economy that we've inherited".

Labour posted strong results all over the country, beating even their most
optimistic predictions.

They made big inroads in Tory heartlands around East Anglia and the South Coast.
They stole the barometer Essex town of Harlow and took back the distant targets
of Great Yarmouth and Exeter too. In Wales, they regained Cardiff, Swansea and
Newport councils.

The Lib Dem meltdown of last year continued as they suffered their worst
election result - leading to more pressure on their leader, Deputy PM Nick
Clegg.

The party's councillors dipped below 3,000 for the first time since it was
formed in 1988.

Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott said: "If we have another year like this, we won't
be able to fight a general election as a national force". Mr Clegg said he was
"really sad", adding he was determined to stay on the Coalition's
course.t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk myView By TOM NEWTON DUNN Political Editor SO
what, you say. How does any of this matter for the national picture? The Lib
Dems are still in despair. Labour are still getting support as Brits rebel
against the Government austerity drive. But for the Tories, the dynamic changed
powerfully yesterday. This is what happens when you get arrogant and forget why
you're in it, and who you're in it for.

What's worse for Cameron, every Tory MP will be wondering if Boris should be in
his shoes.

EGGED ED Miliband had an egg splattered on his shoulder yesterday.

The Labour leader was egged by a man in Southampton as he revelled in a
celebration walkabout.

But he tweeted that his party had a "cracking result" - despite admitting the
attacker - who ran off - "was obviously not one of my fans".

Mr Miliband also tweeted: "For those wondering about egg's origins, fairly sure
it wasn't free range." Prank ... egg man flees LIVERPOOL COPS stepped in over a
ballot box bust-up between Lib Dem councillor Brian Spencer and Labour's Mark
Johnson.

NEWPORT GOLDIE Lookin' Chain rapper Rhys Hutchings, 36, won a council seat for
Labour. He said: "I'll work for the people."

PLYMOUTH A-LEVEL student Kate Taylor, 18, won for Labour to be one of the UK's
youngest councillors.

She said: "I'm honoured."

EDINBURGH A LIB Dem was pummelled in the polls - by a man in a penguin suit.
Red-faced Stuart Bridges trailed climate activist Mike "Professor Pongoo"
Ferrigan.

Pongoo ... voter visit LONDON UKIP blew the chance to win two seats after
listing itself on ballot papers as simply "Fresh Choice for London".

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Overjoyed... jubilant leader Red Ed shakes hands supporters as Labour
celebrates victory in Birmingham
16% 16%Lib Dem Over and out ... Cameron with staff after London poll
Conservatives
Prank ... egg man flees

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 7:00 AM GMT

The turnout was low because politicians show no vision for the future;
Low voter turnout

LENGTH: 1770 words


SIR - Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, interviewed on BBC radio about the
election results, appeared to draw the conclusion that the electorate now trust
Labour and his financial proposals and do not trust the Tory party and George
Osborne.

The fact is that about 12 people in 100 voted Labour and 10 people in 100 voted
Tory. Presumably the electorate fail to vote because they feel that whoever they
vote for will make no difference.

I did vote, but only had the opportunity of voting for the three main parties -
and look what a mess they have got us into.

Until we have politicians who have a vision for our country in 25 and 50 years'
time, we will always have the polished clones now positioning themselves for the
next election and their substantial salaries and pensions.

J R Humphrys

Hildersham, Cambridgeshire

SIR - The Tory debacle has not been caused by the economy alone - or more
precisely the Budget omnishambles. Who'd have believed, for example, that a
Tory-led administration would be proposing to wreck the House of Lords and
promote homosexual marriage, both without any electoral mandate?

David Leonard

London E1

SIR - There was a very low turnout because the voice of the people has not been
listened to.

There was a drop in the Conservatives' vote because they allow the Liberal
Democrats too much power in the Government. The Liberal Democrats lost votes
because they forced an unwanted referendum and are pushing for further unwanted
changes to the House of Lords.

The Ukip vote increased because a message is being sent to the Government. The
Labour result is a natural recovery after so much lost support in recent years.

I am thankful I have never supported any political party, but always cast a vote
in an election.

Rev Dr Ralph S Werrell

Kenilworth, Warwickshire

SIR - How very apt was Matt's cartoon yesterday: "I don't even want the party I
voted for."

Jeremy Brewer

Chesterfield, Derbyshire

SIR - A return to core Tory values is what the country needs and what David
Cameron needs to save his premiership. He must prove to us that he means what he
says through concrete actions, as he won't fool us again with sound bites and
smiles.

Jean Maigrot

Diss, Norfolk

SIR - Voting Labour isn't going to bring our money back. They are the party who
wasted it in the first place.

Elizabeth Davies

Papworth Everard, Cambridgeshire

Argentine stunt

SIR - The Argentine Olympic athlete Fernando Zylberberg, sponsored by his crass
regime, took advantage of British hospitality to use the Falkland Islands to
make a silly political point (report, May 4).

We could shrug this off. However, as the Olympics are supposed to be above such
stunts, perhaps we should tell Mr Zylberberg he is not welcome in London as he
does not know how to behave properly on British "soil". If the rest of the
Argentine team declines to attend, so be it.

Charles Foster

Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire

Suspect medicine

SIR - Having spent two days, as the managing director of a glazing company,
making presentations to groups of my employees suggesting to them that our
current failure rate of 2 per cent needs to be nearer 0.25 per cent, I read with
astonishment the statement from Dr Clare Gerada of the Royal College of GPs that
"in 95 per cent of cases GPs prescribe safely and effectively" (report, May 3).
Such a rate would bankrupt a private-sector company.

As the recently resigned non-executive director of a local hospital, I find it
no wonder that the NHS is in such a mess.

Philip Davis

Norwich

After you for the queue

SIR - Kate Hoey (Letters, May 4) is right. UK passport holders should get
priority at airports. Try Leeds Bradford airport, where hundreds of UK (EU,
then!) citizens are banked up while a queue for "non-EU" citizens is empty. Into
it waltz a couple of Americans, who are dealt with immediately.

The UK Border Agency stoutly maintains that this "does not happen". It does. I
have been there, on many occasions.

David Snook

Littleborough, Lancashire

SIR - When US air traffic controllers tried to blackmail the country in 1981,
President Ronald Reagan sacked them and temporarily used military air traffic
controllers.

Raymond Jones

Ivybridge, Devon

SIR - One of the first acts of the UK Border Agency was to put immigration staff
into uniforms. They now look like employees of some 10th-rate security firm, and
are in danger of being treated accordingly.

John Carter

Shortlands, Kent

Loss of hospital chapel

SIR - I was rendered almost speechless by the letter from the Rev K Stewart
Timbrell (May 4) on the imminent closure of the Christian chapel at St Ann's
psychiatric hospital at Canford Cliffs in Dorset under the pretence of
"multi-faith" sensibilities.

That people who are mentally ill and find some solace by attending Sunday
services should be denied the opportunity to do so is a disgrace. To rob
citizens, especially those who are seriously ill, of the opportunity for
Christian worship in suitable surroundings could be deemed a breach of their
human rights.

Linda Connor

Cheadle Hulme, Cheshire

SIR - You report (May 3) that a doctor had been criticised for sending a text
message to a colleague saying, "Have a peaceful Christmas", which was perceived
as an "aggressive and unwelcome intrusion".

None of my friends have ever accused me of such failings when I have written
similar phrases in Christmas cards. Nor have my Muslim friends ever objected to
my signing off emails "God bless". Should I go back to "Best regards"?

Ron Kirby

Dorchester

A thorough inquest

SIR - The narrative verdict on Gareth Williams (report, May 3) required the
services of an expert inquest lawyer working out of a dedicated coroner's court.
The coroner used her experience to synthesise the testimony of toxicologists,
pathologists, scenes of crime officers, escapologists, employers and civilian
witnesses.

Contrast this to the statement about Dr David Kelly's death, spoken by an

ex-prosecutor relying on the opinion of one pathologist, and heard as an add-on
during a separate inquiry.

Thus the lack of fingerprints in the bath was considered significant in the
inquest of Mr Williams, but the lack of fingerprints on the knife which injured
Dr Kelly did not bring a comment from Lord Hutton.

Over the years, when coroners order inquests into deaths at my hospital, I
expect them to be held in a coroner's court not a quasi-legal tribunal. Dr
Kelly's legacy and the reputation of the British legal system require Kenneth
Clarke, the Justice Secretary, to authorise a coroner's inquest.

Dr David Rutter

Romsey, Hampshire

Your call is important...

SIR - As a payroll agent, I often have to phone HM Revenue and Customs (report,
May 2). Recently I made two phone calls in one day. The first took 28 minutes to
answer, during which (as I work from home) I managed, with speakerphone switched
on, to prepare a chicken casserole. The second, at 7 pm, took 22 minutes.

This is not the exception, but the norm.

Nina Ball

Brockenhurst, Hampshire

Dinosaur buttons

SIR - Other relics (Letters, May 4): only fastening the middle button of a
three-buttoned jacket and, if wearing a waistcoat, leaving the bottom one
unfastened.

Robin Eve

Caterham, Surrey

SIR - The gentleman's napkin clip (or hook) was once widespread. Anyone who was
anyone had one. Clipped on, the damask napkin protected the shirt and tie from
spillage.

Chris Harding

Parkstone, Dorset

Borrowers were baffled by scale of their debts

SIR - You report (May 4) a remark by Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, that
borrowers are "consenting adults". Having worked giving debt advice, I am sure
most people don't "get" the concept of interest.

Ask most people how long it takes a £1,000 loan to become a £1 million debt at
29 per cent APR and they'll guess centuries. When you tell them it is 27 years
they say: "But if that were true the bank would warn me." Guess why the banks
don't.

John Gordon

Datchworth Green, Hertfordshire

SIR - To drum up business, lenders lowered the criteria for loans. More business
justified higher bonuses at the top, with juicy commissions at the bottom.

We had self-certified mortgages - the "liar loans". Who in their right mind
would have allowed those? We had 125 per cent mortgages and interest-only
mortgages that were never going to be paid off.

All this was known to be extremely risky long before the crash, but greed
overcame any sane objections. Many in the business made a great deal of money
and left a trail of devastation for the taxpayer. Those responsible, including
Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of England; Gordon Brown when prime
minister; and Hector Sants, as head of the Financial Services Authority, should
not be allowed to get away with it.

Bill Parish

Bromley, Kent

SIR - One point overlooked in debating the Bank of England's role in the
financial crisis is its handling of Northern Rock. By repeating the mantra of
"moral hazard" (meaning that to assist banks suffering from a liquidity crunch
was deemed to be akin to rewarding naughty children), Sir Mervyn King missed the
fact that the most important function of central banks is to act as lender of
last resort.

Bailing out banks does not mean propping up failed bankers, but is a mechanism
for protecting customers and creditors in the interests of preserving wider
confidence in the system. If the Governor had facilitated an orderly rescue of
Northern Rock by Lloyds TSB there need never have been a run on that bank.

Instead, the first major bank run in this country since 1866 was broadcast
around the world, doing untold damage.

Algernon Percy

Alnwick, Northumberland

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 5, 2012 Saturday 12:56 AM GMT

London Mayor election and local election results 2012: as it happened;
Coverage as it happened of the results of local elections and the London Mayoral
race.

BYLINE: By Donna Bowater Matthew Holehouse and Cal Flyn

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 12846 words


· Boris Johnson re-elected as Mayor of London
· Ken Livingstone announces 2012 was his last election
· Delays to count after two batches of votes went missing
· Labour Party makes sweeping gains in grim night for Coalition
· Lab up 788 seats, 32 councils; Con down 419 seats, 12 councils
· Nick Clegg "really sad" as Lib dems lose 357 seats and a council
· Follow Dan Hannan MEP's take on the results live here
· Live: local election results map

00.50 And there we have it. Thanks for joining us, and safe trip home to all
those political journalists.

00.40 As Ken Livingstone retires from politics, he observes tonight's result is
likely to have further implications.

Twitter: Peter Dominiczak - Ken to Boris: "Not only have you won a term but I
suspect this result has settled the next Tory leadership election."

00.29 More from Ken Livingstone's speech earlier:

Forty-one years ago almost to the day, I won my first election on a manifesto
promising to build good council housing and introduce a free bus pass for
pensioners.

Now I've lived long enough to get one myself. I didn't think I necessarily would
at the time.

And since then, I've won 11 more elections and lost three. But the one I most
regret losing is this. This is the defeat I most regret, because these are the
worst times for 80 years, and Londoners needed a mayor to get them through this
very difficult period by cutting fares, by cutting energy prices and putting
people back to work building good council homes.

I am sincerely sorry to those Londoners who desperately wanted us to win that I
failed to do that and they will continue to bear the pain of this recession
without any help from here in City Hall.

00.08 Some reaction to Boris Johnson's re-election:

Twitter: Paul Waugh - Boris says "May the Fourth be With You". He really is the
Tories' Luke Skywalker

Twitter: Kevin Maguire - Livingstone's speech is why he'd be a better Mayor of
London, Johnson's ramble heightens mystery over how he gets elected

Twitter: Anita Singh - I know he must be tired but that was one lame victory
speech from Boris

Twitter: Tim Shipman (Mail) - Is that the sound of quiet weeping I can hear from
across the road. Not sure if it's Dave or George...

00.02                     Boris Johnson pays tribute to Ken Livingstone, who
announces it will be his last election. Mr Johnson says of all the left-wing
politicians he can think of, Mr Livingstone has been "the most creative and the
most original." He ends his brief speech with: "May the Fourth be with you."

Meanwhile, Mr Livingstone said he regrets this election result more than any
other.

23.59 The full results in the first round of voting were:

Siobhan Benita: 83,914

Carlos Cortiglia: 28,751

Boris Johnson: 971,931

Jenny Jones: 98,913

Ken Livingstone: 889,918

Brian Paddick: 91,774

Lawrence Webb: 43,274

23.55 First and second preferences added together gave the following result:

Boris Johnson: 1,054,811

Ken Livingstone: 992,273

23. 51 Here we go...Returning Officer John Bennett announces: Boris Johnson has
won the 2012 election for London Mayor.

23.48 The stage is set now for the announcement, and we are awaiting the
candidates.

23.45 Here is the latest vote progress from London Elects .

23.34 Reporters have now been called into the chamber to hear the London Mayoral
result.

23.22 The candidates have been called:

Twitter: Paul Waugh - So, real development. Candidates urged to gather over the
tannoy. Maybe result soon... #mananamanana

23.21 The last constituency to declare has elected Navin Shah for Labour in
Brent and Harrow.

23.15 There are reports that Brent and Harrow, the last constituency to declare,
has a result. This means the final announcement is imminent. Hopefully.

23.07 Former Olympics Minister Tessa Jowell has told the BBC the delays in the
London Mayor count were not a bad sign ahead of the London 2012 Games. She said:

The Olympics is in the middle of the most detailed run-through of what will
actually happen. Tomorrow, if I ever get there, I shall be out on the Olympic
Park watching the athletic events, seeing how all the facilities are tested
under the pressure of competition.

22.49 Our political correspondent Tim Ross is among those waiting in City Hall
for the result. He writes:

London Elects, the organisers of the poll, have said two batches of boxes of
papers that were mistakenly put away in storage, are causing the delay.

They say in a statement: "The issue was identified during the verification
stage. These two batches are being re-processed. To make this happen as quickly
as possible we have separated out into several smaller batches. This is why the
progress screens appear to show a changing number of verified ballot papers.

"We will declare as soon as possible but it is obviously important that every
vote is counted."

We have been expecting a result on the main Boris V Ken contest since around
6pm. After a major wobble at around 7pm, Boris's campaign have seemed more
confident in the hours since.

As for Labour, they have been dampening expectations for weeks, with remarkable
consistency. Even Ken has seemed to doubt his own chances at times.

Shouldn't be too long now.

22.46 We now have an update from London Elects, which is responsible for the
election.

We have results in from 13 of the 14 constituencies in the Mayor of London and
London Assembly election.

The final constituency is Brent & Harrow. The Greater London Returning Officer
has been in touch with the CRO for Brent & Harrow to establish the reason for a
delay.

All batches of ballot papers were registered and scanned. Two batches went to
storage without some ballot papers being manually entered as required. Manual
entry is required when a scanner cannot read a ballot paper - for example if a
ballot paper is damaged. It is not an issue with the scanners.

The issue was identified during the verification stage. These two batches are
being re-processed. To make this happen as quickly as possible we have separated
out into several smaller batches. This is why the progress screens appear to
show a changing number of verified ballot papers.

We will declare as soon as possible but it is obviously important that every
vote is counted.

22.44 An early poll has indicated support lies in the red corner...for Liverpool
v Chelsea in the FA Cup final tomorrow. Turnout is expected to be low, though,
with apathy reigning.

22.37 There are dispiriting rumours that there could be a recount, two hours
after we were due to get the result. However, the Evening Standard's Ross Lydall
explains this is unlikely.

Twitter: Ross Lydall - Only poss recount is in Brent + Harrow as all 13 other
constituencies have declared. Returning officer has no power 2 order citywide
recount

22.23 The BBC is reporting the result of Enfield and Haringey puts Boris Johnson
4.4 points ahead of Ken Livingstone with just Brent and Harrow to declare,
meaning the final result will come down to second preferences.

22.18 If this blog is feeling a little impatient and in need of a KitKat,
imagine how this chap is feeling.

22.02 PoliticsHome's Paul Waugh says Boris is 86,000 votes ahead and counting.

Twitter: Paul Waugh - So, with one seat left, Boris on 912k votes to Ken 826k.
Gap now 86k votes. Result they say will be another 30mins min

21.59 Tired of the re-runs of election footage from earlier today? How about the
clash between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone from earlier this month in which
Boris calls Ken a liar.

21.50 Some worrying news from the Evening Standard's Peter Dominiczak, who says
another two boxes of uncounted votes has been found.

Twitter: Peter Dominiczak - Am now hearing they've found two more boxes in Brent
and Harrow. The count goes on!

21.43 The candidates were also expected to be told the result earlier too. Here
is Ken Livingstone on his way to City Hall in London.

21.34 The delay is being blamed on problems with the electronic counting
machines. The count was also delayed earlier at Alexandra Palace because of a
power cut. Rubber thimbles out, everyone!

Twitter: Political Scrapbook - We're hearing the electronic counting machines
have broken, so the final few thousand ballots are being done by hand.
#le12#fail

21.28 So we might be a little way away from getting the result in the London
Mayor election. If it's much longer, it might be overshadowed by another blue v
red contest this weekend; it's Chelsea v Liverpool in the FA Cup final tomorrow.
Here's our graphic on Dider Drogba's scoring record at Wembley .

21.12 While we wait for the final constituency to declare, here's a look at how
Boris and Ken's records compare on crime, transport, jobs and housing.

20.55 The build-up to this results announcement has been greater than an X
Factor final but we're now looking at a 21.30 announcement.

Early reports are suggesting Boris Johnson has been nudged in front by two to
three per cent.

Twitter: Daniel Hannan - These delayed counts are Britain in microcosm:
everything is designed around the convenience of the state bureaucracy.

20.48 We're still waiting for the results but in the meantime, Green candidate
Jenny Jones tells the BBC she thinks she has come third. It will be another
embarrassment for the Liberal Democrats if she is right but at the moment, all
the focus is on the close-run battle between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone.

"It's looking incredibly tight," Mrs Jones said. "Nobody would have thought that
this morning or even at lunchtime."

20.35 The result is getting closer and PoliticsHome's Paul Waugh has an update
on the numbers:

Twitter: Paul Waugh - Keynumbercrunch. After 12 seats, with 2 to go: Boris 108k
votes ahead of Ken. Last 2 seats may close gap by 30k max. So BJ win by c80k
lead?

20.21 It's another Labour hold result in Enfield and Haringey, with Joanne
McCartney taking 51.2 per cent of the vote against the Conservative's Andy
Hemsted, who got 25.8 per cent. We have just Brent and Harrow to go.

20.20 It's still looking very close between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone.
Mr Johnson has 45.6 per cent on first preferences and needs 50 per cent, reports
PA's Theo Usherwood.

20.13 We're expecting a final declaration in the next 15 minutes, and
confirmation of the next London Mayor. Political correspondent Tim Ross says
Boris Johnson is likely to just snatch it.

Twitter: Tim Ross - Tory source says they had "more or less written off" Boris
half an hour ago but believe he should now scrape home.

19.47 Labour have held the North-East in London with Jennette Arnold securing
more than 53 per cent of the vote. The Conservative candidate, Naomi Newstead
received just 18.6 per cent.

19.45 As the confirmed result gets nearer, the speculation on who has won
intensifies.

Twitter: Christopher Hope - Local elections expert and former Tory MP Rob
Hayward says Boris is leading by 70,000 votes with 280,000 still to be
distributed. Very tight

19.38 The independent candidate in the London mayoral election, Siobhan Benita
has told BBC News she was "delighted" with the results so far. She also
indicated she would run again in 2016.

As an independent candidate, I've been up there with the established parties. I
did know that people were disillusioned, they are disillusioned at the
moment...We did this without a party machine, very little funding, hardly any TV
coverage.

19.30 While we wait for the London Mayor results, which are expected in another
hour or so, here's a picture of Mike Ferrigan, otherwise known as Professor
Pongoo. He received more votes in the Pentland Hills ward for Edinburgh Council
than the Liberal Democrat candidate.

19.15 The interest in the London Mayor election is down to the two "epic
personalities" involved, according to Professor Tony Travers from the London
School of Economics.

There's absolutely no question that Boris Johnson is running way ahead of his
own party. I don't think Ken is quite as far behind his party as it once
appeared. I think that this says something about Boris Johnson's personality.

19.01 Former Labour MP for Hendon Andrew Dismore has won Barnet and Camden from
the Conservative's Brian Coleman.

Mr Dismore won almost 45 per cent of the bvote with Mr Coleman receiving just
over 30 per cent.

Twitter: Paul Waugh - Looks like Brian Coleman has even lost his own ward in
Totteridge #London2012

19.00 We are now expecting the result in the London Mayor election at around
20.30.

18.52                     Leeds has voted against an elected mayor, the ninth
city to do so.

18.50 Green mayoral candidate Jenny Jones is believed to be in front of Lib Dem
Brian Paddick, various sources are reporting. Labour sources are also playing
down claims that Boris Johnson will win by a mile.

Shadow Olympics minister Tessa Jowell, chair of Ken Livingstone's campaign, told
BBC News there had been an assumption in the media, based on polling, that the
Tory candidate would "walk away with it".

"It's quite different now," she said. "It's obviously a very, very tight race,
tighter than I thought it was going to be, and let's see."

Twitter: LGiU - Boris ahead on first preferences lots of twitter talking up of
ken's chances but people at the count still calling it for Boris #le12

18.35 The Conservatives hold South West in the London Assembly. Tory Tony Arbour
has fended off Labour's Lisa Homan by almost 20,000 votes. The turnout was just
under 40 per cent.

18.22 Two of our bloggers hedge their bets on the mayoral election in London.

Twitter: Dan Hodges - Still think a Boris win. Just in case, this is being typed
from the steps of the US Embassy, in case I need to swiftly claim asylum.

Twitter: Daniel Hannan - Commentators are suddenly uncertain about London
mayoral election. Me? I'm calling it for Thomas Dewey.

18.10 The BBC is reporting the contest between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone
for London Mayor is going right down to the wire. Meanwhile, Twitter is all of a
flurry with egg jokes after Ed Miliband's incident earlier.

Twitter: James Chapman (Mail) - Yoken Britain: Egg Miliband deals with this
incident pretty coolly, I thought: http://t.co/zq8mshXv

17.54 Deputy Mayor Kit Malthouse retains West Central London AM seat for the
Conservatives.

17.44 Although they'll be disappointed with results in Glasgow, it's worth
noting that the SNP have now returned 402 seats on Scotlands 32 councils. That's
more than the Liberal Democrats have returned from 178 councils across the whole
country (393 seats).

Only three councils are still to report: Rhondda Cynon Taf, Woking and Highland.

Highland always trail, given the huge size of the council region.

17.37 UKIP's candidate for Mayor of London, Lawrence Webb, was mistakenly listed
on the ballot paper as a candidate for 'Fresh Choice for London' (it should have
read "UKIP: A Fresh Choice for London"). According to the New Statesman, a
"furious" Nigel Farage has admitted that the fault was with UKIP: "they forgot
to put their party name on the nomination paper."

It's not the first time the party has been hit by ballot paper problems. In 2009
UKIP called for the then elections minister Michael Wills to resign after the
UKIP option was allegedly hidden under a fold on the ballots for the European
and local elections.

In the London Assembly, two more seats held by Labour: City & East, and Lambeth
& Southwark.

17.20                                            ITV have the video of Ed
Miliband getting egged.

After being hit and removing his dirtied jacket, Mr Miliband joked that the man
was "obviously not one of my fans".

He later Tweeted: "For those wondering about egg's origins, fairly sure it
wasn't free range but nothing can take away from cracking result in
Southampton..."

He takes it much more calmly than another leading Labour figure who received an
egging..

It's now the top trending item on Twitter.

17.15                     Alex Salmond is putting a brave face on his failure to
take either Glasgow or Edinburgh. His aim only was to increase his councillors.
In Glasgow: "We won five seats and Labour lost one.... over the piece we've won
the election." He is "quite please" with the results.

17.12 Voters have blown a raspberry at David Cameron's elected mayors plan,
Christopher Hope reports.

Mr Cameron had toured the country in recent days, insisting that he wanted a
'"Boris in every city", echoing the example of Boris Johnson in London.

However, by mid afternoon Manchester, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, Nottingham,
Sheffield, Wakefield, Coventry and Bradford voted "no".

Only Bristol had voted in favour of elected mayor - by 53 per cent to 47 per
cent. Its vote will take place this Autumn.

17.04 The Liberal Democrats now have their lowest number of councillors since
their formation in 1988, BBC reports.

Rhys Hutchings, a member of comedy rap group Goldie Lookin' Chain, has been
returned as a Labour councillor in Newport, which has just come under the
control of Labour.

His ward, St Julians, was tightly contested and faced a second recount this
afternoon when at one point former Newport deputy leader Ed Townsend (Lib Dems)
was reportedly ahead by only one vote.

We have had results from five of the 14 London Assembly constituencies. The
Conservatives have four (Bexley & Bromley, Croydon & Sutton, Havering &
Redbridge, Merton & Wandsworth) while Labour holds one (Greenwich & Lewisham).
No surprises yet.

The rest of the 25 seats on the assembly are London-wide and are decided by
proportional representation.

Liverpool council stays under Labour control - no surprises - and Worthing stays
Conservative.

17.01 There we go! Ed Miliband (pic from ITV's Chris Ship).

16.58 Labour have taken three seats in Glasgow East Centre ward to gain outright
control of Glasgow City Council.

16.54 Ed Miliband has been struck with an egg in Southampton while on walkabout.
A man in a woollen cap and grey coat was seen cantering from the scene. Pictures
and footage to follow.

16.35 Diane Abbott has criticised the "personal" and negative coverage of Ken
Livingstone's campaign by the London Evening Standard. The race for London has
narrowed a couple of points in the past couple of hours as more of the
inner-London Labour strong-holds are counted.

JOHNSON                      Con 44% LIVINGSTONE Lab 40% JONES Green 4% PADDICK
Lib Dem 4% BENITA Indy 4% WEBB Ukip 2% CORTIGLIA BNP 1%

Ed Miliband's victory tour continues in Southampton. The supporters shout
"Leader! Leader! Leader!". Ed says Labour lost touch with the south of England -
but now they are "Back on your side."

He says many have forecast losses in Scotland but the party are "Beating back
the SNP challenge". Labour "is a party for north and south."

He is right to say that Johann Lamont's Scottish Labour Party has halted the SNP
advance at the gates of Glasgow.

Alex Salmond - under fire this week for the claims in the James Murdoch emails
that he offered to lobby for News Corp - had hoped to seize control of the
Second City of the Empire. But Labour are now on 36 seats, matching the maximum
they can have if the SNP are to take power. Labour need to get four of their
remaining eight candidates in to form a majority.

16.26 Labour's Ian Stewart, formerly MP for Eccles, has been voted mayor of
Salford.

The change was triggered after a Yes vote in January's referendum on the issue.

Ten candidates stood for the new position.

In the race for the London Assembly, the Conservatives hold Croydon and Sutton.
Steve O'Connell won 39.11% of the vote, although Labour saw a big swing of
13.49%. Greenwich and Lewisham, a Labour stronghold already, has seen a Labour
swing from the Tories to 8.9 per cent.

Edinburgh council remains under no overall control. Lib Dems, formerly the
biggest party, lost 13 seats - shared between Labour (up 5) the SNP (up 5) and
Greens (up 3). Labour are now the biggest party, on 20, while the SNP are in
second place on 18.

16.15 The BNP have lost all six of the seats it was defending this round.

It now has only THREE councillors left, following a complete wipeout in former
stronghold Burnley - down from a high (or low, depending on your point of view)
of 47 in 2007.

It lost two from Amber Valley, one from Burnley, one from Epping Forest, one
from Pendle and one from Rotherham.

Leader Nick Griffin tweeted: "Hammered by Labour - same as everyone. No
surprise, no disgrace." The BNP are currently polling only 1.6% in London.

15.53 Why have so many cities - with the exception of Bristol - said no to
elected Mayors? Lib Dem John Hemming MP tells World at One : "When you have
something that's not a particularly good idea, how do you polish a turd?"

The turnouts for mayoral referenda have been extraordinarily low:

Bristol 76,912 (24.12%) Wakefield: 72,967 (28.62%) Newcastle: 64,719 (31.92%)
Sheffield: 127,461 (32.09%)

And in London:

Turnout of 40.15%, down 6% in Merton and Wandsworth. Bexley and Bromley saw very
similar figures, at 40.50% (-8.63%)

15.50 Former Lib Dem leader Lord Ashdown tells Sky News: "It has been a very,
very tough day for us. I've seen tougher, but not many." He adds: "We do need to
listen to the cry of pain of people of Britain."

"We will be judged in the end by how we have participated in the government of
the country and how that government took Britain through the economic crisis.
The mettle of the party has been tested.

"The future of the country, and how it is governed, and the future of the
Liberal democrats is inextricably linked."

15.29 Newcastle has voted against an elected mayor. In the London assembly, the
Conservatives also hold Bexley and Bromley. James Cleverly took 52.63% of the
vote, up very slightly by 0.03%

15.18 The first London Assembly result has come in. Former Tory environment
minister Richard Tracey has held Merton & Wandsworth.

Wakefield has voted no to having an elected mayor. Bristol is so far the only
city to vote to have one. Doncaster has voted to keep their mayoral system which
has been in place for a decade. Current Doncaster mayor Peter Davies, of the
English Democrats, was criticised by Communities Secretary Eric Pickles for a
lack of leadership in 2010, whena vote of no confidence was carried against him

Sun on Sunday columnist Toby Young says the latest figures from the Mayoral
count would suggest that Jenny Jones, Brian Paddick and Siobhan Benita's 2nd
preferences would need to split in Ken Livingstone's favour by 2:1 for Ken to
win.

15.00 The former Labour leader of Edinburgh Council has lost her seat, becoming
one of the highest-profile Liberal Democrat casualties of the local elections.
Jenny Dawe polled just 1,285 votes in Meadows/Morningside, more than 400 behind
new SNP councillor Sandy Howat.

But in Glasgow Labour council leader Gordon Matheson was re-elected - and
declared the SNP juggernaut had rolled into a ditch. He said:

So far the results have been very good for Labour and extraordinarily bad for
the SNP. Their juggernaut has rolled into a ditch. They were the party that made
big predictions that they would sweep Labour from power. The people of Glasgow
have had other ideas. I'm not making final predictions about the outcome because
there are a number of seats to declare. I'll be absolutely clear about this: if
Labour does emerge as the largest party, I would be seeking to form the
administration and lead Glasgow City Council through the Commonwealth Games and
beyond.

Elsewhere in Scotland: East Dunbartonshire, North Ayrshire, Moray and Falkirk
remain under no overall control. And council candidate who campaigned dressed as
a penguin has received more votes than the Liberal Democrats.

14.44 A schoolgirl has become one of the youngest councillors in the country
after winning a seat on Plymouth City Council (the Press Association reports.)

Kate Taylor, who was standing for Labour, won her Devonport seat with a majority
of 839 as her party won control of the council last night from the
Conservatives.

The 18-year-old, who is an A-level student at Notre Dame RC School in Plymouth,
took to Twitter to speak of her delight at winning her council seat.

"It's been an exhausting campaign but it was all so worth it. Real work starts
here - and I can't wait," she wrote. "I can't even put into words how amazing it
feels. "Thank you so much for all your tweets tonight. I am incredibly happy and
honoured to have been elected. "But right now I need to get some sleep!!!
Absolutely shattered, it's been an incredible but exhausting day."

14.39 Mirror Political editor Jason Beattie tweets:

Twitter: Jason Beattie - Anybody seen Osborne today? Submarine not yet surfaced?
Isn't he the elections strategist?

14.35 The race to be Mayor of Salford has gone to second preferences with a
play-off between Ian Stewart (Lab) and Karen Garrido (Con). In the first round
they got 20,663 and 8,055 respectively.

14.31 Boris Johnson for Prime Minister?  Earlier Chris Hope explained how
leading Tories think it could happen                     .

But it's all frothy speculation, says a Cabinet Minister.
Rowena Mason reports:

Andrew Mitchell, the International Development Secretary, rejected the
possibility that the London Mayor would take over as Prime Minister in an
interview with the BBC.

Asked whether Mr Johnson would stand as Tory leader, Mr Mitchell said: "I think
one can dismiss those sort of frothy comments".

There has been growing speculation about the leadership potential of Mr Johnson,
who is today expected to win a second term in charge of the capital.

He has bucked the trend of heavy Conservative losses across the country, as the
official London elect website shows him currently to be clearly ahead of his
Labour rival, Ken Livingstone.

Sources said it is possible that Mr Johnson could return as an MP in the 2015
election, overlapping with the last year of his term as mayor.

Spinners MHP have produced this head-to-head graphic of how Boris and Dave shape
up.

14.26 Battle for Edinburgh The SNP have inched ahead in early voting. The seats
so far: SNP 8 Labour 6 Conservatives 5 Liberal Democrats 3 Greens 1

14.24 The voters of Bristol have bucked the national trend and voted in favour
of a city mayor in the referendum. The city voted 41,032 (53%) in favour and
35,880 (47%) against on a low turnout of 24%.

14.22 Iain Martin blogs: The Sadness of Nick Clegg

Clegg has always struck me as not really cut out for top-flight politics, an
impression that grows with his reaction to every setback. He seems baffled and
hurt by the criticism, which is not the normal reaction of top-flight
politicians. The members of the Thatcher cabinet of the early 80s were used to
being "egged" and assaulted (and that's to say nothing of the way protesters and
voters treated them). But they still managed to maintain a certain cheer. Some
had been in the war, which helped. Clegg's gloom is so noteworthy that there is
even a website dedicated to pictures of the Lib Dem leader looking sad.

14.02 Shadow chancellor Ed Balls says Boris Johnson's nearing victory is thanks
to a 'personality contest'.

It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's doing very well
compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that in by-elections
as well. But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said 'Vote
for me even though I'm a Tory' and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see,
but if he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and
George Osborne, rather than because of it. I backed Ken Livingstone, I think he
was the best mayor London's had so far. I think he would be a better mayor for
London on Tube fares and jobs and housing than Boris Johnson who, let's be
honest, is a bit of a joker, a bit of a buffoon.

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and "the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse".

13.45 Back from luncheon. A brief recap:

The latest figures from the London Mayoral race, with roughly half the votes
counted:

JOHNSON                      Con 45% LIVINGSTONE Lab 39% JONES Green 4% PADDICK
Lib Dem 4% BENITA Indy 4% WEBB Ukip 2% CORTIGLIA BNP 1%

Nationally Labour have gained 28 councils including Birmingham on a landslide,
Blaenau Gwent, Brigend, Burnley, Cardiff, Dudley, Norwich, Sefton, and Reading.
View the latest local election results here.Here's a video of the party leaders
commenting on the results.

And here's tonight's Evening Standard:

13.11 On Sky Chuka Umunna, Shadow Business Secretary, is rehearsing Labour's new
attack strategy - to compare David Cameron to John Major. The Goverment is, he
says, "Out of touch and incompetent... heartless and hopeless."

He went on: "Compare and contrast. Ed has been leader of the Labour Party for 19
months now. We have won a number of by-elections, we have won back hundreds of
(council) seats and he is rebuilding the party.

"David Cameron has had seven years to do that and he still hasn't sealed the
deal with the British people."

13.01 It looks the SNP will not be taking Glasgow outright from Labour.

Of 25 seats declared so far, Labour have 13, SNP have 9, Lib Dem 1, Tories 1,
Glasgow First 1.

(Glasgow First is a splinter party of veteran councillors ditched by the Labour
party.)

Labour MP for Glasgow South Tom Harris says the SNP now cannot win a majority in
Glasgow.

Here's Gail Sheridan, Solidarity candidate for Glasgow City Council, with her
jailbird husband Tommy Sheridan.

12.51 Guto Harri, Boris Johnson's director of external communications, is
leaving and is rumoured to have a job with News International, the Evening
Staandard is reporting:

The former BBC political journalist said he had not yet "signed up" to any of
the offers he has received. However, sources suggested he has been poached by
News International to help restore its reputation after the phonehacking scandal
and questions over its failed bid for BSkyB.

There have also been suggestions Mr Harri could take a senior media advisory or
strategic role at No 10.

Mr Harri confirmed he was considering offers but made it clear he could yet be
persuaded to stay.

12.44 SNP chieftain Alex Salmond says he hopes to take Dundee and the party is
up 25 councillors so far. The final result will not become clear until the
"early hours". But it is clear the Nationalists' hope of looting and pillaging
Labour's strongholds is fading.

12.40 Kent Spring: The Conservative leader of Tunbridge Wells council has lost
his seat to Ukip, Rowena Mason reports.

12.28 Boris is ahead in the race for London - but when you look at the race for
the Assembly things are rather different. The state of the race:

Labour - 39% Conservative - 33% Green - 8% Lib Dem - 7% UKIP - 5% BNP - 2%
Christian People's Party - 2% English Democrats - 1% Trade Unionist and
Socialist Coalition - 1% National Front - 0% The House Party - 0% Ijaz Hayat
(Indy) - 0% Rathy Alagaratnam (Indy) - 0%

YouGov explained why Labour could win in the Assembly but not the Mayoral race -
they call it "Boris Labour".

We looked at people who told us they were certain to vote today, and would vote
Labour if today's contest were a general election. One in ten told us they will
vote for Boris. If they voted for Ken, he'd win by 52-48%. Another one-in-ten
Labour supporters will withhold their mayoral vote from both men (though most
will vote Labour in the Assembly election). If they all backed Ken, he'd win by
54-46%.

To explore why Labour London is likely to re-elect a Tory Mayor, we asked Ken
and Boris's supporters for their main reason for backing their candidate.

54% of Boris supporters gave a "personality" reason (they like Boris or dislike
Ken), while just 27% gave a "party" reason (they generally vote Tory or dislike
Labour).

The process of scanning ballot papers at Alexandra Palace count centre in north
London had been due to start at 8.45am, but did not get under way until 10.15am
due to a power cut.

The other two counting centres at are the Excel centre in the Docklands and
Olympia in West London.

12.23 Elsewhere in Scotland: Jim Leishman, director of football at Dunfermline
Athletic, has been elected a Labour councillor in Fife.

The FT's Hannah Kuchler tweets:

Lib Dem vote is in free fall in Edinburgh, where they shared power with SNP. In
1 ward, they got fewer first pref than a penguin. And the penguin was called
Professor Pongoo, which has to add insult to injury.

12.18 How Boris Johnson could become Prime Minister

Christopher Hope, senior political correspondent, has it mapped out. He emails:
This is how it would work, according to my recent conversations with Tory MPs,
some of whom are in the Government.

Scenario 1

Boris Johnson wins another four years today as Mayor of London, giving him a
berth in City Hall until 2016

Boris announces in late 2014 that he wants to be an MP again, to give Londoners
better representation in Parliament.

He cites as precedent his old foe Ken Livingstone, who was London Mayor as well
as MP for Brent East between 2000 and 2001. Boris starts a high profile search
for a seat within the boundary of the M25 around London. He romps home with an
enhanced majority in 2015, and becomes a noisy backbencher in a majority
Conservative administration.

David Cameron, aware of the danger of hanging on for too long in No 10,
announces he wants to quit as party leader and PM in 2018, ahead of the 2020
election.

The way is clear for Boris to have a tilt at the top job, against his old
adversary George Osborne.

Scenario 2

Boris loses today. He immediately starts to scout for a safe Tory Parliamentary
seat to fight at the next general election.

12.13 Battle for Glasgow: Labour is ahead by seven seats to the SNP's five. Four
of the City's 21 multi-member wards have been declared. The Liberal Democrats
have one seat and the Tories have held their single seat.

Turnout was low - and the winner will be the party that best mobilised their
base.

Why do we care? Because Labour losing Glasgow after three decades would humilate
Ed Miliband - and an SNP win will be heralded by Alex Salmond's party as an
endorsement of independence.

"Results so far make me cautiously optimistic that the overall result will be
favourable to Labour, but there's still a long way to go," said Labour's Bill
Butler.

The Sunday Herald's Tom Gordon tweets:

Twitter: Tom Gordon - SNP say they need 2 from every 4 member ward from now on
to be in w a chance of forming anti-Labour coalition #gccvote

Updated: The Herald's Gerry Braiden tweets:

Twitter: Gerry Braiden - Battleground Govan: SNP 2 Labour 2. No SNP Majority
then #gccvote

12.01 Video: David Cameron says the election results reflect the Government
dealing with "difficult times and no easy answers."

"Obviously, when your taking difficult decisions to bring the country out of the
broken economy that Labour left us, there aren't easy decisions," he says.

Trying to reflect positively on what had been a gruelling night of results with
a poor showing for his party, Mr Cameron maintained that there were parts of the
country that had been Labour-controlled for decades and still kept their
Conservative councils.

11.44 Counting is underway in London. The state of the race so far:Boris Johnson
(Con) - 45 per cent

Ken Livingstone (Lab) - 39 per cent

Jenny Jones (Green) - 4 per cent

Siobhan Benita (Indy) - 4 per cent

Brian Paddick (Lib Dem) - 4 per cent

Half the votes have been counted in Bexley and Bromley, a third in Croydon &
Sutton and just over a quarter in Lambeth & Southwark. It's only beginning in
Barnet & Camden, North East and Brent & Harrow.

Blogs editor Damian Thompson points out that the race is likely to narrow should
it go to a second round, as Ken is likely to scoop up a raft of second
preference votes from left-leaning candidates.

Could the Lib Dems really finish in fifth place?

11.40 Battle for Glasgow: first blood to Labour

The SNP are hoping to raid the Labour stronghold on the Clyde - but in the first
ward to be declared in the city, two of the three councillors are Labour, with
one for the SNP. Turnout in Newlands Auldburn ward is 38 per cent.

11.20 Two bright thoughts from the blogs desk:

Donata Huggins says: The night of the long knives is coming for David Cameron

The gloves are off. The resolve of the Conservative Party has clearly broken
when even ministers don't hold their tongues. And you can understand why: the
electorate have been brutal to the Tories. Labour is crowing over gains it
didn't expect to make - taking control of councils in the South and seats in
Dave's backyard. It's a dismal result made comic by Eric Pickles who appeared on
Sky News this morning to say the "only way is up" from "rock bottom". A mutiny
is brewing.

Daniel Knowles writes: David Cameron and the Conservative Party have far more to
fear from a Lib Lab pact than from Ukip

The Conservative party is essentially dead in Scotland, and it is dying in the
North of England, but it should at least be romping home in the South. If,
however, the Lib Dem losses to Labour in the North translate into gains from the
Conservatives in the suburban South, then the possibility of some sort of Lib
Lab pact becomes quite real. Labour could stand down their candidates in seats
where the Lib Dems are strong in exchange for Lib Dem support in Government. Ed
Miliband has spoken frequently about the "progressive majority", and, unlike
Tony Blair in 1997, he is in a weak enough position that he might actually have
to mean it.

11.03 Has the tide turned for David Cameron? Has Ed Miliband begun the long
march to Number 10? The Tories claim not.

Here's William Hague saying: Labour should not get their hopes up - council
seats will not translate to MPs at a General Election.

Conservative HQ strategists believe there are four reasons why this is not a Red
Dawn:

1. They argue Ed Miliband needs to take 40 per cent of the national vote to be
on track to win the next general election. The BBC has them polling 38 per cent
- whereas the Tories national share is higher than that of Tony Blair in 2000
and 2004.

2. Turnout is 32 per cent, the BBC says. They point to John Curtice, an
elections expert, who told the Beeb this low level of voting shows "a lack of
enthusiasm" for Ed Miliband's alternative to the Government's tough decisions.

3. Ed Miliband might take around 750 seats today - but William Hague's Tories
took 1,300 seats in 1999. The Tories didn't see power for another 11 years.

4. There have been limited Labour wins in battleground seats in the south where
General Elections are won and lost - one seat in Walsall, three in Worcester,
nothing in Rochford and Cheltenham.

What do you think of this interpretation? Tell us in the comments or email me at
matthew.holehouse@telegraph.co.uk

10.53 Ed Miliband is in Birmingham, where they took a seat they had not held
since 1945.

Surrounded by GMB and Unison banners, he says they won because they put forward
"painstakingly-worked out" policies to help people in tough times. Labour is in
touch. The Tories are not and "put Britain into recession".

He will go to Worcester next, where Labour gained but did not take the council.
The fight to win back trust is an "ongoing battle", he says. Many people did not
vote at all because they do believe politics can change people's lives, and Ed
wants to reach out to them. "We are determined to prove you wrong."

"We can change Britain for the people whose sons and daughters cannot find
work," he says. "The battle to change Britain begins here."

Sky notes Ed is "getting his jubliation in early" - we are still waiting to hear
from Glasgow and London.

10.43 Bryony Gordon is at the count in Olympia, west London. Her father, Jack,
is the Labour candidate in the rock-solid Tory seat of Hyde Park West. She has
been casting an eye over the spoilt ballots. She emails:

Several have had unprintable words scrawled on them. One, for the London
Assembly, had 'you got me pregnant you bastard' written next to a candidate I
shall not name. Another spoilt ballot paper. 'I have no confidence in any
candidate'. Democracy in action!

She adds of her father: "I'm not sure this Labour mouse will roar, but am very
proud of him for standing."

10.39 Telegraph columnist Fraser Nelson tells Sky News Boris Johnson "defies
this law" that wherever there are tall buildings, Tories cannot win.

His tax-cutting message appeals to working class voters because the poorer you
are more you appreciate the government taking its hand out your pocket.

Fraser Nelson's column today is essential reading: Win or lose in London's
mayoral elections, the clown prince's vivacious brand of Conservatism will now
set the agenda.

Oddly for a man who behaves as if enacting a never-ending stand-up comedy
routine, Boris is seen as being authentic, the very opposite of the homogenised
machine politician. And his lesson is that there is still an appetite for
Conservatism in the inner cities, if expressed with enough professionalism,
commitment and flair.

10.32 Video: Labour celebrates 'incredible' victory in Birmingham

Elation from Labour and dismay from Conservative and Lib Dem councillors in
Birmingham as the coalition suffers a series of defeats.

10.30 Nigel Farage of UKIP says the party has been boosted by the defection of
former Tory councillors which has helped professionalise the organisation.
People are voting against "open door" immigration and green taxes, as well as
membership of the European Union.

UKIP has won 7 seats, an increase of one.

The party's strength and weakness is support is relatively uniform across the
country, Farage says. A lack of concentrated support means it struggles to
convert its growing support into seat.

10.19 Counting is underway in Scotland. In Edinburgh, the BBC says, "There is
revenge in the air" for the bungled trams project that has left Scotland's
capital with a building site through its centre and a hefty bill. The Lib Dems
are bracing for losses, with the SNP set to be the main benefactors. The first
results are due within an hour.

Labour's Douglas Alexander tweets Labour has taken the Renfrew seat of Derek
MacKay, the SNP's Party Chairman. He is also an MSP and was elected as a
councillor aged 21 in 1999. It's a big scalp.

10.16 The Prime Minister has spoken.

David Cameron has apologised to Conservative councillors who lost their seats as
his party suffered an electoral backlash from voters.

He said the elections took place against a "difficult national backdrop" but
insisted the Government was doing the "right thing for our country". He said:

I am sorry for all the hard-working Conservative councillors who lost their
seats, obviously against a difficult national backdrop. These are difficult
times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is take the difficult
decisions to deal with the debt, deficit and broken economy that we've inherited
and we will go on making those decisions and we've got to do the right thing for
our country.

10.14 Baroness Warsi points to Labour's loss of Bradford to George Galloway in a
by-election. The Tories have lost control of 11 town halls.

She adds in 1999 - two years into the Blair era - Labour lost "over 1000" seats,
and went on to win two more genearl elections.

10.02 Here's an image of the smart-casual Prime Minister and Baroness Warsi
chatting to election staffers at party HQ in Millbank.

Tom Watson, Labour's deputy chairman and election campaigns co-ordinator, tweets
this picture of the Labour party media monitoring team. It is, he says, "the
axel of the operation."

09.52 Senior Lib Dem Sarah Teather says the poor results for the Lib Dems are
not as bad as they were in local elections last year.

"Voters are starting to see we've achieved a great deal in government and have
started to give us the benefit of the doubt," she says.

By the end of the Parliament voters will start to feel the benefits of Lib Dem
policies, such as tax cuts for low earners, she says. A lot of people have "very
difficult" lives at the moment due to recession and cuts and are voting as such.

Here's a video of Nick Clegg saying he is 'really sad' after taking a local
election pounding

09.45 Manchester, Nottingham, Coventry and Bradford have voted against having an
elected Mayor. The results from six more great British cities are still to come.

Stuart Drummond, the directly-elected Mayor of Hartlepool, blamed Westminster
coalition divisions for the failure to secure support for more such positions.

Mr Drummond was originally voted in in 2002 as part of a publicity stunt
campaign for the local football club and its monkey mascot but has since been
re-elected twice. He told Radio 4:

I think the Government have approached this in completely haphazard,
half-hearted way. If they really did think this was the best way forward then
surely they would have imposed it on places rather than leave it to chance.
Because the Lib Dems have always been against the mayoral system, there has
never been a true coalition policy for it and it just seems to be one of David
Cameron's little hobby horses.

Daniel Knowles blogs: David Cameron's last gasp of radical reform is dead

09.41 Harriet Harman promised there would be "no crowing" but it looks like Lord
Prescott can't resist (Rowena Mason writes.)

Twitter: John Prescott - Lord Ashdown! Lord Rennard! William Gladstone! Cyril
Smith! Nick Clegg! Your boys took one hell of a beating! #armacleggon

09.38 Former playboy MP Lembit Opik has called for Nick Clegg to resign as
leader of the Liberal Democrats.

He told the BBC:

The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make Clegg
have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles. My
empirical view is that we would have done better with a different leader. I
don't dislike Clegg as a person but I think you can actually point at specific
mistakes he has made.

Who he, you ask. A reminder of the deposed member for Montgomeryshire.

09.35 Here's a video of Liverpool's first elected Mayor saying the city has
rejected the coalition government.

09.30 Ed Miliband has addressed the cameras from his doorstep. He said he wanted
to thank voters who backed his party "for placing their trust in us" and said he
was determined to show that "we can deliver Britain the change it needs".

"We are a party winning back people's trust, regaining ground, but there's more
work to do," he said.

He went on:

I also want to say something to those people who voted for other parties and to
the many people who did not vote at all. I am determined to work tirelessly in
the coming years up to the next general election to show we can change this
country so it works for you, so it works for your son or daughter who is looking
for a job, so it can deal with the squeeze on living standards, and, above all,
so Britain changes from a country that works a few people at the top to a
country that works for everybody.

I know that David Cameron promised change and has disappointed people. I am
determined that we can deliver Britain the change it needs. People are hurting.
People are suffering from this recession, people are suffering from a Government
that raises taxes for them and cuts taxes for millionaires. I think that's what
we saw last night. I hope that David Cameron takes some notice.

09.02 Tim Ross, Daily Telegraph political correspondent, reports:

The shadow Welsh secretary, Peter Hain, says the result is "a big vote of
confidence in Ed Miliband".                                          How often
have we heard that this year? Actually, we haven't.
Until very recently, Mr Miliband had been widely ridiculed as a Nick Park-style
plasticine joke who should not be allowed to lead his party into the next
general election.                                          In reality, the
results in so far probably aren't yet the breakthrough Labour needs to win
outright in 2015.                                          But they allow the
Labour leader some breathing space and will encourage the party's new strategy
of "letting Ed be Ed".                                          In all his
campaign speeches recently, Mr Miliband has abandoned the use of a script,
notes, or autocue.                                          The decision -
entirely his own, aides claim - has enabled him to appear more spontaneous,
relaxed and authentic.                                          Other Labour
figures taking to the airwaves today are trying not to get carried away,
describing the results as "encouraging".
These are mid-term polls, with a low turn out and Labour losses are expected
later in London and Scotland.                                          Voters
seem at least as cross with the Coalition as they are convinced by Ed.
On the blogs, Miliminor's toughest critic Dan Hodges says: "Ed Miliband's red
dawn is rising - sort of."

In many ways this was Ed Miliband's perfect result. He secured strong enough
gains to suppress, for the rest of the week at least, grumblings about his
leadership. The elections were framed as a test for him, and it's a test he has
passed. At the same time the wins were not of such a magnitude that Labour is
suddenly going to let success go to its head and start casting around for a
leader to pull itself those last few yards over the finishing line. This
represents steady progress that will give Miliband and his party time to calmly
sit back and take stock.

08.54 This year votes in London for the Assembly and the Mayor are being counted
electronically.

The organising body, London Elects, has stupendous live updates of how the vote
is going - including how many of the votes have been scanned in and verified,
and bar charts for the performance of each of the candidates.

The site shows that in very early counting - with the caveat that at most 10 per
cent of the vote has been counted in some wards - Boris Johnson is ahead in the
race for London Mayor.

08.40 Nick Clegg has said he is "really sad" that so many of his Liberal
Democrat councillors have lost their seats, but insisted the party would
"continue to play our role" in Government.

Speaking outside his London home he said:

I am really sad that so many colleagues and friends, Liberal Democrat
councillors, who have worked so hard, so tirelessly for so many years for
communities and families in their local areas have lost their seats and I want
to pay tribute to all the great work they have done. I am determined that we
will continue to play our role in rescuing, repairing and reforming the British
economy. It's not an easy job and it can't be done overnight but our duty is to
boost jobs and investment and to restore a sense of hope and optimism to our
country.

He said the Coalition was facing "a difficult mid-term period".

If you look at the results overnight, the ones that have come in, Labour has
clearly had a good night.

The task for Labour and the question for Labour, frankly, is to move beyond
winning votes against two coalition parties who are in government, taking
difficult decisions at a difficult mid-term period of this Government, to
actually providing answers and solutions to the challenges and dilemmas that we
face as a country.

I believe that over time people will come to acknowledge our unique role, the
Liberal Democrats, in this Government as the only party in British politics that
combines responsibility on the economy with social fairness.

08.15 What Twitter is saying about the results:

Twitter: CCHQ Press Office - BBC reports Labour fall short of 40% national vote
share. Ed Miliband needed to hit that target to show he can win the next
election

Twitter: Evan Davis - Key question for Tories on election morning: should they
tilt right to win back UKIP voters, or tilt left to win Labour voters?

Twitter: Paul Waugh - 5Live has neat summary:"It's been a good night for Labour,
a bad night for Tories and an ugly night for LDs" #spaghettielection

Twitter: Donal Blaney - Tories should be courting - not insulting - UKIP and its
voters.

Twitter: Patrick O'Flynn - When Gary Streeter tells Cam he is not Conservative
enough it is time for Cam to sit up and listen. Streeter not a right-winger.

Twitter: Owen Smith MP - Results are reward for hard work of local Labour Cllrs
and candidates...and the integrity and consistency of Ed Miliband & Ed Balls'
ldrship

Twitter: Daniel Knowles - Labour has won 456 seats. Ukip has won 1. A clear
message that David Cameron should definitely be worrying about Europe then.

Twitter: Rachel Taylor - At least these local elections will keep Ed in his job.
Then labour definitely won't get their overspending mitts back on our economy

Twitter: fleetstreetfox - Labour will say last night was great, but the hard
fact is no-one voted FOR them. They voted against the Coalition is all.
#poormiliminor

Twitter: tom jamieson - Latest election results has Labour running 49 councils,
the Tories running 27 & the Lib Dems running a bric-a-brac shop in Taunton.

Twitter: David Allen Green - It would take courage, and would be a genuine risk,
but the Lib Dems should break with the Coalition as soon as possible.

Twitter: Louise Mensch - Good morning. Good but not great for Labour, bad night
for us. "Waiting 90 years for mid-term blues" for Lib Dems....

Twitter: Old Holborn - Tories get 31% of a 32% turnout. 9 out of 10 of us
rejected them. 7 out of 10 of us rejected ALL politicians. Excellent news

Twitter: News Manc - Election tip: If you find yourself with a small pen rather
than a small pencil you may be at Argos or a betting shop, not a polling
station.

08.00 Coming up today:

Scotland: Labour's advance is set to be stopped in its tracks at the border.
Votes in Scotland's 1,200 council seats being contested will be counted during
the day. In the last election, in 2007, the SNP won 363 seats, Labour 348 and
the Liberal Democrats 166. The SNP hope to snatch the Labour stronghold of
Glasgow and seize full control of Ediburgh.

London: The result of the vote for the Mayor of London is expected from 6pm,
although it may come as late as midnight. Evening Standard polling suggests
Boris Johnson is on course to win by a margin of 53% to 47%.

Mayors: We await the results of the referenda for elected mayors in Birmingham,
Bristol, Leeds, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sheffield and Wakefield. Voters have
already said no in Manchester, Nottingham, Coventry and Bradford.

Iain Martin blogs: A good night for Ed Miliband could be ruined in London and
Glasgow.

UKIP is taking much encouragement from its results, quite rightly. In the seats
where it stood candidates it seems to have averaged a 13% share of the vote.
That is 5% up on last time, a statistic that should deeply trouble the Tory
leadership. Not all UKIP voters are disillusioned Conservatives, but at this
rate the party is on track to add substantially to the 900,000 votes it garnered
at the last general election. Only a Cameroon with his or head stuck in the sand
could say that this is not a serious problem for the Tories.

07.55 Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses. He tells the BBC:

These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote. You wouldn't look
at this and say Labour was on track to win a general election at all.

He hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints imposed
by the need to work with the Lib Dems.

Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats. Of course
it is what we will be fighting for in the next general election in 2015.

07.51 Rowena Mason, political correspondent, says Tories are demanding David
Cameron returns to tradition Tory values.

Gary Streeter, a Conservative MP for Devon South West, said many voters did not
perceive the Government to be "competent".

"We've got to be much more small c and big c Conservative on crime, law and
order, some of our traditional policies," he said. "That's what our supporters
are waiting, indeed gagging to see.

"The interesting thing for me was that, doing a lot of visits on the doorstep,
that people were unhappy, obviously about the last two months of our government,
and many of them said we can accept many things from the Conservative party, but
we expect them to be competent.

"And that was one of the messages coming across. We have to regain our
sure-footedness if we are going to recapture lost trust and confidence.

07.43                     Tim Ross, political correspondent, writes:

Lib Dems are putting on their bravest faces for breakfast today as the party
drops below 3,000 councillors for the first time in its history.

Mark Ramsbottom, Manchester Liberal Democrat group leader, said the results were
"a shame" but added: "I'm still committed to the Liberal Democratic Party and
I'm certainly not angry with Nick Clegg."

A party source said: "In the northern councils, there simply aren't any
Conservatives. If you want to give the Government a kicking, we're the only ones
around to kick."

07.36 Lib Dem President Tim Farron has called Howarth's thesis "bonkers".

It was almost amazing that the Tories managed to not win the 2010 general
election but the thought that they would somehow build themselves up to a
majority by lurching to the right to try and bring back people they think
they've lost to Ukip - in so far as anyone in the Tory Party should take
political and strategic advice from me, can I just advise them that would be
bonkers.

The thought that people who are struggling, worried for their jobs, concerned
about the prices of things going up and generally feeling the pinch... have
their votes swayed by Lords reform is just madness.

He adds: "At least we've prevented further decline."

07.34 Gerald Howarth, the defence minister, has pointed to the Tories' support
for gay marriage and House of Lords reform for the poor performance for the
Coalition. He said:

There are issues, for example, like the proposals for gay marriage. A lot of
Conservatives have written to me saying 'I am a lifelong Conservative, there is
no mandate for this, why is this being proceeded with?'. There is the business
of trying to change the House of Lords. Do we need to do this at a time when the
nation is preoccupied with restoring the public finances?

07.25 A jubilant John Prescott tweets:

Twitter: John Prescott - The Lib Dems have less than 3000 councillors for the
first time ever. Welcome to #ArmaCleggon

07.21 Tom Chivers looks at Baroness Warsi's controversial decision to link the
rising fortunes of UKIP with the decine of the BNP. It's based on some wonky
maths, he suggests.

07.16 Bradford Council is under no overall control following the gains by
Respect of five of the 12 seats it contested.

Labour increased its councillors from 43 to 45.

But a dawn street party is underway after Respect toppled Ian Greenwood, the
Labour council leader and a councillor for 17 years.

He said he thought the key to Respect's success was Mr Galloway coming to the
city and energising a mass of youngsters.

"He's made promises that I hope that he can keep but I doubt that he can," he
said.

Mr Greenwood said he feared Mr Galloway's energisation would not last and
Bradford would be left with a "generation of disenfranchised and alienated young
people".

The City has voted against having an elected Mayor.

Mr Galloway told the PA: "We took the head off the rotten fish that is the
Bradford City Council.

"We defeated a council leader who sat there, apparently impregnable and utterly
complacent, for a decade and a half or more.

He said Respect offered voters a "viable alternative to the tweedledee,
tweedledum, tweedledee-and-a-half politics that the three mainstream leaderships
are offering them".

Mr Galloway said: "I think that the Labour Party in Bradford will be taken into
special measures by the Labour national headquarters."

07.05 A recap of tonight's results.

With 97 of 181 councils declared, the Labour Party has made sweeping gains. It
has won 49 councils, a gain of 21. It has seen 1087 councillors elected, a gain
of 457.

Labour are on track to gain more than 700 seats - ahead of the Tories' private
briefings of around 500.

The Conservatives have lost 11 councils and held 26, and lost 274 councillors,
taking them to 548.

The Liberal Democrats have lost control of one council and lost 127 councillors,
with 212 elected.

Turnout is projected to be around 32 per cent, the lowest since 2000.

07.00 Cllr Vivien Pengelly, outgoing Conservative leader of Plymouth City
Council, has chastised David Cameron.

"David Cameron will be knowing in the next week or so exactly how I feel," she
said, citing the "Jeremy Hunt fiasco".

She said Cameron must listen to how the deficit reduction is "affecting very
vulnerable people, especially here in the south west."

06.50 Labour is on course for a strong performance in Wales, where all bar one
of the nation's 22 councils have been put to the poll.

Labour will have outright control of six councils, up two.

Welsh Labour leader Carwyn Jones said: "The momentum is clearly with Welsh
Labour tonight. We are taking seats from every party across the country - with
impressive gains in Wrexham, Caerphilly, Newport and a total Lib Dem wipe out in
Merthyr. We have reconnected with people and our community campaigning has
resonated with voters right across Wales."

The Lib Dems who lost a number of seats in Cardiff, Wales' biggest council.

The biggest drama of the night was at the Cardiff Central count in Pentwyn -
where Lib Dem council leader Rodney Berman appeared to be desperately trying to
cling on to his seat.

A second recount of the Plasnewydd ward, where Mr Berman stands, is due to take
place this afternoon - with sources telling the Press Assocation there were
"around a dozen votes in it".

A Tory party spokesman said it "may not be an easy night in parts of the
country" - after it lost its majority on Monmouthshire and the Vale of
Glamorgan.

Plaid Cymru described its fortunes as mixed bag, with some areas "being
difficult" and others being "easier".

06.45 A Labour source has told the Press Association: : "These are strong
results for Labour. A clear win on national share of the vote - best local
election result for Labour since 1997. Taking councils no-one expected us to -
Great Yarmouth and Dudley. Winning councils in the South - Southampton and
Plymouth. Winning in areas as where there are currently no Labour MPs - Harlow
and Thurrock."

05.28 The Bradford Spring rolls on: George Galloway's Respect Party has won the
seat of Ian Greenwood, the Labour leader of Bradford Council.

The party has taken four other seats on the council.

Councillor Ian Greenwood lost his Little Horton seat after three re-counts to
Respect's Alyas Karmani.

03.45 The Government's proposals for elected Mayors have been rejected in
Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry, and it looks likely the idea will be
rejected in Birmingham as well.

But in Liverpool the city has elected Joe Anderson, Labour, to be its first
elected Mayor. It brings £130m extra government funding to the City. He took 57
per cent of the vote.

Boris of the Mersey: Joe Anderson, Labour, is elected Mayor of Liverpool

The results are embarrassing for the Prime Minister, who had thrown his weight
firmly behind the changes in a series of speeches and interviews.

Mr Cameron had attempted to use the example of London Mayor Boris Johnson,
saying he wanted a "Boris in every city".

Housing Minister Grant Shapps defended the mayoral referendums, telling Sky
News: "People should have the right to decide how they are governed in their
local area."

He added: "The whole point is to give people a say. No-one is forcing mayors on
anyone."

Updated: Here's the full results from Liverpool's Mayoral contest. Note the
Tories trailling in seventh. The BNP and NF candidates were arrested earlier
this week; the former over allegations of fraudulent signatures on the ballot,
the latter for a public order offence. Joe Anderson (Lab) 58,448 (59.33%) Liam
Fogarty (Ind) 8,292 (8.42%) Richard Kemp (LD) 6,238 (6.33%) John Coyne (Green)
5,175 (5.25%) Tony Mulhearn (TUSC) 4,792 (4.86%) Steve Radford (Lib) 4,442
(4.51%) Tony Caldeira (C) 4,425 (4.49%) Adam Heatherington (UKIP) 2,352 (2.39%)
Paul Rimmer (Eng Dem) 1,400 (1.42%) Jeff Berman (Liverpool Ind) 1,362 (1.38%)
Mike Whitby (BNP) 1,015 (1.03%) Peter Tierney (NF) 566 (0.57%) Electorate
319,758; Turnout 98,507 (30.81%)

03.05 Labour has celebrated a rout of its rivals in Birmingham, winning overall
control and ousting the Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition which has ruled the city
since 2004. The comfortable victory, which became clear well before results had
been declared in all the 40 seats being contested, saw Labour's share of the
vote increase to around 51%.

02.55 Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claims the election was
"always going to be a difficult one" for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

"Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up," she said.

"We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening."

02.50 Liberal Democrat foreign minister Jeremy Browne pointed to his party's
success in holding Cheltenham and remaining the largest party in Cambridge, even
though the authority slipped to no overall control.

He told Sky News: "I have some sort of encouragement for the Lib Dems.

"I'm not saying it's easy for us - it's tough being in government in midterm,
making difficult decisions to get the country on its feet again.

"But where we have the longest track record, where we have been running councils
or a dominant force on councils we have been remarkably resilient, we've held up
very well."

02.40 The Liberal Democrats have lost overall control of Cambridge - a
stronghold for more than a decade.

02.15 Police have been forced to break up a late night election fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat. There were no arrests.

01.54 Nottingham has rejected the idea of an elected mayor by 57.5 per cent to
42.5 per cent, on a turnout of just 24 per cent.

Nottingham City Council's Labour Leader, Jon Collins, said: "This was a
referendum imposed on us by the Coalition Government which the majority of local
people clearly did not agree with. I am pleased with this outcome because an
elected mayor would have been expensive and unnecessary."

01.47 The Tories have won the council ward of Chertsey South and Rowtown of
Runnymede Borough Council by drawing lots after the candidates were found to be
tied after three recounts.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

01.25 Cameron has lost seats in his own backyard of West Oxfordshire with Labour
making gains in Chipping Norton, Witney Central and Witney East. The Tories
retain control of the council.

01.14 Eric Pickles says Labour's gains are to be expected. "When a party is rock
bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to rain on Labour's
parade."

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: "It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

"But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this."

00.45 Tory chairman Baroness Warsi has caused outraged by linking the rise of
UKIP to the decline of the BNP.

Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her "a bitch".

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: "Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact."

She added: "There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates."

Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a "bitch" to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his "unparliamentary language".

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: "Deleted,
out of order on my part".

He later added: "Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise."

00.25 Labour has made gains in Basildon, Great Yarmouth and Southampton, while
the Liberal Democrats face losses in Sunderland, Lincolnshire and Manchester. It
is rumoured Galloway's Respect party has defeated the Labour leader of Bradford
council, Ian Greenwood.

00.05 Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the results of the local
elections and vote for Mayor of London, which took place yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Labour returns to the South on terrible night for the coalition;
Miliband hails return of 'trust' as Lib Dems lose seat to a penguin. Jill
Sherman reports

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 705 words


Labour announced its return to the South yesterday by grabbing a string of
councils in Tory heartlands, all vital to building up an activist base for the
next general election.

Ed Miliband declared that Labour was "winning back people's trust" after his
party gained 32 councils and almost 823 seats at the expense of both the
coalition partners.

The Liberal Democrats suffered a punishing drubbing - similar to last year - by
losing nearly half of their council seats. In Edinburgh a Lib Dem candidate
suffered the humiliation of being beaten by a penguin.

The Conservatives fared considerably worse than in 2011, losing 12 councils and
around 405 seats - one in three councillors - provoking a damaging backlash
within the party.

By early yesterday Labour had made key advances in the South, taking
Southampton, Plymouth, Reading, Thurrock, Norwich, Great Yarmouth, Redditch and
Harlow from the Tories. In many of these areas they have lost parliamentary
seats and need to build up a stronger support before 2015.

As the day progressed they took control of Carlisle, a key Tory marginal, and a
number of councils in the Midlands and North including Dudley, Sefton, Burnley
and North East Lincs. Its greatest prize was Birmingham, where it banished the
Tory-Lib Dem coalition that has led England's biggest council for eight years.

Labour was projected to take 38 per cent of the vote (up 3 per cent on last
year), the Tories 31 per cent (down 4 per cent) and the Lib Dems were expected
to stay on 16 per cent. But Mr Miliband, who visited Birmingham and then
Worcester, where the party tried but failed to take control, insisted that there
was much more ground to cover.

"We are a party winning back the people's trust, regaining ground, but there is
more work to be done," said Mr Miliband, who was later hit by an egg during a
walkabout in Southampton. "For the parents worried about their son or daughter
who can't find a job, for the people who are seeing their living standards
squeezed ... Labour is back on your side."

But the election results in some areas were less than convincing, with turnouts
of less than 8 per cent in a few wards. Overall, the turnout was estimated at 32
per cent, the lowest since 2000. Lib Dem councillors once again vented their
anger at Nick Clegg, blaming him for another terrible night and the loss of
nearly 336 councillors. Although the party had picked up signs of support on the
doorstep this did not translate into votes. The party lost hundreds of seats in
northern cities to Labour, where Mr Clegg did so badly last year, and some to
the Tories further south. Lib Dem councillor numbers also fell below 3,000, the
lowest for two decades, threatening the party's fightback in 2015.

In Edinburgh, Mike Ferrigan, an independent who dressed as a penguin got 444
votes, beating the Lib Dem and Green candidates in his council ward. But the Lib
Dems did manage to hang on to six of their seven English councils.

In Cambridge, where they lost four seats to Labour, they now rely on a
traditional mayoral casting vote.

Paul Dixon, a councillor in Sunderland who lost his seat to Labour, blamed Nick
Clegg for his party's battering on Thursday night. "It's definitely all down to
the national issues and it's a shame people have not voted on the local issues,"
he said. "Nick Clegg should take a real hard look at what they are doing."

Lord Oakeshott, the Lib Dem peer, said the party could not afford to keep losing
councillors. "For me what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a
nationwide, powerful independent force. If we have another year like this, we
won't be able to," he said.

David Cameron had a worse night than the pollsters predicted. The Prime Minister
even faced embarrassment in his Witney constuency, where council seats were lost
to Labour. The Tories lost six of their councils to Labour, predominantly those
in the South, and a further five to no overall control - Worcester, Hart,
Southend on Sea, Gloucester, and Wyre Forest. It did however gain Winchester
from no overall control.

UKIP enjoyed its best-ever local election night, averaging 13 per cent of the
vote where candidates were standing, mainly at the expense of Conservatives -
but gained no council seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Election day, election night

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5,6,7

LENGTH: 326 words


May 3, 7.00am

Polling stations across England, Scotland and Wales open

8.30-9.00am

The party leaders and their partners are photographed heading to cast their
votes

10.30am

YouGov's national voting intention poll puts Labour ten points ahead of the
Tories, with the Lib Dems level with UKIP on 8 per cent of the vote

10.00pm

The polls close and counting begins

May 4, 12.25am

Early Labour gains in Basildon, Great Yarmouth and Southampton give the first
firm evidence of a good night for Labour

12.45am

Baroness Warsi, co-chairman of the Conservative party, controversially links the
rise of UKIP to the demise of the BNP

1.54am

Nottingham is the first city to reject an elected mayor by 57.5 per cent to 42.5
per cent, with a turnout of only 24 per cent

2.50am

The Lib Dems lose control of Cambridge, a stronghold for more than ten years

2.15am

Brian Spencer, the Lib Dem council leader in St Helen's who lost his seat,
allegedly has a confrontation with Mark Johnson, a Labour candidate

May 4, 3.05am

Labour wrests overall control of Birmingham from its coalition rivals. The city
later rejects the idea of an elected mayor

5.28am

George Galloway's "Bradford Spring" continues, as Respect ousts Ian Greenwood,
the Labour council leader

7.00am

Vivien Pengelly, outgoing Tory leader in Plymouth, says: "David Cameron will be
knowing in the next week or so ... how I feel." She cites the "Jeremy Hunt
fiasco"

8.40am

Nick Clegg expresses his sadness at the Lib Dem losses across the country Noon
Professor Pongoo, an independent dressed as a penguin, beats a Lib Dem in
Edinburgh

10.15am

David Cameron apologises to the Conservative councillors who have lost their
seats 1.00pm The Evening Standard front page reads "Boris heads for victory" in
London

5.00pm

An egg lands on Ed Miliband's shoulder. A special adviser removes his jacket.
Glasgow remains Labour

6.10pm

BBC reports that the battle for Mayor of London is going to the wire. Sources
say that Jenny Jones will defeat Brian Paddick

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Left waiting in the dark and ready to flee the country

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 462 words


Everyone kept saying that Boris HAD to win. "If he doesn't, we all have to leave
the country," said one journalist and I don't think he was kidding. Every media
outlet was predicting a Boris win - "Boris Heads for Victory" shouted the
Evening Standard by mid-afternoon - and so, surely, reality would just have to
agree.

The Boris camp insisted it was going to be "very tight", which actually in
candidate-speak is code for "Yippee! We've won". The Ken camp seemed to be
genuinely downbeat. The rumour was that even Coco, Ken's golden labrador who has
been the runaway star of the campaign, thought he had lost. The word went out:
"Coco is sad."

At City Hall, aka the Glass Testicle, inside the window-walled ninth floor that
is called the Living Room, we were dying for information. Our only link with the
voters was a giant bar chart where the blue Boris line did indeed seem to be a
fraction longer than the red Ken line. But just a fraction! Surely there was
still a chance? No one knew anything for sure. That is always how it is when you
are at the centre of events: there is a total void of actual information. But,
then, we watched as the blue and red lines seemed to get closer. Tony Travers,
the experts' expert on London votes, confirmed they were. But, we noted, Labour
think they've lost. Coco, if not Ken, was already crying. "Labour think they've
lost but that is not the same as losing," said Tony cryptically. The journalists
exchanged frightened expressions.

Outside, on the rather scary circular balcony that surrounds the building, the
lower echelon of candidates were freezing to death as they talked to TV cameras.
The Independent candidate Siobhan Benita, the second star of the campaign after
Coco, was actually shivering. "This is the best thing that I have ever done,"
she announced, teeth clattering, hands shaking as they tried to grip a cup of
(cold) coffee.

The bumptious Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, was on the phone, talking about
someone who was on bail. "Not a candidate!" he insisted though, frankly, with
UKIP anything is possible. Their London candidate failed to even run under the
UKIP banner: instead, the ballot listed him as "Fresh Choice for London", which
sounds like a brand of milk.

About 5pm, it became clear that it would go to second- preference votes. Who,
everyone wondered, would someone who put Lib Dem Brian Paddick as their first
choice, be likely to put as their second choice? The very fact that anyone put
Brian as their first choice was amazing. After all, in Edinburgh, a Lib Dem
candidate had polled fewer votes than a man dressed as a penguin called Pongoo.
Now that's wild. It just goes to show, anything is possible. Boris and Ken
should count themselves lucky that there were no penguins on the ballot here.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ken Livingstone heads to City Hall to await the results of the London
mayoral election last night. The outcome was closer than many analysts had
predicted
DAN KITWOOD / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Labour thrive on bad day for Tories;
Cameron under pressure to swing to the Right Labour thrive on a bad day for the
Tories

BYLINE: Roland Watson, Anushka Asthana; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 662 words


Boris Johnson was set to salvage Conservative pride last night by claiming a
second term as Mayor of London after David Cameron suffered his worst night at
the polls since becoming Tory leader.

Mr Johnson's aides pre-empted the official result, saying that he had "defied
the natural laws of politics" and seen off Ken Livingstone, although with a
rather narrower margin than expected.

But his anticipated victory was the only bright spot in a sobering set of local
election results for the Tories that triggered demands for Mr Cameron to drop
coalition priorities and swing to the Right.

Ed Miliband claimed that the Labour Party was back after winning more than 800
seats, taking control of 32 councils, including in the South of England, and
holding off the SNP to retain control of Glasgow. Other results included:

The Liberal Democrats lost more than 300 seats, leaving them with fewer than
3,000 councillors for the first time in their history;

The Tories lost more than 400 seats and 12 councils;

Labour polled 38 per cent of the vote with the Tories on 31 per cent and the
Liberal Democrats on 16 per cent;

UKIP polled 13 per cent, but failed to make any gains.

Mr Johnson's performance amounted to a huge personal endorsement, with Labour
polling well ahead of the Tories in the capital and making significant gains on
the Greater London Authority.

The Prime Minister suffered another rebuff when eight English cities rejected
his idea of directly elected mayors. Bristol was the only city to vote "yes" in
the referendums that were a key part of the Government's drive for economic
growth in the regions. Mr Cameron and Nick Clegg apologised to the hundreds of
their councillors who lost their seats on a night when turnout, at 32 per cent,
was the lowest for 12 years.

The Prime Minister said that the results would not deflect him from continuing
to take tough decisions over cutting the deficit, adding that he was doing the
right thing for the country.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said the Government had a year to start
showing voters that the pain of austerity was working or risk losing them for
good. "We've got to start delivering the light at the end of the tunnel over the
next year or so as the economy slowly starts to improve," he added.

But the Tories' poor showing triggered a co-ordinated backlash from MPs who
called on Mr Cameron to ditch issues such as House of Lords reform and gay
marriage and call the Lib Dems' bluff by pursuing a more Conservative agenda.

David Davis and John Redwood emerged as the leaders of an alternative Queen's
Speech to be published on Monday and designed to pressure Mr Cameron into
changing course.

Mr Redwood said: "What the public are saying is they are heartily sick of the
gloom and lack of growth and they are not sure of the remedies on show."

He called for tax cuts for businesses, cheaper energy and water bills and a
renewed focus on bank lending.

Gerald Howarth, the Defence Minister, became the most senior voice in government
to call for change, saying: "We've got to be much more small c and big c
Conservative on crime, law and order, some of our traditional policies.

That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed gagging to see."

Stewart Jackson, a former ministerial aide, said: "David Cameron is on notice
that he does need to raise his game. He needs to concentrate on bread and butter
issues like jobs and mortgages and develop a clear route map to growth and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique."

Eleanor Laing, a senior Tory backbencher, said of Mr Cameron: "I hope he will
listen to the grassroots of the Conservative party - the real people of Britain
- rather than the intellectual urban elite who seem to surround him."

Bernard Jenkin, chairman of the Public Administration Select Committee, said
voters wanted the Government to concentrate on the economy "rather than drifting
off" onto subjects such as Lords reform.

'We've got to start delivering the light at the end of the tunnel'

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour returns to the South on terrible night for the coalition;
Miliband hails return of 'trust' as Lib Dems lose seat to a penguin. Jill
Sherman reports

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 965 words


Labour announced its return to the South yesterday by grabbing a string of
councils in Tory heartlands, all vital to building up an activist base for the
next general election.

Ed Miliband declared that Labour was "winning back people's trust" after his
party gained 32 councils and almost 823 seats at the expense of both the
coalition partners.

The Liberal Democrats suffered a punishing drubbing - similar to last year - by
losing nearly half of their council seats. In Edinburgh a Lib Dem candidate
suffered the humiliation of being beaten by a penguin.

The Conservatives fared considerably worse than in 2011, losing 12 councils and
around 405 seats - one in three councillors - provoking a damaging backlash
within the party.

By early yesterday Labour had made key advances in the South, taking
Southampton, Plymouth, Reading, Thurrock, Norwich, Great Yarmouth, Redditch and
Harlow from the Tories. In many of these areas they have lost parliamentary
seats and need to build up a stronger support before 2015.

As the day progressed they took control of Carlisle, a key Tory marginal, and a
number of councils in the Midlands and North including Dudley, Sefton, Burnley
and North East Lincs. Its greatest prize was Birmingham, where it banished the
Tory-Lib Dem coalition that has led England's biggest council for eight years.

Labour was projected to take 38 per cent of the vote (up 3 per cent on last
year), the Tories 31 per cent (down 4 per cent) and the Lib Dems were expected
to stay on 16 per cent. But Mr Miliband, who visited Birmingham and then
Worcester, where the party tried but failed to take control, insisted that there
was much more ground to cover.

"We are a party winning back the people's trust, regaining ground, but there is
more work to be done," said Mr Miliband, who was later hit by an egg during a
walkabout in Southampton. "For the parents worried about their son or daughter
who can't find a job, for the people who are seeing their living standards
squeezed ... Labour is back on your side."

But the election results in some areas were less than convincing, with turnouts
of less than 8 per cent in a few wards. Overall, the turnout was estimated at 32
per cent, the lowest since 2000.

Lib Dem councillors once again vented their anger at Nick Clegg, blaming him for
another terrible night and the loss of nearly 336 councillors. Although the
party had picked up signs of support on the doorstep this did not translate into
votes. The party lost hundreds of seats in northern cities to Labour, where Mr
Clegg did so badly last year, and some to the Tories further south. Lib Dem
councillor numbers also fell below 3,000, the lowest for two decades,
threatening the party's fightback in 2015.

In Edinburgh, Mike Ferrigan, an independent who dressed as a penguin got 444
votes, beating the Lib Dem and Green candidates in his council ward. But the Lib
Dems did manage to hang on to six of their seven English councils.

In Cambridge, where they lost four seats to Labour, they now rely on a
traditional mayoral casting vote.

Paul Dixon, a councillor in Sunderland who lost his seat to Labour, blamed Nick
Clegg for his party's battering on Thursday night. "It's definitely all down to
the national issues and it's a shame people have not voted on the local issues,"
he said. "Nick Clegg should take a real hard look at what they are doing."

Lord Oakeshott, the Lib Dem peer, said the party could not afford to keep losing
councillors. "For me what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a
nationwide, powerful independent force. If we have another year like this, we
won't be able to," he said.

David Cameron had a worse night than the pollsters predicted. The Prime Minister
even faced embarrassment in his Witney constuency, where council seats were lost
to Labour. The Tories lost six of their councils to Labour, predominantly those
in the South, and a further five to no overall control - Worcester, Hart,
Southend on Sea, Gloucester, and Wyre Forest. It did however gain Winchester
from no overall control.

UKIP enjoyed its best-ever local election night, averaging 13 per cent of the
vote where candidates were standing, mainly at the expense of Conservatives -
but gained no council seats.

LABOUR GAINS

a Ealing & Hillingdon

b Barnet & Camden

Council swings

LABOUR GAINS

1 Birmingham from NOC

2 Blaenau Gwent from Ind

3 Bridgend from NOC

4 Burnley from NOC

5 Caerphilly from NOC

6 Cannock Chase from NOC

7 Cardiff from NOC

8 Carlisle from NOC

9 Chorley from NOC

10 Derby from NOC

11 Dudley from Con

12 Exeter from NOC

13 Glasgow from NOC

14 Great Yarmouth from Con

15 Harlow from Con

16 Merthyr Tydfil from Ind

17 Newcastle under Lyme from NOC

18 Newport from NOC

19 NE Lincolnshire from NOC

20 Norwich from NOC

21 Nuneaton & Bedworth from NOC

22 Plymouth from Con

23 Reading from NOC

24 Redditch from Con

25 Renfrewshire from NOC

26 Rossendale from NOC

27 Sefton from NOC

28 Southampton from Con

29 Swansea from NOC

30 Thurrock from NOC

31 Torfaen from NOC

32 West Dunbartonshire from NOC

33 Wirral from NOC

CONSERVATIVE GAINS

34 Winchester from NOC

NO OVERALL CONTROL

35 Cambridge from Lib Dem

36 Gloucester from Con

37 Gwynedd from PC

38 Hart from Con

39 Midlothian from Lab

40 Monmouthshire from Con

41 Vale of Glamorgan from Con

42 Wyre Forest from Con

SNP GAINS

43 Angus from NOC

44 Dundee from NOC

Vote 2012 The results London Assembly Key Conservative Labour Lib Dem Shetlands
Islands Orkney Independent No overall control Not voting SNP b 1 6 4 8 9 10 19
39 43 44 25 32 21 26 27 33 17 13 11 35 42 24 37 21 local elections WALES 10 (+8)
Lab 2 (-1) Ind 9 (-5) NOC COUNCILLORS 128 local elections ENGLAND 42 (-11) Con
61 (+22) Lab 6 (-2) LD 19 (-9) Noc 32 local elections SCOTLAND 2 (+2) SNP 4 (+2)
Lab 3 (-) Ind 23 (-4) NOC Lab 2,158 823 Con 1,005 -405 Lib Dem 431 -336 SNP 424
57 Others 843 -173

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour thrive on bad day for Tories;
Cameron under pressure to swing to the Right Labour thrive on a bad day for the
Tories

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Anushka Asthana; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 645 words


Boris Johnson was set to salvage Conservative pride last night by claiming a
second term as Mayor of London after David Cameron suffered his worst night at
the polls since becoming Tory leader.

Mr Johnson's aides pre-empted the official result, saying he had "defied the
natural laws of politics" and seen off Ken Livingstone, although with a narrower
margin than expected.

But his anticipated victory was the only bright spot in a sobering set of local
election results for the Tories that triggered demands for Mr Cameron to drop
coalition priorities and swing to the Right. Ed Miliband claimed that Labour was
back after winning more than 800 seats, taking control of 32 councils, including
in the South of England, and holding off the SNP to retain control of Glasgow.
Other results included:

The Liberal Democrats lost more than 300 seats, leaving them with fewer than
3,000 councillors for the first time in their history;

The Tories lost more than 400 seats and 12 councils;

Labour polled 38 per cent of the vote with the Tories on 31 per cent and the Lib
Dems on 16 per cent;

UKIP polled 13 per cent, but failed to make any gains.

Mr Johnson's performance was a huge personal endorsement, with Labour polling
well ahead of the Tories in the capital and making significant gains on the
Greater London Authority.

The Prime Minister suffered another rebuff when eight English cities rejected
his idea of directly elected mayors.

Bristol was the only city to vote "yes" in the referendums that were a key part
of the Government's drive for economic growth in the regions. Mr Cameron and
Nick Clegg apologised to the hundreds of their councillors who lost their seats
on a night when turnout, at 32 per cent, was the lowest for 12 years.

The Prime Minister said that the results would not deflect him from continuing
to take tough decisions over cutting the deficit, adding that he was doing the
right thing for the country.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said the Government had a year to start
showing voters that the pain of austerity was working or risk losing them for
good. "We've got to start delivering the light at the end of the tunnel over the
next year or so as the economy slowly starts to improve," he added.

But the Tories' poor showing triggered a co-ordinated backlash from MPs who
called on Mr Cameron to ditch issues such as House of Lords reform and gay
marriage and call the Lib Dems' bluff by pursuing a more Conservative agenda.

David Davis and John Redwood emerged as the leaders of an alternative Queen's
Speech to be published on Monday and designed to pressure Mr Cameron into
changing course.

Mr Redwood said: "What the public are saying is they are heartily sick of the
gloom and lack of growth and they are not sure of the remedies on show."

He called for tax cuts for businesses, cheaper energy and water bills and a
renewed focus on bank lending.

Gerald Howarth, the Defence Minister, became the most senior voice in government
to call for change, saying: "We've got to be much more small c and big c
Conservative on crime, law and order, some of our traditional policies.That's
what our supporters are waiting, indeed gagging to see."

Stewart Jackson, a former ministerial aide, said: "David Cameron is on notice
that he does need to raise his game. He needs to concentrate on bread and butter
issues like jobs and mortgages and develop a clear route map to growth and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique."

Eleanor Laing, a senior Tory backbencher, said of Mr Cameron: "I hope he will
listen to the grassroots of the Conservative party - the real people of Britain
- rather than the intellectual urban elite who seem to surround him."

Bernard Jenkin, chairman of the Public Administration Select Committee, said
voters wanted the Government to concentrate on the economy "rather than drifting
off" onto subjects such as Lords reform.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Boris wins, Tories lose;
We're back, says Miliband as Labour vote soars Cameron under fire as the
coalition is humbled Labour revival as Boris wins, Tories lose

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 896 words


Boris Johnson salvaged some Conservative pride last night by clinching a second
term as Mayor of London after David Cameron suffered his worst night at the
polls since becoming Tory leader.

Mr Johnson overcame eleventh-hour jitters to see off Ken Livingstone by a
narrower than expected 51.5 per cent to 48.5 per cent margin in a result delayed
by two missing ballot boxes. Brian Paddick, the Liberal Democrat candidate, was
pushed into fourth place by Jenny Jones of the Greens.

Mr Johnson said that he was ready to use the next four years to "fight for a
good deal for Londoners" from central government, setting up potential
battlelines with Downing Street and the Treasury. His victory was the only
bright spot in a sobering set of election results for the Tories that triggered
demands for Mr Cameron to drop coalition priorities and swing to the right. Mr
Livingstone said that "this is the defeat I most regret", adding: "This is my
last election."

Ed Miliband claimed that Labour was back after winning more than 800 seats,
taking control of 32 councils including in the South of England and holding off
the SNP to retain control of Glasgow. Other results included:

The Liberal Democrats lost more than 300 seats, leaving them with fewer than
3,000 councillors for the first time in their history;

The Tories lost more than 400 seats and 12 councils;

Labour polled 38 per cent of the vote with the Tories on 31 per cent and the Lib
Dems on 16 per cent;

UKIP polled 13 per cent, but failed to make any gains.

Mr Johnson's performance was a huge personal endorsement, with Labour polling
well ahead of the Tories in the capital and making significant gains on the
Greater London Authority .

The Prime Minister suffered another rebuff when eight English cities rejected
his idea of directly-elected mayors. Bristol was the only city to vote "yes" in
the referendums that were a key part of the Government's drive for economic
growth in the regions.

Mr Cameron and Nick Clegg apologised to the hundreds of their councillors who
lost their seats on a night when turnout, at 32 per cent, was the lowest for 12
years.

The Prime Minister said that the results would not deflect him from continuing
to take tough decisions over cutting the deficit, adding that he was doing the
right thing for the country.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said that the Government had a year to
start showing voters that the pain of austerity was working or risk losing them
for good.

"We've got to start delivering the light at the end of the tunnel over the next
year or so as the economy slowly starts to improve," he added.

But the Tories' poor showing triggered a co-ordinated backlash from MPs who
called on Mr Cameron to ditch issues such as House of Lords reform and gay
marriage and call the Lib Dems' bluff by pursuing a more Conservative agenda.

David Davis and John Redwood emerged as the prime movers behind an alternative
Queen's Speech to be published on Monday and designed to pressure Mr Cameron
into changing course. Mr Redwood said: "What the public are saying is they are
heartily sick of the gloom and lack of growth and they are not sure of the
remedies on show." He called for tax cuts for businesses, cheaper energy and
water bills and a renewed focus on bank lending.

Gerald Howarth, the Defence Minister, became the most senior voice in government
to call for change, saying: "We've got to be much more small c and big c
Conservative on crime, law and order, some of our traditional policies.

That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed gagging to see."

Stewart Jackson, a former ministerial aide, said: "David Cameron is on notice
that he does need to raise his game. He needs to concentrate on bread and butter
issues like jobs and mortgages and develop a clear route map to growth and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique."

Eleanor Laing, a senior Tory backbencher, said of Mr Cameron: "I hope he will
listen to the grassroots of the Conservative party, the real people of Britain,
rather than the intellectual urban elite who seem to surround him."

Bernard Jenkin, chairman of the Public Administration Select Committee, said
that voters wanted the Government to concentrate on the economy "rather than
drifting off" on to subjects such as Lords reform.

Downing Street had been expecting Tory malcontents to try to overshadow next
Tuesday's joint appearance by Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg when the pair will renew
their coaltion vows.

A group of about 30 Tory MPs have been biting their lips until polling day and
are determined to use the aftermath to attempt to force Mr Cameron to change his
priorities.

Signs of a government exit strategy over the potential quagmire of Lords reform
- the Queen's Speech on Wednesday is expected to commit Downing Street to put
the measure before Parliament rather than forcing it through - has emboldened
rebels on all sides.

Liberal Democrat opponents of an elected upper House attacked the proposals
yesterday. Lord Lee of Trafford called on Mr Clegg to pull back, saying: "This
rickety coalition platform provides absolutely no consensual authority for an
unwanted elected House of Lords with Tory MP after Tory MP telling Mr Cameron to
drop it."

John Pugh, the Lib Dem MP for Southport, warned Mr Clegg that voters would not
understand if the Government got "bogged down" in a constitutional issue in
which they had little interest.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson's victory early today was the only bright spot in a
sobering day for the Tories
BEN CAWTHRA / LNP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Mayor passes a test of character to pose more problems for Tory high command

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 672 words


One election expert described Boris Johnson's victory in biblical terms. "He is
now seen as not only capable of walking on water, but walking on stormy water,"
said Tony Travers, of the LSE.

Just how had this überTory won over Londoners on a day when Labour swept to
power in councils up and down Britain? Ed Miliband's celebrations stretched from
Plymouth to Glasgow. In the capital, his party secured a strong win in the
Greater London Authority elections.

Yet when it came to the fiercest battle of all, for the coveted position of
Mayor of London, the Conservatives prevailed, however narrowly.

Most agreed that this was nothing to do with David Cameron and his party at
Westminster, but with the power of Brand Boris. Mr Travers said that polling
throughout the campaign had repeatedly picked up on Mr Johnson's charisma.

"On the dinner party test - who would you like to invite - he is way above other
politicians, including David Cameron," he said.

That Mr Johnson won on a dark day for his party makes him a "potentially serious
and awkward threat for the Conservative leadership", he added.

Outwardly Mr Cameron will praise his London Mayor. But he will not have missed
the chatter within his party. By yesterday, talk of Mr Johnson as a possible
Tory leader had spilled on to the pages of national newspapers.

"I think Cameron has a nightmare on his hands," muttered one Tory MP. "Boris has
shown that he is a winner on a centre-right platform, reaching voters that
others cannot."

He warned against the Prime Minister taking the Mayor's hand and claiming the
victory as an endorsement of himself or the Conservative party. "This is a Boris
Johnson victory," he added.

And a Ken Livingstone loss. "Ken found himself out of time - a politician for a
different era," argued Mr Travers. "He is from an age of ideology in an era
without any." Even had he won, he would have underperformed his party. Labour
ought to have walked it in London, according to wider polls.

Yet party sources were conceding defeat by lunchtime yesterday and stayed
subdued as rumours of a tight race buzzed through City Hall.

The Labour team comforted itself by insisting that the party battle for London
was not to do with the mayoral race between two political titans but was
reflected in the elections for the GLA. There Labour did well, taking at least
two seats off the Tories.

Some voters spurned the Ken and Boris show, turning to the Greens, the Lib Dems,
or Siobhan Benita, the independent who began as a total unknown. Lynton Crosby,
Mr Johnson's campaign manager, admitted that his candidate's character had
helped to secure a Labour city. "He is a Conservative and people know that, but
Boris reaches out to people regardless of the party they support."

That helps to explain the many socalled "Labour-gap" voters who backed Labour in
2010 but Mr Johnson now. But would they back him for Prime Minister? Polling
suggests not.

For their part, Mr Johnson's team played down talk of a leadership bid. Instead
they insisted that he was committed to four more years in London and would start
delivering on almost 300 manifesto promises today. Top of the list: cutting the
mayoral precept of council tax by 10 per cent.

Nick de Bois, the Tory MP for Enfield North, said there had been less of a
protest vote in the capital. "The difference is that the voters in London were
faced with having to choose someone to run one of the biggest cities in the
world - that focuses the mind."

He suggested that voters across the country had signalled that they were
"disappointed but not angry" with the Government. "It is not too late to change
that view," he said.

He called on the Prime Minister to focus on the economy and to tackle
frustrations such as the Human Rights Act, border control and immigration. "My
message would be to worry less about Lords reform and gay marriage."

As a Tory post-mortem begins, voices such as his will surely boom loudly in
Westminster. Others say the party must not swing right, but broaden its base.
Another battle is under way, it seems.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: London Mayor results First round 44.01% Con 40.3% Lab 1.3% BNP 4.48%
Green 1.96% UKIP 3.8% Ind 4.16% LibDem Boris Johnson Ken Livingstone Jenny Jones
Brian Paddick Siobhan Benita Lawrence Webb Carlos Cortiglia Second round Boris
Johnson Ken Livingstone 48.47% Lab 51.53% Con

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Labour returns to South of England

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 395 words


Labour announced its return to the South of England yesterday by grabbing a
string of councils in Tory heartlands, all vital to building up an activist base
for the next general election.

Ed Miliband declared that Labour was "winning back people's trust" after his
party gained 32 councils and almost 823 seats at the expense of both the
coalition partners.

The Liberal Democrats suffered a punishing drubbing - similar to last year - by
losing nearly half of their council seats. The Conservatives fared considerably
worse than in 2011, losing 12 councils and around 405 seats - one in three
councillors - provoking a damaging backlash within the party.

By early yesterday Labour had made key advances in the South, taking
Southampton, Plymouth, Reading, Thurrock, Norwich, Great Yarmouth, Redditch and
Harlow from the Tories. In many of these areas they have lost parliamentary
seats and need to build up a stronger support before 2015.

As the day progressed they took control of Carlisle, a key Tory marginal, and a
number of councils in the Midlands and North including Dudley, Sefton, Burnley
and North East Lincs. Its greatest prize was Birmingham, where it banished the
Tory-Lib Dem coalition that has led England's biggest council for eight years.

Labour was projected to take 38 per cent of the vote (up 3 per cent on last
year), the Tories 31 per cent (down 4 per cent) and the Lib Dems were expected
to stay on 16 per cent. But Mr Miliband insisted that there was much more ground
to cover. "We are a party winning back the people's trust, regaining ground, but
there is more work to be done," said Mr Miliband, who was hit by an egg during a
walkabout in Southampton.

But the election results in some areas were less than convincing, with turnouts
of less than 8 per cent in a few wards. Overall, the turnout was estimated at 32
per cent, the lowest since 2000.

Lib Dem councillors once again vented their anger at Nick Clegg, blaming him for
the loss of nearly 336 councillors.

The party lost hundreds of seats in northern cities to Labour, where Mr Clegg
did so badly last year, and some to the Tories farther south. Lib Dem councillor
numbers fell below 3,000, the lowest for two decades.

UKIP had its best-ever local election night, averaging 13 per cent of the vote
where candidates were standing, mainly at the expense of Conservatives - but
gained no council seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Election day, election night

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 144 words


May 3, 7.00am Polling stations across England, Scotland and Wales open
8.30-9.00am The party leaders and their partners are photographed heading to
cast their votes 10.30am YouGov's national voting intention poll puts Labour ten
points ahead of the Tories, with the Lib Dems level with UKIP on 8 per cent of
the vote 10.00pm The polls close and counting begins May 4, 10.15am David
Cameron apologises to the Conservative councillors who have lost their seats
Noon Professor Pongoo, an independent dressed as a penguin, beats a Lib Dem in
Edinburgh 1.00pm The Evening Standard front page reads "Boris heads for victory"
in London 5.00pm An egg lands on Ed Miliband's shoulder. A special adviser
removes his jacket. Glasgow remains Labour 6.10pm BBC reports that the battle
for Mayor of London is going to the wire. Sources say that Jenny Jones will
defeat Brian Paddick

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

BLOODY NOSE FOR HIS PARTY...BUT LONDON MAYOR GRABS KEN'S VOTES

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 650 words


BORIS Johnson is tonight set to defy political gravity by defeating Ken
Livingstone, taking the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative
council seats.

The London mayor appeared confident of seeing off the Labour challenge in the
capital, with a final poll suggesting he had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory would have scooped up the support of
one in every ten Labour voters.

YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per cent win. The final
results are expected to be announced this evening. Victory for Mr Johnson will
lift Tory hearts after a turbulent month for the Government which has seen its
national poll ratings slump. It also puts him in pole position to succeed David
Cameron as party leader.

However, last night Tory strategists warned that turnout in parts of the capital
appeared alarmingly low.

They had feared that with every recent poll putting Mr Johnson ahead, some
supporters had concluded the result was a foregone conclusion and were not
turning out to vote.

Lynton Crosby, Mr Johnson's campaign director, said: The poll leads have led
some to think that Boris has won, and this is not the case.'

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Nick Clegg are planning a Coalition
renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters its
third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding the
two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle. Tories tipped for promotion
include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability Minister Maria Miller and
Employment Minister Chris Grayling.

Health Secretary Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following
controversy over NHS reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below 3,000
for the first time since 1986, but Lib Dem strategists are praying the recent
collapse in Tory poll ratings will stop a full-scale haemorrhage.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 400 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives. The UK Independence Party also looked to be heading for
its first seats in the assembly, with the poll predicting it could secure two.

YouGov president Peter Kellner said: The difference between the Mayor and
assembly results is striking: a large swing to Labour since 2008 in voting for
the assembly, but no swing in the vote for Mayor.

The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us they
were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hunt never declared £7,500 donations;
Labour set to gain most seats

BYLINE: Tim Ross; James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 508 words


JEREMY HUNT has admitted that he failed to declare thousands of pounds' worth of
donations from companies in sectors for which he has ministerial responsibility.

The Culture Secretary's office initially denied that Mr Hunt had attended a
series of networking events paid for by firms in the creative industries. These
included M&C Saatchi, the advertising agency; the Groucho Club, which is
fashionable with media figures; and DDB UK, a communications and advertising
firm.

Last night the minister's spokesman confirmed he had been present at three
meetings, worth a total of £7,472.31, prompting calls for an official "sleaze"
inquiry.

Mr Hunt's spokesman said he would be updating the Commons register of members'
interests.

Steve McCabe, a Labour MP, called for an investigation into the disclosures
because of concerns that there could be a conflict of interest.

Mr Hunt is already facing demands to resign after it emerged that Adam Smith,
his former special adviser, had engaged in extended contact with News
Corporation when the minister was responsible for adjudicating the company's bid
to take over BSkyB.

There may be more buoyant news for the Conservatives, however, as it appeared
last night that Boris Johnson was on course to win a second term as London
mayor. But the party was braced for heavy losses in council elections in the
rest of the country.

Mr Johnson was given a sixpoint lead over Ken Livingstone, his Labour rival, in
the latest poll published yesterday. Labour was hoping to exploit a 10-point
lead over the Conservatives in national opinion polls, with 43 per cent of the
vote. The Lib Dems were level with the UK Independence Party on eight per cent,
according to the YouGov/Sun survey.

The London mayoralty is central to the Conservatives' strategy and senior Tories
admit that defeat would be "a disaster" for David Cameron's hopes of winning a
majority at the next general election in 2015.

Last night, party strategists appeared confident that the "Boris effect" would
work to their advantage, allowing Mr Johnson's personal popularity to outweigh
the difficulties that have hit the Conservatives' national poll ratings in
recent weeks.

Mr Cameron and Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, were early visitors to polling
stations in London yesterday, accompanied by their wives Samantha and Justine.
Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, cast his ballot in Sheffield.

Polls were held for almost 5,000 council seats in 181 councils in England,
Scotland and Wales. Conservatives and Liberal Democrats were expecting bad news
when the results are declared today.

Tory officials privately expect the party to lose 400 council seats, while the
Lib Dems are resigned to losing up to 300 councillors.

Election experts have said that Mr Miliband should expect to win 700 seats, but
party officials insist a more "realistic" expectation would be to gain 350.

Fraser Nelson: Page 28

Telegraph

For the latest election results and the best online coverage throughout the day
go to telegraph.co.uk/news

MATT 'I don't even want the party I voted for to win'

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David and Samantha Cameron, Boris Johnson and Ed and Justine Miliband
cast their votes in the elections for the London mayoralty. A poll last night
suggested that Mr Johnson would beat Ken Livingstone, his Labour rival
DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Surge for Labour as voters turn on Coalition;
Large swings to Labour in local elections show we are being punished for our
failures, seniors Tories concede

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words


LABOUR claimed a "significant breakthrough" in local elections early this
morning as voters punished the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats for a series
of setbacks in recent months.

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted the Conservatives were braced for a "bad night"
of heavy defeats, with the only bright spot for the party expected to be the
re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of London.

Early poll results suggested large swings to Labour in wards across England.

Ed Miliband's aides hailed victory in Harlow, Essex, and Great Yarmouth, where
Labour won control of councils from the Conservatives, as a "significant
breakthrough" and evidence that "people who used to vote Labour are returning".

The Tories lost several seats in West Oxfordshire to Labour, including Chipping
Norton, Witney Central and Witney East - in the Prime Minister's own
constituency.

However, they retained control of the council. The early results will prompt
calls for David Cameron to reshuffle his ministerial team and add to pressure on
the Prime Minister and his deputy, Nick Clegg, to outline a compelling programme
for Government in the Queen's Speech next week. Some Conservative activists
began questioning whether the popular Mr Johnson could one day be a more
successful leader than Mr Cameron.

Almost 5,000 seats are being contested at 181 councils in England, Wales and
Scotland. Election experts predicted that Labour was "within sight" of gaining
up to 700 council seats once all the results are known.

With results confirmed for 43 councils shortly before 2am, the emerging picture
showed:

The Conservatives had control of 12 councils, and lost control of six. There
were 211 Tory councillors, a loss of 115 seats overall.

Conservatives lost control of councils including Hart, Worcester and Wyre Forest
to no overall control.

Labour had control of 24 councils, up six from 2008, with a total of 381
councillors, an increase of 165. Labour gained power over Great Yarmouth and
Harlow councils from the Conservatives, and Nuneaton and Bedworth, and Exeter
from no overall control.

The Liberal Democrats controlled one council, with 59 councillors elected across
the country, a loss of 46 since the last elections in 2008.

The UK independence party  had gained two seats, while the BNP had lost one.
Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, said the victory in Harlow was "a very
signifi- cant result" for the party.

Labour sources were also con- fident that the party was on course to take
control of Birmingham.

Sadiq Khan, the shadow justice secretary, one of Mr Miliband's closest
colleagues, said: "It has been a good night for Labour because people concerned
about some of the decisions made by the Coalition Government are punishing
them."

In an intervention that will add to pressure on the Prime Minister, Gary
Streeter, the Conservative MP for Devon South West, suggested that the Tories
were suffering because the Government was not being "Conservative enough".

Elections are also taking place for mayors in London, Liverpool and Salford and
referendums on the introduction of elected mayors in 10 other cities. Voter
turnout was low.

Mr Johnson, who was on course to be re-elected Mayor of London, was looking like
the only significant crumb of comfort for the Tories, as senior figures
suggested the party could lose up to 450 council seats. Baroness Warsi, the
cochairman of the Conservative Party said it would be "a tough night".

"It's going to be a bad night  for the Conservatives," she told the BBC as the
first results came in.

She also appeared to suggest that early signs of growing popularity for the UK
Independence Party could be linked to a surge in support from voters who had
previously supported the BNP.

Michael Fallon, the Conservatives' deputy chairman, admitted that voters were
punishing the Conservatives for a series of failures in recent weeks by the
Coalition Government.

However, he dismissed suggestions that Mr Johnson  would make a better party
leader and Prime Minister than David Cameron.

Labour sources were confident that the party would have a "strong" performance
in areas of the country that currently have no Labour MPs.

Appearing on the BBC's Newsnight programme, before any results had been
announced, Mr Fallon accepted that the Conservatives were facing a tough outcome
and had suffered from a series of setbacks since the Budget in March.

"Obviously we have got to look at the results and learn from the results," he
said. "Obviously the last month has not been good."

Mr Fallon acknowledged that there was disquiet among Conservative activists, who
want the party to focus on the Coalition's achievements, such as new limits on
immigration and welfare spending, rather than "the little rows over pasties".

Opinion polls suggested that Mr Johnson should retain control of City Hall and
defeat Labour's Ken Livingstone, although the final result will not be known
until this evening.

Lib Dems are resigned to losing up to 300 councillors when all results are in.
However, Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' deputy leader, said he would not
"read any great implications for the Coalition".

Mr Cameron and Mr Miliband were early visitors to polling stations in London
yesterday, accompanied by their wives Samantha and Justine. Nick Clegg, the Lib
Dem leader, cast his ballot in Sheffield.

Meanwhile, in a further blow for the Tories, Jeremy Hunt has admitted that he
failed to declare thousands of pounds' worth of donations from companies in
sectors for which he has ministerial  responsibility.

The Culture Secretary's office initially denied that Mr Hunt had attended a
series of networking events paid for by firms in the creative industries.

But last night the minister's spokesman confirmed he had been present at three
meetings, worth a total of £7,472.311, prompting calls for an official "sleaze"
inquiry.

Mr Hunt's spokesman said he would be updating the Commons register of members'
interests to provide an accurate record.

Fraser Nelson: Page 28

Telegraph.co.uk

For the latest election results and the best online coverage throughout the day
go to telegraph.co.uk/news

MATT 'I don't even want the party I voted for to win'

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Johnson on course in London

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 126 words


BORIS JOHNSON was on course to win a second term as London Mayor last night but
the Conservatives were braced for heavy losses in council elections across the
rest of the country.

Mr Johnson was given a 6-point lead over Ken Livingstone, his Labour rival, in
the latest poll.

However, Labour was hoping to exploit a 10-point lead over the Conservatives in
the national opinion polls, with 43 per cent of the vote.

The Liberal Democrats were level with the UK Independence Party on 8 per cent,
according to the YouGov/Sun survey.

Polls were held for almost 5,000 council seats in 181 councils in England,
Scotland and Wales. Conservatives and Liberal Democrats were expecting bad news
when the results are declared during the course of today.

Fraser Nelson: Page 29

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU PLOT TO SCRAP BRITAIN;
Europe's shady Berlin Group wants to wipe us off the map ; EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words


SENIOR Eurocrats are secretly plotting to create a super-powerful EU president
to realise their dream of abolishing Britain and other nation states, the Daily
Express can reveal.

A covert group of EU foreign ministers has drawn up plans for merging the jobs
currently done by Herman Van Rompuy, president of the European Council, and Jose
Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission.

The new bureaucrat, who would not be directly elected by voters, is set to get
sweeping control over the entire EU and force member countries into evergreater
political and economic union. Tellingly, the UK has been excluded from the
confidential discussions within the shady "Berlin Group" of Europhile
politicians, spearheaded by German foreign minister Guido Westerwelle.

Opponents fear the plan could create a modernday equivalent of the European
emperor envisaged by Napoleon Bonaparte or a return to the Holy Roman Empire of
Charlemagne that dominated Europe in the Dark Ages. They are concerned that
David Cameron's coalition Government is doing nothing to prevent the sinister
plot. The secret talks were uncovered by Independent Labour peer Lord Stoddart
of Swindon. "This is a plot by people who want to abolish nation states and
create a United States of Europe," he said. "The whole thing is barmy. These
people are determined to achieve their final objective. "The only hope for
Britain is to leave the EU and become an independent nation." The move will give
further momentum to the Daily Express's hugely popular crusade for Britain's
withdrawal from the EU. Tory backbench MP Douglas Carswell said: "It doesn't
matter how you arrange the offices of these technocrats, they are useless at
arranging our lives for us and they are not elected so they have no legitimacy.
"My worry is that the president will end up having the charisma of Van Rompuy
and the economic management skills of Barroso."

Euro-MP Paul Nuttall, of the UK Independence Party, said: "This is a truly
ridiculous idea that must never be allowed to happen. It sounds as if they are
trying to go back to the days of the Holy Roman Emperor." At present, the two
senior EU bureaucrats, Mr Barroso and Mr Van Rompuy, are locked in a bitter
power struggle to determine who is the true big cheese or "grand fromage" in
Europe. Former Portuguese premier Mr Barroso, who heads the EU's executive arm
and was elected to his post by members of the European Union, is understood to
resent the rival fiefdom of Belgian Mr Van Rompuy, who was chosen by the heads
of government of EU member states to represent them. Under the plan, a single
figure would be elected by Euro-MPs to perform both roles. Supporters of the
move believe that the rival presidencies are undermining the EU's ability to
speak with a single voice.

They argue that merging the two jobs will create a powerful European leader who
is capable of pursuing the federalist dream of a united Europe which has been
severely shaken by the eurozone crisis. Lord Stoddart confirmed the existence of
the plot thanks to a parliamentary written answer in the House of Lords. He
asked Foreign Office ministers to reveal what they knew about the merger talks.
In response to his inquiry, Tory Foreign Office minister Lord Howell of
Guildford said: "We are aware of one group of EU foreign ministers Bitter
meeting on an informal basis to discuss a variety of issues related to the
future governance of the EU. "While the UK is not part of that group, we
understand that one idea under discussion is a merger of the positions of
president of the European Council and president of the European Commission."
Lord Howell added: "A merger of the two presidencies would create a potential
conflict of interest, undermine the quality of the EU's decision- making
processes and upset the institutional balance within the EU." Lord Stoddart
said: "These sorts of informal discussions within the EU have a habit of rapidly
being transferred into formal proposals. "Since the Government is not party to
these discussions, its reservations are academic. "Such a merger would represent
a massive shift of power into the hands of a single, unelected bureaucrat. The
Government should be taking this far more seriously and voicing its objections
very strongly." He added: "The holder of this new office would be both Europe's
political and administrative leader, giving them far more powers than those
given to the US president. "It really is a great disappointment that we have a
Conservativeled Government that is supposed to be Eurosceptic yet ministers just
go along with this." OPINION: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 300 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sam Cam puts gloom behind her

BYLINE: Elisa Roche

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 294 words


HER top half might have been thoroughly Conservative. But there was nothing
understated about Samantha Cameron's bright orange trousers as she set off to
vote yesterday.

The Prime Minister's wife positively shone on a grey day in her zesty £19.19
trews.

The purse-friendly Zara ankle-skimmers perfectly showcased Mrs Cameron's pert
posterior.

She matched the weather with a grey jumper, also from the Spanish high street
chain.

And so the Camerons put on a united front stepping out hand-in-hand to vote in
the mayoral and council elections.

They were all smiles as they arrived at the Methodist Central Hall polling
station in Westminster.

That was yesterday. Today, David Cameron and Nick Clegg were digesting early
details of an expected battering for the Coalition parties in the local
elections.

Turnout was reported to be low at the ballots as widespread rain kept many
voters away from polling stations.

Senior Tories and Lib Dems had conceded that their parties would be suffering a
"difficult night" in a backlash following recent blunders over the Budget and
the threatened national fuel strike.

Most results were expected today after many councils delayed counting votes
until this morning.

Conservative officials expected their party to lose hundreds of town hall seats
in a bruising backlash from voters following the Government's recent plunge in
popularity.

The UK Independence Party, with around 700 candidates, was also hoping to
overtake the Lib Dems in its share of the national vote.

But the Tory gloom was tempered by expectations that Tory London Mayor Boris
Johnson will triumph over his Labour rival Ken Livingstone.

An eve-of-poll survey suggested that Mr Johnson - who gave a thumbs-up sign -
was set for victory by a margin of 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Local election results - live coverage

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 9530 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for live coverage of the local election results 2012 as they
come in, and the reaction from all the political parties

FULL TEXT

9.00pm: In the Guardian today Joris Luyendijk, the Dutch anthropologist who has
been travelling around Britain to find out what people think about the local
elections, says that"if elections are the main ritual by which a nation imagines
itself politically, then the UK last week felt comatose". He's probably got a
point, and already there are stories predicting an unusually low turnout. But
regular readers will know that we hold it as an article of faith here that
there's no such thing as a boring election. People have been voting all over
Britain, in council elections in England, Scotland and Wales, in elections for
the mayor and the assembly in London, in mayoral elections in Liverpool and
Salford and in other 11 referendums where people will either be voting on
whether their city should have a mayor or, in Doncaster, where they will be
voting to abolish the mayoral post. Over the next 24 hours we'll be getting the
results. No one's going to be comatose in this office.

My colleague Paul Owen has been covering all today's events on a live blog. You
can read his early evening summary here.In London a YouGov poll shows Boris
Johnson ahead of Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% and in Glasgow some SNP figures
are predicting that they will snatch Glasgow from Labour.

But London and Scotland aren't counting tonight. We're going to have to wait for
those results until tomorrow. I'll be writing blogging here until 6am, and I'll
be covering the results in England and Wales.

Here are some timings.

10pm: Polls close.

10.35pm: Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, is among the panellists on
Question Time. We'll see if she's sounding optimistic.

11.35pm: The BBC's election programme, Vote 2012, starts. David Dimbleby (of
course) is presenting.

12pm: Sky's election programme gets going. The first results should start
trickling in.

1am: By now more than a dozen English councils should have declared, and the
first Welsh results should be in.

Around 3am: The BBC should have enough results to be able to produce a projected
national share of the vote. This involves taking results from representative
wards and using those figures to work out what the results would have been if
there had been local elections in every ward in the country. It's the figure
that will dominate the headlines tomorrrow.

Around 5am: Liverpool's mayoral result is expected.

As you can see, it's going to take a while before we start getting some proper
results. But, if you want to read up on the elections in the meantime, here is
some heavyweight briefing.

[#xfffd] The 5-page House of Commons Library note on the elections (pdf).

[#xfffd] A 55-page slideshow briefing from the Political Studies Association,
covering the elections in England, Scotland and Wales (pdf).

[#xfffd] A briefing from the Local Government Information Unit identifying 50
key councils to watch.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

9.39pm: My colleague Helen Pidd is in Bradford, where it sounds as if the
election has turned ugly. She's just sent me this.

Things are getting testy in Bradford, where George Galloway's Respect party is
challenging the political establishment in 12 out of the 30 wards up for grabs.
Salma Yaqoob, leader of Respect, has just tweeted that her brother's car was
attacked by "Labour supporters" in the city this afternoon.

I have just spoken to her brother, Farrukh Haroon, who has been helping the
Respect campaign. The 36-year-old says he was outside the Iqra school polling
station in the Manningham area of the city - a ward Respect is confident of
winning from Labour - when the alleged attack happened.

Haroon says he and his cousin had been driving up and down the Drummond Road
with a megaphone, shouting Respect slogans "and saying stuff about Labour's
support for the war" when they attracted the attention of some Labour supporters
outside the primary school. He claims that they "attacked" the car, yanking off
a wing mirror and pulling the keys from the ignition, snapping them into three
pieces. Two children in the back of Haroon's car were "terrified", he says, and
one was so frightened he jumped out of the car and tried to run away.

Helen is trying to get more information.

10.00pm: The polls have just closed. From all that we've heard about the
turnout, it sounds as if we won't be having a repeat of 2010, when, as the clock
struck 10, people in Sheffield and elsewhere were still queuing to get in at
some polling stations.

10.03pm: Sky News are showing an election package. They've just said that to be
doing well, Labour need to win more than 700 seats.

You've probably heard the 700 figure already. It comes from Colin Rallings and
Michael Thrasher, the Plymouth University local elections experts who have
virtually cornered the market in local election psephology. They say that Labour
would need to win about 700 seats to show that the lead that they enjoy over the
Conservatives in the national opinion polls (9 points, according to the very
latest YouGov figures) is real.

But in their briefing for the Political Studies Association (pdf), Rallings and
Thrasher say two things could stop Labour reaching the 700 target.

First, the Tories could benefit from the Lib Dem collapse in the south as a
result of tactical voting unwinding. Under this scenario, the Lib Dems could
lose 350 seats, and the Tories just 250, they suggest.

Second, the Lib Dems could do better than expected. Under this scenario, the the
Tories could lose 350 seats, and the Lib Dems just 250, the experts suggest.

Both these scenarios would see Labour gaining only around 600 seats, not 700.

10.21pm:At the Guardian's local government network blog, people have been
sending in tweets and pictures from polling booths and counts around the
country.

10.25pm: Labour sources are saying the party is on course for a "strong
performance". They are confident of progress in key areas in the Midlands and
the south of England, and particularly in places like Harlow and Reading where
they need to win if they want to beat the Tories in 2015, they say.

This is what the Local Government Information Unit (LGiU) is saying about
Reading in its list of 50 key councils to watch.

Labour run a minority administration and will hope to strengthen their position
by making the 4 gains they need for an outright majority. They will need to
watch out for the Greens who are also targetting gains.

And this is what the LGiU says about Harlow.

Another of the few areas in the East of England where Labour is competitive, the
Conservatives currently hold the council with a vulnerable 1 seat majority.

10.35pm: Cardiff is the biggest council that the Lib Dems are defending in the
UK. My colleague Steven Morris is there, and he's send me this from Splott.

Labour candidates and workers are sounding chipper as they wait for the votes to
be counted at the Splott leisure centre and library. Splott and the surrounding
neighbourhoods is a traditional working-class kind of area - tight terrace
houses not far from the docks.

Chris Lomax, who is standing in nearby Grangetown believes Labour can take all
three seats in the ward from the Liberal Democrats, who have been running
Cardiff council.

"I think the voters are disenchanted with the Lib Dems," he said. "They have
been talking about local issues, the cleanliness of the streets, cuts to
services, not the national picture."

Lomax says he has not seen evidence of the Lib Dems campaigning hard on the
streets. "They seem to have given up." Aged 69, Lomax is an interesting
character. He worked as a baker for 40 years, then re-trained and became a
procurement officer in the NHS. He retired but "got bored" and decided to stand
as a councillor. He believes by the end of the night his party may be in control
of the Welsh capital.

Morgan Hart, an agent for Lib Dem candidate Liz Musa in Butetown, is also
impressed with the work Labour has put in. "They've been employing the dark
arts, getting people to the polling stations in taxis, calling in favours. I
think they are going to do well."

Gavin Cox, who has been a Lib Dem councillor in the Splott ward for eight years,
says from what he has seen turnout has been no better than four years ago -
which he hopes could be good news for him if it means Labour has not got its
vote out. "But it's hard to know whether people will vote on local issues or on
Westminster ones," he says. Party volunteer Tom insists the Lib Dems have fought
hard here and across Cardiff. Will the party still be in power by morning? "It's
a possibility," he says.

10.46pm: This is interesting. It's from Paul Richards, a Labour activist and
former special adviser.

Seems likely Birmingham has voted no to an elected Mayor. A shame.

- Paul Richards (@Labourpaul) May 3, 2012

Birmingham was one of the cities that was expected to actually vote yes to
having an elected mayor. Most of the 10 cities voting are expected to vote no.

10.50pm:Ed Davey, the Lib Dem energy secretary, has found a nice way of spinning
tonight's expected Lib Dem losses.

We've been waiting for mid-term blues for 90 years.

He's making the point that losing seats is an inevitable part of being in
government.

That's true, but it does not tell the whole story. Tory support has gone down
since 2010. But Lib Dem support has collapsed. In 2010 they have 24% of the GB
vote. Tonight's YouGov poll puts them on 9% - the same as Ukip.

10.57pm: Turnout could be one of the stories of the night. LostinFife sent me
this on Twitter.

@AndrewSparrow volunteers at #Fife polling station say it's worst turnout: 31%
in my district, 24% in the other. Only 1 station of course

- Maren(@LostinFife) May 3, 2012

For the record, here are the turnout figures for the last equivalent set of
elections.

London mayoral elections in 2008 - 44.6%English locals in 2008 - 34.9%Welsh
locals in 2008 - 43.7%Scottish locals in 2007 - 52.8%

The fall in turnout is likely to be particularly steep in Scotland, but that's
because the last local elections in Scotland coincided with elections to the
Scottish parliament. But in 2007 the use of different voting systems in the two
Scottish elections - the locals and the Scottish parliament ones - caused
confusion and so the local elections were postponed until 2012 (they should have
been last year) to avoid the same problem recurring. But it means that these
will be the first Scottish local elections for 17 years that do not coincide
with parliamentary elections of one kind or another. This is bound to depress
turnout.

11.10pm: Earlier I mentioned the Rallings and Thrasher suggestion that Labour
should be able to gain 700 seats. (See 10.03pm.)Tom Watson, Labour's vice chair,
has used Twitter to dismiss this.

Tory spin that we have to win 1000 seats in England and Wales is ridiculous.
There's only 3600 seats. 450 in Wales in England is top notch.

- tom_watson (@tom_watson) May 3, 2012

I presume he means that winning 450 seats in Wales and England would be "top
notch".

Not to be outdone, the Tories are now saying Labour need to win 800 seats to be
doing well. Here's an extract from the briefing they've sent out.

The Conservative Party are currently at a high watermark in terms of seats,
defending almost half of those up for election in England. The last time these
seats were fought, Labour polled 24 per cent. It was when Gordon Brown was at
his most unpopular and the Conservatives were riding high in the polls. Labour
are now polling in the low-to-mid forties so they should be making big gains.

This election is a test for Ed Miliband's leadership. Independent experts say
that Labour should gain around 800 seats in these mid-term local elections. Tom
Watson's attempt to spin that Labour would only gain 350 seats was always
fanciful and has been thoroughly discredited. Even the Labour supporting Mirror
suggests that in the current political climate the party should expect to make
around 1,000 gains for it to be considered a good result. Many in the Labour
Party have said that they must win London and Glasgow.

The Liberal Democrats tend to do better in local elections than their poll
rating would suggest.

11.15pm: More from the expectation management battlefront.

The Tories tell me that even if they do as well as they did in the 2010 general
election, they will still lose 200 seats and five councils. (Of course, you
could point out that they didn't actually win the 2010 general election.)

And Labour point out that in 2008, when Labour lost 435 seats in local
elections, Eric Pickles said: "The ship of state is heading towards the rocks."
But recently Pickles said the Tories could lose up to 450 seats.

11.25pm: Some results are starting to trickle in. These tweets are from ITV's
Gerry Foley.

#le2012 1st Lab gain in Sunderland from Con .. In Washington S by 1802 to 757 ..

#le2012 UKIP out poll Tories in Sunderland Redhill ward by 388 to 125

#le12 5 th tory loss in Sunderland as st chads goes to labour ... Just in Tories
lose 6 th sear

This is from Phil Maylor.

Wow. Early indications are that there will be no Lib Dem councillors left in
Salford after tonight. #LE2012

This is from Adnad Rashid.

@thegreenparty may have won a beach head victory in #Dudley. Their candidate
looks very pleased. #LE2012

11.32pm: The Lib Dems have also been briefing. Their version of expectation
management involves telling journalists that they are going to get thrashed.
Here's an extract from the note that they have sent out.

In the early days of the general election and the coalition, it's easy to forget
that even though we increased our vote share [in 2010], we actually lost a
number of councillors that night too, and we lost MPs. There are areas we have
suffered successive losses, and with that, you lose activists and your lose
infrastructure. We're fighting back from low ebb.

Wales. We are standing 25% fewer candidates. Labour have been saying publicly
they will take back Cardiff, Wrexham, Swansea and Newport. Anything less than
that will be a failure.

Scotland. Again, we are fielding 25% fewer candidates than we did in 2007 (246
this year, 331 in 2007). We are competing in 27 out of 32 council areas (28 in
2007) - This time round we have no candidates in Falkirk, Shetland, Orkney, West
Dunbartonshire and Western Isles.

We had a very bad night last year, and are expecting losses this year.

11.34pm:Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has just told
Sky that it will be "an extremely difficult night" for the government.

11.38pm: And here's more on turnout.

From the LGiU's Andy Sawford

26.1% turnout in key Labour target of Lincoln has been confirmed #le12

a quick take on turnout so far, we've got about 6 councils in - we are looking
at around 30%, a bit down on last year #le12 #lgiu

From Neil Whitton on Twitter

@AndrewSparrow Just finished working a polling station in Oxford. Turnout around
14%.

11.41pm: According to the Tories, Labour downplaying their chances in Lincoln.

This is what the LGiU said about Lincoln in its list of 50 key councils.

The political balance in Lincoln is on a knife edge between Labour and
Conservatives. The outcome this time has extra significance as this is now a top
parliamentary marginal.

And the Tories also say Ukip are doing well in Bury.

11.47pm: Labour have held Sunderland.

11.48pm:The Tory MEP Daniel Hannan is writing an election night live blog for
the Telegraph.Welcome to the club, Dan ...

11.51pm: My colleague Alexandra Topping is at the count in Liverpool. She's sent
me this.

Lots of hustle and bustle in the hanger-like Liverpool tennis centre on the
outskirts of the city where the count to discover who will be Liverpool's first
elected mayor is well under way.

Early indications show no surprises, with Joe Anderson, the Labour candidate and
current leader of the council expected to win by what may be a landslide.

11.53pm:Here's our live results dashboard.

11.55pm: Labour have won a seat in Basildon from the Tories. In the Pitsea ward,
Labour won 932 votes, the Tories 564, Ukip 323 - and the Lib Dems just 97.

12.15pm: Here's a summary

[#xfffd] Labour are predicting a "strong performance" as the first results of
the 2012 local elections start to come in. It is too early yet to make any firm
predictions because so few results are in, but the Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats are both doing their best to downplay expectations. "Liberal Democrats
don't have traditional heartlands," the Lib Dems says. "Even councils where we
are in control, we are often only in control by a margin of one or two. It won't
take many losses for us to lose control of the council." The Tories already seem
to have written off the chances of the Tory/Lib Dem coalition holding Birmingham
and they are trying to persuade journalists that Ed Miliband will be doing badly
if he wins fewer than 800 seats.[#xfffd] Turnout seems to be low all over the
UK.

[#xfffd] Ukip and the Greens have done well in certain ward where the results
have already come in.

[#xfffd] There are suggestions that Birmingham has voted against having an
elected mayor. This would be a serious blow to the government, because
Birmingham was one of the 10 cities voting for elected mayors where ministers
were reasonably confident of securing a yes.

[#xfffd] Labour have already gained 18 seats. With the results from four
councils in, here's the state of play.

Councils

Labour: 3Conservatives: 1

Seats

Labour: 61 - up 18Conservatives: 11 - down 7Lib Dems: 1 - down 7Independents: 7
- down 4

12.22am: More from Helen Pidd in Bradford. It sounds as if she's reporting from
a war zone, not an election.

The Bradford elections turned ugly in the final hours of campaigning, with
police receiving reports of harassment, intimidation and violence from all
sides.

The Liberal Democrat MP for Bradford South, David Ward, has made a formal
complaint to police after allegedly being "harassed and intimidated" by
campaigners for George Galloway's Respect party. Jeanette Sunderland, the leader
of Bradford Lib Dems, has also given a statement to police claiming to have been
assaulted by Respect supporters while out canvassing on Wednesday night.

Sunderland said: "It's the sort of behaviour we fought against from the British
National Party. We got rid of them and we'll get rid of these thugs too."

A spokesman for Respect denied the allegations and said the party would be
making its own police complaint. "Jeanette Sunderland assaulted our guy, not the
other way around. We have three videos of the incident which we are happy to
share with police to prove it," said Ron McKay, adding: "This is a complete
waste of police time. It's absolutely typical Lib Dem practice in byelections,
totally unscrupulous. We will have to join the queue to waste police time."

12.25am: Labour have gained a council. They've taken Harlow from the Tories. It
probably wasn't very difficult - the Tories only had a majority of one - but Ed
Miliband desperately needs to show that he can win seats in the south.

12.28am: According to Tory HQ, Labour will take control of Southampton. Labour
only need to win six seats to win a majority, the Tories say, and they claim
that Labour should expect to win in the city because it's a "Labour heartland" -
although that's not the way most of us think of Hampshire.

The Tories claim that they are actually doing better in the city than they did
last year. They say the Lib Dem vote has collapsed, and that Ukip are on about
8%.

12.35am: Labour are "very confident" of winning Birmingham, according to party
sources.

They are also very chipper about Harlow. (See 12.25am.) Winning there is "a
significant breakthrough", claims a party source. "It's an Essex seat which we
have to win in 2015. This shows people who used to vote Labour are returning."

12.38am: Earlier I quoted Joris Luyendijk's comment about the electorate being
"comatose". (See 9.00pm.) That certainly seems to be the case in some of the
referendums on whether or not to have a mayor. According to the Tories, only
8.4% of people voted in the Arboretum ward in Nottingham in this poll. The
highest turnout in the city was 29%.

12.44am: The BBC have got their first estimate of the equivalent national share
of the vote. Here are the figures they have given:

Conservatives: down 4 points from last yearLabour: up 3 points from last yearLib
Dems: down 2 points from last yearOthers: up 3 points from last year

The BBC did not turn these into actual figures - probably because they are so
provisonal. But I've got the BBC's equivalent national share of the vote figures
for 2011 in front of me, and here are the figures for tonight, based on what the
BBC are saying.

Labour: 39%Conservatives: 31%Lib Dems: 14%

I stress - these are provisional figures. And they are based on my taking the
BBC's up/down figures, and applying them to the 2011 results.

12.56am: For more about what the equivalent national share of the vote actually
means, do read Anthony Wells' election results preview from UK Polling Report.
Here's an extract.

Secondly there are the shares of the vote or, more accurately, the BBC's
projected national share of the vote which is calculated on the night by
Professor John Curtice, based upon numerous "key wards" across the country where
all three of the main parties are standing both this time and last time the ward
was contested, allowing changes in the vote shares to be calculated and built
into a picture of what the shares would be if there were elections across the
whole country. The projection is for the whole country, but it is based only on
local elections in England, not the Scottish and Welsh locals and not the
mayoral or London Assembly elections. In 2011 the BBC figures were CON 35%, LAB
36%, LDEM 16% (these have been revised slightly since the figures released on
the night), in 2010 on general election day they would have been CON 35%, LAB
27%, LDEM 26% - note how the Lib Dems do a bit better and Labour a bit worse
than the general election vote on the same day. People vote differently in local
and general elections.

One problem, though, is that different psephologists calculated the equivalent
national share of the vote in different ways. Colin Rallings and Michael
Thrasher produce their own figure, which tends to be different from the Curtice
one used by the BBC. Page 6 of this House of Commons briefing note (pdf) has all
the Rallings/Thrasher equivalent national share of the vote figures for local
elections going back to 1979.

1.03am: Sir Albert Bore, the Labour leader in Birmingham, has just told the BBC
that Labour will win in the city.

He also said he expected the city to vote against having an elected mayor.

That means Liam Byrne won't be leaving the shadow cabinet. If Birmingham had
voted yes, he would have left the frontbench to seek selection as Labour's
mayoral candidate.

1.05am:Gary Streeter, a Conservative MP, has just told the BBC that the Tories
have lost Plymouth.

This is what the LGiU said about the city.

This is a straight two way fight between the ruling Conservatives (32 seats) and
Labour (25 seats), who are attempting to gain a handful of seats to win control.
This contest is important for both parties to see how they are faring head to
head, with the added spice that Plymouth is home to two parliamentary marginals.

But what was really interesting was what Streeter had to say about it. He said
that voters could understand the Conservative party taking difficult decision,
but people expected them to be "competent". In recent weeks, the government had
not been displaying competence, he said. Many Tory supporters were defecting to
Ukip. And the Lib Dem vote in Plymouth had "just disappeared".

Streeter said that he wanted David Cameron to be "tougher" with the Lib Dems and
to adopt more a more Conservative stance on issues like law and order.

As far as I'm aware, he is the first Tory MP to start blaming the leadership for
what has happened tonight. The public blame game has started ...

1.15am: Here's my colleague Patrick Wintour on Gary Streeter.

Gary Streeter is not a head banger or serially disloyal.Suggests Tories will
facedemands for a europe referendum at least in manifesto

- Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour) May 4, 2012

And here's the BBC's Nick Robinson on Streeter.

First Tory MP to use locals to call for change of party strategy on
#bbcvote2012.Gary Streeter says leadership "is not Conservative enough"

- Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson) May 4, 2012

1.17am: My colleague Steven Morris has sent me this vignette from Cardiff.

A tale of two leaders in Cardiff. The leader of the Labour group on the council,
Heather Joyce, is enjoying strong black coffees with her family, friends and
supporters at Splott's Star leisure centre and library. She is looking relaxed,
laughing and joking and happy to talk.

She says initially the campaign was all about local issues - potholes, social
services, libraries. "Following the budget people started talking about national
issues. The perception was the budget targeted ordinary working class people."

Joyce was taking nothing for granted but said she and her team were ready to
serve if the people of Cardiff voted for them.

The Liberal Democrat leader (and council leader) Rodney Berman is to be found at
the Pentwyn leisure centre a few miles away, where the Cardiff Central votes are
being counted. Berman is much less forthcoming. He is refusing to do media
interviews. Berman could be an early high-profile victim of the night - he is
defending a narrow majority in his Plasnewydd ward.

Shadow Welsh secretary Peter Hain is playing the idea of winning Cardiff down.
He has tweeted that the media do not realise how hard it would be to win here.

Before tonight the Lib Dems were the biggest party on Cardiff council with 34
seats. The Conservatives had 16, Labour 14 and Plaid six.

Turnout in Cardiff Central just in, not too impressive. Ranges from 17.6% in
Cathays to 41.5% in Penylan.

1.20am: Another Tory MP is blaming his party's leadership for tonight's bad
election results. According to reports on Twitter, Martin Vickers, the MP for
Cleethorpes, said the party was "not appealing to aspirational Conservatives".
He also said George Osborne should have used the budget to cut fuel duty, not
the 50p top rate of tax.

1.26am: Here is some more election comment from Twitter.

From the BBC's Nick Sutton

John Curtice says looks like overall turnout will be around 32%. Lowest turnout
in English locals since 2000. #bbcvote2012#vote2012.

- Nick Sutton (@suttonnick) May 4, 2012

Latest from John Curtice: Looks as though it will be UKIP's best performance
other than when locals on same day as Euros. Average 14%.

- Nick Sutton (@suttonnick) May 4, 2012

John Curtice says Tories are losing around one in three of the seats they're
defending. LDs losing around half. #BBCVote2012#vote2012.

- Nick Sutton (@suttonnick) May 4, 2012

From the academic Philip Cowley

I suspect by the end of this election, the Lib Dems will have lost a third of
their councillors in just two years.

- Philip Cowley (@philipjcowley) May 3, 2012

From the academic Stuart Wilks-Heeg

Nick Robinson on the #BBC right to say that the big problem for the #Tories from
#le2012 could be the rise in the #UKIP vote.

- Stuart Wilks-Heeg (@StuartWilksHeeg) May 4, 2012

1.35am: Nottingham has voted against having an elected mayor.

1.36am:Patrick Wintour, the Guardian political editor, has filed an early local
elections story. Here's how it starts.

Nick Clegg was bracing himself for the Liberal Democrats' darkest hour in
coalition on Thursday night as he faced the prospect of seeing the party's once
mighty local government base shrink to its lowest figure for two decades.

Amid fears that the Lib Dems would be left with fewer than 3,000 councillors,
the deputy prime minister was planning to use the next five days for a
succession of media appearances in which he will seek to restate the reasons the
party is in coalition.

1.41am: The Tories have sent out a useful round-up of the results so far. Here
it is.

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON

Harlow: Lab 20 (+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18
(-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC

Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8 (-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS

Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0 (=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6);
LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50 (+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0
(-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8); Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0
(-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1); LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24
(+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58 (+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1
(=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC

Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8 (+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1);
Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1); Oth 0 (-2)CON HOLD

Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con 27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY
CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant: Con 34 (-1); Lab 3
(+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD

Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8 (-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.45am: A Ukip spokesman has called Lady Warsi (pictured), the Conservative
co-chairman, a "bitch" on Twitter after she suggested there was a link between
the rise of the Ukip and the demise of the BNP. The Press Association have filed
a story on it. Here it is.

Ukip are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of
candidates fielded by the eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the
number standing for the BNP - a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her
"a bitch".Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: "Where
Ukip is fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not
this time, I think that will have an impact."She added: "There are members of
Ukip who are from all sorts of political parties, but it is an interesting mix
there in terms of the number of candidates."Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler vented
his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on Twitter, calling her a "bitch" to his
1,700 followers, some of whom criticised his "unparliamentary language".The
spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: "Deleted, out
of order on my part".He later added: "Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise."

1.50am: It's only a matter of time before Labour's Joe Anderson becomes mayor of
Liverpool. My colleague Alexandra Topping has sent me this from the count.

Low turn out confirmed here in Liverpool, with just 31.2% of the electorate
turning out to vote.

That will not be a huge concern to Labour party supporters here, who are in good
spiritis. As well as almost certainly seeing their candidate become the first
elected-mayor of Liverpool, Labour also look set to dominate the city council
after today's local elections and could hold 80% of the council seats after
tomorrow.

The party currently holds 63 of 90 seats, with the Lib Dems on 19, Liberal on
three, Green two, independent two and one standing vacant.

But as the results come in tomorrow further Lib Dem seats are expected to fall.
Paula Keaveney, the local Liberal Democrat leader, could lose her Cressington
seat.

The domination is more surprising than you might think. In 2003, when Anderson
became leader of the party Labour had only 19 seats. The party took the
leadership of the council in 2008, for the first time in 12 years. As one Labour
supporter put it here, "Two years ago the Lib Dems had 46 seats here, now they
could be in single figures."

2.15am: Here's another summary.[#xfffd][#xfffd]Labour are winning handsomely in
local elections in England and Wales. They have already won more than 200 seats,
and seized control of an extra 10 councils, and early BBC figures suggest they
could be on course for winning the equivalent of 39% of the national share of
the vote. The early figures also suggest the Tories are heading for just 31% of
the national share of the vote. Labour are claiming victory in Birimingham, and
they have also won Wirral, Wigan, Chorley, Thurrock and Carlisle. They say they
are on course to win more than 500 seats. "We are exceeding expectations," a
source said. They are particularly pleased that they are winning in areas in the
Midlands and the south which they need to take if they want to win in 2015.

[#xfffd] Conservative MPs have already started blaming the leadership for the
drubbing they are receiving in the elections. Gary Streeter, the MP for Devon
South West, said Cameron should take a tougher stance with the Lib Dems and
pursue more Conservative policies. He also criticised the budget. There were
"three or four things in the budget which have clobbered some of our own
supporters," he said. And he suggested the party should offer voters a
referendum on the EU. Another Tory MP, Martin Vickers, said George Osborne
should have cut fuel duty instead of the 50p top rate of tax.[#xfffd] Nottingham
has voted against having an elected mayor. The city rejected the proposal by
57.5% to 42.5% on a low turnout of just under 24%. It's a blow to Cameron, who
recently devoted a whole speech to making the case for elected mayors.

[#xfffd] Turnout seems to be about 32%. This would be the lowest figure since
2000.[#xfffd] The Tories have lost more than 100 seats. Here's the current state
of play.

Councils

Conservatives: 14 - down 6Labour: 27 - up 10Lib Dem: 2Councillors

Conservatives: 255 - down 129Labour: 473 - up 203Lib Dems: 102 - down 55

2.20am: Labour have taken control of Chorley. They say this is significant,
because in 2006 David Cameron claimed that victory in the town showed the
Conservatives were on the path to power.

2.21am: Labour has taken control of Norwich. It now runs seven councils in the
East of England, the party tells me.

2.23am: Labour have won Plymouth. And the Tories have sent out a "so what?"
briefing. Here's an extract.

This was always going to be a gain for Labour. They would have even won here if
they repeated their poor results of last year. But they shouldn't start
gloating. All Labour have managed to do in Plymouth is reverse the six gains
made by the Conservatives in 2008 - a night when Labour had their lowest result
since records began.

2.25am: Labour have won Reading.

2.28am: Now a minister has urged David Cameron to adopt a more conservative
stance on gay marriage. This is from the BBC's Rebecca Keating.

BBC: Defence Minister Gerald Howarth says PM must consider elex results + Tory
unhappiness on gay marriage, Lords reform etc #bbcvote2012

- Rebecca Keating (@RebeccaKeating) May 4, 2012

2.32am: The BBC's Nick Robinson says there is already evidence that David
Cameron is tacking to the right. He says that the Daily Mail has been briefed
that Cameron has intervened to ensure that a consultation on internet
pornography considers a proposal that would force people to opt in if they want
to have the ability to view pornography.

2.35am:Eric Pickles, the communities secretary, told the BBC that tonight's
results were "entirely predictable".

2.37am: My colleague Nicholas Watt has got an interesting take on the Gerald
Howarth outburst.

Gerald Howarth probably talking out because one of old guard told by PM he would
have 2 years as a minister @RebeccaKeating#bbcvote2012

- Nicholas Watt (@nicholaswatt) May 4, 2012

2.41am: The Conservatives have gained Winchester. It was a council with no
overall control.

2.48am: The BBC have got some revised figures for the equivalent national share
of the vote. Here they are.

Conservatives: down 5 points from last yearLabour: up 2 points from last yearLib
Dems: no changeOthers: up 3 points from last year

These are slightly different from the figures they had earlier, when fewer
results were in. (See 12.44am.)The BBC have not turned these into hard numbers
yet but, using last year's numbers and the up/down figures released just now,
here are the equivalent national share of the vote figures that you end up with.

Labour: 38%Conservatives: 30%Lib Dems: 16%

3.00am: More from Bradford, where Respect are winning seats, but George Galloway
is nowhere to be seen. My colleague Helen Pidd has sent me this.

It's slow going in Bradford, with results at least an hour off yet. George
Galloway may have already claimed victory for two of his 12 candidates (in the
City and Bradford Moor wards), but the actual count has barely begun. He was
basing his claim on rough tallies produced during the verification process, when
the number of ballot papers are counted to ascertain the turnout.

Galloway himself is nowhere to be seen: he claims he is boycotting the count
because the council would not allow his two longtime aides, Rob Hoveman and Ron
McKay to attend. His detractors think he is staying away because he has realised
Respect will not repeat his byelection success, reasoning that he would not shun
an opportunity to hog the limelight.

Respect seem confident of winning at least four seats - in the Manningham and
Heaton wards as well as City and Bradford Moor. And they think Bradfordians will
follow their advice and vote "yes" in the referendum for an elected mayor. But
nothing is confirmed as yet.

3.10am: Labour have taken Birmingham, winning 20 seats from the ruling
Conservative/Lib Dem administration and giving it 77 councillors on the
120-member city council. Labour last had overall control of Birmingham in 2003
and acted as a minority administration until the Tory-Lib Dem partnership was
formed in 2004.

3.12am: The BBC have come out with their first figures for the projected
national share of the vote. They may change as the night goes one. (The figures
I produced earlier where my estimates, based on the hints the BBC were giving.)

Labour: 39% (up 3 from last year's local elections)Conservative: 31% (down 4)Lib
Dems: 16% (no change)Others: 14%

The equivalent national share of the vote is a notional concept, not a real
number. I posted more about this at 12.56pm.

3.22am: The Cardiff results are starting to come in. Steven Morris has sent me
this.

First result from Cardiff Central. Before today Lib Dems held two seats in the
Adamsdown ward. They hung on to one tonight, lost the other. One Tory candidate
managed 53 votes, the second 37.

John Dixon, the Lib Dem who lost his seat, said "national factors" were at play.
But he said Nick Clegg ought to keep working with the Tories and at the time of
the next general election the party would have a record to campaign on. "We will
have reined back the excesses of the Tories. Nick Clegg should keep working with
the Tories, keep on bringing Liberal Democrat policies to the government."

Votes in the city council leader's seat, Lib Dem Rodney Berman, are being
re-counted. Too close to call.

Welsh shadow secretary Peter Hain says Labour is taking seats from the Lib Dems,
Tories and in Plaid Cymru heartlands.

3.23am: Damian Green, the immigration minister, has just told the BBC that,
although Labour are winning seats, "there's no great surge".

3.24am: Manchester has voted no to an elected mayor.

3.31am:Peter Hain, the shadow Welsh secretary, said it was "a cracking night for
Labour in Wales" earlier. He's just posted this on Twitter.

Cardiff Council Liberal Leader loses his seat

- Peter Hain (@PeterHain) May 4, 2012

3.33am: Jeremy Vine, who now does the BBC election number-crunching job once
performed by Peter Snow, says that the swing to Labour is not large enough to
suggest that the Tories will not be able to recover.

3.39am: Coventry has also voted against having a mayor. And, according to Sky,
Bradford seems likely to vote no too.

This is actually a terrible result for David Cameron. Last month he went to
Bristol and gave a whole speech on the subject of why directed elected mayors
were such a good idea. (Mysteriously, I can't find it on the Conservative party
website, but you can read an extract on my blog.)

Opinion polls suggest that people are in favour of mayors. The Institute for
Government did a poll recently, and it showed 38% of the public in favour, and
25% preferring the council leader model. But when the issue gets put to a
referendum, the no side tends to win. There were 42 referendums in towns and
cities yesterday, and 27 of them resulted in a no vote. This briefing note on
the subject from the Political Studies Association (pdf) suggests that
"differential turnout" explains why the actual results don't match the polling.
In other words, those opposed to mayors are more likely to vote than those in
favour.

3.52am: According to the BBC, if people had voted in a general election in the
way that they voted in the local elections, Labour would be in power. The
Commons would look like this:

Labour: 368 MPsConservatives: 218 MPsLib Dems: 39 MPs

4.15am: Here's a middle-of-the-night summary.

[#xfffd][#xfffd]The BBC have given Labour an eight-point lead in the elections.
Using the votes that have already been counted to work out what the result would
have been if people had been voting all over the country, the BBC have said that
Labour's equivalent national share of the vote is 39%. The Tories are on 31% and
the Lib Dems on 16%. These figures may changed as further results come in,
allowing the psephologists to refine their numbers.

[#xfffd] A minister has joined those Tories urging David Cameron to respond to
tonight's electoral tacking to the right. Gerald Howarth, a defence minister,
said Cameron should adopt a more conservative stance on gay marriage. He also
expressed concern about making Lords reform a priority. Bernard Jenkin, the
Conservative chairman of the public administration committee, delivered a
similar message.

[The economy] is the issue the British people want the coalition to address. And
that is the issue also where the coalition is still significantly ahead of the
Labour party in terms of their support and understanding ... There's a very
clear message that we should talk about the economy and the things that matter
to voters, rather than drifting off onto some of the subjects that may be rather
dominating the Queen's Speech ... The coalition is going to look completely out
of touch if we follow through with Lords reform.

[#xfffd] Tories have tried to downplay their losses, claiming that they were
predicatable and that Labour has not made enough progress to make a Tory
recovery impossible. Damian Green, the immigration minister, said Labour's
performance was "good, but not spectacularly good".

[#xfffd] Three cities have now voted against having a directly-elected mayor.
Manchester voted against by a margin of 53.24% to 46.76%, Nottingham by 57.5% to
42.5%, and Coventry by 63.58% to 36.42%. Birmingham is also thought to have
voted against. No city has yet voted in favour.[#xfffd] Joe Anderson has been
elected as mayor of Liverpool.

[#xfffd] Labour have won more than 400 seats. With results in from 92 councils,
here is the state of play.

Councils

Conservatives: 26 - down 9Labour: 48 - up 20Lib Dems: 3 - down 1

Councillors

Conservatives: 510 - down 243Labour: 1,002 - up 428Lib Dems: 188 - down 126Plaid
Cymru: 6 - down 9Green: 15 - up 3BNP: 0 - down 3Ukip: 6

4.32am:Alexandra Topping has sent me this from Liverpool, where Joe Anderson has
been elected mayor.

No surprise from Liverpool as the Labour candidate, and current leader of the
council Joe Anderson, sails to an easy victory taking 57.7% of the vote, with
58,448. Independent candidate Liam Fogarty came in second place with 8292 and
8.19% of the vote, and in third place Liberal Democrat Richard Kemp with 6238,
6.16% of the vote.

4.35am: Here's a summary from the Local Government Information Unit listing some
of the most interesting results.

Elmbridge is a Conservative holdBury is a Labour holdColchester remains
NOCLabour have gained Derby from NOCHartlepool remains LabourHastings remains a
Labour holdHavant is a Conservative holdMaidstone is a Conservative
holdPeterborough remains a Conservative holdLabour have gained Plymouth from the
Conservatives winning 6 seats from the Conservatives and UKIPPreston is a Labour
holdSefton is a Labour gain from NOCSouthampton is a Labour gain St Albans
remains NOCStevenage is a Labour holdStockport remains NOCStratford upon Avon is
a Conservative holdTrafford is a Conservative holdWalsall remains NOCWelwyn
Hatfield remains a Conservative holdWirral is a Labour gainWrexham remains
NOCThe Conservatives have lost Wyre Forest to NOCAmber Valley is a Conservative
holdBirmingham have won from NOC with the Mayoral referendum counted later
todayLiberal Democrats have lost Cambridge to NOCCheltenham is a Liberal
Democrat holdThe Conservatives remain in control in FarehamGosport remains a
Conservative holdIpswich remains in Labour controlLabour have gained Reading
from NOCLabour hold PrestonPurbeck remains NOCBasildon remains
ConservativeBasingstoke is a Conservative holdManchester remains Labour with
Liberal Democrats losing all seats foughtBarnsley remains LabourCherwell remains
ConservativeMerthyr Tydfil is a Labour gain from IndependentRushmoor is a
Conservative holdTameside is a Labour holdWest Lancashire is a Conservative
holdSlough remains LabourFlintshire remains NOCNeath Port Talbot remains
LabourBlaenau Gwent is a gain for Labour

4.40am: Here are the full results from the Liverpool mayoral election.

Joe Anderson (Lab) 58,448 (59.33%)Liam Fogarty (Ind) 8,292 (8.42%)Richard Kemp
(LD) 6,238 (6.33%)John Coyne (Green) 5,175 (5.25%)Tony Mulhearn (TUSC) 4,792
(4.86%)Steve Radford (Lib) 4,442 (4.51%)Tony Caldeira (C) 4,425 (4.49%)Adam
Heatherington (UKIP) 2,352 (2.39%)Paul Rimmer (Eng Dem) 1,400 (1.42%)Jeff Berman
(Liverpool Ind) 1,362 (1.38%)Mike Whitby (BNP) 1,015 (1.03%)Peter Tierney (NF)
566 (0.57%)

It's a terrible result for the Lib Dems. Richard Kemp was first elected to
Liverpool council in 1975 and, when I met him two weeks ago when I went to
Liverpool to write a live blog about the mayoral contest, he was very confident
that he would come second. Instead he was beaten by Liam Fogarty, a
well-respected independent who led the campaign for the city to have a mayor.

Tony Mulhearn, who was the only candidate fighting on an explicit anti-cuts
platform, got less than 5% of the vote. That shows quite how marginalised the
hard left have become in the city since the 1980s, when Mulhearn and his
colleague Derek Hatton were leading the city's resistance to Margaret Thatcher.

And Mulhearn wasn't the only candidate who was marginalised. The Tory, Tony
Caldeira, came 7th!

4.52am: Vivien Pengelly, the Conservative councillor who until tonight was
leader of Plymouth city council, told ITV that she would be letting David
Cameron know how she felt about what his government was doing.

He must listen to the people. He must think what he's doing ... He really has to
listen to how it's affecting very vulnerable people, especially those here in
the south west.

4.58am: In Bradford there's a recount in Little Horton, where the Labour leader,
Ian Greenwood, is in danger of losing his seat to Respect.My colleague Helen
Pidd had a good piece about the contest here in the paper yesterday.

5.06am: One of my first jobs in journalism was covering Caerphilly for the South
Wales Echo, so I've been particularly interested in the results there. In my
time (in the early 1990s) Labour were dominant. Then, a few years ago, in a
shock result, Plaid Cymru seized control. But tonight Labour have grabbed it
back. They seem to have won very well, and they've even defeated Ron Davies, the
former Labour Welsh secretary who defected to Plaid and was serving as a
councillor for Bedwas, Trethomas & Machen.

5.11am: More from Liverpool. My colleague Alexandra Topping has sent me this.

There were ugly scenes right at the death of the Liverpool mayoral count as it
was announced that Labour candidate Joe Anderson had taken a comfortable 57.7%
of the vote. As the result was given, a small, but vocal, group of National
Front supporters - who had caused trouble at the count throughout the night -
began chanting and abusing the new mayor.

Despite cheers for Anderson they continued to shout, but supporters from all
mainstream parties gathered around Liverpool first elected mayor and he raised
his voice above the commotion.

"On behalf of all the decent candidates that stood in this mayoral election I
want to thank the returning officer and all the staff who worked so hard in
difficult circumstances and were treated appallingly by a small minority," he
said.

"The people of Liverpool have spoken democratically," he added. "They have
rejected the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, they have given their trust to
the Labour party." He promised to stick to Labour's pledges to create jobs and
build housing and schools. "That will be delivered by an administration with
Labour mayor," he said.

Against the back drop of continued jeers, and the clapping and shouts of support
from his own party members, he added: "The future of this city is a bright one,
it is not represented by fascists, these people do not represent this city. We
will democratically defeat these fascists at the ballot box."

To a cacophony of cheers he added: "The people of this city have told them at
the ballot box to get stuffed."

The results in #liverpool. Anderson takes 57.7% of the vote
twitter.com/LexyTopping/st...

- Alexandra Topping (@LexyTopping) May 4, 2012

5.21am: I've just nipped over to have a look at Daniel Hannan's live blog at the
Telegraph. He's got an interesting take on the results.

In the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further
south, Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing
votes to UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent,
the Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time.

But I'm not sure that Dan has got the hang of his live blogging lark. He knocked
off at 2.12am. Dan, where's your stamina?

5.24am: Respect have beaten Ian Greenwood, the leader of Bradford council (or
ex-leader, as he will be soon). There were four recounts before the result was
declared.

Here's a tweet from my colleague Helen Pidd who's at the count.

Well, that's it - Respect have kicked out Ian Greenwood, Labour leader of
Bradford council, by 18 votes,

- Helen Pidd (@helenpidd) May 4, 2012

5.33am: Here's the considered Labour view on what they have achieved tonight.

We're seeing strong results for Labour in every region. We're restoring trust &
regaining ground - but we know there's further to go.

- Labour Press Team (@labourpress) May 4, 2012

Tory MPs claiming this is just mid-term blues: in equivalent year of Labour Govt
(1999) we won the popular vote over the Tories (36% vs 33%)

- Labour Press Team (@labourpress) May 4, 2012

5.37am: Helen Pidd doesn't hang around. She's filed this from the Bradford
count.

George Galloway's winning streak continued in Bradford on Thursday when five
rookie politicians from his Respect party won seats in the city council -
including one swiped from the Labour leader of the administration.

Ian Greenwood, who has run the council since 2010 and has been a councillor in
Bradford for 17 years, loses his [#xfffd]50,000 a year job. He was defeated by
Alyas Karmani, onetime head of race relations for the Welsh Assembly, who these
days is a youth worker and an expert on sexual violence.

In a bruising campaign which resulted in the police being called to address
complaints of attacks on all sides, Respect won three other seats from Labour in
the city and another from the Conservatives. The resurgent party contested 12
out of the 30 seats up for grabs in the Yorkshire town, hoping to capitalise on
Galloway's tumultuous victory in the Bradford West byelection in March.

The only woman to win a seat for Respect was Ruqayyah Collector, already a
veteran campaigner at 28 having led the successful campaign to have the
controversial Leeds University lecturer, Professor Frank Ellis, suspended as the
University investigated whether he was in breach of the Race RelationsAct. She
won the student-heavy City Ward, beating Labour by around 700 votes.

Before Thursday's election, Bradford city council was run by a minority
Labour-led administration. Three votes short of a majority, Labour required help
from the trio of Greens on the council to pass key motions.

Despite making a few gains from the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats,
Labour was denied an overall majority when Greenwood lost Little Horton to
Respect. They now hold 45 seats - exactly half of the 90 in the whole
administration.

6.30am: Here's an early morning summary.

[#xfffd] Labour has soundly beaten the Conservatives in the local elections in a
result that has been welcomed by the opposition as evidence that it is mounting
a strong fightback. Many of the results are not yet in, but the BBC say the
results are equivalent to Labour having 39% of the national vote, with the
Conservatives on 31% and the Lib Dems on 16%. A Labour source said these were
"strong results" for the party, and their best in local elections since 1997. In
a general election, this would give Labour a large majority. Labour's
performance was good rather than brilliant, but the party has taken heart from
the fact that it is winning in some of the marginal constituencies in the
Midlands and the south of England that it needs to win if it wants to form a
government in 2015. Here's a full list of the English results that are in.

[#xfffd] Tory MPs, including a minister, have openly urged David Cameron to
adopt more traditional Conservative policies in response to his party's drubbing
at the polls. Gerald Howarth, a defence minister, said that Cameron should
accept that Tory voters do not approve of gay marriage. Bernard Jenkin, a
backbencher, said Cameron should resist Lib Dem obsessions like Lords reform.
And Gary Streeter, another backbencher, said the party had to restore its
reputation for competence.

The interesting thing for me was that, doing a lot of visits on the doorstep,
that people were unhappy, obviously, about the last two months of our
government, and many of them said we can accept many things from the
Conservative party, but we expect them to be competent. And that was one of the
messages coming across ... We have to regain our sure-footedness if we are going
to recapture lost trust and confidence.

These are the opening shots in a blame game that it likely to continue over the
coming days.

[#xfffd] Cameron's plan to develop a network of high-profile, directly-elected
mayor outside London has suffered a severe setback. Manchester, Nottingham and
Coventry have all voted against having a mayor. Birmingham, which was expected
to vote yes, also seems set to vote no. Another six cities are also voting, but
most of those are also expected to reject the proposal. Other cities have
rejected the directly-elected mayor model in the past, but to have so many big
cities rejecting the model at one time could kill this as a priority local
government reform for many years to come.

[#xfffd] Turnout seems to be 32% - the lowest figure since 2000.[#xfffd] George
Galloway's Respect party has continued to disrupt the mainstream poltical
establishment by winning five seats on Bradford council, including one from its
Labour leader. The Tories are depicting it as a serious blow to Labour (which it
is), but it also underlines how vulnerable all the main parties are to insurgent
outsiders.[#xfffd] The Lib Dems have sought to brush aside their losses as an
inevitable result of being in government. Ed Davey, the energy secretary, said
the Liberals had been waiting 90 years to suffer mid-term blues. As my colleague
Patrick Wintour reports, Nick Clegg intends to respond to the results by trying
to persuade Lib Dems that the results do not spell inevitable electoral wipeout
in 2015.[#xfffd] Labour has been celebrating particularly good results in Wales.
Carwyn Jones, the Labour Welsh first minister, said: "The momentum is clearly
with Welsh Labour. We are taking seats from every party across the country -
with impressive gains in Wrexham, Caerphilly, Newport and a total Lib Dem wipe
out in Merthyr. We have reconnected with people and our community campaigning
has resonated with voters right across Wales."Here are the results from Wales
that are in.[#xfffd] Labour's Joe Anderson has been elected as Liverpool's first
mayor with almot 60% of the vote.

[#xfffd] The Conservatives have already lost almost 300 seats. Counting in
Scotland has not started yet, but, with results available from 97 councils, here
is the state of play.

Councils

Conservatives: 26 - down 11Labour: 49 - up 21Lib Dems: 3 - down 1Councillors

Conservatives: 549 - down 272Labour: 1,087 - up 456Lib Dems: 211 - down 128Plaid
Cymru: 32 - down 11Green: 16 - up 3BNP: 0 - down 3Respect: 5 - up 5Ukip: 7 - up
1

That's it from me. My colleague Paul Owen will be taking over with a new blog.
And I'll be back later today to cover the results as they come in from London
and Scotland.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Out for the count

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 527 words

ABSTRACT

Thank goodness the second Ken and Boris show is nearly over.

FULL TEXT

Whatever the result of the mayoral election, there surely won't be much future
use for the fine photograph above or for others showing those old friends Boris
and Ken in close proximity. A large part of me sorely hopes not.

Although I've argued what I hope has been a measured case for Londoners to
return the Labour man to City Hall, the re-run of the 2008 race was always
destined to be marked by shallowness, spite and negativity. And so it has
proved. Whatever the outcome, I'll be glad when it's all over. My relief will be
like that of a pig farmer sinking into a hot bath.

The results of both the mayoral scrap and polls for the London assembly are
expected to be announced from early this evening, though if last time is any
guide we'll know nothing until near midnight. Whatever the hour, the Guardian
will be on the case, with a live blog carrying all the stats and reaction.

Opinion polls have predicted a second Johnson term, which would do something to
lighten Conservative gloom about their fortunes elsewhere. Labour is expected to
make gains on the assembly at Tory expense. Liberal Democrat and Green
candidates will be particularly anxious, with their prospects of maintaining
their small but important levels of representation on the assembly in the
balance. Meanwhile, UKIP is hoping to win at least one seat.

As I write, ballot papers are being electronically scanned at three counting
centres: Alexandra Palace, Olympia and Excel. You can learn more about the
process from London Elects and MayorWatch. Until that is complete, its
nail-gnawing time for the capital's political animals and finger-twiddling time
for me. However will I pass the time

The Guardian on LondonLondon mayor and local elections 2012 - live polling day
coverage

London assembly election results 2012

All London mayoral election 2012 coverage

Tory borough plans to move homeless away from LondonMetropolitan police plastic
bullets stockpile up to 10,000 after UK riots

Hundreds gather for screening of La Haine at Broadwater Farm

Things mostly ignored about politics in Tower Hamlets

Last Parliament Square protest tent can be removed

London 2012 Olympics: there will be queues, says Coe

London Olympics anti-terrorism tactics bring missile launchers to Blackheath

London 2012's stupendous insanity leaves sport as an also-ran

2012 Olympics: Kabul. Baghdad. London. Three to avoid this summer

Sir Terry Farrell woos Battersea Power Station developers

Streatham's no s***hole, it's a vibrant place I'm proud to call my home

London blogosphereBeing tired and mildly emotional, I loved this from Brixton
blog:

Two officers from Brixton police station have been praised after they helped
deliver a baby this morning. PC Matt Spence and PC Gill Moriarty were called to
a home in Knights Hill just before 3am but had no idea what they might find
after the baby's father made a distressed call asking for police to attend his
home address. When they arrived the team were met with a heavily pregnant woman
who had gone in to labour.

Oh, beautiful. Now read on.

Coming upThose election results. Then some rest. And then...?

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Heartland Institute compares belief in global warming to mass murder

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 734 words

ABSTRACT

Leo Hickman: US thinktank launches poster campaign comparing Unabomber and Osama
Bin Laden to those concerned about global warming

FULL TEXT

It really is hard to know where to begin with this one. But let's start with:
"What on earth were they thinking?"

The Heartland Institute, a Chicago-based rightwing thinktank notorious for
promoting climate scepticism, has launched quite possibly one of the most
ill-judged poster campaigns in the history of ill-judged poster campaigns.

I'll let its own press release for its upcoming conference explain, as there's
simply no need to finesse it further:

Billboards in Chicago paid for by The Heartland Institute point out that some of
the world's most notorious criminals say they "still believe in global warming"
- and ask viewers if they do, too...The billboard series features Ted Kaczynski,
the infamous Unabomber; Charles Manson, a mass murderer; and Fidel Castro, a
tyrant. Other global warming alarmists who may appear on future billboards
include Osama bin Laden and James J. Lee (who took hostages inside the
headquarters of the Discovery Channel in 2010).These rogues and villains were
chosen because they made public statements about how man-made global warming is
a crisis and how mankind must take immediate and drastic actions to stop it.Why
did Heartland choose to feature these people on its billboards? Because what
these murderers and madmen have said differs very little from what spokespersons
for the United Nations, journalists for the "mainstream" media, and liberal
politicians say about global warming. The point is that believing in global
warming is not "mainstream," smart, or sophisticated. In fact, it is just the
opposite of those things. Still believing in man-made global warming - after all
the scientific discoveries and revelations that point against this theory - is
more than a little nutty. In fact, some really crazy people use it to justify
immoral and frightening behavior.

But then comes the best bit:

Of course, not all global warming alarmists are murderers or tyrants.

It tries to morally justify its posters - the first of which appeared over the
Eisenhower Expressway yesterday - by saying that, due to ""Climategate" and the
recent incident in which a US scientist called Peter Gleick admitted to
obtaining and releasing internal documents (one of which Heartland claims was
faked) detailing Heartland's funding and policy strategies, that "the leaders of
the global warming movement are willing to break the law and the rules of ethics
to shut down scientific debate and implement their left-wing agendas".

It adds:

The people who still believe in man-made global warming are mostly on the
radical fringe of society. This is why the most prominent advocates of global
warming aren't scientists. They are murderers, tyrants, and madmen.

The bigger question, beyond trying to analyse the collective mentality of an
organisation that would sign off a poster campaign like this, is whether it will
now lead any of the speakers, attendees and sponsors to pull out of the
conference and dissociate themselves from this thinktank.

As a result of the embarrassment caused by the release earlier this year of its
internal funding documents, the US car giant GM pulled the plug on its funding
for Heartland. Will Microsoft, Pfizer or GlaxoSmithKline, for example, now also
choose to cut their funding to this organisation?

You also have to wonder if any of the scheduled conference speakers are now
having doubts about whether they want to be associated with Heartland. One
person who is on the list to speak is Roger Helmer, a British politician who has
attended previous conferences. Having recently left the Conservative party as an
MEP, the prominent climate sceptic is now the UK Independence Party's
spokesperson on industry and energy.

Earlier, I sent him an email with a link to Heartland's poster campaign press
release and asked him: "Will you now be reconsidering attending in light of this
new poster campaign for the conference? Do you approve of or condemn the poster
campaign?"

He confirmed he was still attending, adding:

I am delighted that the Heartland campaign for the Chicago climate conference
has succeeded in its purpose and attracted the attention of the Guardian. I urge
Guardian readers to attend the conference if they can, but failing that, to
follow it on the web.

I simply have nothing further to add.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Society daily 04.05.12

BYLINE: Clare Hortonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1958 words

ABSTRACT

Follow our coverage of the local election results

FULL TEXT

Sign up to Society daily email briefing

Today's top SocietyGuardian stories

· Hospital hygiene drive 'saved 10,000 lives'· Liverpool jail operated
'unofficial punishment wing', inspection reveals· Manchester and Liverpool hit
the UK's tourist Top Five· From the archive, 4 May 1970: Missing children:
Parents turn to Scotland Yard· How South Wales learned to bite back at loan
sharks· Polly Toynbee: What should we pay MPs? You won't like the answer· The
open source problem solvers creating government 2.0All today's SocietyGuardian
stories

On the Guardian Professional Networks

· Response to drug problemshampered by government reforms, research shows· Anita
Pati explores how new technology is making it easier for donors to act on their
emotions and give online· Gerri McAndrew introduces a new quality mark to
recognise organisations that encourage looked-after children to continue their
studies· Why does housingfail to raise the political temperature, asks Hannah
Fearn

On my radar ...

· The local elections. Paul Owen is hosting the Guardian's rolling coverage of
the results as they come in, plus the reaction from all the political parties,
and here's the live results dashboard. Here's the headlines so far today:Cities
vote against having elected mayorsUkip enjoys record local elections resultsLib
Dems lose, Labour gains from coalition backlashLabour enjoys 'stunning' night in
WalesGeorge Galloway's Respect party wins Bradford council seatsOn the local
government network, Rob Dale of the Local Government Information Unit, predicts
turnout could be at its lowest for 12 years, and says councillors need to find
new ways to reach voters:

Instead of placing stories in a council-produced newspaper or sending press
releases to local journalists - which has been perfectly reasonable and sensible
in the past - councillors need to follow the lead of members such as Daisy
Benson, James Cousins and Tim Cheetham who have proactively managed their
campaigns online. They are seeking to engage their voters in more efficient and
effective ways.

On the subject of turnout, social policy lecturer Stuart Wilks-Heeg tweets:

H. Harman apparently blames weather for low turnout. In past Labour blamed the
good times (voters too content to vote). Next up: the boogie.

· A timely retweet for a blogpost on Circle's takeover of Hinchingbrooke
hospital. Blog the Scriptonite daily wrote in January:

The Circle takeover has been barely touched upon by the corporate media, and no
one appears to have seized on the arguments put forward by the government in
response to the decision that a further 20 NHS hospitals could go the same way.
This is the same number which have been bankrupted by PFI. The hospitals aren't
failing in the sense that they have bad doctors, or evil nurses. They are
failing commercially. They are failing to be able to balance their books, books
buggered by PFI scandal.So, having decimated the NHS with botched PFI schemes
which saw tax payer money siphoned away from services and into repaying loans to
private companies - the government then invited those same companies to save
these failing hospitals. Somehow, these companies will raise standards, pay off
debts, and maintain current NHS costs for doing so, and all whilst making a
decent profit for the shareholders. It is simply cloud cuckoo land nonsense of
the highest order. No doubt, in a decade or less, the chickens will come home to
roost and we the tax payers will be bailing out private health care providers as
we bailed out banks - while in the intervening years executives at the companies
make vast sums and fees on the takeovers.

(link via OccupyOlympics2012)

· New TUC pamphlet Making a Contribution - Social Security for the Future, which
argues that the social security system no longer enjoys popular support after
being undermined by successive governments. It is being discussed at a lunchtime
seminar today with the report's authors, independent researchers Kate Bell and
Declan Gaffney, discussing the issues raised.

· A post on housing benefit reform by Joseph Rowntree Foundation chief executive
Julia Unwin, who warns of a new era of big brother:

Husbands and wives grow apart and no longer want to share a bed. Young people
leave home and come back battered and scared when it all goes wrong.
Grandparents provide more support for grand children whose parents are only just
coping. We put up young people who are our children's friends - and a long
weekend turns into three months. The children of a first marriage choose to
spend more time than originally planned with the absent parent. And so it goes
on. The point of family life is that it adapts, supports and flexes. For most of
us this is a purely private matter.But the new rules regarding under occupation
mean that for those receiving Housing Benefit, whether working for low wages or
out of work, none of these changes can happen without government surveillance.
Is this really what we want? Does the government that (I believe absolutely
genuinely) wants to support family life, really want the state - national or
local - to resort to this level of scrutiny of the ways in which families manage
their affairs? Do we as a society really want to prevent families supporting
each other, helping each other out of crisis, reducing the call on public
services? Where are the privacy campaigners when we need them?Whatever you think
about caps on benefits, and restrictions on housing benefit, these changes mark
an entirely new expansion of the level of surveillance of patterns of family
life. Surely that cannot be right.

· Maternity leave. A new campaign from charity Working Families, "six months for
mums", which is calling for a minimum standard of 26 weeks of maternity leave
for all women. Changes to maternity and paternity leave, which could see
maternity leave reduced to 18 weeks, are expected in next week's Queen's speech.

· A day in the life of the nation. To mark the 75th anniversary of the Mass
Observation project, the University of Sussex is asking people to keep an
electronic diary of their day next Saturday, 12 May. In the year of its launch,
Mass Observation called for people from all parts of the UK to record everything
they did from when they woke up in the morning to when they went to sleep at
night on 12 May - the day of King George VI's coronation. The university, which
now holds the Mass Observation archive of diaries and observations by ordinary
people in its library, repeated the call in 2010, last year and again this year.
Further anniversary events include a series of lectures and a conference in
July. Mass Observation supervisor Jessica Scantlebury says:

12 May 2012 is likely to be quite an ordinary day, as was 2011, but for
researchers and writers who use the archive, the 'ordinary' can often provide
extraordinary results. Therefore, we would be very grateful if you could
document your 12 May 2012 for the future ... write about what you do, the people
who you meet, what you talk about, what you eat and drink, what you buy or sell,
what you are working on, the places you visit, the things you read, see and hear
around you and of course what you yourself think.

· A stunning timelapse film showing the final stages of construction of tye UK's
tallest skyscraperthe Shard tower in London Bridge. Shot earlier this year by
architectural photographer Paul Raftery and director Dan Lowe, the film looks at
the Shard from vantage points around the capital, including Greenwich Park and
Hampstead Heath. The film coincides with a special focus on the Shard in the
latest issue of Blueprint magazine. (thanks to Allister Hayman for sharing the
link)

Other news

· BBC: High unemployment 'to damage UK'· Children & Young People Now: Seven in
10 London councils reduce or lose play budget· Independent: Alzheimer's patient
left locked overnight on bus· Inside Housing: Tenants show appetite for right to
buy· LocalGov.co.uk: Public sector staff turn to 'DIY training'· Public Finance:
Government's buying policies are contradictory, says Adonis· Telegraph:
Scotland-wide inquiry into NHS waiting times 'fiddle'· Third Sector: Northern
Rock Foundation offers grants to north-east charities to develop new idea

Events and seminars

Managing volunteers

Tuesday 15 May, Kings Cross, London

Engaging with volunteers is an increasingly challenging task. This half-day
seminar will help you explore what 21st century volunteers want and what you
need to do to involve them effectively. Delivered by leading expert Rob Jackson,
this session is a must for anyone building a long-term volunteer engagement
strategy.

Digital engagement surgery

Thursday 17 May, Kings Cross, London

This engaging and participatory workshop will look at real-life scenarios and
how charities are using digital techniques to collaborate and communicate.
Attendees will be asked bring challenges in with them (submitted advance), which
will be shared in a workshop format to collectively tackle common themes running
through the sector.

Successful bid writing

Friday 18 May, Kings Cross, London

Bid writing is an essential skill in voluntary sector organisations. This
interactive seminar will help you create applications and bids that demonstrate
your organisation's strengths and priorities, how you differ from other
projects, what the benefits are for your clients and the community and how
you'll be able to measure them.

Social media for health and social care

Thursday 31 May, Kings Cross, London

With massive changes facing health and social care provision the need for clear,
open and accessible communication channels is greater than ever. Whether you are
looking to improve engagement with patients, clients and peers, promote your
services or increase media coverage, this practical, interactive seminar
tailored for health professionals will show you how social media can help you do
it.

Identifying, measuring and demonstrating social value

Tuesday 12 June, Kings Cross, London

The Public Services (Social Value) Act 2012 highlights the need for the public
sector to ensure suppliers can demonstrate social, economic and environmental
concerns are at the heart of public sector contracts.This seminar looks at the
importance of measurement and assessment techniques, embedding social values
through tendering and contract management, and a variety of evaluation and
monitoring tools.

Scrutiny: making an impact

Tuesday 26 June, Kings Cross, London

This interactive seminar challenges traditional approaches to scrutiny,
demonstrating in-depth questioning techniques and exploring the use of video
evidence. It also considers the difference between a finding and a
recommendation, how to word recommendations so they can't be ignored and work
through good practice to evaluate each scrutiny process.

Making the most of social media for social housing

Friday 29 June, Kings Cross, London

This overview of social media channels will show you how to use them to maximum
effect, with clear, practical examples of ways to save money, improve your
communications and form a social media campaign

SocietyGuardian blogs

Patrick Butler's cuts blog

Sarah Boseley's global health blog

SocietyGuardian on social media

Follow SocietyGuardian on Twitter

Follow Patrick Butler on Twitter

Follow Clare Horton on Twitter

Follow Alison Benjamin on Twitter

SocietyGuardian's Facebook page

SocietyGuardian links

SocietyGuardian.co.uk

Guardian cutswatch - tell us about the cuts in your area

Public Leaders - the Guardian's website for senior managers of public services

The Guardian's public and voluntary sector careers page

Hundreds of public and voluntary sector jobs

SocietyGuardian editor: Alison Benjamin

Email the SocietyGuardian editor: society@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

BNP crashes out in local elections

BYLINE: Matthew Taylorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 316 words

ABSTRACT

British National party loses nine of 12 seats held in 2008, including key
Burnley presence, with three results still to declare

FULL TEXT

The far-right British National party is facing political meltdown, having lost
nine of the 12 seats it held in 2008 with the remaining three still to declare.

The party's sole representative in Burnley - once the party's stronghold - has
been defeated and in other areas the BNP's vote is down by as much as half.

In London, the BNP is trying to hold on to its seat on the assembly, with the
results due to be announced on Friday evening.

Nick Lowles from anti-racist campaign Hope not Hate said: "It is been a
disastrous night for the BNP. They have lost councillors, failed to regain seats
they won in 2008 and generally their vote is well down on previous elections.

In some of their strongest wards the BNP vote is down almost 50% from 2008, the
last time these seats were contested."

Key BNP areas such as Epping Forest and Pendle are expected to declare on Friday
afternoon, but Lowles said the most significant result was the party's defeat in
Burnley.

"The BNP won its first councillor in Burnley in 2002 and the following year it
became the second largest party on the council so this is a hugely important
victory."

Since the peak of its electoral success in 2009, when it won two seats in the
European parliament, the BNP has been mired in infighting and financial chaos.

This year, it stood substantially fewer candidates than in previous years with
no one representing the party in several of its previous strongholds, in
Yorkshire and the north-east.

Lowles said it had also been squeezed on one side by a resurgent Ukip and on the
other by the the English Defence League, which is expected to announce on
Saturday it will contest future elections as part of an alliance with the
British Freedom party, a small rightwing group, at a rally in Luton.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Labour's Joe Anderson elected Liverpool mayor

BYLINE: Alexandra Toppingguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 583 words

ABSTRACT

City chooses council leader as its first directly elected mayor, with
independent candidate beating Lib Dem to second place

FULL TEXT

Liverpool has voted in its first directly elected mayor, with Labour's former
council leader Joe Anderson winning by a comfortable margin. To loud cheers from
the party faithful, the Labour candidate was declared mayor just after 4am at
the Liverpool Tennis Centre in Wavertree, after taking almost 60% of the vote.

Independent Liam Fogarty came second with 8,292 votes, leaving the Liberal
Democrat candidate, Richard Kemp - who was first elected to Liverpool council in
1975 and was confident of gaining the runner-up spot - in third place with 6,238
votes. The Conservative Tony Caldeira came seventh.

. The turnout was just 31.7%, with 101,301 Liverpool residents voting in the
mayoral election. Of them 58,448 opted for Anderson, giving him 57.7% of the
vote.

Anderson will be one of the most important political figures outside the capital
after negotiating a deal with the government to switch to a mayoral system as
one of the conditions for Liverpool receiving an additional £130m in grants.
Against a backdrop of jeers from far-right National Front supporters - who had
caused disturbances at the count throughout the night - Anderson promised he
would stick to his pledges to create 20,000 jobs, 5,000 homes and 12 new schools
during his four-year term.

"The people of Liverpool have spoken democratically," he added. "They have
rejected the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. They have given their trust to
the Labour party."

Addressing supporters of the far right, he added: "The future of this city is a
bright one, it is not represented by fascists ... The people of this city have
told them at the ballot box to get stuffed."

The result marks a clear political shift in the political makeup of the city,
with Tony Mulhearn, who along with Derek Hatton led the city's resistance to
Margaret Thatcher, getting less than 5% of the vote. In an interview with the
Guardian on Thursday, Anderson stressed how he aimed to bring more private
investment into Liverpool. "It is quite clear that government funding is never
going to be the same again," he said. "Liverpool is taking charge of its own
destiny."

Anderson's salary will be determined by an independent panel and voted on by
Liverpool council later in the month. A byelection for his Riverside ward seat,
which he has to vacate on becoming mayor, will be held in the summer.

The ballots for the council elections, to be counted on Friday afternoon, could
see the city council dominated by Labour and the near extinction of the Liberal
Democrats, who ran the council for 11 years until two years ago.

Labour could end up holding 80% of council seats. The party holds 63 of 90
seats, with the Lib Dems on 19, Liberal on three, Green two, independents
holding two and one standing vacant.

Further Lib Dem seats are expected to fall. Paula Keaveney, the local Liberal
Democrat leader, could lose her Cressington seat, although Lib Dems said they
were confident it would be held.

Liverpool result in full:

Joe Anderson (Lab) 58,448 (59.33%)

Liam Fogarty (Ind) 8,292 (8.42%)

Richard Kemp (LD) 6,238 (6.33%)

John Coyne (Green) 5,175 (5.25%)

Tony Mulhearn (TUSC) 4,792 (4.86%)

Steve Radford (Lib) 4,442 (4.51%)

Tony Caldeira (C) 4,425 (4.49%)

Adam Heatherington (Ukip) 2,352 (2.39%)

Paul Rimmer (Eng Dem) 1,400 (1.42%)

Jeff Berman (Liverpool Ind) 1,362 (1.38%)

Mike Whitby (BNP) 1,015 (1.03%)

Peter Tierney (NF) 566 (0.57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Local elections 2012: Lib Dems lose, Labour gains from coalition backlash

BYLINE: Helene Mulhollandguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1392 words

ABSTRACT

Nick Clegg laments erosion of party's local government base as voters turn to
Labour amid economic downturn

FULL TEXT

Nick Clegg has said he is "really sad" at the Liberal Democrats' election
results after a bruising night for the coalition left him facing the prospect of
seeing his party's once mighty local government base drop to its lowest figure
for two decades.

The deputy prime minister insisted, however, that his party would continue to
play its role in government, particularly in dealing with the economic crisis.

Speaking outside his London home, Clegg said: "I am really sad that so many
colleagues and friends, Liberal Democrat councillors who have worked so hard, so
tirelessly, for so many years for communities and families in their local areas,
have lost their seats and I want to pay tribute to all the great work they have
done."

Labour's deputy leader, Harriet Harman, hailed the results as proof that the
party was "back in business", having made sweeping gains across the north, the
Midlands, and even some key suburban southern marginals.

The Conservatives, who hope to see Boris Johnson declared victorious in the
London mayoral race against Ken Livingstone when the votes are counted later on
Friday, were making light of their losses.

William Hague, the foreign secretary, told BBC1's Breakfast: "These results -
while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well within the
normal range of mid-term results for governments, and I think not so good for
the opposition, who are not getting 40% of the vote.

"There is no tidal wave running for anybody else," he said. "These elections are
a test for the opposition as well as the government, and they are not passing
that test."

As results continued to come in, Harman claimed Labour was "back in touch" with
voters, in contrast to the government, which had both coalition parties
suffering widespread losses.

Psephologists predicted that Labour was on course to gain more than 700 seats in
local councils and was winning about 39% of the vote in elections conducted on a
low turnout of about 32%. The Tories were taking 31% of votes, triggering
laments from some within the party that it was not being "Conservative enough".

The Lib Dem party was taking 16% and was braced to see its share of the
councillor base fall below 3,000 for the first time since the party was formed
in 1988, prompting the Labour peer Lord Prescott to declare an "Armacleggon".

By Friday morning, Labour had gained control of 22 councils, including
Birmingham and Southampton. The party also gained Harlow, Plymouth and Great
Yarmouth directly from the Conservatives, and hoovered up all the Lib Dem seats
up for grabs in Manchester.

In Wales, Labour gained control of Caerphilly council in south Wales in a
landslide victory. With votes in one ward to be recounted later on Friday, the
party had 49 seats, with 20 for Plaid Cymru and two independents. Labour also
captured Newport, with three seats still to be decided.

Labour's Joe Anderson became Liverpool's first directly elected mayor.Harman
told BBC Breakfast News: "We have the biggest share of the vote since 1997, and
there was some positive response to Labour being back in touch and back in
business. For the government to say this is just a mid-term - they should be
listening to the voters, not just writing them off.

"Our share of the poll looks at though it is 39%. They are saying this is just
mid-term worries. The government should be in a honeymoon period, they have only
just been elected. People usually like to give the benefit of the doubt for a
few years. They did with us."

While Labour enjoyed a good night, it was braced for a thumping defeat at the
high-profile London mayoral election, where Johnson is tipped to give his party
a much-needed fillip by beating his Labour rival Livingstone for a second time.

Labour lost four seats to George Galloway's Respect party in Bradford, including
that of council leader, Ian Greenwood. Respect, which recently shocked Labour
after Galloway wrested its safe Bradford West parliamentary seat in a
byelection, also took a seat from the Conservatives.

Ukip was on course for its best local election results, mainly at the expense of
the Conservatives, polling as high as 20%.

David Cameron's dream of having elected mayors in Britain's major cities looks
to be in tatters after the the idea was rejected in referendums across the
country. Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry voted against having a mayor, while
Birmingham, which was expected to vote yes, also seems set to vote no. Another
six cities are voting, but most of those are expected to reject the proposal.

On the basis of early returns, the Conservative party co-chair, Lady Warsi,
admitted it was a bad night for the Tories, and the communities secretary, Eric
Pickles, predicted the party was on course to lose more than 450 seats.

Warsi triggered a furore after suggesting it was interesting that an increase in
the number of Ukip candidates had coincided with a drop in those standing for
the British National party.

In a worrying sign for Cameron, Conservative rightwingers warned that for Ukip
to progress it needed to adopt a tougher stance on crime, immigration and
Europe.

Gerald Howarth, a defence minister, said Cameron must consider Tory unhappiness
over gay marriage and law reform after the election results.

In Plymouth - where the Conservatives suffered badly - Gary Streeter, a centrist
MP, warned the leadership: "There has been a huge vote for Ukip. We need to work
out a strategy for traditional Conservative voters shuffling off and voting Ukip
because they don't think our leadership is Conservative enough. We need to show
the decisiveness and surefootedness we have shown in the past ... the Ukip vote
is about a hard core of traditional Tory voters saying: 'We don't like the
liberal decisions this government is starting to take.'"

Claiming the Liberal Democrat vote was disappearing across the country, Streeter
said: "If the Liberal Democrat tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too
much, it does not need to do that any longer. We can be tougher with them. We
have got to be much more Conservative on crime, law and order - that is what our
supporters are waiting, indeed gagging to see."

The Liberal Democrats experienced their worst results for a second year in a
row, losing overall control of Cambridge - a stronghold for more than a decade.
Its share of seats in Oldham fell from 21 to 14, and lost its one-seat foothold
in Hastings and Sunderland.

Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat deputy leader, said he was hoping his party
was not going to do as badly as last year when it lost more than 40% of the
seats it had contested.

ILord Ashdown, the former party leader, said it was time for the party to "show
its mettle".

He told Sky's Sunrise show that the Lib Dem losses were a result of the "tough
decisions" the party had taken in government. "If we want to get this country to
pull through the terrible crisis it's been left in, we're going to have to take
some tough decisions."

The dispute between the two coalition partners underlines how tough it is going
to be for Cameron and Clegg to keep their parties together. The latter is
planning to use the next five days for a succession of media appearances in
which he will seek to restate the reasons the party is in coalition.

Clegg will hold a joint event with Cameron on Tuesday, described as "Rose Garden
2" - a successor to the press conference that launched the coalition in May 2010
- at which the pair will argue that the fight to rebalance the economy remains
the glue that keeps the two parties together in government. The Cameron-Clegg
event will come a day before the Queen's speech, which sets out the legislative
programme.

Government sources dismissed strong reports that a ministerial reshuffle would
take place this weekend.

Lib Dem activists are concerned about whether the party can continue to absorb
such an attrition rate without seeing the destruction of two decades of building
a local council base. Clegg's immediate task, officials say, is to persuade his
membership that a second successive year of reverses in local elections does not
foreshadow inevitable electoral wipeout in 2015.

He is hoping to be able to point to results showing that the party is faring
better in councils where it has an incumbent MP.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

David Cameron apologises for local election losses

BYLINE: Helene Mulhollandguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1528 words

ABSTRACT

Conservatives and Liberal Democrats lose hundreds of seats while Labour makes
big gains amid ongoing economic suffering

FULL TEXT

David Cameron has apologised to hundreds of Conservative councillors who lost
their seats in the local elections "against a difficult national backdrop".

Earlier, the Liberal Democrat leader, Nick Clegg, described his sadness at the
party's results in elections which saw both the coalition parties suffer
widespread losses.

Meanwhile Ed Miliband declared that Labour was "winning back people's trust"
after a night of big gains across the country saw his party take control of
several key councils, including Birmingham, Southampton, Plymouth, Reading,
Norwich, Thurrock and Harlow.

With around half the votes counted for some 5,000 seats in 181 councils across
England, Scotland and Wales, Labour had won control of 22 councils, racked up
around 470 new seats and looked set for overall gains of more than 700. The
Tories looked likely to lose more than 350 seats and the Liberal Democrats about
200.

Psephologists said the results showed about 39% of the vote, in elections
conducted on a low turnout of about 32%, going to Labour, while the Tories were
taking 31%, triggering laments from some within the party that it was not being
"Conservative enough".

The Lib Dems were taking 16% and were braced to see their share of the
councillor base fall below 3,000 for the first time since the party was formed
in 1988, prompting the Labour peer Lord Prescott to declare an "Armacleggon".

Speaking outside his home, Miliband said: "We are a party winning back people's
trust, regaining ground, but there is more work to do. I know that David Cameron
promised change and has disappointed people. I am determined that we can deliver
Britain the change it needs.

"People are hurting. People are suffering from this recession, people are
suffering from a government that raises taxes for them and cuts taxes for
millionaires. I think that's what we saw last night."

But the prime minister - who suffered the embarrassment of losing seats in his
Witney constituency to Labour as it made inroads into the Conservative
heartlands of southern England - insisted he would continue to make the
"difficult decisions" needed to deal with Britain's debt.

Cameron visited the Conservative campaign headquarters in London to thank party
workers.

"I'm sorry for the hard-working Conservative councillors who've lost their
seats, obviously against a difficult national backdrop," he said. "These are
difficult times, and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is to take
difficult decisions to deal with the debt, the deficit and the broken economy
that we inherited. We'll go on making those decisions because we've got to do
the right thing for our country."

He said the government had to "do everything to demonstrate we are on the side
of people that work hard and do the right thing for themselves and their
families - that's who we are fighting for, that's who we must govern for".

His views were echoed by Clegg, who outlined his determination that the Lib Dems
would continue to play their role in "rescuing, repairing and reforming the
British economy".

Speaking outside his London home, he said: "I am really sad that so many
colleagues and friends - Liberal Democrat councillors, who have worked so hard,
so tirelessly for so many years for communities and families in their local
areas - have lost their seats and I want to pay tribute to all the great work
they have done."

Of the Lib Dems' role in the coalition, he added: "It's not an easy job and it
can't be done overnight but our duty is to boost jobs and investment and to
restore a sense of hope and optimism to our country."

Cameron's dream of having elected mayors in Britain's major cities looks to be
in tatters after the idea was rejected in referendums across the country.
Manchester, Bradford, Nottingham and Coventry voted against having a mayor,
while Birmingham, which was expected to vote yes, also seems set to vote no.
Another six cities are voting, but most are expected to reject the proposal.

The Conservatives, who hope to see Boris Johnson declared victorious in the
London mayoral race against Ken Livingstone when the votes are counted later on
Friday, were making light of their losses.

William Hague, the foreign secretary, told BBC1's Breakfast: "These results -
while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well within the
normal range of mid-term results for governments, and I think not so good for
the opposition, who are not getting 40% of the vote.

"There is no tidal wave running for anybody else," he said. "These elections are
a test for the opposition as well as the government, and they are not passing
that test."

In Wales, Labour gained control of Caerphilly council in the south of the
country in a landslide victory. With votes in one ward to be recounted later on
Friday, the party had 49 seats, with 20 for Plaid Cymru and two independents.
Labour also captured Newport, with three seats still to be decided.

Labour's Joe Anderson became Liverpool's first directly elected mayor. But the
party lost four seats to George Galloway's Respect party in Bradford, including
that of council leader Ian Greenwood. Respect, which recently shocked Labour
after Galloway wrested its safe Bradford West parliamentary seat from it in a
byelection, also took a seat from the Conservatives.

The UK Independence party was on course for its best local election results,
mainly at the expense of the Conservatives. Ukip has been averaging 13% of the
vote in the seats it contested - five points higher than a year ago - making
2012 a record year for Nigel Farage's Eurosceptics.

The British National party was facing political meltdown, having lost nine of
the 12 seats it was defending, with the remaining three still to declare. The
party's sole representative in Burnley - once the BNP's stronghold - was
defeated and in other areas the BNP's vote was down by as much as 50%.

The Conservative party co-chair, Lady Warsi, triggered a furore after suggesting
it was interesting that an increase in the number of Ukip candidates had
coincided with a drop in those standing for the BNP.

In a worrying sign for Cameron, Conservative rightwingers warned that the party
needed to adopt a tougher stance on crime, immigration and Europe.

Gerald Howarth, a defence minister, said Cameron must consider Tory unhappiness
over gay marriage and law reform after the election results.

In Plymouth - where the Conservatives suffered badly - Gary Streeter, a centrist
MP, warned the leadership: "We need to work out a strategy for traditional
Conservative voters shuffling off and voting Ukip because they don't think our
leadership is Conservative enough. We need to show the decisiveness and
surefootedness we have shown in the past ... the Ukip vote is about a hard core
of traditional Tory voters saying: 'We don't like the liberal decisions this
government is starting to take.'"

Claiming the Liberal Democrat vote was disappearing across the country, Streeter
said: "If the Liberal Democrat tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too
much, it does not need to do that any longer. We can be tougher with them. We
have got to be much more Conservative on crime, law and order - that is what our
supporters are waiting, indeed gagging to see."

But the Lib Dem president, Tim Farron, said the Tories would be "bonkers" to
respond to their setback by swinging to the right.

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "It was almost amazing that the Tories
managed to not win the 2010 general election but the thought that they would
somehow build themselves up to a majority by lurching to the right to try and
bring back people they think they've lost to Ukip - insofar as anyone in the
Tory party should take political and strategic advice from me, can I just advise
them that would be bonkers."

The dispute between the coalition partners underlines how tough it is going to
be for Cameron and Clegg to keep their parties together. The latter is planning
to use the next five days for a succession of media appearances in which he will
seek to restate the reasons the party is in coalition.

Clegg will hold a joint event with Cameron on Tuesday, described as "Rose Garden
2" - a successor to the press conference that launched the coalition in May 2010
- at which the pair will argue that the fight to rebalance the economy remains
the glue that keeps the two parties together. The Cameron-Clegg event will come
a day before the Queen's speech, which sets out the legislative programme.

Government sources dismissed reports that a ministerial reshuffle would take
place this weekend.

Lib Dem activists are concerned about whether the party can continue to absorb
such an attrition rate without seeing the destruction of two decades of building
a local council base. Clegg's immediate task, officials say, is to persuade his
membership that a second successive year of reverses in local elections does not
foreshadow inevitable electoral wipeout in 2015.

He is hoping to be able to point to results showing that the party is faring
better in councils where it has an incumbent MP.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Local elections 2012: Thatcherism with a posh accent is a toxic proposition

BYLINE: John Harrisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1009 words

ABSTRACT

John Harris: The Tories aren't in existential crisis, but discontent among
voters is focused on the leadership cabal and the issue of class

FULL TEXT

Cast your eyes over these results, and feel the Tory pain. Harlow, Great
Yarmouth, Reading, Plymouth, Thurrock - all southern bywords for the kind of
places that decide British elections, and all lost to Labour. Ukip polling an
average of 13% wherever it stood. Those half-baked plans for directly elected
mayors met with a mixture of hostility and complete indifference.

The low chatter of Conservative angst that has been simmering since the budget
has now suddenly risen in volume and urgency. So far, listening to such voices
rather suggests that the critique of the Tories' woes needs a bit more work, but
one thing is beyond doubt: almighty rows have broken out within the Conservative
family.

There may be something in the idea being put about by those on the right of the
party that Tory loyalists have been dismayed by the leadership's embrace of bits
of metropolitan liberalism, but there again, do more hard-bitten Conservatives
really have that much to complain about?

The idea of any leftward pull from the Lib Dems usually turns out to be a
canard. The cuts highlight the fact that Thatcherism is in rude health. The
welfare state is under assault. The NHS is being subjected to the outsourcing
and fragmentation of Tory dreams, and our schools are falling victim to much the
same, with the added bonus of a supposed return to old-fashioned discipline and
academic rigour. Moreover, large swaths of the public remain in full accord with
the supposed need for crushing austerity, are happy to watch benefit claimants
being thrown the wolves, and are hardly sold on the idea of Labour coming back
to power - with or without Ed Miliband's still cloudy vision of "responsible
capitalism". So what is going on?

Three factors speak for themselves: the dreadful state of the economy, the
rising cost of living, and the widespread impression of simple incompetence. But
that third explanation blurs over into something even more troubling to the Tory
soul: the shortcomings of the coterie who currently lead the party, and the
torturous issue of class.

Could it be that if the Tories are going to stick to the ideology they pursued
in the 1980s, their party is best fronted by the kind of people on whom it
depends for votes, rather than those who give the party money?

Thirty years ago, when its project was piloted by politicians who had a keen
sense of how millions of Britons thought and lived, the party was on to a
inspired kind of politics that won it four elections. But Thatcherism with a
posh accent is a potentially toxic proposition, revealing Conservatism not as
the empowering, aspirational force that once seized so many imaginations but a
tangle of cynical ideas that shores up the same old elites.

In London, Boris Johnson has smoothed over the issue of his background thanks to
three things: his veneer of nonconformity, his shape-shifting politics, and his
distance from the Osborne-Cameron cabal.

But since the budget, and the stupid decision to cut the 50p rate of tax,
class-based Tory anxiety has defined plenty of the noise emanating from
Conservatives. Nadine Dorries is easily dismissed as an irrelevant troublemaker,
but her two attacks on the party's "posh boys" have palpably jangled nerves.

Rachel Sylvester, a dependably insightful Times columnist, recently wrote of the
inner circle's "toe-curlingly patronising" attitude to such ministers as Eric
Pickles and Sayeeda Warsi, both of whom embody a Conservatism reflective of
working-class aspiration, rather than the expectation of power and privilege
being handed from one moneyed generation to the next.

Tim Mongomerie, whose critique of where his party is going wrong grows more
compelling by the week, expresses deep concern that the party leadership is in
danger of neglecting the aspirational "grafters" whose votes are essential to
any Tory victory in three years' time. Meanwhile, when Labour mocks the
frontbench's backgrounds, the voices that would once accused them of stone-age
class warfare are conspicuously silent. Class, after all, is back, and it was
the Tories who put it there. Which self-respecting opposition wouldn't hammer
it?

What should really exercise Tory minds is that whatever their problems, they do
not add up to any kind of existential crisis. Conservatism - or, at least,
support for it - remains something deeply rooted in the fabric of English life.
It expresses a huge dislike of organised labour, a belief in private property as
the foundation of civilisation, and a defining suspicion of the state. For the
most part it is hostile to change - but at least once, it has risen to a moment
that demanded it.

It will never go away - but as Conservatives endlessly concluded between the
mid-1960s and the early 21st century, its best public faces are people with an
instinctive understanding of ordinary lives, and the openings within them for
Conservative ideas.

Hand the party to bluebloods rather than battlers, and the same basic plotline
may well play out again and again - something manifested not just in this
current turbulence, but their howling failure to win the last general election,
and the fact that David Cameron and George Osborne have yet to communicate any
sense of their vision for the country.

In its absence, the prime minister is reduced to either hammily claiming that he
understands the nitty-gritty of ordinary lives or getting very angry, as if his
troubles are an offence to the natural order of things. Was Norman Tebbit like
that? More to the point, was Margaret Thatcher?

Five decades ago, grouse-moors Conservatism seemed to breathe its last with the
doomed Alec Douglas-Home, chosen for the leadership via the old method whereby a
charmed circle would disappear into a country house, and then pick its man. "We
can't go wrong with a shooting gent," one of them said.

But they did, and at this rate, they will again.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Tories won't tack to the right after dismal election results - Hague

BYLINE: Nicholas Wattguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 780 words

ABSTRACT

Foreign secretary dismisses calls from party's rightwingers to abandon 'barmy'
ideas such as Lords reform and gay marriage

FULL TEXT

William Hague has dismissed calls from Tories on the right of the party,
including one minister, for Downing Street to respond to its poor performance in
the local election results by tacking to the right.

The foreign secretary, who lost the 2001 general election as Tory leader after
shifting to the right, spoke out after one rightwinger called on Downing Street
to abandon "barmy" ideas such as pressing for the legalisation of gay marriage.

"Neither," Hague said on the Today programme when he was asked whether Tories
should move to the right or to the left. "We will carry on with what is
essential for the country, which is turning around the country's finances and
economy. It is not a matter of going to the right or the left."

Maria Miller, the minister for disabled people, who is tipped for promotion to
the cabinet, said the party would not abandon the centre ground.

Hague and Miller spoke out after Gerald Howarth, the defence minister, called on
the government to abandon liberal ideas such as legalising gay marriage and
reform of the House of Lords. Howarth told the BBC: "There are issues, for
example, like the proposals for gay marriage. A lot of Conservatives have
written to me saying: 'I am a lifelong Conservative, there is no mandate for
this, why is this being proceeded with?'

"There is the business of trying to change the House of Lords. Do we need to do
this at a time when the nation is preoccupied with restoring the public
finances?"

Stewart Jackson, who resigned as parliamentary private secretary to the Northern
Ireland secretary, Owen Paterson, last year after voting in favour of a
referendum on Britain's relationship with the EU, called for an end to "barmy"
policies.

Jackson told The World at One on Radio 4: "David Cameron is on notice that he
does need to raise his game. He needs to focus on bread and butter issues like
jobs and mortgages and public services and, above all, to develop a clear route
map to growth, and stop fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him
and barmy policies such as Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either
don't like or don't care about.

"There is a growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their
views are not being listened to. If you get one Labour or Liberal voter to vote
Conservative at the general election but lose three or four others to Ukip, you
are not going to win the general election."

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister, called for a rebalancing in the
coalition. "Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one sixth of the
coalition, not one half of the coalition. If we proceed on those terms ... David
can listen rather more to Conservative MPs, who represent the real people of
this country, and give rather less regard to the Liberal Democrat intellectual
urban elite, with their student politics idea of reforming the constitution and
taking forward green policies. Let's do the things that really matter to the
people who are suffering. It won't be done with the confidence of the British
people while he is being held back by the Liberal Democrats.

"Margaret Thatcher said: 'Every prime minister needs a Willie.' She meant Willie
Whitelaw, who was her great adviser and the solid person who stood beside her
and gave her advice. It is a pity David does not, at the moment, take advice
from a person like that."

Cameron will face pressure from Eurosceptic Tories after the success of the UK
Independence party. Its leader, Nigel Farage, told The World at One: "We are
taking Conservative votes because people feel that Cameron has let the party
down hopelessly. But we are also picking up votes from Labour and from the Lib
Dems as well.

"Our strength and weakness is that you are as likely to find a Ukip voter in
Hull as you are in Exeter. Our support is spread very evenly right across the
country. That is good because we are building a proper political party. Our
weakness is that we have not clusters in the way that the Greens have in
Brighton."

Farage dismissed criticism from Eurosceptics that Ukip is dividing votes on the
right and letting in pro-Europeans. "That is irrelevant because we are governed
from Brussels now anyway. Seventy-five per cent of our laws are made in
Brussels. We have a Conservative leader that believes in green taxes, that won't
bring back grammar schools, that believes in continuing with total open door
migration from eastern Europe and refuses to give us a referendum on the EU.
What difference does it make whether we have Miliband or Cameron in Downing
Street?"

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Local election results: Conservatives face a perfect storm

BYLINE: Paul Goodmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 847 words

ABSTRACT

Paul Goodman: Cameron's party has failed to avoid a thrashing. But given the
pressures on the Tories, it's surprising they didn't do worse

FULL TEXT

Midterm elections are a snapshot, not a forecast: were it the other way round,
both Michael Foot and Neil Kinnock would have become prime minister. So why
should Thursday's results - marked by the lowest turnout since 2000 - be any
more encouraging for Ed Miliband and discouraging for David Cameron?

The Tory spin is that these urban polls were the least favourable for them in
the electoral cycle, and that their results in cities reached their high tide in
opposition. But just because it's spin doesn't mean it isn't true. And next
week's Queen's speech gives the prime minister a chance to regroup. Soon after
will come the elections to the 1922 committee, the body that represents
backbench Tory MPs. Cameron's allies are challenging rightwingers for seats on
the committee and could win. This would be a boost to his internal authority.

No, the real lesson of the local elections is not that they tell us anything new
but that they remind us of what we know already - namely, that the prime
minister faces the most agonising strategic plight of any Conservative leader in
modern times. And what is to come is likely to make it worse rather than better,
for four main reasons.

First, the coming Queen's speech relaunch will be overshadowed by Leveson. Andy
Coulson and Rebekah Brooks appear next week. The prime minister himself and
Jeremy Hunt must do so before the summer. This uncertain landscape makes
creating a sense of momentum and carrying out a cabinet reshuffle more
difficult. The significance of Leveson for the Conservatives is not so much
Cameron's relationship with Murdoch (which has been little different to Tony
Blair's or Gordon Brown's) as the inquiry's effect on the centre-right media.
The Mail and Telegraph were never friendly to Cameron. Leveson has turned them
more hostile. Like John Major, Cameron is now virtually friendless in the Tory
press.

Second, Cameron is under pressure from his left, in the form of the Liberal
Democrats. Their position is better than might be expected. They have stuck with
coalition and not split. No senior figure has called on Nick Clegg to go.
Significantly, they performed creditably yesterday where they have MPs: Liberal
Democrat parliamentarians are formidable local campaigners, and the party is
thus likely to outperform the polls come the general election. But the loss of
scores of local councillors can only increase the pressure on Clegg to
differentiate his party from the Tories. That means more rows and paralysis -
over Lords reform and the European court of human rights in particular. And if
the present parliamentary boundaries suit the Liberal Democrats, why should they
vote for new ones next year?

Third, Cameron is besieged from the right - not only by the familiar presence of
his unhappy backbenchers but by the emerging force of Ukip. The slow growth of
Nigel Farage's party from just under 100,000 votes in 1997 to almost a million
in 2010 (with spectacular Euro-election results in between) has been gradual
proof that the division of the centre-right over the EU is deepening - its worst
fissure since the Tory divisions over protection at the turn of the last
century. Ukip hit 13% yesterday. Evidence suggests that the new voters it is
drawing previously backed the Tories. Even half that share in a general election
would guarantee a Labour government. Peter Mandelson's call for an EU referendum
was a shrewd bid for the poll that, by dividing the centre-right, would allow
the centre-left to dominate the early part of this century. Cameron may not be
able to stave one off indefinitely.

Finally, the nature of MPs is changing. The expenses scandal has speeded their
transformation from distant representatives to would-be local champions,
desperate to prove to their suspicious voters that they put constituency needs
before the party whip. This is already the most rebellious Commons since the war
- almost half the Tory parliamentary party is new, a record post-war figure -
and the bulk of the cuts are yet to come.

Cameron is an infinitely more resourceful, commanding and adaptable figure than
John Major, who also presided over a party challenged by a noisy party of the
right - by Sir James Goldsmith's referendum party. But the prime minister is in
at a disadvantage to his predecessor in one unmissable way: he hasn't won an
election outright. This leaves him lacking a legitimacy that Major possessed, at
least in the view of his own party. He thus both lacks the mandate that Major
had and the economic recovery that Margaret Thatcher enjoyed: the international
economic landscape is far bleaker. To date, he has faced no real rival for the
leadership. A second likely mayoral election victory, achieved despite Cameron
rather than because of him, would confirm one in the form of Boris Johnson. All
considered, it's a wonder that those Tory election results weren't even worse.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Eurozone crisis live: Deeper recession looms as service sector shrinks

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4549 words

ABSTRACT

This weekend's polls in Greece and France could change the future of the
eurozone

FULL TEXT

5.00pm: Over to Greece where our correspondent Helena Smith says as one of the
crisis-hit country's shortest election campaigns begins to wind down leaders are
poised to stage a batch of final rallies.Helena writes:

All eyes will shortly be on Syntagma Square, Athens' main plaza, where Evangelos
Venizelos, leader of the socialist party Pasok, will shortly deliver his last
major address before the election.

With the stage set, loudspeakers out and vendors selling Pasok flags and caps
for (EURO)5 a piece, the first attendees have already begun to pour into the
square, the theatre, ironically, of much of Greece's anti-protest movement since
the debt crisis erupted.

Venizelos, finance minister until he gave up the post to take over the helm of
Pasok barely two months ago, is under no illusion that his is an uphill
struggle.

No party has lost as much support as Pasok whose traditional power base of
low-income workers and public sector employees has been badly hit by tax hikes,
pay and pension cuts. Some 25 % of those who have not yet made up their minds as
to who to vote for on Sunday cast ballots in favour of Pasok when it re-entered
office with a landslide victory under former leader George Papandreou in October
2009. Even at this hour they are keen to hear what Venizelos has to say.

The politician has repeatedly warned against complacency, urging Greeks not to
"waste" their votes and play with fire by supporting "anti-European,"
anti-bailout parties because they want to "punish" mainstream politicians widely
blamed for the country's chronic financial ills. Casting "protest" votes was a
very dangerous game he told the mass-selling Greek daily, Ethnos, today.

"This certainty that the next day [May 7] there will be a government of Pasok
and New Democracy [which have collaborated in an interim coalition government
lead by the unelected technocrat Lucas Papademos since November] has, I fear,
created a very dangerous misconception because many people believe that since it
is a 'given' they can harmlessly cast [protest votes]. But that is not the case.
Nothing is a given."

Venizelos, perhaps the most reform-minded of all of Greece's political leaders,
is deeply troubled that economic reforms Athens needs to enact to keep its
finances afloat will derail if there is political instability. Stability is
essential to luring the foreign investment which the recession-hit nation now so
badly needs, according to its business community.

In an exclusive interview with the Guardian - the only foreign news outlet he
has spoken with - earlier this week, Venizelos said the battle would be decided
"in the last few days." The time has now arrived.

4.45pm: European stock markets have closed for the week, and traders' screens
are covered with losses.

FTSE 100: down 111 points at 5655, -1.93%DAX: down 132 points at 6562,
-1.97%CAC: down 57 points at 3165, -1.79%

For the FTSE 100, that's the biggest one day fall since 10th April and puts it
at its lowest level since 13 April.

Here's some comment from Chris Beauchamp, market analyst at IG Index:

The morning's nervous atmosphere has given way to a bout of full-blown selling,
as markets digest a mixed US jobs report and weigh up the possibilities that
might ensue from the elections scheduled over the weekend in Europe

A downbeat atmosphere prevails as we head into the weekend. It still looks as if
Francois Hollande will end up owning the keys of the Elys[#xfffd]e Palace come
Sunday night, which might make for some entertaining conferences between Paris
and Berlin, but in Greece the situation is much less clear. Uncertainty could
well persist further into next week about the new make-up of the government in
Athens, which would raise the possibility of more losses for markets.

4.10pm: Italian news site Linkiesta is reporting that a senior official at the
Greek Ministry of Finance has predicted that Greece will definitely leave the
euro.

In this interview (in Italian) the unnamed official says:

Whoever wins, no party shall have the honesty to comply with the Memorandum of
Troika EU-ECB-IMF....unless things change, Greece has no chance to survive in
the euro zone.

Not quite sure what to make of this - clearly the timing is interesting, ahead
of the elections. Plenty of economists, city traders, commentators, and readers,
believe Greece will eventually exit. Three triggers appear likely, either1)
Greece fails to hit the financial targets agreed with the Troika, and is
deprived of its bailout cash;2) The Greek parliament cannot agree the details of
future austerity cuts3) Sunday's election delivers a very divided parliament,
with strong support for anti-EU parties.

Option three is a fear for many Greeks:

@graemewearden Indeed. The latest political snapshot shows a highly fragmented
Greece; I fear we'll be picking up the pieces after 6 May.

- Finisterre67 (@Finisterre67) May 4, 2012

3.32pm: Some interesting comments from Wolfgang Sch[#xfffd]uble, German finance
minister, are just hitting the Reuters terminal now. Not clear where he's
speaking.

Among other highlights, Sch[#xfffd]uble has apparently declared that the results
of this weekend's Greek and French elections "will not have, in essence, any
impact on German financial policies".

Sch[#xfffd]uble also rebuffed the idea that the winner(s) of the Greek general
election could seek to change the terms of its financial aid package. Greece
must respect the commitments made, he said, or else "it will have to bear the
consequences".

That's a clear message to the Greek people (who may not necessarily want the
advice).

Sch[#xfffd]uble's concludes by saying that being a member of the EU is entirely
voluntary.

3.08pm: Larry Elliott, our economics editor, says today's US jobs numbers
underline the weakness of the US economic recovery (but at least it's
recovering).

The US jobs figures were a curate's egg - good in parts.

More here.

3.03pm: World stock markets are falling sharply now, following the US jobs data
-- and with the uncertainty of this weekend's elections looming.

The FTSE 100 is now down 102 points at 5665, a loss of 1.75%. Both the German
DAX and the French CAC are off around 1.25%

In America, the Dow Jones opened lower and is currently off 106 points at 13099.

The oil price has also fallen today, with a barrel of New York crude briefly
falling below the $100 mark.

2.31pm: In Italy, the government has been swamped with around forty thousand
emailed responses in a single day after asking the public to blow the whistle on
wasteful state spending.

Tom Kington reports from Rome:

The scale of the immediate public response suggests Mario Monti may succeed in
hunting down (EURO)4.2bn euros in savings on government spending he wants to
make as Italy plunges further into recession.

Monti has also drafted in Enrico Bondi, the tough manager who turned around
Parmalat, to help unearth waste. But critics smell a gimmick, wondering why
Monti's government of experts is appointing another expert, and pointing out
that the whistle blower hotline looks suspiciously like a bid to distract
Italians from tax hikes.

Monti's pending reintroduction of a much despised property tax which Silvio
Berlusconi abolished in 2008 -- to the delight of Italy's huge property owning
class -- comes as dozens of debt ridden entrepreneurs commit suicide and
consensus grows that Monti's austerity drive has limited the possibility of
growth, rather than laying the ground work for it.

Businesses being crippled by customers paying late point out that no one pays
later than Italy's central and local governments which now owe the private
sector about (EURO)70bn euros.

Monti's reputation as Italy's unruffled helmsman in an economic storm has also
been tarnished after thousands of Italians who took redundancy packages with
payments calculated to get them through to their pensions were left high and dry
by his shifting of pension ages.

But ahead of municipal elections this weekend Italy's political parties do not
look set to benefit from Monti's woes as their own scandals over the handling of
state funding rumble on.

To cap the humiliation suffered in the scandals by the proudly anti-immigrant
Northern League party, it was revealed on Friday that the son of former party
leader Umberto Bossi only became a graduate thanks to a very dubious degree from
a private Albanian university.

1.57pm: Here's some early reaction to the US unemployment data:

Marcus Bullus, trading director at MB Capital

After a frankly horrendous week in the Eurozone, the markets were looking to the
US for some comfort. They didn't get it.An upward revision in previous months'
data will be of little consolation to the markets. The hope that a resurgent US
would ignite the global economy is starting to fade, and reality starting to
dawn.These numbers were well below consensus and are a real blow to hopes of an
imminent recovery.

Joshua Raymond, market strategist at City Index

The weaker than expected reading is a disappointment, being the smallest rise in
non farm payrolls since October last year and strengthens investor concerns that
jobs growth may have topped out earlier in the year.

Yet a relatively strong set of upward revisions to March's payrolls helped to
ease the any overly aggresive negative market reaction, with non farm payrolls
revised from 120,000 to 154,000, whilst private payrolls were revised from
121,000 to 166,000 in March. The upward revisions leave the data somewhat mixed
but nevertheless disappointing.

1.42pm: April's 115,000 rise in the US non-farm payroll is the smallest increase
since October 2011. This sharp slowdown in the hiring rate (which is accentuated
by the upward revisions to March's data), indicates the US recovery may have
slowed - not great news for Barack Obama in an election year.

There was no significant change in the number of long-term jobless, which
remained around the 5.1 million mark.

There was also another fall in the labor force participation rate, which dipped
to 63.6%.

As this graph by Reuters' Scott Barber shows, that's the lowest level in three
decades - back in the Reagan era.

1.32pm: Breaking news -- America's unemployment rate has fallen to 8.1%, from
8.2% a month ago.

The eagerly awaited non-farm payroll data shows that 115,000 new jobs were
created in the US last month. That's well below the consensus figure of 170,000.
However, March and February's data have both been revised higher, to +154,000
(from +120,000) and +259,000 (from +240,000).

115k plus 53k of revisions puts us in line with where we thought. #notthatbad

- P M (@Pawelmorski) May 4, 2012

1.03pm: Voters in five different EU countries are heading to the polls on
Sunday. As well as France and Greece, there are local elections in Italy, a
ballot in the state of Schleswig-Holstein in Germany, and a general election in
Serbia.

Our European editor, Ian Traynor, explains the implications of each contest
here.

12.27pm:News in from Athens where Helena Smith, our correspondent, has the
low-down on reaction to yesterday's suggestions that divided Greece could be
heading to a new round of elections within the year.Helena writes:

Officials in Athens' interim government have debunked the notion that Greece is
necessarily headed to a new round of elections - even if the prospect of a
massive anti-austerity protest vote has drastically reduced the possibility of
any party winning an overhaul majority in the 300-seat parliament. One senior
official in the left-right coalition administration said the conservative New
Democracy party was deliberately spreading the rumour in the hope of swinging
undecided voters on the eve of the poll. An unprecedented 30% of Greece's near 5
million-strong electorate has indicated it has yet to decide which way to vote.
As much as 60% has suggested it will back parties virulently opposed to
stringent belt-tightening being demanded of Greece in return for rescue loans
from the EU and IMF.

"What is the rationale of holding new elections if they are close to 150 seats?"
the insider asked. "The fact of the matter is that they [New Democracy] will
come under enormous pressure to form a government [from within Greece and the
EU]."

Sunday's vote is costing the debt-stricken country (EURO)25m. But Helena's
contact denies that Athens simply can't afford to keep holding elections:

"All the polls," he said, referring to those being conducted, privately, given
the official ban on surveys 15 days before elections, "have shown that voters
don't want another round [of elections]."

High-ranking cadres in the socialist Pasok party, busily preparing for tonight's
send-off demonstration in Syntagma square, brushed off the suggestion as absurd.
The EU hadn't wanted the election in the first place. "Our partners aren't going
to wait for us to make up our minds forever. There are time-tables to be kept,
work to do, reforms to be passed" said one. Even officials in New Democracy
appeared to backtrack this morning. True, Chyrsanthos Lazarides, a senior aide
to conservative leader Antonis Samaras, had raised the possibility on on TV but
he had done so "within the framework of a much wider discussion" said the
party's press office. "It was said very clearly, within the framework of a much
larger discussion, that if the case arises of having a government for only three
to five months [because it is so weak] then perhaps it is preferable that we
have a repeat elections," said the official.Latest polls reportedly show the
centre-right New Democrats capturing between 28 to 30%. Support for Pasok is
anywhere between 17 and 24 %. Although voters appear to be rallying around the
two main parties in rural areas, where their traditional support base remains
strongest, garnering enough votes to win a majority is very much touch and go.
New Democracy would need to secure another 5% to win a majority.

"But," said another official, "parties that don't manage to cross the 3%
threshold will not be counted [in the entire vote] which obviously will raise
[the front-runner's] percentage.'

A good point that I neglected to mention in Thursday's Q&A with readers.

"A lot of us are worried but we've also become philosophical," said the
government insider. "Even Syriza [the populist left group whose popularity rates
have risen radically in recent days] is toning down its anti-European,
anti-memorandum rhetoric. No party is going to risk not having the money to pay
civil servants' wages and pensions. Whatever party, or parties, are in
government will make the necessary moves to keep the [rescue] funds coming."

11.41am: Now here's a thing - Peter Mandelson is arguing today that Britain
should still consider joining the euro in the future.

Mandelson has responded to a poll which found that 80% of British people believe
the UK should never join the single currency, ever, even if this damages the
country's position within Europe. The former cabinet minister and European
commissioner reckons such thinking is misplaced. He argues that eurozone leaders
could achieve the fiscal and political integration needed to hold the single
currency together. Eventually, other EU nations would also join, so Britain's
choice would either be to follow suit, or choose to leave the EU.

Dismissing the 'fantasy world' where Britain gets to remain in the EU on its
terms, Mandelson writes:

I believe that the facts of life for Britain in a globalised economy are
European. I believe it is not just our biggest market, but also our intellectual
and political hinterland. It is our only prospect of sustained global influence
in a world of continental-sized powers. The majority of British people who
cannot imagine a future for Britain outside the EU need to think and debate
about what this may mean.

Hmmm. Surely the eurozone crisis means the British people are even less likely
to vote to ditch the pound? It's never exactly been a popular idea, even before
the public have been given an education on how single currencies operate. And
yesterday's local elections have seen the eurosceptic UK Independence party
achieve its best results ever, polling 13% of the vote.

Mandelson clearly has a plan. As reported last night, later today he will call
for Britain to commit to a future referendum on its EU membership. Patrick
Wintour reports:

In a speech in Oxford on Friday, the former European commissioner will stress
that a referendum on Britain's continued membership should occur only after
closer fiscal union - a "eurozone mark two" - has settled, although he admits
this is a way off.

11.28am: The President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce has called for Greece's
next government to attempt to renegotiate its bailout package after Sunday's
election.

Costas Michalos said Athens should tell its international partners that the
programme of cuts, austerity and reform needs to be changed.

CNBC has the story:

"We need a government that is representative of at least 50 percent of the Greek
electorate, even the smaller parties need consensus. We should renegotiate parts
of the [bailout] package as we need to increase revenue and growth," said Costas
Michalos, President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce....The socialist PASOK and
the New Democracy parties have both supported the bailout deal and its stringent
conditions. The smaller parties are hoping to ride on the back of a wave of
discontent that has swept the country in recent months, with some asking for a
renegotiation of the terms of the bailout and some even calling for an exit from
the euro itself.

Greece's aid pac

10.54am: In Greece, list of polling stations are pinned up on boards as the
country gets ready for Sunday's election.

Correction: these aren't the actual list of candidates as I first though.
Apologies.

10.20am: The latest polling from France suggests that Nicolas Sarkozy is about
to be ejected from the Palais de l'[#xfffd]lys[#xfffd]e.

Two polls published this morning put Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande ahead by 53.5% to
46.5%. A third was closer, at 52.5% to 47.5%.

Some expects think it will be closer than that. Professor Dominique
Reyni[#xfffd], director of the influential Paris-based thinktank Fondapol,
believes Hollande will only win by a whisker.

But what would a Hollande presidency mean? Despite Sarkozy labelling his rival
as a dangerous fiscal extremist who would plunge Europe back into a deep crisis,
most City analysts have a more sober view.

Elisabeth Afseth of Investec is encouraged by the prospect of Hollande stirring
things up in Brussels:

Recent economic data has given some indication of how severe the downturn coming
in the wake of the fiscal contraction can be. Fiscal consolidation of course has
to happen, and there is no 'painless' way out of current problems, but the risk
is that the strict focus on austerity does not address the underlying problem

Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy reckons Hollande has limited room for
manoeuvre, but will make the most of it:

He is likely to test the resilience of France's creditworthiness on the grounds
that it is strong enough to accommodate more stimulative policies. France's
Socialists are even more distrustful of financial markets. Rather than feeling
that they must earn the markets' trust, the Socialists are more likely to take
the view that France's bond market can withstand more socially oriented
policies. Mr Hollande's economic advisers appear to be suggesting that "if the
markets were really worried about France, our yields would be much higher by
now." This smacks of complacency in our view. Hollandisme will be a far cry from
the "let-it-rip socialism" of the early Mitterrand era, yet it is likely to give
the markets reasons to be more nervous about French debt.

Mujtaba Rahman of Eurasia Group argues that Hollande will struggle to make major
changes to Europe's strategy

It's going to be easy for Merkel to sign up to Hollande's growth agenda because
it means very little in terms of actual substance...However, on the fiscal side,
much of Merkel's agenda is now codified in EU legislation.

10.05am: Some good economic news - eurozone retail sales rose in March, a better
result than expected.

The volume of retail trade across the euro area rose by 0.3%, compared with
February. That still leaves it 0.2% lower than the previous year.

But the data, from Eurostat, also shows that consumers in Europe's weaker
countries cut back sharply. Retail sales were down by 2.2% in Portugal, or 5.0%
on a year-on-year basis.

Full details (pdf).

9.34am: Here's some reaction to today's poor service sector data, from Howard
Archer of IHS Global Insight.

The Eurozone service sector purchasing managers' surveys are truly dire....there
is a growing risk that the rate of Eurozone contraction could actually deepen in
the second quarter.

The Eurozone is currently being buffeted by major headwinds, notably including
increased fiscal tightening in many countries, high and rising unemployment, and
elevated oil prices which are keeping up consumer price inflation and squeezing
companies' margins.

9.14am: This graph shows how Europe's service sector has deteriorated in the
last couple of months, (leading to this morning's poor data, see 9.05am)

It also shows the service sector PMI (the blue line) is a good leading indicator
for GDP (the orange line).

Chris Williamson of Markit believes today's data shows the eurozone will
continue shrinking in the second quarter of 2012, having begun contracting in
the last three months of 2011.

9.05am:Brace yourselves for a deeper, longer recession in the eurozone.

The eurozone service sector has shrunk much faster than expected last month (as
implied by the mostly grim data we've seen in the last hour). The final eurozone
PMI, just released, came in at 46.9, indicating a sharp downturn in April
compared with March (when the PMI was recorded at 49.1).

With any number below 50 indicating a contaction, the message is that the
situation in the Eurozone deteriorated in the last few weeks.

Although Ireland and Germany's service sectors still grew, most other countries
suffered significant declines.

Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said business and consumer
confidence appears to have deteriorated markedly across the eurozone. He added:

Little can be said to remain of any 'core' of strength in the region. Growth has
practically ground to a halt even in Germany, and France has joined Italy and
Spain in seeing a strong rate of economic decline.

8.54am: France's service sector began shrinking in April. Its service sector PMI
came in at a six-month low of 45.2 -- after managing a tiny bit of growth in
March (when the PMI came in at 50.1).

But Germany is doing better -- its service sector kept growing last month,
according to Markit, with a PMI of 52.2. That's slightly higher than March
(52.1).

8.47am: The latest Italian service sector data is as bad as the Spanish (see
8.27am). Activity fell for the 11th month in a row, at its fastest rate for
almost three years, down to 42.3 from 44.3 in March.

Markit, which compiles the data, said is shows that the deterioration of the
Italian economy accelerated in April. It's already in recession.

8.39am: One reason there's so much uncertainty over the Greek elections is that
opinion polling data has not been published since April 20 (Greece's electoral
law doesn't allow it).

But the consensus is still that no party will win an overall majority, and that
Pasok and New Democracy (the two main parties in the current coalition), might
struggle to win enough seats to form a majority between them. Ten different
parties could easily win seats in the parliament, many of whom oppose Greece's
financial programme.

The Wall Street Journal has a good take this morning -- in which it argues that
Greece could go to the polls again later this year :

Many party officials expect elections by the fall. Some, especially in New
Democracy, say fresh elections could happen as early as June.

New Democracy and Pasok typically dominate Parliament, and take turns governing.
But on Sunday they will be lucky to reach a majority of the 300 seats in
Parliament between them, thanks to booming support for protest parties, ranging
from Marxist-Leninists to neo-Nazis.

"We are probably going to wind up with a New Democracy-Pasok coalition if they
get the seats, which they might not," says David Lea, an analyst at Control
Risks, an independent risk-consulting firm. "Either way, another round of
elections before year-end is entirely possible."

Reuters is also warning that the Greek elections are a major risk to the
eurozone.

Some economists take the view that Sunday's election could push Greece back to
the nadir it touched in November last year, when there was widespread talk of an
exit from the euro zone. The contagion effect would drive Spanish and Italian
bond yields straight back into the danger zone, economists say.

8.27am: Spain's service sector has suffered its 10th monthly contraction,
according to data just released.

The Spanish service sector PMI (which measures whether output is rising or
falling across a sector) fell to 42.1 in April, from 46.3 in March. That's a
large monthly fall, and may show that the Spanish recession is accelerating. Any
number below 50 means activity declined.

This graph shows how PMI data often tracks GDP.

8.18am: European big three stock markets are all lower in early trading.

German DAX: down 40 points, or 0.6%, at 6653 French CAC: down 23 points, or
0.74%, at 3199FTSE 100: down 9 points, or 0.17%, at 5756

Michael Hewson of CMC Markets reckons traders are also disappointed that the
European Central Bank didn't announce any new measures at Thursday's meeting in
Barcelona.

Yesterday's decision by ECB President Mario Draghi that there would be no
further help in the near term for the European financial system was a blow to
those who thought that in light of this week's disappointing economic data that
the ECB would hint at further help if the economic outlook continued to darken.

It would appear that Mr Draghi intends to keep the pressure firmly on European
governments to pursue the reformagenda in exchange for any future help,

But the Spanish IBEX has actually risen 52 points, or 0.7%, to 6094.

8.11am: Here's a quick agenda (so regular reader Helianthe can make some
predictions, like yesterday):

[#xfffd] Italian/French/German service sector PMI for April: from 8.45am BST /
9.45am CEST[#xfffd] Eurozone service sector PMI for April: 9am BST / 10am
CEST[#xfffd] Eurozone retail sales for March: 10am BST / 11am CEST[#xfffd] US
non-farm payrolls: 1.30pm BST / 8.30am EST

The Pasok party is also holding rallies in Athens today - trying to find out the
timing (shout if you know!)

8.00am: Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of the eurozone
financial crisis.

Coming up ... pre-election fever is building across Europe, ahead of Sunday's
presidential elections in France, and the parliamentary ballot in Greece. The
battle between Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy is nail-bitingly
close, while the Greek vote could deliver a very divided parliament, throwing
the country's euro future into confusion.

Financial markets are expected to fall this morning, as traders get edgy about
the consequences of both races.

On the economic front, new eurozone service sector and retail sales figures will
be released this morning. And then there's the biggie: the US non-farm payroll -
the key measure of American unemployment.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Ukip enjoys record local elections results

BYLINE: Lizzy Daviesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 521 words

ABSTRACT

Nigel Farage's UK Independence party averages 13% of vote in seats it contested,
piling pressure on Conservatives

FULL TEXT

The UK Independence party, which has historically put in a lacklustre
performance in local elections, has been averaging 13% of the vote in the seats
it contested - five points higher than a year ago - making 2012 a record year
for Nigel Farage's eurosceptics.

Although it has so far failed to convert that share of the vote into a
significant gain in seats, Ukip appears to have done more than enough to ruffle
Tory feathers and put pressure on an already creaking coalition.

Gary Streeter, Conservative MP for Devon South West, lost no time in seizing on
the defections as evidence of why Cameron needs to reassert his party's
traditional values. "We need to work out a strategy, certainly in the west
country, for dealing with the issue of traditional voters shuffling off and
voting Ukip because they don't think our leadership is Conservative enough," he
told the BBC.

"The Ukip vote is not just about Europe," he added. "It's also about a hard core
of traditional Conservative voters saying, actually we don't like the kind of
small 'l' liberal decisions this government is beginning to take. It offends our
values and we're going to protest and vote Ukip."

Despite the solid vote share - the party's best in a local election not held on
the same day as a European election- Ukip had returned only seven councillors
with 99 of the 181 councils declared - a gain of one. In Thurrock, Rushmoor and
North East Lincolnshire, the party gained seats on councils where the
Conservatives lost them. But in Dudley, Sefton and Plymouth, it lost seats.

The mood in the Ukip hierarchy was nonetheless content. The deputy leader, Paul
Nuttall, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the party could be "quite happy"
with the results. "We're certainly putting pressure on the other parties," he
added.

Ukip, which has long campaigned for Britain to exit the EU, is keen to broaden
its political base by calling for the lowering council tax and creating more
grammar schools.

Farage is also keen to boost his party's traditionally poor showing at local
polls, and the party fielded about 700 candidates for election .

That was considerably more than the British National Party's 131 candidates, a
fact that was remarked on by Conservative co-chairman Baroness Warsi.

Appearing to link Ukip's strong performance with the drop in BNP candidates,
Warsi said: "Where Ukip is fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last
time but they're not this time, I think that will have an impact." She added:
"There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political parties, but it
is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of candidates."

The comments sparked anger from Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler, who took to
Twitter and referred to Warsi as a "bitch". In turn, he was criticised by some
of his followers for the use of unparliamentary language and deleted the post
with an apology. Nuttall also reacted to the comments, saying they were
"disgraceful" and "a sign that the Conservatives are very scared of Ukip".

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

BNP falls as Greens rise on mixed night for smaller parties

BYLINE: Rajeev Syalguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 387 words

ABSTRACT

British National party faces political meltdown after losing six seats, while
the Green party celebrates net gain of 11

FULL TEXT

Smaller political parties received mixed results from Thursday's local
elections. While the British National party is facing obliteration, other
parties, including the Greens, made gains across the country.

The far-right British National party is facing political meltdown after losing
six council seats on the night and seeing its share of the vote drop by as much
as half in some of its former strongholds. It failed to make any gains.

The party now has just three councillors left from a high of 57 three years ago
and has been wiped out in Burnley, one of its original heartlands.

In London, the BNP poured resources into the assembly election, but with
counting underway it appeared it had fallen short. The party lost seats in key
BNP areas such as Epping Forest and Pendle.

This year it stood substantially fewer candidates than in previous years, with
no one representing the party in several of its previous strongholds, in
Yorkshire and the north-east.

The Green party was celebrating a night of steady progress after it added to its
number of councillors and successfully defended seats in existing strongholds.

The Greens had 34 seats - a net increase of 11 - winning in target areas such as
Reading and Dudley, and defending all six seats in Norwich. The Greens were also
third in the list of London-wide assembly members - those seats allocated via a
form of proportional representation.

The party contested 943 seats in 119 councils and defended 22 seats it already
held. By Friday night, it had won an average of 9% of the vote in 454 wards,
according to the BBC, and the Green vote was up by one point in those wards it
also fought last year.

The UK Independence party (Ukip) has been averaging 13% of the vote in the seats
it contested - five points higher than a year ago - making 2012 a record year
for Nigel Farage's Eurosceptics.

The English Democrats, a nationalist party, were down two seats, but retained
the position of the mayor of Doncaster.

The Respect party, on the back of George Galloway's victory in Bradford West,
won five seats on the city council. The number of Residents' Associations
winning seats has increased by five council seats to 21 across the country.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Front: Coalition reeling after Labour election gains across England: Tories urge
PM to change tack: Leadership pins hopes on London mayor

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words


Labour was making sweeping gains in local elections across the north, midlands,
and even in some key suburban Southern marginals early today, provoking the
first Conservative demands for David Cameron to change course and rein in
Liberal Democrat influence on the coalition.

Among early successes Labour gained control of a major prize with Birmingham,
and also Southampton. They have also gained Harlow, Plymouth and Great Yarmouth
directly from the Conservatives.

Psephologists were predicting on the basis of early returns that Labour could
secure more than 700 gains. Labour sources said the party was exceeding its
expectations, and predicted 500 gains overall.

Tory MPs appeared unnerved by the way in which Ukip was eating into the
Conservative vote, polling as high as 20%, even if it was gaining relatively few
seats.

On the basis of early returns the Conservative party co-chairman, Lady Warsi,
admitted it was a bad night for the Tories, and the communities secretary Eric
Pickles predicted the party was on course to lose more than 450 seats.

Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat deputy leader, said he was hoping his party
was not going to do as badly as last year when it lost more than 40 % of the
seats it had contested.

Its leadership was pointing to solid performance in Derby, and elsewhere in the
South but overall it was losing half of the seats it contested, proportionately
more than the Conservatives, and worse than in 2011. Initial indications from
Sunderland, Lincolnshire, Stockport, Oldham, Hastings and Manchester suggested
the Liberal Democrats were severely hit, probably doing as badly as last year.
On the basis of this decline, the Liberal Democrats were going to fall well
under 3,000 councillors, its worst tally for two decades, and a serious erosion
of its local government base.

The Lib Dems sought solace in the way that the party was doing well against the
Conservatives in councils where it had a sitting MP, such as Southport
Portsmouth and Eastleigh.

In a worrying sign for Cameron, Conservative rightwingers last night warned that
Ukip's progress required a tougher message on crime, immigration and Europe.

Gerald Howarth, a defence minister, said Cameron must consider Tory unhappiness
on gay marriage and law reform after the election results.

In Plymouth - where the Conservatives suffered badly - Gary Streeter, a centrist
MP, warned the leadership: "There has been a huge vote for Ukip tonight. We need
to work out a strategy for traditional Conservative voters shuffling off and
voting Ukip because they don't think our leadership is Conservative enough. We
need to show the decisiveness and surefootedness we have shown in the past . . .
the Ukip vote is about a hard core of traditional Tory voters saying 'we don't
like the liberal decisions this government is starting to take'."

Claiming the Liberal Democrat vote was disappearing across the country, Streeter
said "If the Liberal Democrat tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too
much, it does not need to do that any longer. We can be tougher with them. We
have got to be much more Conservative on crime, law and order - that is what our
supporters are waiting, indeed gagging to see".

Jeremy Browne, the Liberal Democrat foreign office minister, hit back saying:
"The Conservatives would be making a mistake if they sub-contract all the
liberal element and become a hard core right wing party that are in the market
competing for Ukip for votes, rather than in the centre ground for votes."

The open dispute between the two MPs from within the coalition underlines how
tough it is going to be for David Cameron and Nick Clegg to keep their parties
together. The deputy prime minister was planning to use the next five days for a
succession of media appearances in which he will seek to restate the reasons the
party is in coalition.

Clegg will hold a joint event with David Cameron on Tuesday described as "Rose
Garden 2" - a successor to the press conference that launched the coalition in
May 2010 - at which the two men will argue that the fight to rebalance the
economy remains the glue that keeps the two parties together in government. The
Cameron-Clegg event will come a day before the Queen's speech, which sets out
the legislative programme. Government sources dismissed strong reports that a
ministerial reshuffle would take place this weekend.

Cameron's Conservatives were given a fillip in the final YouGov poll before the
London mayoral contest, which suggested Boris Johnson enjoyed an unassailable
six-point lead over Ken Livingstone, leading on second preferences by 53 to 47
points. The result is due this evening.

Lib Dem activists are concerned whether the party can continue to absorb such an
attrition rate without seeing two decades of building a local council base
gradually destroyed.

Clegg's immediate task, officials say, is to persuade his membership that a
second successive year of reverses in local elections does not foreshadow
inevitable electoral wipeout in 2015.

He is hoping to be able to point to results showing that the party is faring
better in councils where it has an incumbent MP.

Clegg will seek to reassure his members that over the next three years a new
breed of centrist liberal voters will emerge, prepared to forgive broken
manifesto promises and reward the Lib Dem for taking tough decisions to rescue
the economy. He is insisting that some of the visceral anger against his party
has already subsided, and his message is now gaining a hearing. The local
authority elections were accompanied by three mayoral contests, including
London, and 10 referendums on whether to establish city mayors in the big cities
of England.

Ed Miliband, hoping to win the largest share of the vote of the national
parties, is expected to dismiss the London result as a personality contest, and
is hoping strong results in the London assembly elections will deflect criticism
of his party's performance in the capital. It was also conceded that in
referendums on whether to introduce local directly-elected mayors, referendums,
many of the results are likely to be No. In Nottingham it was confirmed that
there had been a No vote with a turnout as low as 8% in one ward.

Nottingham's Labour party was sharply criticised by Chuka Umunna, the shadow
business secretary or putting out leaflets suggesting racists wanted a mayor.

Captions:

David and Samantha Cameron arrive at a polling station in London to cast their
votes Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty

Nick Clegg must persuade members that a wipeout in 2015 is not inevitable

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Front: Clegg makes case for coalition as Lib Dems suffer poll slump: Labour
gains in southern councils: Tories facing more than 400 seat losses

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words


Nick Clegg was last night bracing himself for the Liberal Democrats' darkest
hour in coalition as he faced the prospect of seeing the party's once mighty
local government base shrink to its lowest figure for two decades.

Amid fears that the Lib Dems would be left with fewer than 3,000 councillors,
the deputy prime minister was planning to use the next five days for a
succession of media appearances in which he will seek to restate the reasons the
party is in coalition.

Clegg will hold a joint event with David Cameron on Tuesday described as "Rose
Garden 2" - a successor to the press conference that launched the coalition in
May 2010 - at which the two men will argue that the fight to rebalance the
economy remains the glue that keeps the two parties together in government. The
Conservative communities secretary, Eric Pickles said last night his party was
heading for 450 seat losses in the local elections.

The Cameron-Clegg event will come a day before the Queen's speech, which sets
out the legislative programme. Government sources dismissed strong reports that
a ministerial reshuffle would take place this weekend, even though one has been
discussed in recent days.

In the short term the two men are expected to make several family-friendly
announcements, including plans due to be announced today to block internet
pornography. Clegg is preparing a series of announcements on social mobility.

Lib Dem officials said they had been expecting another awful night after local
elections took place in 181 councils in England, Wales and Scotland.

In the early hours of this morning the officials acknowledged the party had lost
all its seats in North East Lincolnshire, Knowsley, and Halton and expected to
lose all 12 seats it is contesting on Manchester council. This would leave the
Lib Dems with only nine seats - its lowest number for two decades - suggesting
the party was doing as bad as it did during last year's dismal set of election
results. But Simon Hughes, the deputy leader, insisted that the Lib Dems will
not fare as poorly as in 2011 because "people have got used to the party making
difficult decisions", but he admitted that in the north they were the only
government party available to be kicked. He said he was hopeful in the south
that the party could beat off the Tories in some seats.

Cameron's Conservatives were given a fillip in the final YouGov poll before the
London mayoral contest, which suggested Boris Johnson enjoyed an unassailable
six-point lead over Ken Livingstone, leading on second preferences by 53 to 47
points. The result is due this evening.

The poll suggested that a surprising two in 10 Labour voters were intending to
reject Livingstone. There were Labour-based reports last night suggesting that
Livingstone, partly owing to poor weather, was struggling to get his vote out.

The Conservative co-chairman, Lady Warsi conceded it had turned into a bad night
for her party. Labour was confident it had won control of Birmingham,
Southampton and had almost entirely wiped out the Conservative opposition in
Sunderland.

Labour claimed it was making progress in the Midlands in places such as Dudley,
and in Essex - particularly in the kind of seats such as Basildon and Harlow
that it needs to win to be serious contenders at a general election. It also
looked set to win back control of a swath of councils in South Wales. The
Conservatives said Labour had taken Southampton.

Ukip, not strong in local government and fielding relatively few candidates, was
polling 20% in wards in which it is standing.

Lib Dem activists are concerned whether the party can continue to absorb such an
attrition rate without seeing two decades of building a local council base
gradually destroyed.

Clegg's immediate task, officials say, is to persuade his membership that a
second successive year of reverses in local elections does not foreshadow
inevitable electoral wipeout in 2015.

He is hoping to be able to point to results showing that the party is faring
better in councils where it has an incumbent MP.

Clegg will seek to reassure his members that over the next three years a new
breed of centrist liberal voters will emerge, prepared to forgive broken
manifesto promises and reward the Lib Dem for taking tough decisions to rescue
the economy. He is insisting that some of the visceral anger against his party
has already subsided, and his message is now gaining a hearing.

Party officials were hoping that in areas with sitting MPs such as Sheffield,
Eastleigh, Cambridge, Cheltenham and Three Rivers the party will have been able
to resist the pressure from the Tories in the south and Labour in the north. The
full picture will not emerge until this afternoon.

The local authority elections were accompanied by three mayoral contests,
including London, and 10 referendums on whether to establish city mayors in the
big cities of England.

Ed Miliband, hoping to win the largest share of the vote of the national
parties, is expected to dismiss the London result as a personality contest, and
is hoping strong results in the London assembly elections will deflect criticism
of his party's performance in the capital.

The same YouGov poll showed Miliband's party was expecting to see an 8% swing
since 2008 to Labour in the London assembly vote.

Miliband will also seek to deflect the possible loss of control of Glasgow
council by pointing to the proportional voting system used in Scotland and the
fact that more Scottish National party candidates are standing.

Labour officials have tried to dampen expectations, and after the shock of the
Bradford West parliamentary byelection defeat are very nervous at suggestions
that it will take as many as 500 seats, including control of Birmingham city
council.

The Local Government Information Unit said turnout was around 30%.

Captions:

David and Samantha Cameron arrive at a polling station in London to cast their
votes Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Elections 2012: Political briefing: Local symptoms of a national malaise

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 635 words


Whatever the final outcome of the local elections, when the last votes are
counted later today, David Cameron and his coalition cohorts will feel obliged
to write off the night's defeats as the kind of midterm blues that allow voters
to kick a government imposing seemingly endless austerity - but without actually
kicking it out of office.

Will that reassuring shrug be justified in the bleak context of May 2012 when an
unpopular budget has steadily unravelled at micro-level - the granny tax and
pasty tax - and in the macro judgment which once expected solid economic growth
to have been restored by now, instead of GDP still being 4% below its 2007 peak?

Theresa May's problems over crime and borders, Cameron's proximity to the
Murdoch empire, Jeremy Hunt's problems over the BSkyB bid: all contributed to
making the "omnishambles" spring a good deal worse than that.

Yet the record suggests that heavy losses of council seats need not be
forerunners of general election doom two years later, especially if the main
opposition party is still spinning in the mud. Two years into office and still
riding high in 1999, Tony Blair faced midterm problems but handsomely won the
2001 general election against William Hague.

By midterm 2003 he was enmeshed in controversy over the Iraq war, yet survived
to win a third term two years later. Labour steadily lost seats and control of
councils but it took Gordon Brown's unhappy premiership and the worst recession
in 80 years to finish Labour off.

Now, goes the familiar argument, the pendulum is simply swinging back, so that
the Lib Dems are braced for losing between 100 and 300 seats by this evening -
seats won in Labour's doldrum year of 2008. This would be on top of the 700 the
Lib Dems lost in the first wave of anger and bewilderment that followed Nick
Clegg's rose garden deal with Cameron. But No 10's confidence that Boris Johnson
would hold the London mayoralty against Ken Livingstone's tired challenge
appears to provide a bankable prospect that would generate positive headlines
about Britain's most popular Tory.

The danger for ministers is that this time it may be different - for two
reasons. One is the steady march, not of third party politics patiently
pioneered by 30 years of Lib Dem pavement activism, but of much angrier fourth
party populism of left and right. Ukip, the Greens, the Socialist party, George
Galloway's post-Bradford Respect, even the much-fractured BNP, are all symbols
of public disdain for the "business as usual" Westminster model.

Coalition supporters insist this has been a very far from usual government, bold
and radical despite its lack of a single party majority and money to promote its
ideas: from education and the NHS to welfare and constitutional reform, it has
done more than Blair in his first two years.

Yet the coalition partners are fretful, especially on the Tory right where
Cameron is widely, if improbably, seen as a prisoner of pinko Lib Dems - a
mirror image of Lib Dem concerns that they are the chief victims of what the
Irish call "the curse of coalitions", the junior party taking most blame. Tax,
civil liberties, Europe, cuts and immigration: the charge list is long on both
sides.

With hard work and a fair share of luck all such challenges can be faced down if
Cameron can keep voters persuaded, as Blair and Margaret Thatcher - but not John
Major or Brown - managed to do, that he is in charge, the leader who can ride
out the storm.

The omnishambles has shaken that assumption. Cameron stands accused of lacking
drive and grip, of being a posh boy who doesn't understand the privations
millions face, of being without a strategic sense of direction. Midterm council
seat losses may be dismissed as part of the cycle of politics, but once a leader
loses public confidence it is hard to get it back.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Elections 2012: Europe: Mandelson calls for closer links to eurozone - and a
referendum

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 445 words


The pro-Europe former Labour cabinet minister Lord Mandelson will today call for
Britain to commit to a future referendum as the best way of re-establishing a
national consensus about future relations with Europe.

On the eve of elections in France and Greece, he will also warn that the EU
inevitably needs a "eurozone mark two" project which "will rest to some degree
on fiscal federalism amongst its members".

Mandelson is one of a group of Labour politicians who believe the expected
election of Francois Hollande is a chance for Labour to re-engage with Europe.

In a speech in Oxford today, the former European commissioner will stress that a
referendum on Britain's continued membership should occur only after closer
fiscal union - a "eurozone mark two" - has settled, although he admits this is a
way off.

But Labour up until this point has not supported any referendum, and those
running the party increasingly take the view that Britain will not join a single
currency in the lifetime of its current leadership.

Mandelson will say: "I believe a fresh referendum will be necessary because the
political parties cannot reconcile their own differences and come to a final
conclusion on their own, and nor should they.

"While the Conservative party is the home of visceral hostility towards Europe,
to an extent negative feelings about Europe are now more present in all the
parties. This referendum should not be held as a panicky electoral response to
the rise of Ukip, as I fear might be David Cameron's inclination. It would not
be relevant until the new shape of Europe and the success or otherwise of its
eurozone mark two finally emerges."

Cameron has already come under pressure to offer a referendum on UK membership
in the Conservative manifesto, as a way of luring back voters lost to Ukip.

In a frank speech, Mandelson will argue that the euro, if it is more integrated,
need not break up. But fiscal union, something that is far more than a free
trade area, will require a clear mandate and clear debate, he will say.

He questions whether Europeans are willing politically to sign up to such
federalism: "As we are already starting to see, German largesse will not feel
anything like solidarity in Athens or Madrid. And in Germany and other surplus
countries the solidarity may start to look excessive and politically
unsustainable."

Mandelson will also refer to new Policy Network polling conducted by Populus,
showing that 67% still support staying in the EU, although 80% are against
joining a single currency, and 56% favour a referendum now.

Captions:

'A fresh referendum will be necessary because the parties cannot reconcile their
own differences'

Peter Mandelson

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:43 PM GMT

Voters shun BNP in local elections

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 264 words


The British National Party suffered a major setback in the local elections,
losing six council seats.

Campaign group Hope Not Hate said the results left the BNP with just three
councillors in England.

The BNP said all parties had suffered at the expense of Ed Miliband's resurgent
Labour.

The far-right party's leader Nick Griffin said on Twitter: "Hammered by Labour -
same as everyone. No surprise, no disgrace."

A message to activists on the party's website said: "How can Labour takes seats
off us when Miliband is so unpopular? Is there something wrong with the British
National Party or the public?

"The answer is that once the results are all in, Labour will be seen to have
taken seats off everyone. And yet again, the plain truth is that this includes
the BNP.

"Why? Because voters wanted to punish the LibDems and teach the Tories a lesson,
and because - since nationalism's voter base is overwhelmingly working class,
nationalist parties always do far better in elections when Labour is in power.

"When Labour is in opposition people unfortunately forget their misdeeds when in
power."

Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness Warsi earlier linked the rise of the
UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the decline of the BNP.

Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman Gawain Towler to brand her "a bitch".

Mr Towler later apologised saying: "While her comments were contemptible, mine
were out of order and I apologise fulsomely."

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:00 PM GMT

Coalition bruised as Labour scores big election gains

BYLINE: James Tapsfield, Ben Glaze

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1236 words


Ed Miliband today declared that Labour was "winning back people's trust" after a
night of big gains in mid-term local elections across the country.

Miliband's party took control of a series of key councils including Southampton,
Birmingham, Plymouth, Reading, Norwich, Thurrock and Harlow.

Prime Minister David Cameron - who suffered the embarrassment of losing seats in
his Witney constituency to Labour as it made inroads into the Conservative
heartlands of southern England - blamed the setbacks on the tough economic
climate nationally, but insisted he would continue to take the "difficult
decisions" needed to deal with Britain's debt.

With around half of the votes counted, Labour had won control of 22 councils,
racked up around 470 new seats and looked set for overall gains of more than
700, while the Tories looked likely to lose more than 350 seats and the Liberal
Democrats about 200.

Speaking outside his London home, Mr Miliband said: "We are a party winning back
people's trust, regaining ground, but there is more work to do.

"I know that David Cameron promised change and has disappointed people. I am
determined that we can deliver Britain the change it needs.

"People are hurting. People are suffering from this recession, people are
suffering from a Government that raises taxes for them and cuts taxes for
millionaires. I think that's what we saw last night."

Mr Cameron paid a visit to Conservative campaign headquarters in London to thank
party workers.

"I am sorry for all the hard-working Conservative councillors who lost their
seats, obviously against a difficult national backdrop," said the Prime
Minister. "These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers.

"What we have to do is take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt,
deficit and broken economy that we've inherited and we will go on making those
decisions and we've got to do the right thing for our country."

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said he was "really sad" at his party's
results but insisted they would "continue to play our role" in Government
dealing with the economic crisis.

"I am really sad that so many colleagues and friends - Liberal Democrat
councillors, who have worked so hard, so tirelessly for so many years for
communities and families in their local areas - have lost their seats and I want
to pay tribute to all the great work they have done," said the Deputy Prime
Minister.

"I am determined that we will continue to play our role in rescuing, repairing
and reforming the British economy.

"It's not an easy job and it can't be done overnight but our duty is to boost
jobs and investment and to restore a sense of hope and optimism to our country."

A BBC projection of the national vote share gave Mr Miliband's party 39% - up
three points on a year ago. The Tories were down four on 31% and the Lib Dems
trod water on 16%.

In a further blow to Mr Cameron, Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry ignored his
pleas and rejected proposals for elected mayors. Birmingham and other cities are
expected to follow suit.

However, Mr Miliband did suffer a setback in Bradford, where his party lost
seats to George Galloway's Respect party.

And Mr Cameron looked set to reap at least one victory in London, with early
counting in the mayoral election showing Conservative Boris Johnson running well
ahead of Labour rival Ken Livingstone in the race for City Hall.

Tories pointed to a low turnout, estimated at little over 30% nationwide,
suggesting that "apathy" had played a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

"These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote," he said.

"You wouldn't look at this and say Labour was on track to win a general election
at all."

But there were also calls from the Tory backbenches for a change in direction
from the leadership on issues like gay marriage and reform of the House of
Lords.

Senior backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy
rather than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

"The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follows through on Lords
reform," he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth said: "There are issues, for example, like the
proposals for gay marriage. A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying 'I
am a lifelong Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being
proceeded with?"'

And Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were "gagging" for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work in coalition with the Lib Dems.

"Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
Government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats," he said.

"Of course it is what we will be fighting for in the next general election in
2015."

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said Tories would be "bonkers" to respond to
their setback by swinging to the right.

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "It was almost amazing that the Tories
managed to not win the 2010 general election but the thought that they would
somehow build themselves up to a majority by lurching to the right to try and
bring back people they think they've lost to Ukip - insofar as anyone in the
Tory Party should take political and strategic advice from me, can I just advise
them that would be bonkers."

Some 5,000 seats were at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland
and Wales.

Most were last up for grabs in 2008, when the Conservatives made significant
gains.

Around 1,200 are in Scotland, where Labour is expected to find it tougher to
make inroads against the SNP and where counting was only beginning this morning.

The remainder of the 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will
announce their results later.

Mr Miliband was expected today to visit not only cities including Birmingham
where Labour won control in yesterday's elections, but also Worcester, where it
picked up three new councillors but failed to overtake the Conservatives as
biggest party.

A senior Labour source said the leader wanted to show he recognised the need to
reach out to voters who have yet to place their trust in him.

"Ed knows there is more work to do to win people's trust, so today he will not
just be visiting places where Labour won," said the source.

"He will also go to Worcester, which Labour did not win, to show people who did
not vote for us or did not vote at all that Labour can change people's lives for
the better."

Conservatives lost overall control of Worcester in yesterday's elections, which
saw them losing one seat, while Liberal Democrats lost one and both independent
councillors were defeated. The new council will have 17 Tory members, 15 Labour,
two Lib Dems and one Green.

PA

With results available from 122 councils, the state of parties is:

Party; Total; Change in Seats; Net change

councils control won in seats

C 41 -12 975 -386

Lab 70 +28 1,906 +734

LD 6 -1 398 -289

PC -1 122 -21

SNP 2 +2 371 +45

Green 35 +11

R 22 +6

Lib 4 -6

BNP -6

Ind CHC 5 +3

Ind 5 -2 528 -130

Respect 5 +5

SSP 1

Soc -1

UKIP 9

Vacant 5

Eng Dem -2

Llais 13 +3

NOC 49 -14

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:39 AM GMT

UKIP making 'steady progress'

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 214 words


The UK Independence Party is making "steady progress", despite seeing only
limited gains in the local council elections, party leader Nigel Farage said
today.

Mr Farage said they had seen their share of the vote rise across the country,
even though it had failed to translate into a big increase in their tally of
council seats.

"Our share of the vote is going up and up and up, very steadily, very surely,"
he told BBC News.

"Yes, we are getting Conservatives voting for us but it is not just
Conservatives because those results are the same in Labour seats as they are in
Tory seats.

"We haven't quite got to the level where we are bursting through and winning
seats in very large numbers. If we continue this momentum, then next year and
the year after we will start to win council seats in real numbers."

He said that Ukip's appeal was not simply confined to European issues.

"We are talking about immigration, the fact that we still have a total open door
to the whole of eastern Europe. We are talking about green taxes and the damage
it is doing to British industry. We are talking about the need for selective
education. There is a whole raft of policies here," he said.

"For the Tories to attempt to eat into our vote it will mean Mr Cameron changing
its entire manifesto."

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:12 AM GMT

Coalition bruised as Labour scores big election gains

BYLINE: James Tapsfield, Ben Glaze

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 930 words


Conservatives and Liberal Democrats were licking their wounds this morning after
voters dealt the coalition Government a stinging rebuke, handing big gains to
Labour in mid-term local elections across the country.

Key councils such as Southampton, Birmingham, Plymouth, Reading, Norwich,
Thurrock and Harlow fell to Ed Miliband's party, as Labour made inroads into the
South of England, while Prime Minister David Cameron suffered the embarrassment
of losing seats in his Witney constituency to Labour.

With around half of votes counted, Labour had racked up more than 470 new seats
and looked set for overall gains of more than 700, while the Tories looked
likely to lose more than 350 seats and the Liberal Democrats around 200.

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said he was "really sad" at his party's
results but insisted they would "continue to play our role" in Government
dealing with the economic crisis.

Speaking outside his London home, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "I am really
sad that so many colleagues and friends - Liberal Democrat councillors, who have
worked so hard, so tirelessly for so many years for communities and families in
their local areas - have lost their seats and I want to pay tribute to all the
great work they have done.

"I am determined that we will continue to play our role in rescuing, repairing
and reforming the British economy.

"It's not an easy job and it can't be done overnight but our duty is to boost
jobs and investment and to restore a sense of hope and optimism to our country."

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

"These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote," he said.

"You wouldn't look at this and say Labour was on track to win a general election
at all."

But Labour deputy leader Harriet Harman said the results were "very
encouraging".

"We are back in touch and we are making progress. These are undoubtedly
encouraging results. We are not crowing about them but they are very
encouraging."

A BBC projection of the national vote share gave Mr Miliband's party 39% - up
three points on a year ago. The Tories were down four on 31% and the Lib Dems
trod water on 16%.

In a further blow to Mr Cameron, Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry ignored his
pleas and rejected proposals for elected mayors. Birmingham and other cities are
expected to follow suit.

However, Mr Miliband did suffer a setback in Bradford, where his party lost
seats to George Galloway's Respect party.

Tories pointed to a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that
"apathy" had played a significant part in the results.

But there were also calls for a change in direction from the leadership on
issues like gay marriage and reform of the House of Lords.

Senior backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy
rather than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

"The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follows through on Lords
reform," he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth said: "There are issues, for example, like the
proposals for gay marriage. A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying 'I
am a lifelong Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being
proceeded with?"'

And Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were "gagging" for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work in coalition with the Lib Dems.

"Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats," he said.

"Of course it is what we will be fighting for in the next general election in
2015."

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said Tories would be "bonkers" to respond to
their setback by swinging to the right.

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "It was almost amazing that the Tories
managed to not win the 2010 general election but the thought that they would
somehow build themselves up to a majority by lurching to the right to try and
bring back people they think they've lost to Ukip - in so far as anyone in the
Tory Party should take political and strategic advice from me, can I just advise
them that would be bonkers."

Some 5,000 seats were at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland
and Wales.

Most were last up for grabs in 2008, when the Conservatives made significant
gains.

Around 1,200 are in Scotland, where Labour is expected to find it tougher to
make inroads against the SNP and where counting was only beginning this morning.

The remainder of the 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will reveal
their results later.

On a gloomy day for his party and the coalition Government, Mr Cameron will be
hoping for the silver lining of victory for Tory Boris Johnson in the London
mayoral election, with results announced this evening.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson is set
for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%.

With results available from 98 councils, the state of parties is:

Party; Total; Change in Seats; Net change;

councils control won in seats

C 27 -11 578 -276

Lab 49 +21 1,093 +460

LD 3 -1 212 -129

PC 32 -11

Green 16 +3

R 13 +5

Lib 2 -4

BNP -3

Ind CHC 5 +3

Ind -2 163 -81

Respect 5 +5

Soc -1

UKIP 7 +1

Vacant 1

Eng Dem -1

NOC 19 -7

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:11 AM GMT

Labour puts Coalition on the rack

BYLINE: James Tapsfield, Ben Glaze

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 732 words


David Cameron and Nick Clegg have been dealt a stinging rebuke by the public as
Labour racked up big gains in local elections.

Key councils such as Thurrock, Harlow, Southampton, Birmingham, Norwich, Great
Yarmouth and Chorley fell to Ed Miliband's party.

The Prime Minister was also embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

In a further blow, Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry ignored Mr Cameron's
pleas and rejected proposals for elected mayors. Birmingham and other cities are
expected to follow suit.

The Liberal Democrats were not spared pain, being left without a representative
on several powerful councils as voters seemingly punished the Government for
austerity measures.

Overall Labour looked on track to exceed the 700 gains experts had set as the
threshold for a good performance.

A BBC projection of the national vote share gave the party 39% - up three points
on a year ago. The Tories were down four on 31% and the Lib Dems trod water on
16%.

However, Mr Miliband did suffer a setback in Bradford, where his party lost
seats to Respect.

The results followed George Galloway's shock success in last month's
parliamentary by-election.

Tories pointed to a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that
"apathy" had played a significant part in the results.

But there were also calls for a change in direction from the leadership. Senior
backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy rather
than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

"The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform," he told the BBC.

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
the outcome was to be expected.

He said: "When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not
seeking to rain on Labour's parade."

Shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan said: "It has been a good night for Labour
because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of this
coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

"But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this."

Some 5,000 seats were at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland
and Wales.

Most were last up for grabs in 2008, when the Conservatives made significant
gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Around 1,200 are in Scotland - where Labour is expected to find it tougher to
make inroads against the SNP - and yet to be counted.

Labour gained Plymouth from the Tories and Reading from no overall control as it
sought to re-establish itself in crucial electoral battlegrounds.

The party won four seats to strip the Lib Dems of control in Cambridge.

A Labour source said: "We are making real progress in areas where we need to win
(at the general election) in 2015."

The remainder of the 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will reveal
their results later.

And the Prime Minister will be hoping that Boris Johnson has bucked the trend by
securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson is set
for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%.

A Labour source said: "These are strong results for Labour.

"A clear win on national share of the vote - best local election result for
Labour since 1997.

"Taking councils no-one expected us to - Great Yarmouth and Dudley. Winning
councils in the South - Southampton and Plymouth.

"Winning in areas as where there are currently no Labour MPs - Harlow and
Thurrock."

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

"These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote," he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

"You wouldn't look at this and say Labour was on track to win a general election
at all."

With results available from 98 councils, the state of parties is:

Party; Total; Change in Seats; Net change;

councils control won in seats

C 27 -11 578 -276

Lab 49 +21 1,093 +460

LD 3 -1 212 -129

PC 32 -11

Green 16 +3

R 13 +5

Lib 2 -4

BNP -3

Ind CHC 5 +3

Ind -2 163 -81

Respect 5 +5

Soc -1

UKIP 7 +1

Vacant 1

Eng Dem -1

NOC 19 -7

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 6:29 AM GMT

Labour turn target councils red as Coalition suffers in early results

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 494 words


Labour was on course to make hundreds of gains from the Coalition parties early
today amid signs the party's health is beginning to recover in the South.

A series of target councils fell to Labour across the country in all parts of
England - with the party confident of regaining control of Birmingham, the
biggest local authority outside London.

Birmingham had previously been run by a Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition that
echoed the power-sharing government in Westminster. Both Tories and Liberal
Democrats admitted they faced a grim night in the face of the Labour advance.

However, there were also signs the Conservatives were losing significant support
to the UK Independence Party. The loss of voters to Ukip will prompt calls from
Tory MPs for the party to pursue more a more right-wing agenda.

Ed Miliband's party will be most heartened by signs it was attracting back swing
voters in the South and the Midlands. Labour also looked certain to gain
Southampton City Council, where the Tories had previously had a slim majority,
and to oust the Conservatives from office in Plymouth. It also won Exeter City
Council, a result it claimed was at the "outer edge of expectations".

Labour seized control of Harlow council which the Tories had previously held
with a precarious majority of one. It gained five seats in the Essex town which
has swapped allegiance between the Tories and Labour over the last three
decades.

Within an hour, it gained control of the nearby council of Thurrock. It was
polling strongly in the Essex authorities of Southend, where the Tories lost
overall control, and Basildon. Five gains also delivered Great Yarmouth,
Norfolk, to Labour. The Conservatives were also ousted from control in
Gloucester and the Hampshire authority of Hart, which both became a hung
councils. The Tories were ejected from running Worcester, where Labour gained
three seats and the Greens picked up their first seat.

Elsewhere in the Midlands, Labour won overall control of Nuneaton and Bedworth,
Warwickshire, after gaining seven seats from the Tories. It also gained Cannock
Chase in Staffordshire and North East Lincolnshire from no overall control.

Labour gained an overall majority in Carlisle, where the Tories had been in
minority control. In the Merseyside council of Knowsley, Labour captured the
last four Liberal Democrat seats and now has a clean sweep of the authority's 63
seats. In Halton, Cheshire, Labour picked up six seats.

On a grim night for the Liberal Democrats, they lost Cambridge to no overall
control but held on to Eastleigh, Hants.

Key battles: First declarations

Birmingham Labour claims victory in the city from ruling Tory-Lib Dem coalition.

Harlow Swing constituency captured by Labour from narrow Conservative control.

Exeter Five Labour gains in three-way contest wins the city for the party.

Southampton Tory vote slumps to hand city to Labour.

Nottingham Voters reject having a directly-elected Mayor by 57.5 per cent to
42.5 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

The Sketch: Funny guy, but Vaclav has little to laugh about

BYLINE: Simon Carr

SECTION: SIMON CARR

LENGTH: 298 words


On a suitably cold and dismal day, the President of a dissident republic
addressed his underground supporters in inner London about the optimal size of a
monetary union.

The human spirit and so forth, how indomitable it is.

Vaclav Klaus has a broad face, a neat moustache and a quiet sense of middle
European humour. He described a graph showing the inverse relationship between
the depth of integration and the number of countries being integrated. It got a
much bigger laugh than you'd expect.

"I will not be blowing against the wind in front of this audience," he'd said.
That got a laugh as well.

"There is not from heaven falling a large sum of money," he told us (that didn't
get a laugh). The EU had created a political culture that was "post-democracy".

Yes, even euro-enthusiasts recognise that. As to what will happen? "I don't see
what to do tomorrow, or the day after. I think there will be muddling through
short-term problems to long-term stagnation."

Such rhetoric may not light a tall fire in your mind but President Klaus has a
cult status in Eurosceptic circles as the last head of state to sign the Lisbon
Treaty (although he did actually sign it in the end).

He also has an eight-point plan that pumps blood into every UKIP heart -
fiercely and comprehensively anti-socialist from global warming to monetary
union. By his account, it's gaining traction.

The persistence of President Klaus - and of the Bruges Group hosting them, and
of Bill Cash now of the European Scrutiny committee - is heroic when you
consider what has been achieved in the sceptic cause.

That is: nothing. They have been outmanoeuvred at every level and every stage
and the only thing that will now reform the institutions of the EU is a
catastrophe of collapse.

Maybe they won't have long to wait.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Funny guy, but Vaclav has little to laugh about;
SIMON CARR'S SKETCH

BYLINE: SIMON CARR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 296 words


On a suitably cold and dismal day, the President of a dissident republic
addressed his underground supporters in inner London about the optimal size of a
monetary union.

The human spirit and so forth, how indomitable it is.

Vaclav Klaus has a broad face, a neat moustache and a quiet sense of middle
European humour. He described a graph showing the inverse relationship between
the depth of integration and the number of countries being integrated. It got a
much bigger laugh than you'd expect.

"I will not be blowing against the wind in front of this audience," he'd said.
That got a laugh as well.

"There is not from heaven falling a large sum of money," he told us (that didn't
get a laugh). The EU had created a political culture that was "post-democracy".

Yes, even euro-enthusiasts recognise that. As to what will happen? "I don't see
what to do tomorrow, or the day after. I think there will be muddling through
short-term problems to long-term stagnation."

Such rhetoric may not light a tall fire in your mind but President Klaus has a
cult status in Eurosceptic circles as the last head of state to sign the Lisbon
Treaty (although he did actually sign it in the end).

He also has an eight-point plan that pumps blood into every UKIP heart -
fiercely and comprehensively anti-socialist from global warming to monetary
union. By his account, it's gaining traction.

The persistence of President Klaus - and of the Bruges Group hosting them, and
of Bill Cash now of the European Scrutiny committee - is heroic when you
consider what has been achieved in the sceptic cause.

That is: nothing. They have been outmanoeuvred at every level and every stage
and the only thing that will now reform the institutions of the EU is a
catastrophe of collapse.

Maybe they won't have long to wait.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:46 PM GMT

One last hurdle for 'victorious' Boris as vote counting machines fault and
misplaced ballots delay results

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2658 words



     ·    Final result in are - announcement is imminent
     ·    Boris Johnson's press team are claiming victory, according to the BBC
     ·    Margin of victory could be just 80,000 votes
     ·    Final poll before ballots close put Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    YouGov predicts Boris is heading for a narrow victory - by just 3%
     ·    Boris loses two allies; deputy Mayor Richard Barnes and fire chief
          Brian Coleman
     ·    Green Party heading for 3rd place - Lib Dems could be as low as 5th
     ·    Labour secure 8 seats in London Assembly, Conservatives have 6


The winner in the race for Mayor of London, which was meant to have been
announced an hour ago, has been delayed - after a power outage caused chaos with
vote-counting machines earlier today.

Two batches of ballot papers are currently being reprocessed in Brent and
Harrow.

With Boris Johnson leading in the first round of voting, he is on the brink of
defying political gravity by defeating Ken Livingstone in the race to become
mayor, despite a late fightback by the Labour veteran.

A win will take the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative council
seats for David Cameron after an otherwise disastrous 24 hours for the Tories.

As counting continues, Labour sources close to Mr Livingstone have admitted he
is unlikely to win a third City Hall term.

One insider said that the stalwart has a 'low' chance of overturning a four per
cent deficit, adding: 'Our people have not turned out in high enough numbers for
Ken to win.'

Mr Johnson is beating Mr Livingstone, with Boris on 45% and Ken on 40% at 8pm
today with a final result imminent.

The only hope for the Labour candidate is a win on second preference votes,
which would only come into effect if the gap between him and Mr Johnson is less
than 1.5 per cent.

With just an hour to go, YouGov's Peter Kellner called a victory for Boris.

He told BBC News: '(What we are seeing with second preferences) is that Ken is
slightly ahead, but there's not much in it. So if Boris is coming out 3 or 4
points ahead on the first count, as I think he wil, that's too big a lead for
Ken to overturn.

'So my prediction is that Boris will be up at around 51 and a half, 52 per cent,
Ken 48, 48 and a half per cent. A tantalisingly narrow vote. But I think it is
just wide enough, with the figures we've got, to say Boris has won.'

Victory will be bittersweet for Boris, who'll need to appoint a new deputy if he
is returned to City Hall.

His loyal number two, Richard Barnes this afternoon lost his seat in Ealing and
Hillingdon to Labour's Dr Onkar Singh Sahota.

Dr Sahota's narrow victory was predicted, but it is still a major blow for Mr
Johnson.

Another fallen ally is Brian Coleman, chair of the London fire authority, who
has lost his Barnet and Camden seat to Labour's Andrew Dismore.

Defeat is likely to spell the end of Ken's 30-year political career and he even
admitted today that he will concentrate on his gardening if his bid fails.

'My immediate future is not affected by winning or losing. My sister-in-law has
just moved into a new house and I promised I'd go and sort out her garden on the
bank holiday,' Ken said.

'I'm just hoping it doesn't rain. It's completely overgrown and I love sorting
out old gardens.

'Beyond that, I'll have to wait until Tuesday. Either I'll be back in City Hall
signing off on the fares reduction, or I'll be thinking of something else to
do.'

Mr Livingstone said he has not decided what he will do if he is not returned to
City Hall.

He said: 'I feel a great sense of relief. I started campaigning 23 months ago
with the Labour primary with Oona [King] and since October I've been out
campaigning to rebuild the Labour Party in parts of London where it had fallen
into disrepair.

'What we'll see tonight is clearly that Labour will be the largest party in
London. Beyond that it's all speculation.'

Speaking to reporters as he left his home this morning Boris said he was
'optimistic' he would win a second term as Mayor.

Nationally the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners have been
haemorrhaging support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing
off Ken Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he
had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win.

As he rode his bike from his London home this morning, bookies' favourite Mr
Johnson told the Evening Standard: 'I'm feeling good. I'm optimistic. I wouldn't
say confident, as it's a bit early, but optimistic.

'I'm not sure what I'll be doing tonight but I hope I'll be celebrating.'

Meanwhile Mr Livingstone said his campaign had been dogged by negative smears
and may have derailed votes for city mayors elsewhere in England.

'The nature of the campaign this time was awful. I came into politics to discuss
issues but this campaign has been dominated by smears and trivialities,' he
said.

'I wonder to what extent all those voters in cities who have voted against
having their own elected mayors have been put off by the unsatisfactory nature
of this campaign.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his
association with David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said "Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory" and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.

'I backed Ken Livingstone, I think he was the best mayor London's had so far. I
think he would be a better mayor for London on Tube fares and jobs and housing
than Boris Johnson who, let's be honest, is a bit of a joker, a bit of a
buffoon.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

Electronic vote counting at one of the count centres in the capital was delayed
by more than an hour today following a power cut, officials have said.

The process of scanning ballot papers at Alexandra Palace in north London had
been due to start at 8.45am, but did not get under way until 10.15am due to the
temporary loss of power.

It is understood builders there may not have known the count was happening but
it will probably not delay the result.

The site is one of three across London, including Excel and Olympia, where vote
counting for the Mayor of London and London Assembly elections is taking place.

London Elects spokesman Euan Holloway said: 'It delayed the start of the count,
but we don't think it's disrupted the progress of the count too much, it's up
and running now.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson campaigned with long-suffering wife Marina by his side, who
allegedly threw him out of home because it was believed he had a string of
affairs behind her back.

Victory for him will lift Tory hearts after a turbulent month for the Government
which has seen its national poll ratings slump.

But elsewhere, Labour was making in-roads in the local elections, albeit on
shockingly low turnouts in many areas. Ed Miliband's party picked up a 13 per
cent swing in one ward in Harlow - a key seat the party needs to win if it wants
to secure a majority in the 2015 General Election - and was on course to take
control of Southampton from the Tories.

Labour appeared to be stealing votes en masse from the Lib Dems in swing seats
such as Winchester, Hull and Havant.

But as well as defeat in London, the Labour leader was facing a humiliating
setback in Scotland, where the Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow
council - a totemic gain in what was once a Labour heartland.

Nick Clegg's party lost its last councillor in Sunderland, wiping out the third
party in a key north-east city.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:36 PM GMT

Now stand up for Tory values! Cameron faces Coalition civil war as Boris's
triumph is overshadowed by local election battering

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2832 words


Now stand up for Tory values! Cameron  faces Coalition civil war as Boris's
triumph is overshadowed by local election battering


     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS SO FAR: Labour +32, Tories -12 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +823, Tories -405, Lib Dems -336
     ·    Labour on course for big gains in local elections, with 39% of the
          vote against Tories with 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Councillors turn on 'catastrophe Clegg' as his party loses 50% of
          seats
     ·    Miliband hit with an egg during a victory walkabout in Southampton


David Cameron is struggling to contain civil war in the Coalition following a
painful setback in local elections for both Government parties.

Last night the Prime Minister was warned to rein in 'wind turbine Toryism' as
senior Conservative MPs prepared to publish an alternative programme for
Government, demanding more radical tax and spending policies.

Seeking to draw a line under the Government's most turbulent period, Mr Cameron
admitted the polls took place against a 'difficult national backdrop' but
insisted ministers were doing the 'right thing for our country'.

Scroll down for live results and videos

However he faces an immediate challenge from senior figures on the Right of his
party who want him to stand up to the  Liberal Democrats.

They plan to unveil an alternative Queen's Speech within days, setting out 20
Bills they argue would kickstart the faltering economy and boost Conservative
support.

Tory hearts were lifted last night as Boris Johnson appeared on course to defy
political gravity with a knife-edge defeat of Labour's Ken Livingstone in the
London mayoral election, the biggest ballot-box test before the next General
Election.

Mr Johnson, whose victory would put him in pole position to succeed Mr Cameron,
brushed aside suggestions that he would return to Parliament as an MP in 2015 to
battle for the leadership.

But Tory MPs pointed out that the London Mayor had outperformed his party in the
capital while refusing to apologise for traditional Eurosceptic, low-tax Tory
principles.

Unease has been growing on Conservative back benches at the power and influence
of Mr Clegg in the Coalition, with MPs complaining that Mr Cameron has been
forced to water down policies on Europe, tax cuts, human rights, NHS reforms and
the family.

Right-wingers led by David Davis and John Redwood will argue that a more radical
economic strategy is needed, proposing targeted tax cuts, deeper spending cuts
and an end to expensive environmental regulation.

The Prime Minister is under pressure to champion more traditional Conservative
policies on law and order and education.

Eurosceptic Tories also want Mr Cameron to consider offering a referendum on
Britain's future in the EU.

Though the Lib Dems would be likely to walk out of the Coalition if he did so,
some MPs suggest he could announce a poll to coincide with the next General
Election, even if it meant running a minority Conservative government for the
last few months of the Parliament.

They suggest such a dramatic move would energise Conservative support on
election day.

Tory MPs drew some comfort from the fact that Labour's performance, while solid
at around 38 per cent of the vote to the Tories' 31 per cent, did not indicate a
party cruising towards General Election victory.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell told the Huffington Post website: 'These results show
why we need to deliver the EU referendum we promised when in opposition.

UKIP cost us a number of seats in council elections.

'If repeated in a General Election, this will mean us losing dozens of seats and
make an overall majority less likely. More wind-turbine Toryism is not the
answer.'

Stewart Jackson MP called for an end to 'barmy' policies. 'David Cameron is on
notice that he does need to raise his game,' he said.

'He needs to focus on bread-and-butter issues like jobs and mortgages and public
services and, above all, to develop a clear route map to growth, and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique around him and barmy policies such as
Lords reform and gay marriage, which people either don't like or don't care
about.

'There is a growing frustration from many Conservative backbenchers that their
views are not being listened to.'

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister, called for Mr Cameron to overrule the
Lib Dems on more issues.

'Let us remember that the Liberal Democrats make up one sixth of the Coalition,
not one half of the Coalition,' she said.

'David can listen rather more to Conservative MPs, who represent the real people
of this country, and give rather less regard to the Liberal Democrat
intellectual urban elite, with their student politics idea of reforming the
constitution and taking forward green policies.'

Centrist Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some
more traditional Right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

But senior figures including Foreign Secretary William Hague insisted that
abandoning the centre ground and shifting to the Right would be futile.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenNOC No ChangeAberdeenshireNOC No ChangeAdurCON No Change    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

SNP gain from NOCArgyll & ButeNOC No Change    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

LAB No ChangeBlaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

LAB gain from NOC   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

LAB gain from NOC Calderdale

NOC No Change Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

LAB gain from NOC   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

NOC No ChangeCastle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  ClackmannanshireNOC No Change    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

IND No Change ConwyNOC No Change    Coventry

LAB No Change    CravenCON No Change    CrawleyCON No Change    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

NOC No Change    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterLAB No ChangeDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries &
GallowayNOC No Change DundeeSNP gain from NOCEast AyrshireNOC No ChangeEast
DunbartonshireNOC No ChangeEast LothianNOC No ChangeEast RenfrewshireNOC No
ChangeEastleighLD No ChangeEdinburghNOC No ChangeElmbridgeCON No ChangeEpping
ForestCON No ChangeExeterLAB gain from NOCFalkirkNOC No ChangeFarehamCON No
Change FifeNOC No ChangeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadLAB No ChangeGlasgowLAB
gain from NOC Gloucester CON lose to NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddPC lose to NOCHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateCON No ChangeHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandHuntingdonshireCON No ChangeHyndburnLAB No Change
InverclydeNOC No ChangeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesNOC No ChangeKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeedsLAB No Change Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolLAB No ChangeMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianLAB lose to NOCMilton KeynesNOC No ChangeMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNOC No ChangeNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeLAB gain from NOCNewcastle upon TyneLAB No
ChangeNewportLAB gain from NOCNorth AyrshireNOC No ChangeNorth East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireCON No ChangeNorth LanarkshireLAB No
ChangeNorth TynesideLAB No ChangeNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyIND No ChangeOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshireIND No ChangePendleNOC No ChangePerth & KinrossNOC No
ChangePeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysIND No ChangePreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchLAB gain from CONReigate & BansteadCON No
ChangeRenfrewshireLAB gain from NOCRhondda Cynon TaffLAB No ChangeRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendaleLAB gain from NOC Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyCON No ChangeRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersNOC No ChangeSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldLAB No ChangeShetlandIND No ChangeSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullCON No ChangeSouth AyrshireNOC No ChangeSouth
CambridgeshireCON No ChangeSouth LakelandLD No ChangeSouth LanarkshireNOC No
ChangeSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingNOC No Change

Stockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudNOC No ChangeSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaLAB gain from NOCSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversLD No ChangeThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsCON No ChangeVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldLAB No ChangeWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonLAB No ChangeWatfordLD No ChangeWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireLAB gain from NOCWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianNOC No ChangeWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingWokinghamCON No ChangeWolverhamptonLAB No ChangeWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingCON No ChangeWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

A good night, Ed, but don't crow yet

The 2012 local elections  were bad for the Conservatives, but by no means as bad
as  some of the mid-term blues that have hit governments in the past.

Although Labour has made respectable progress, it cannot see gains of a little
over 800 councillors as evidence it will certainly win a 2015 general election.

Labour's vote share was about 38 per cent, way above some of its poll ratings a
few months ago, but not as impressive as the 42 per cent it achieved during the
Tory governments of the late 1980s and 1990s. Back then, the Tories sank as low
as 27 per cent.

If Ed Miliband is to be sure of national success, he needs to see Labour poll
over 40 per cent in local elections for several years running.

Of the smaller parties, Ukip made good progress in terms of vote share in seats
where they stood, though they did not win any new councillors.

The party's surge is evidence of dissident Conservatives making a protest. In
the past, Ukip has been able to make occasional and exciting interventions into
British voting, but has subsequently faded away. It has generally done well when
the Tories are unpopular - something the Lib Dems once did. Ukip, the Greens and
other minor parties can expect to prosper more as an opportunity for protest
voting in future.

So just how bad were these results for the Conservatives? Their national vote
share was  31 per cent, well down on last year. However,  their loss of seats
was far smaller than those suffered by Mrs Thatcher or Tony Blair in their worst
years.

For example, more than once during the  1980s, Mrs Thatcher lost 1,000 seats in
a year,  and in 1999 and 2003, Mr Blair suffered similar losses. Yet both went
on to win the next  general elections.

For the Lib Dems, who have lost their 'protest vote' status, this result is
another body blow added to the one they suffered last year. They have lost more
than 300 councillors and have slumped to a total of under 3,000 across Britain.
This is their lowest number since the mid-1980s and is sure to spark growing
disquiet within the party's rank and file.

Next year, there will be shire county elections, with the prospect of a further,
possibly worse, battering. Fewer councillors means fewer activists and thus, the
inevitability of fewer MPs.

Local elections should be about clean streets, bins, council tax and a decent
environment. Inevitably, though, they are used as a real-time opinion poll about
David, Ed and Nick. In reality some  perfectly good Conservative and Liberal
Democrat councillors will have lost their seats because of the Coalition's
recent shambolic activities.

However, London's City Hall race, between Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone,
showed what an extraordinary vote-winner Boris is. With his  party well behind
Labour in the national vote, Johnson radically out-performed the Tories across
the capital.

These elections have worsened the political weather for David Cameron, with the
risk they will empower his enemies within his party. He will now also need to
keep an eye out for Boris, whose popularity will not be lost on the Tory
faithful.

Clegg and Co on the rocks says one of his own peers

Nick Clegg was last night warned by one of his own peers that the Liberal
Democrats could cease to be a viable force at the next general election.

The Deputy Prime Minister said he was 'saddened' after the Lib Dems lost more
than 300 councillors, or 40 per cent of the seats they contested.

The party's slump means it now has fewer than 3,000 councillors for the first
time since the 1980s.

Lord Oakeshott, a key ally of Vince Cable, warned the party could not afford to
fight the next general election if it received a similar 'hammering'.

He said: 'We have got to face it - we have had another very substantial swathe
of our crucial activist base wiped away.

'For me, what matters is whether we can fight the next election as a nationwide,
powerful, independent force, and if we have another year like this, we won't be
able to. Unless there is a change, both coalition partners and our country are
heading for the rocks.'

John Curtice, professor in politics at Strathclyde University, said the Lib
Dems' base was at 'serious risk of disappearing entirely'.

He said: 'Nick Clegg's claims that voters are starting to listen to the party
have been shown to have not any credibility to them at all.'

However Lib Dem support held up well in areas where there they had sitting MPs
and a strong activist base. Mr Clegg insisted his party would 'continue to play
our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

Speaking outside his £2million London home, he said: 'I am really sad that so
many colleagues and friends, Liberal Democrat councillors, who have worked so
hard, so tirelessly for so many years for communities and families in their
local areas have lost their seats.'

He added: 'I am determined that we will continue to play our role in rescuing,
repairing and reforming the British economy.'

However the party was facing a near wipe-out on the Greater London Assembly,
where its mayoral candidate Brian Paddick was struggling to even come fourth.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik even said Mr Clegg should quit as party leader -
but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Mr Opik called for Mr Clegg to be replaced with a figure from the left of the
party to win back disgruntled activists.

Tim Farron, the party president, also suggested the defeats had been down to the
Coalition.

He said: 'I am sorry, genuinely sorry. Those guys lost their seats last night
not through their fault but through our fault, because of where we are
nationally, being in government.'

In Sunderland, councillor Paul Dixon, who lost his seat to the Labour candidate,
blamed Mr Clegg for his defeat.

Mr Dixon said: 'I put it down to the Nick Clegg and his cronies in Government.

'It's definitely all down to the national issues and it's a shame people have
not voted on the local issues.

'Nick Clegg should take a real hard look at what they are doing as it has been
really bad tonight. He needs to listen, he's got to do something.

'Come the next general election we will also start to lose our MPs if he doesn't
do something now.'

 The Lib Dem leadership was also told to quit getting 'bogged down' in Lords
reform and an overhaul of the Commons by one of its own MPs.

John Pugh said the Coalition should focus on jobs and think 'very hard' before
diving into constitutional reform.

Mr Pugh, the Lib Dem MP for Southport, said: 'Nick is not directly responsible
for them losing their seats, but certainly the way the Coalition presents itself
is a problem for local Liberal Democrats as they are trying to do the best for
their community.'

Danny Alexander, the Lib Dem chief secretary to the Treasury, said that all the
main parties were committed to reforming the House of Lords.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:06 PM GMT

Egged Miliband! Labour leader is pelted with an egg during victory parade on a
day of punch-ups and name-calling

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 846 words



     ·    Culprit scrambles away down street as stunned Ed carries on with
          speech
     ·    Overshadows local election victory that gives Labour more than 800
          seats
     ·    Incident mirrors 'two jabs' Lord Prescott egging in 2001


He should have been enjoying the sweet smell of success.

But instead Ed Miliband's local elections triumph turned sour today as he was
pelted - with an egg.

The Labour leader was on a victory walkabout in Southampton after racking up 776
new council seats - almost 100 more than expected - across the country.

But the vote predictions weren't the only thing that was smashed when the large
chicken egg cracked on the leader's shoulder.

Scroll down to see the video

It left a runny yellow mess down Mr Miliband's grey suit as his team scrambled
to catch the culprit.

The politician was giving a TV interview when the man in a hat pushed through
the throng and slapped the egg on Mr Miliband's shoulder.

The egg broke left a yellow mess dripping down Mr Miliband's jacket, which he
quickly removed and gave to an aide as the man fled down the street.

Mr Miliband finished the interview in just a shirt and tie, made an exit and
went back to his car.

The scene was similar to when Labour's former deputy PM John  Prescott was hit
with an egg thrown by a protester in 2011 in Rhyl, north Wales.

Lord Prescott responded with two quick punches to the man's face - and earned
himself the nickname 'two jabs'.

Mr Miliband's response was not quite as aggressive.

After being hit and removing his dirtied jacket, Mr Miliband joked that the man
was 'obviously not one of my fans'.

He later Tweeted: 'For those wondering about egg's origins, fairly sure it
wasn't free range but nothing can take away from cracking result in
Southampton...'

The fracas was just one of several ugly scenes and marred a jubilant day for
Labour in which they took control of 32 councils.

The first spats of violence began yesterday in Tower Hamlets when police at a
polling station had to call reinforcements after a candidate alleged that he had
been threatened by activists from rival parties.

Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London Assembly elections, claimed
that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights out' when he complained about
the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets outside St Matthias Primary,
off Brick Lane.

Officers spent the rest of the day guarding polling stations across the borrough
after the Met launched a formal investigation into allegations of electoral
fraud in the borough. Police were called in after reports of voter intimidation
outside polling stations at previous elections.

It was feared that activists were 'harassing' potential voters.

The drama was followed by a fracas in Bradford between Respect Party followers
and supporters of Labour, still angry about the humiliating by-election defeat
inflicted on them by MP George Galloway.

In yet more ugly election scenes, police were forced to break up a late-night
election count dsipute in St Helens.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in the Labour-controlled constituency
suffered a series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader
on the council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

Another  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman
Baroness Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with
the decline of the far-right British National Party.

UKIP were tipped to do well as the results poured in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:50 PM GMT

Tory humiliation as Labour gain 757 seats: Cameron says 'sorry' after defeat
(but Boris looks pretty happy as he heads to victory over Ken)

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 5148 words



     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS SO FAR: Labour +29, Tories -12 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +757, Tories -410, Lib Dems -320
     ·    Labour on course for big gains in local elections, with 39% of the
          vote against Tories with 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Councillors turn on 'catastrophe Clegg' as his party loses 50% of
          seats
     ·    Coalition civil war as Tories urge Cameron to ditch 'barmy liberal'
          policies like gay marriage and Lords reform
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b***h' after she
          linked their best result yet with the decline of the BNP
     ·    Respect takes five seats from Labour in Bradford after by-election
          victory
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Boris Johnson set to defeat Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% as two in
          ten Labour voters reject their own man


Prime Minister David Cameron today apologised to hundreds of Conservative
councilors who lost their seats as the party suffered a crushing defeat to
Labour who went beyond the 700 positions they were expected to win.

Labour had already claimed 757 seats by 4pm this afternoon as the Tories lost
410 councillors - more than a third of their regional power.

By 4pm this afternoon, Labour had gained 29 councils, Tories had lost 12 and Lib
Dems lost one. Lib Dems had lost 320 seats - more than expected - in a
particularly bad defeat for the party.

Mr Cameron said the elections had taken place against a 'difficult national
backdrop' but insisted the Government was doing the 'right thing for our
country' through spending cuts.

The bruised Conservatives are hoping to save face with an emphatic victory for
Boris Johnson over Ken Livingstone in London today, with results expected after
6pm. He has been ahead in the count throughout the day with Labour sources
admitting that Ken's bid is now doomed.

Scroll down for live results and videos

The Tory leader said: 'I am sorry for all the hard-working Conservative
councillors who lost their seats, obviously against a difficult national
backdrop.

'These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is
take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt, deficit and broken economy
that we've inherited and we will go on making those decisions and we've got to
do the right thing for our country.'

Mr Cameron added: 'When you are trying to bring the country out of the debt, the
deficit and the broken economy that Labour left us, there aren't easy decisions
but we've got to make sure we do everything to demonstrate that we are on the
side of people who work hard and do the right thing for themselves and their
families.'

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are on course for an even worse defeat as they lose
around half of their seats, meaning they will drop below 3,000 councillors for
the first time in their history.

Dejected councillors rounded on their struggling leader - unpopular with voters
after endless policy betrayals - and warned the party faced obliteration at the
next general elections in 2015.

The polls closed at 10pm last night with just 32 per cent of the 29million
eligible voters visiting polling station. The turnout was the lowest for 12
years.

As David Cameron spent last night with his inner circle at the party HQ, the
defeat sparked a frantic reaction from Tory MPs with some blaming the weather
and many urging the party to ditch their Coalition partners.

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they had suffered a 'bad night' as voters
punished them for a poorly received budget.

They are now pinning their hopes on the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of
London, who is on course to beat Ken Livingstone as two in ten Labour voters
shun their own man, according to the latest YouGov poll.

At 4pm this afternoon Boris was on 44 per cent of the votes while LIvingstone
was on 40 per cent - a slight narrowing of the 53:47 predicted yesterday.

Sources in the Ken camp told the London Evening Standard that his chances were
'low' while Mr Livingstone said he would take 'gardening leave' if he isn't
elected to City Hall.

Across the country, the BBC is projecting Labour a 39 per cent vote share ahead
of the Tories 31 per cent and Lib Dems 16 per cent.

Key councils such as Southampton, Birmingham, Plymouth, Reading, Norwich,
Thurrock and Harlow have fallen to Labour, as they made inroads into the South
of England. They also made strong gains in Wales.

The Prime Minister will be most embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

With most of votes counted, Labour smashed the significant 700 estimate, while
the Tories had lost 378 seats and the Liberal Democrats around 265.

In a further blow, Mr Cameron's dream of elected mayors in Britain's major
cities looks to be in tatters after Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry rejected
proposals for elected mayors. Results from Birmingham, Leeds,
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sheffield and Wakefield are being announced later today.

But the voters of Bristol bucked the national trend and voted in favour of a
city mayor.

Ed Miliband today hailed his party's successes in yesterday's local elections as
a sign that Labour was 'winning back trust' and regaining ground lost in the
2010 general election. He said the party was 'exceeding expectations'.

But the Labour leader was careful to avoid sounding triumphalist over the polls
insisting that there was still 'more work to do'.

Mr Miliband celebrated with supporters in Birmingham where Labour has taken 20
seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib Dem administration to give it 77
councillors on the 120-member city council.

He said: 'People are suffering and we have got to show people that Britain can
be better than it is.'

With low turnouts indicating voter apathy he added: 'What worries me is that
there are people who think politics can't change things for them. There are lots
of people who think that politics can't answer the problems in their lives.

'I'm determined that Labour shows that we can do that, that actually people can
put their faith in us.

'More people put their faith in us yesterday than in the elections a year ago,
and I'm pleased they've done that.

'But I know we've got more work to do to convince those that didn't vote for us
yesterday that actually we can change Britain for them.'

Speaking later in Worcester, Mr Miliband said: 'I came here to say thank you to
the people of Worcester because, in increasing numbers, they put their trust in
Labour yesterday.

'For the first time in more than a decade, the Conservatives have lost overall
control of the council.

'Labour is changing. We are getting back in touch with people. We campaigned
here on issues like housing, youth jobs and bus services, which really matter
here.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls told the BBC: 'I think for the Conservatives this is
quite a big day, because I don't think this is mid-term blues.

'But for Labour, it shows us there is still a challenge there, we have got to
keep working hard.'

Mr Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his association with
David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said ''Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory'' and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

Labour's triumphant result has seen bookies slash their odds about Labour
winning the next general Election with an overall majority, from 13/8 to 6/4
favourites, and have lengthened the Conservatives from 2/1 to 9/4.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Lib Dems were not spared pain, being left without a representative on
several powerful councils as voters punished the beleaguered leader for a string
of u-turns on issues such as student fees, VAT, Remploy factories, a failed
attempt at voting reform and benefits cuts.

Lord Prescott tweeted: 'The Lib Dems have less than 3000 councillors for the
first time ever. Welcome to #ArmaCleggon'.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik said the results reinforced his campaign for Mr
Clegg to quit as party leader - but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Lib Dem grassroots were also rounding on Mr Clegg, with Sunderland's only Lib
Dem councillor Paul Dixon telling the Deputy PM to 'open his eyes' and warning
that the party could be obliterated in national elections.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg said he was 'really sad' but insisted his party would
'continue to play our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

LIB DEMS ARE BEATEN IN EDINBURGH... BY A PENGUIN

Lib Dems faced yet more humiliation in one local council election - after being
beaten by a man dressed as penguin.

Professor Pongoo, whose real name is Mike Ferrigan, is an independent candidate
in the Pentland Hills ward for the City of Edinburgh Council.

With a total of 444 votes, he received more than both the Liberal Democrat
candidate and the Green party candidate.

The Liberal Democrat candidate Stuart Bridges received just 370 and Phyl Stuart
Meyer from the Green party got 322.

Mr Ferrigan carried out his entire campaign dressed in a penguin costume and
even promised to go to every full council meeting dressed as Professor Pongoo.

The Pentland Hills ward was one of the first to be declared at the count on
Friday.

The three seats were won by SNP Bill Henderson, Labour's Ricky Henderson and
Conservative Dominic Heslop.

With the potential for further blows for the Liberal Democrats in Scottish local
elections and the London mayoral contests, Mr Clegg said the coalition was in a
'difficult mid-term period'.

And despite big gains, it was not all celebrations for Labour. George Galloway's
Respect Party took five council seats in Bradford - including the leader - just
weeks after inflicting an humiliating by-election defeat on Labour.

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: 'We took the head off the rotten
fish that is the Bradford city council. We defeated a council leader who sat
there, apparently impregnable and utterly complacent, for a decade and a half or
more.'

Another outside party that increased its votes was the UK Independence Party
which said is making 'steady progress', despite seeing only limited gains in the
local council elections.

'Our share of the vote is going up and up and up, very steadily, very surely,'
party leader Nigel Farage told BBC News.

Labour also had success in Scotland.

With around two-thirds of the country's 32 authorities declared, both the SNP
and Labour had achieved some high-profile victories.

However, the Liberal Democrats have seen their support slump, with Jenny Dawe,
former leader of Edinburgh City Council, voted out of office.

Labour appear to have taken the lead in the battle for control of Scotland's
largest local authority, Glasgow City Council. Although all the results there
have not been declared, the Nationalists cannot win a majority on the council.

Green Party ccouncillor Martin Ford, who almost derailed Donald Trump's plans
for a £1 billion golf resort, was among those who successfully defended his seat
in he East Garioch ward of Aberdeenshire Council.

The results in England have seen big gains for outsider parties with UKIP making
breakthroughs across England and Wales where it is currently averaging 13% of
the vote.

Tories were quick to blame the poor results on 'mid-term blues'. They pointed to
a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that 'apathy' had played
a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

'These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote,' he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work with the Lib Dems.

'Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats,' he said.

There were even calls for a change in direction from the leadership as Cameron
struggles to contain civil war within the coalition.

Senior backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy
rather than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

She said: 'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up.
We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to
rain on Labour's parade,' he said.

Former ministerial aide Stewart Jackson told BBC Radio 4's The World at One that
Cameron needed to abandon 'barmy liberal' policies.

He said: 'David Cameron, I think, is on notice that he does need to raise his
game.

'He needs to concentrate on bread and butter issues likes jobs and mortgages and
public services and above all develop a clear route map to growth and stop
fixating on the agenda of a liberal clique and barmy policies such as Lords
reform and gay marriage.'

Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

'If the tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too much, we have got to be a
little more small ''c'' and big ''C'' conservative on crime, law and order, some
of our traditional policies. That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed
gagging, to see,' he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth pinned some of the blame for the Tories' poor
performance on support for policies such as gay marriage and House of Lords
reform. They are seen by some in the party as symptoms of a too-strong Liberal
Democrat influence within the coalition.

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said swinging to the right would be a 'bonkers'
strategy for the senior coalition partner.

Lord Oakeshott, a former Treasury spokesman, demanded a u-turn on cuts and new
policies on growth and spending. He said the Treasury resembled 'a beached
whale'.

Labour jumped on their success as a sign that voters were rejecting Tory
spending cuts.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said: 'I think this is a very encouraging
result. We won councils we did not expect to win, we won in the south and we won
councils where we lost MPs at the last election.

'I think this is very important progress - despite a very bad election defeat
two years ago we have got the biggest share of the vote this year. We are back
in touch and making progress. This has given people strong Labour councils to
protect them from the damage the Coalition is doing.

'People are worried about their living standard and their jobs and the
Government has not listened to them.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties, including a backlash over the granny tax, pasty tax and links to
the Murdoch media empire.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour had tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

Thirty councils and 1,223 seats are up for grabs north of the border. The SNP is
hoping to build on the 363 seats it won in 2007, while Labour aims to make gains
on its 348 seats. Both will be closely watching results for Glasgow City
Council: a key battleground for the two parties.

Labour celebrated its election success in Wales with a mini victory parade by a
statue of one its most famous politicians. First Minister Carwyn Jones, Shadow
Secretary Peter Hain and a hoard of party members hit Cardiff City Centre just a
few hours after taking control of nine of the country's councils.

They gathered by the statue of the late Labour MP and NHS founder Aneurin Bevan
in Queen Street to spell out their vision for its local authorities.

Among its major victories included winning the 'big three' of Cardiff, Swansea
and Newport - completing a hat trick over rivals the Liberal Democrats, who
suffered a torrid time.

Labour also managed to snatch the Vale of Glamorgan from the Conservatives as
well make gains from Plaid Cymru. Upsets for the nationalists included seeing
their Caerphilly councillor Ron Davies - a former Labour MP and UK government
cabinet minister - lose his seat.

Party sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

UKIP CALLS BARONESS WARSI A B**** AS SHE LINKS THEIR RISE TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest battle is Nick Clegg, who is on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one Lib
Dem source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

The Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which
is might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will all have revealed their
results later by later today.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

Two in ten Labour voters said they would be voting for Boris instead of Ken,
according to the poll. Had they remained loyal to their party roots Ken
Livingstone would have been expected to win.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenNOC No ChangeAberdeenshireNOC No ChangeAdurCON No Change    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

SNP gain from NOCArgyll & ButeNOC No Change    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

LAB No ChangeBlaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

LAB gain from NOC   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

LAB gain from NOC Calderdale

NOC No Change Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

LAB gain from NOC   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

NOC No ChangeCastle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  ClackmannanshireNOC No Change    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

IND No Change ConwyNOC No Change    Coventry

LAB No Change    CravenCON No Change    CrawleyCON No Change    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

NOC No Change    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterLAB No ChangeDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries &
GallowayNOC No Change DundeeSNP gain from NOCEast AyrshireNOC No ChangeEast
DunbartonshireNOC No ChangeEast LothianNOC No ChangeEast RenfrewshireEastleighLD
No ChangeEdinburghNOC No ChangeElmbridgeCON No ChangeEpping ForestCON No
ChangeExeterLAB gain from NOCFalkirkNOC No ChangeFarehamCON No Change FifeNOC No
ChangeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadLAB No ChangeGlasgow Gloucester CON lose
to NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddPC lose to NOCHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateCON No ChangeHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandHuntingdonshireCON No ChangeHyndburnLAB No Change
InverclydeNOC No ChangeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesNOC No ChangeKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeedsLAB No Change Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianLAB lose to NOCMilton KeynesNOC No ChangeMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNOC No ChangeNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeLAB gain from NOCNewcastle upon TyneLAB No
ChangeNewportNorth AyrshireNOC No ChangeNorth East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireCON No ChangeNorth LanarkshireLAB No
ChangeNorth TynesideLAB No ChangeNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyIND No ChangeOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshireIND No ChangePendleNOC No ChangePerth & KinrossNOC No
ChangePeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysIND No ChangePreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchLAB gain from CONReigate & BansteadCON No
ChangeRenfrewshireLAB gain from NOCRhondda Cynon TaffRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendaleLAB gain from NOC Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyCON No ChangeRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersNOC No ChangeSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldLAB No ChangeShetlandIND No ChangeSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullCON No ChangeSouth AyrshireNOC No ChangeSouth
CambridgeshireCON No ChangeSouth LakelandLD No ChangeSouth LanarkshireNOC No
ChangeSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingNOC No Change

Stockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudNOC No ChangeSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaLAB gain from NOCSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversLD No ChangeThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsCON No ChangeVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldLAB No ChangeWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonLAB No ChangeWatfordLD No ChangeWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireLAB gain from NOCWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianNOC No ChangeWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingWokinghamCON No ChangeWolverhamptonLAB No ChangeWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingCON No ChangeWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:51 PM GMT

I'm on track: Buoyant Boris bikes into the lead over Ken as vote counting begins
in London

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2174 words



     ·    Boris is on 45% and Ken on 39% with other candidates far behind as
          votes continue to be counted
     ·    Final poll before ballots close put Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats
     ·    Mayor results expected tomorrow after 7pm and council elections
          overnight and throughout the day


Boris Johnson is tonight set to defy political gravity by defeating Ken
Livingstone, taking the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative
council seats around the country.

With counting now started in London he has already taken the lead over his
Labour rival, whose 30-year career in politics could soon be over.

Mr Johnson is beating Mr Livingstone, with Boris on 45% and Ken on 40% at 2.30pm
today with the other candidates for Mayor far behind. A final result is due from
6pm.

Speaking to reporters as he left his home this morning Boris said he was
'optimistic' he would win a second term as Mayor.

Nationally the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners have been
haemorrhaging support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing
off Ken Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he
had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win.

As he rode his bike from his London home this morning, bookies' favourite Mr
Johnson told the Evening Standard: 'I'm feeling good. I'm optimistic. I wouldn't
say confident, as it's a bit early, but optimistic.

'I'm not sure what I'll be doing tonight but I hope I'll be celebrating.'

Meanwhile Mr Livingstone said his campaign had been dogged by negative smears
and may have derailed votes for city mayors elsewhere in England.

'The nature of the campaign this time was awful. I came into politics to discuss
issues but this campaign has been dominated by smears and trivialities,' he
said.

'I wonder to what extent all those voters in cities who have voted against
having their own elected mayors have been put off by the unsatisfactory nature
of this campaign.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his
association with David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said "Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory" and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.

'I backed Ken Livingstone, I think he was the best mayor London's had so far. I
think he would be a better mayor for London on Tube fares and jobs and housing
than Boris Johnson who, let's be honest, is a bit of a joker, a bit of a
buffoon.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

Electronic vote counting at one of the count centres in the capital was delayed
by more than an hour today following a power cut, officials have said.

The process of scanning ballot papers at Alexandra Palace in north London had
been due to start at 8.45am, but did not get under way until 10.15am due to the
temporary loss of power.

It is understood builders there may not have known the count was happening but
it will probably not delay the result.

The site is one of three across London, including Excel and Olympia, where vote
counting for the Mayor of London and London Assembly elections is taking place.

London Elects spokesman Euan Holloway said: 'It delayed the start of the count,
but we don't think it's disrupted the progress of the count too much, it's up
and running now.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson campaigned with long-suffering wife Marina by his side, who
allegedly threw him out of home because it was believed he had a string of
affairs behind her back.

Victory for him will lift Tory hearts after a turbulent month for the Government
which has seen its national poll ratings slump.

But elsewhere, Labour was making in-roads in the local elections, albeit on
shockingly low turnouts in many areas. Ed Miliband's party picked up a 13 per
cent swing in one ward in Harlow - a key seat the party needs to win if it wants
to secure a majority in the 2015 General Election - and was on course to take
control of Southampton from the Tories.

Labour appeared to be stealing votes en masse from the Lib Dems in swing seats
such as Winchester, Hull and Havant.

But as well as defeat in London, the Labour leader was facing a humiliating
setback in Scotland, where the Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow
council - a totemic gain in what was once a Labour heartland.

Nick Clegg's party lost its last councillor in Sunderland, wiping out the third
party in a key north-east city.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:40 PM GMT

'I'm sorry': Cameron apologises after humiliating night at the polls (but Boris
still looks pretty happy as he heads to victory over Ken)

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4593 words



     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS SO FAR: Labour +29, Tories -12 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +666, Tories -371, Lib Dems -223
     ·    Labour on course for big gains in local elections, with 39% of the
          vote against Tories with 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Catastrophe for Clegg as Lib Dems set to lose 50% of seats and
          councillors blame him
     ·    Coalition civil war as Tories and Lib Dems blame each other for
          mauling
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b***h' after she
          linked their rise to the decline of the BNP
     ·    Respect takes five seats from Labour in Bradford after by-election
          victory
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Boris Johnson set to defeat Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% as two in
          ten Labour voters reject their own man


Prime Minister David Cameron today apologised to hundreds of Conservative
councilors who lost their seats as the party suffered a crushing defeat to
Labour in the local elections.

Early indications suggest Labour could snatch more than 700 seats, meaning the
Tories will lose a third of their councillors.The result would give the
opposition 39 per cent of the vote.

By 1.30pm this afternoon, Labour had gained 27 councils, Tories had lost 12 and
Lib Dems lost one. Labour had 622 more seats while Tories had lost 349 and Lib
Dems were down 156.

Mr Cameron said the elections had taken place against a 'difficult national
backdrop' but insisted the Government was doing the 'right thing for our
country'.

The bruised Conservatives are hoping to save face with an emphatic victory for
Boris Johnson over Ken Livingstone in London today, with results expected after
6pm.

Scroll down for live results and videos

The Tory leader said: 'I am sorry for all the hard-working Conservative
councillors who lost their seats, obviously against a difficult national
backdrop.

'These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is
take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt, deficit and broken economy
that we've inherited and we will go on making those decisions and we've got to
do the right thing for our country.'

Mr Cameron added: 'When you are trying to bring the country out of the debt, the
deficit and the broken economy that Labour left us, there aren't easy decisions
but we've got to make sure we do everything to demonstrate that we are on the
side of people who work hard and do the right thing for themselves and their
families.'

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are on course for an even worse defeat as they lose
around half of their seats, meaning they will drop below 3,000 councillors for
the first time in their history.

Dejected councillors rounded on their struggling leader - unpopular with voters
after endless policy betrayals - and warned the party faced obliteration at the
next general elections in 2015.

The polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across
much of the country could result in a low turnout - an estimated 32 per cent of
people voted, which was the lowest turnout for 12 years.

As David Cameron spent last night with his inner circle at the party HQ, the
defeat sparked a frantic reaction from Tory MPs with some blaming the weather
and many urging the party to ditch their Coalition partners.

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they had suffered a 'bad night' as voters
punished them for a poorly received budget.

They are now pinning their hopes on the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of
London, who is on course to beat Ken Livingstone as two in ten Labour voters
shun their own man, according to the latest YouGov poll.

Across the country, the BBC is projecting Labour a 39 per cent vote share ahead
of the Tories 31 per cent and Lib Dems 16 per cent.

Key councils such as Southampton, Birmingham, Plymouth, Reading, Norwich,
Thurrock and Harlow have fallen to Labour, as they made inroads into the South
of England. They also made strong gains in Wales.

The Prime Minister will be most embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

With around half of votes counted, Labour looked set for overall gains of more
than 700, while the Tories looked likely to lose more than 350 seats and the
Liberal Democrats around 200.

In a further blow, Mr Cameron's dream of elected mayors in Britain's major
cities looks to be in tatters after Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry rejected
proposals for elected mayors. Results from Birmingham, Leeds,
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sheffield and Wakefield are being announced later today.

But the voters of Bristol bucked the national trend and voted in favour of a
city mayor.

Ed Miliband today hailed his party's successes in yesterday's local elections as
a sign that Labour was 'winning back trust' and regaining ground lost in the
2010 general election. He said the party was 'exceeding expectations'.

But the Labour leader was careful to avoid sounding triumphalist over the polls
- which look set to deliver him more than 700 new councillors - insisting that
there was still 'more work to do'.

follow suit.

Mr Miliband celebrated with supporters in Birmingham where Labour has taken 20
seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib Dem administration to give it 77
councillors on the 120-member city council.

He said: 'People are suffering and we have got to show people that Britain can
be better than it is.'

With low turnouts indicating voter apathy he added: 'What worries me is that
there are people who think politics can't change things for them. There are lots
of people who think that politics can't answer the problems in their lives.

'I'm determined that Labour shows that we can do that, that actually people can
put their faith in us.

'More people put their faith in us yesterday than in the elections a year ago,
and I'm pleased they've done that.

'But I know we've got more work to do to convince those that didn't vote for us
yesterday that actually we can change Britain for them.'

Speaking later in Worcester, Mr Miliband said: 'I came here to say thank you to
the people of Worcester because, in increasing numbers, they put their trust in
Labour yesterday.

'For the first time in more than a decade, the Conservatives have lost overall
control of the council.

'Labour is changing. We are getting back in touch with people. We campaigned
here on issues like housing, youth jobs and bus services, which really matter
here.'

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls told the BBC: 'I think for the Conservatives this is
quite a big day, because I don't think this is mid-term blues.

'But for Labour, it shows us there is still a challenge there, we have got to
keep working hard.'

Mr Balls acknowledged that Mr Johnson might win 'despite his association with
David Cameron and George Osborne, rather than because of it'.

But with the party doing well in the London Assembly contests, he told BBC Radio
4's The World At One: 'It certainly suggests that Labour, when it's Labour, it's
doing very well compared to the Conservatives across London and we've seen that
in by-elections as well.

'But there was a personality contest in which Boris Johnson said ''Vote for me
even though I'm a Tory'' and it looks like he may... we'll wait and see, but if
he wins I think it will be despite his association with David Cameron and George
Osborne, rather than because of it.'

He added that the mayor's powers, particularly over taxes, were limited and 'the
truth is you can vote for Boris because he cracks good jokes without that
actually making much difference to your wallet or your purse'.

Labour's triumphant result has seen bookies slash their odds about Labour
winning the next general Election with an overall majority, from 13/8 to 6/4
favourites, and have lengthened the Conservatives from 2/1 to 9/4.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Lib Dems were not spared pain, being left without a representative on
several powerful councils as voters punished the beleaguered leader for a string
of u-turns on issues such as student fees, VAT, Remploy factories, a failed
attempt at voting reform and benefits cuts.

Lord Prescott tweeted: 'The Lib Dems have less than 3000 councillors for the
first time ever. Welcome to #ArmaCleggon'.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik said the results reinforced his campaign for Mr
Clegg to quit as party leader - but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Lib Dem grassroots were also rounding on Mr Clegg, with Sunderland's only Lib
Dem councillor Paul Dixon telling the Deputy PM to 'open his eyes' and warning
that the party could be obliterated in national elections.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg said he was 'really sad' but insisted his party would
'continue to play our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

With the potential for further blows for the Liberal Democrats in Scottish local
elections and the London mayoral contests, Mr Clegg said the coalition was in a
'difficult mid-term period'.

And despite big gains, it was not all celebrations for Labour. George Galloway's
Respect Party took five council seats in Bradford - including the leader - just
weeks after inflicting an humiliating by-election defeat on Labour.

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: 'We took the head off the rotten
fish that is the Bradford city council. We defeated a council leader who sat
there, apparently impregnable and utterly complacent, for a decade and a half or
more.'

Another outside party that increased its votes was the UK Independence Party
which said is making 'steady progress', despite seeing only limited gains in the
local council elections.

'Our share of the vote is going up and up and up, very steadily, very surely,'
party leader Nigel Farage told BBC News.

Labour will also be hoping for some success in the Scottish heartlands, where
the SNP are also making significant gains.

By 2pm this afternoon, the SNP had gained nine councillors and Labour seven.
Tores had lost six seats and Lib Dems were down 11.The councils remained under
control of the current parties.

Green Party ccouncillor Martin Ford, who almost derailed Donald Trump's plans
for a £1 billion golf resort, was among those who successfully defended his seat
in he East Garioch ward of Aberdeenshire Council.

The results in England have seen big gains for outsider parties with UKIP making
breakthroughs across England and Wales where it is currently averaging 13% of
the vote.

Tories were quick to blame the poor results on 'mid-term blues'. They pointed to
a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that 'apathy' had played
a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

'These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote,' he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work with the Lib Dems.

'Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats,' he said.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

There were even calls for a change in direction from the leadership. Senior
backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy rather
than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

She said: 'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up.
We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to
rain on Labour's parade,' he said.

Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

'If the tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too much, we have got to be a
little more small ''c'' and big ''C'' conservative on crime, law and order, some
of our traditional policies. That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed
gagging, to see,' he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth pinned some of the blame for the Tories' poor
performance on support for policies such as gay marriage and House of Lords
reform. They are seen by some in the party as symptoms of a too-strong Liberal
Democrat influence within the coalition.

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said swinging to the right would be a 'bonkers'
strategy for the senior coalition partner.

Labour jumped on their success as a sign that voters were rejecting Tory
spending cuts.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said: 'I think this is a very encouraging
result. We won councils we did not expect to win, we won in the south and we won
councils where we lost MPs at the last election.

'I think this is very important progress - despite a very bad election defeat
two years ago we have got the biggest share of the vote this year. We are back
in touch and making progress. This has given people strong Labour councils to
protect them from the damage the Coalition is doing.

'People are worried about their living standard and their jobs and the
Government has not listened to them.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties, including a backlash over the granny tax, pasty tax and links to
the Murdoch media empire.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour had tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

Thirty councils and 1,223 seats are up for grabs north of the border. The SNP is
hoping to build on the 363 seats it won in 2007, while Labour aims to make gains
on its 348 seats. Both will be closely watching results for Glasgow City
Council: a key battleground for the two parties.

Labour celebrated its election success in Wales with a mini victory parade by a
statue of one its most famous politicians. First Minister Carwyn Jones, Shadow
Secretary Peter Hain and a hoard of party members hit Cardiff City Centre just a
few hours after taking control of nine of the country's councils.

They gathered by the statue of the late Labour MP and NHS founder Aneurin Bevan
in Queen Street to spell out their vision for its local authorities.

Among its major victories included winning the 'big three' of Cardiff, Swansea
and Newport - completing a hat trick over rivals the Liberal Democrats, who
suffered a torrid time.

Labour also managed to snatch the Vale of Glamorgan from the Conservatives as
well make gains from Plaid Cymru. Upsets for the nationalists included seeing
their Caerphilly councillor Ron Davies - a former Labour MP and UK government
cabinet minister - lose his seat.

Party sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

UKIP CALLS BARONESS WARSI A B**** AS SHE LINKS THEIR RISE TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest battle is Nick Clegg, who is on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one Lib
Dem source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

The Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which
is might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will all have revealed their
results later by later today.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

Two in ten Labour voters said they would be voting for Boris instead of Ken,
according to the poll. Had they remained loyal to their party roots Ken
Livingstone would have been expected to win.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenAberdeenshireAdur    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

Argyll & Bute    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

Blaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

LAB gain from NOC   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

Calderdale

NOC No Change Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

Castle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  Clackmannanshire    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

Conwy    Coventry

LAB No Change    CravenCON No Change    Crawley    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterLAB No ChangeDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries &
Galloway DundeeEast AyrshireEast DunbartonshireEast LothianEast
RenfrewshireEastleighLD No ChangeEdinburghLD No ChangeElmbridgeCON No
ChangeEpping ForestExeterLAB gain from NOCFalkirkFarehamCON No Change
FifeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadLAB No ChangeGlasgow Gloucester CON lose to
NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateCON No ChangeHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandHuntingdonshireHyndburn InverclydeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesNOC No ChangeKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeeds Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianMilton KeynesNOC No ChangeMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeNewcastle upon TyneNewportNorth AyrshireNorth
East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireNorth LanarkshireNorth TynesideLAB No
ChangeNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyIND No ChangeOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshirePendleNOC No ChangePerth & KinrossPeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysPreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchReigate & BansteadRenfrewshireRhondda Cynon
TaffRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendale Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldLAB No ChangeShetlandSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullSouth AyrshireSouth CambridgeshireSouth LakelandSouth
LanarkshireSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingStockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonWatfordLD No ChangeWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingWokinghamCON No ChangeWolverhamptonLAB No ChangeWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:33 PM GMT

By linking UKIP to the BNP, Baroness Warsi is insulting voters she should be
trying to win over

BYLINE: SIMON RICHARDS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 525 words


As I settled down to watch the BBC coverage of the election results, I groaned
when I saw that Baroness Warsi had been deployed to put a gloss on the good
kicking the voters had given the Tories.

But, however low my expectations, nothing prepared me for the quite disgraceful,
cynical and plain stupid attempt she made to try to link the UK Independence
Party with the BNP.

it's bad enough that the Chairman of the Conservative Party doesn't know the
difference between 'less' and 'fewer', but her ignorance of basic grammar -
unsurprising in the representative of a party opposed to grammar schools - is
trifling compared to the sheer wrongheadedness of her attempt to smear the
disillusioned natural conservative supporters who had deserted her party to put
their cross by UKIP candidates.

Her cynical and carefully planned attempt to link the increase in the number of
UKIP candidates with a fall in the number of BNP ones was immediately spotted by
Nick Robinson, the BBC's impressive political editor. Quite apart from the
cynicism of her dirty tactics, can't she see that, in trying to connect those
who dare to demonstrate their disgust at the shambolic, anti-conservative party
she chairs with the BNP, she is insulting those she should be trying to woo back
to the Tory Party?

If I were Nigel Farage, I'd be urging the BBC to give her more coverage, for
every time she opens her mouth she reminds disillusioned Conservatives just why
they're tempted to vote UKIP.

The Conservative Party's strategy seems to consist of kow-towing to the deeply
unpopular Lib Dems, while insulting anyone thinking of voting UKIP. It's like
the bosses of Tesco trying to regain lost market share by hurling abuse and
insults at people choosing to shop elsewhere. Of course, they'd never be stupid
enough to behave like that!

Just for the record, UKIP happens to be the only major political party to have
banned former BNP members from joining it - hardly the sign of a party that has
much in common with the BNP. The truth is that Baroness Warsi knows that, while
the BNP draws a majority of its support from Labour voters, UKIP is a natural
home for Tories looking for a party which, unlike Cameron's Conservative Party,
actually stands for conservative values. As a much greater female politician
once said, she's 'frit'.

Baroness Warsi's ineptitude has already led to the Tories losing Roger Helmer
MEP to UKIP. At a meeting of the 1922 Committee of backbench Tory MPs she was
savaged by the angry MPs who saw her destroying their chances of holding their
seats at the next General Election. Gary Streeter MP - by no means a hard-line
Eurosceptic - has already broken ranks to warn that his party must listen with
respect to the Tory voters moving to UKIP and act on their concerns. His were
wise words.

If David Cameron is serious about trying to get his party back on track after
two disastrous years in coalition with the Lib Dems, the very first thing he
must do is to sack Baroness Warsi. Theresa May once infamously described the
Conservative Party as 'the nasty party'. While Baroness Warsi remains in place,
that description will remain all too accurate.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:41 PM GMT

The wavering loyalty of Conservative voters must not be tested any further

BYLINE: DONAL BLANEY

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 409 words


As political geeks wake up to see what the voters have decided (albeit not yet
in London or Scotland), the message is clear: the coalition is now suffering at
the polls.

The Labour Party, their union paymasters and their obedient mouthpieces on the
BBC whined about the effect of 'Tory cuts' even before any of those cuts had
been introduced.

The narrative has been written and with barely 15 per cent of the cuts having
occurred, the Tories and Lib Dems are struggling to retain the support of many
millions who voted for them in 2010.

Now the battle begins.

Leaving aside the fatuous and offensive smears from the gaffe prone Baroness
Warsi who juxtaposed UKIP to the BNP with the mathematical elan of a GCSE
dropout (which at least now answers the question as to why she has been so
invisible for the past 2 years), what three lessons are there to be drawn at
this early stage on the morning after the night before?

First, UKIP cannot and should not be dismissed as a party of fruitcakes and
gadflies. UKIP polled strongly in areas where it ran candidates and its
continued rise cannot be ignored. UKIP supporters need to be courted, not
insulted, if the Tories are to reclaim their votes in time for 2015.

Secondly, the Tories did not lose because we had too few wind farms. Or send too
little money to the EU or to developing nations through the foreign aid budget.
Conservative councillors did not lose because too many were not female, gay or
black enough or because council tax was too low. The response needed from
Downing Street is not to ban access to certain internet sites or faster Lords
reform.

It's the economy, stupid. So accelerate the cuts in spending, debt and taxes or
say goodbye to any chance of winning in 2015.

Thirdly, even though the Tories did badly (and the Lib Dems did worse), turnout
was low and Labour failed to break through 40 per cent. Voters are sick of the
main three parties' inability to solve the country's problems - weak growth,
high unemployment, crime, immigration, schools and hospitals.

As George Galloway said, they are three cheeks of the same backside. There was
an appetite for radical reform in 2010 that is, perhaps only just, still there.
Tinkering on irrelevant issues popular with the chattering classes in Notting
Hill or embarking on eye-catching initiatives and stunts is not what is
required.

Conservative MPs and their activists are invariably loyal. But that loyalty
should never be tested too far.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:05 PM GMT

I'm on track: Buoyant Boris bikes into the lead over Ken as vote counting begins
in London

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1979 words



     ·    Boris is currently on 56% and Ken on 44% with 14.5% votes counted so
          far this morning
     ·    Final poll before ballots close put Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats
     ·    Mayor results expected tomorrow after 7pm and council elections
          overnight and throughout the day


Boris Johnson is tonight set to defy political gravity by defeating Ken
Livingstone, taking the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative
council seats around the country.

With counting now started in London he has already taken the lead over his
Labour rival, whose 30-year career in politics could soon be over.

Mr Johnson is beating Mr Livingstone, with Boris currently on 56% and Ken on 44%
with 14.5% votes counted in the capital so far. A final result is due from 6pm.

Speaking to reporters as he left his home this morning Boris said he was
'optimistic' he would win a second term as Mayor.

Nationally the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners have been
haemorrhaging support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing
off Ken Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he
had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win.

As he rode his bike from his London home this morning, bookies' favourite Mr
Johnson told the Evening Standard: 'I'm feeling good. I'm optimistic. I wouldn't
say confident, as it's a bit early, but optimistic.

'I'm not sure what I'll be doing tonight but I hope I'll be celebrating.'

Meanwhile Mr Livingstone said his campaign had been dogged by negative smears
and may have derailed votes for city mayors elsewhere in England.

'The nature of the campaign this time was awful. I came into politics to discuss
issues but this campaign has been dominated by smears and trivialities,' he
said.

'I wonder to what extent all those voters in cities who have voted against
having their own elected mayors have been put off by the unsatisfactory nature
of this campaign.'

Electronic vote counting at one of the count centres in the capital was delayed
by more than an hour today following a power cut, officials have said.

The process of scanning ballot papers at Alexandra Palace in north London had
been due to start at 8.45am, but did not get under way until 10.15am due to the
temporary loss of power.

It is understood builders there may not have known the count was happening but
it will probably not delay the result.

The site is one of three across London, including Excel and Olympia, where vote
counting for the Mayor of London and London Assembly elections is taking place.

London Elects spokesman Euan Holloway said: 'It delayed the start of the count,
but we don't think it's disrupted the progress of the count too much, it's up
and running now.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson campaigned with long-suffering wife Marina by his side, who
allegedly threw him out of home because it was believed he had a string of
affairs behind her back.

Victory for him will lift Tory hearts after a turbulent month for the Government
which has seen its national poll ratings slump.

But elsewhere, Labour was making in-roads in the local elections, albeit on
shockingly low turnouts in many areas. Ed Miliband's party picked up a 13 per
cent swing in one ward in Harlow - a key seat the party needs to win if it wants
to secure a majority in the 2015 General Election - and was on course to take
control of Southampton from the Tories.

Labour appeared to be stealing votes en masse from the Lib Dems in swing seats
such as Winchester, Hull and Havant.

But as well as defeat in London, the Labour leader was facing a humiliating
setback in Scotland, where the Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow
council - a totemic gain in what was once a Labour heartland.

Nick Clegg's party lost its last councillor in Sunderland, wiping out the third
party in a key north-east city.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:55 AM GMT

Bloody nose for David Cameron as Labour on course to gain 700 seats amid voter
backlash while Tories lose a third of their councillors and Lib Dems HALF

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3981 words



     ·    COUNCIL RESULTS SO FAR: Labour +22, Tories -11 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    NUMBER OF SEATS: Labour +500, Tories -297, Lib Dems -144
     ·    Labour on course for big gains in local elections, with 39% of the
          vote against Tories with 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Catastrophe for Lib Dems as they are set to lose 50% of seats
     ·    Scathing attack from ousted Tory council leader in Derby who says
          Cameron needs to 'get a grip'
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b***h' after she
          linked the rise of the UK Independence Party with the decline of the
          BNP
     ·    Respect takes five seats from Labour in Bradford after by-election
          victory
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Boris Johnson set to defeat Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% as two in
          ten Labour voters reject their own man


Prime Minister David Cameron today apologised to hundreds of Conservative
councilors who lost their seats as the party suffered a crushing defeat to
Labour in the local elections.

Early indications suggest Labour could snatch more than 700 seats, meaning the
Tories will lose a third of their councillors.The result would give the
opposition 39 per cent of the vote.

Shortly before midday Labour had gained 484 seats while Tories had lost 289 and
Lib Dems were down 133.

Mr Cameron said the elections had taken place against a 'difficult national
backdrop' but insisted the Government was doing the 'right thing for our
country'.

The Tory leader said: 'I am sorry for all the hard-working Conservative
councillors who lost their seats, obviously against a difficult national
backdrop.

Scroll down for live results and videos

'These are difficult times and there aren't easy answers. What we have to do is
take the difficult decisions to deal with the debt, deficit and broken economy
that we've inherited and we will go on making those decisions and we've got to
do the right thing for our country.'

Mr Cameron added: 'When you are trying to bring the country out of the debt, the
deficit and the broken economy that Labour left us, there aren't easy decisions
but we've got to make sure we do everything to demonstrate that we are on the
side of people who work hard and do the right thing for themselves and their
families.'

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are on course for an even worse defeat as they lose
around half of their seats, meaning they will drop below 3,000 councillors for
the first time in their history.

As David Cameron spent the evening with his inner circle at the party HQ, the
defeat sparked a frantic reaction from Tory MPs with some blaming the weather
and many urging the party to ditch their Coalition partners.

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they had suffered a 'bad night' as voters
punished them for a poorly received budget.

They are now pinning their hopes on the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of
London, who is on course to beat Ken Livingstone as two in ten Labour voters
shun their own man, according to the latest YouGov poll.

The polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across
much of the country could result in a low turnout - an estimated 32 per cent of
people voted, which was the lowest turnout for 12 years.

The BBC is projecting Labour a 39 per cent vote share ahead of the Tories 31 per
cent and Lib Dems 16 per cent.

Key councils such as Southampton, Birmingham, Plymouth, Reading, Norwich,
Thurrock and Harlow fell to Labour, as they made inroads into the South of
England.

They have also made gains in Wales and took control of the

The Prime Minister will be most embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

With around half of votes counted, Labour had racked up more than 470 new seats
and looked set for overall gains of more than 700, while the Tories looked
likely to lose more than 350 seats and the Liberal Democrats around 200.

In a further blow, Mr Cameron's dream of elected mayors in Britain's major
cities looks to be in tatters after the the idea was rejected in referendums.
Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry rejected proposals for elected mayors.
Results from Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sheffield and
Wakefield are being announced later today.

Ed Miliband today hailed his party's successes in yesterday's local elections as
a sign that Labour was 'winning back trust' and regaining ground lost in the
2010 general election.

But the Labour leader was careful to avoid sounding triumphalist over the polls
- which look set to deliver him more than 700 new councillors - insisting that
there was still 'more work to do'.

follow suit.

Mr Miliband said: 'People are suffering and we have got to show people that
Britain can be better than it is.'

With low turnouts indicating voter apathy he added: 'What worries me is that
there are people who think politics can't change things for them. There are lots
of people who think that politics can't answer the problems in their lives.

'I'm determined that Labour shows that we can do that, that actually people can
put their faith in us.

'More people put their faith in us yesterday than in the elections a year ago,
and I'm pleased they've done that.

'But I know we've got more work to do to convince those that didn't vote for us
yesterday that actually we can change Britain for them.'

The result has seen bookies slash their odds about Labour winning the next
general Election with an overall majority, from 13/8 to 6/4 favourites, and have
lengthened the Conservatives from 2/1 to 9/4.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Lib Dems were not spared pain, being left without a representative on
several powerful councils as voters punished the beleaguered leader for a string
of his betrayals on issues close to the hearts of grass-roots voters since
becoming Deputy PM.

Lord Prescott tweeted: 'The Lib Dems have less than 3000 councillors for the
first time ever. Welcome to #ArmaCleggon'.

Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik said the results reinforced his campaign for Mr
Clegg to quit as party leader - but stay on as Deputy Prime Minister.

'The writing is on the wall here. There is nothing constitutionally to make
Clegg have to be leader and Deputy Prime Minister; he needs to split the roles,'
he told BBC Radio 5 Live.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg said he was 'really sad' but insisted his party would
'continue to play our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

With the potential for further blows for the Liberal Democrats in Scottish local
elections and the London mayoral contests, Mr Clegg said the coalition was in a
'difficult mid-term period'.

And despite big gains, it was not all celebrations for Labour. George Galloway's
Respect Party took five council seats in Bradford - including the leader - just
weeks after inflicting an humiliating by-election defeat.

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: 'We took the head off the rotten
fish that is the Bradford city council. We defeated a council leader who sat
there, apparently impregnable and utterly complacent, for a decade and a half or
more.'

Another outside party that increased its votes was the UK Independence Party
which said is making 'steady progress', despite seeing only limited gains in the
local council elections.

'Our share of the vote is going up and up and up, very steadily, very surely,'
party leader Nigel Farage told BBC News.

Labour will also be braced for losses in London and the Scottish heartlands,
where the SNP are making significant gains.

The results have seen also big gains for outsider parties with UKIP making
breakthroughs across England and Wales where it is currently averaging 13% of
the vote.

Tories were quick to blame the poor results on 'mid-term blues'. They pointed to
a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that 'apathy' had played
a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

'These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote,' he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work with the Lib Dems.

'Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats,' he said.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

There were even calls for a change in direction from the leadership. Senior
backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy rather
than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

She said: 'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up.
We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to
rain on Labour's parade,' he said.

Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

'If the tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too much, we have got to be a
little more small ''c'' and big ''C'' conservative on crime, law and order, some
of our traditional policies. That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed
gagging, to see,' he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth pinned some of the blame for the Tories' poor
performance on support for policies such as gay marriage and House of Lords
reform. They are seen by some in the party as symptoms of a too-strong Liberal
Democrat influence within the coalition.

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said swinging to the right would be a 'bonkers'
strategy for the senior coalition partner.

Labour jumped on their success as a sign that voters were rejecting Tory
spending cuts.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said: 'I think this is a very encouraging
result. We won councils we did not expect to win, we won in the south and we won
councils where we lost MPs at the last election.

'I think this is very important progress - despite a very bad election defeat
two years ago we have got the biggest share of the vote this year. We are back
in touch and making progress. This has given people strong Labour councils to
protect them from the damage the Coalition is doing.

'People are worried about their living standard and their jobs and the
Government has not listened to them.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties, including a backlash over the granny tax, pasty tax and links to
the Murdoch media empire.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour had tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

Thirty councils and 1,223 seats are up for grabs north of the border. The SNP is
hoping to build on the 363 seats it won in 2007, while Labour aims to make gains
on its 348 seats. Both will be closely watching results for Glasgow City
Council: a key battleground for the two parties.

Labour has gained control of Caerphilly council in South Wales in a landslide
election victory. Labour has also captured Newport and Cardiff, according to the
latest figures.

ROW AS BARONESS WARSI LINKS RISE OF UKIP TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

Party sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

Labour has taken Birmingham, winning 20 seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib
Dem administration and giving it 77 councillors on the 120-member city council.

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest battle is Nick Clegg, who is on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one Lib
Dem source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

The Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which
is might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will all have revealed their
results later by later today.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

Two in ten Labour voters said they would be voting for Boris instead of Ken,
according to the poll. Had they remained loyal to their party roots Ken
Livingstone would have been expected to win.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

COUNTY

RESULT

AberdeenAberdeenshireAdur    Amber Valley

CON No Change  Angus

Argyll & Bute    Barnsley

LAB No Change    Basildon

CON No ChangeBasingstoke & Deane

CON No ChangeBassetlaw

LAB No ChangeBirmingham

LAB gain from NOC   Blackburn with Darwen

Blaenau Gwent

LAB gain from IND    Bolton

LAB No Change   Bradford

NOC No ChangeBrentwood

CON No Change  Bridgend

LAB gain from NOC    Broxbourne CON No Change    Burnley

   Bury

LAB No Change    Caerphilly

Calderdale

Cambridge

LD lose to NOC   Cannock Chase

LAB gain from NOC    Cardiff

   Carlisle

LAB gain from NOCCarmarthenshire

Castle Point

CON No ChangeCeredigion

NOC No Change    Cheltenham

LD No ChangeCherwell

CON No ChangeChorley

LAB gain from NOC  Clackmannanshire    Colchester

NOC No Change Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

Conwy    Coventry

LAB No Change    Craven    Crawley    Daventry

CON No Change    Denbighshire

    Derby

LAB gain from NOCDoncasterDudleyLAB gain from CONDumfries & Galloway DundeeEast
AyrshireEast DunbartonshireEast LothianEast RenfrewshireEastleighLD No
ChangeEdinburghElmbridgeCON No ChangeEpping ForestExeterLAB gain from
NOCFalkirkFarehamCON No Change FifeFlintshireNOC No ChangeGatesheadGlasgow
Gloucester CON lose to NOC  Gosport

CON No Change Great Yarmouth

LAB gain from CONGwyneddHalton

LAB No ChangeHarlow

LAB gain from CON HarrogateHart

CON lose to NOCHartlepool

LAB No ChangeHastings

LAB No ChangeHavant

CON No ChangeHertsmere

CON No ChangeHighlandHuntingdonshireHyndburn InverclydeIpswich

LAB No ChangeKingston upon Hull

LAB No ChangeKirkleesKnowsley

LAB No ChangeLeeds Lincoln

LAB No Change LiverpoolMaidstone

CON No ChangeManchester

LAB No ChangeMerthyr Tydfil

LAB gain from INDMidlothianMilton KeynesMole Valley

NOC No ChangeMonmouthshire

CON lose to NOC MorayNeath Port Talbot

LAB No ChangeNewcastle under LymeNewcastle upon TyneNewportNorth AyrshireNorth
East Lincolnshire

LAB gain from NOCNorth HertfordshireNorth LanarkshireNorth TynesideNorwich

LAB gain from NOCNuneaton & Bedworth

LAB gain from NOCOldham

LAB No ChangeOrkneyOxford

LAB No ChangePembrokeshirePendlePerth & KinrossPeterborough

CON No ChangePlymouth

LAB gain from CONPortsmouth LD No ChangePowysPreston

LAB No ChangePurbeck

NOC No ChangeReading

LAB gain from NOCRedditchReigate & BansteadRenfrewshireRhondda Cynon
TaffRochdale

LAB No ChangeRochford

CON No ChangeRossendale Rotherham

LAB No Change RugbyRunnymede

CON No ChangeRushmoor

CON No ChangeSalford

LAB No ChangeSandwell

LAB No ChangeScottish BordersSefton

LAB gain from NOCSheffieldShetlandSlough

LAB No ChangeSolihullSouth AyrshireSouth CambridgeshireSouth LakelandSouth
LanarkshireSouth Tyneside

LAB No ChangeSouthampton

LAB gain from CONSouthend on Sea

CON lose to NOCSt Albans

NOC No ChangeSt Helens

LAB No ChangeStevenage

LAB No ChangeStirlingStockport

NOC No ChangeStratford on Avon

CON No ChangeStroudSunderland

LAB No ChangeSwanseaSwindon CON No ChangeTameside

LAB No ChangeTamworth

CON No ChangeTandridge

CON No ChangeThree RiversThurrock

LAB gain from NOCTorfaen

LAB gain from NOCTrafford

CON No ChangeTunbridge WellsVale of Glamorgan

CON lose to NOCWakefieldWalsall

NOC No ChangeWarringtonWatfordWelwyn Hatfield

CON No ChangeWest DunbartonshireWest Lancashire

CON No ChangeWest LothianWest Oxfordshire

CON No ChangeWeymouth & Portland

NOC No ChangeWigan

LAB No ChangeWinchester

CON gain from NOCWirral

LAB gain from NOCWokingWokinghamWolverhamptonWorcester

CON lose to NOCWorthingWrexham

NOC No ChangeWyre Forest

CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:31 AM GMT

I'm on track: Buoyant Boris bikes into the lead over Ken as vote counting begins
in London

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY and MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1859 words



     ·    Boris is currently on 56% and Ken on 44% with 14.5% votes counted so
          far this morning
     ·    Final poll before ballots close puts Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats
     ·    Mayor results expected tomorrow after 7pm and council elections
          overnight and throughout the day


Boris Johnson is tonight set to defy political gravity by defeating Ken
Livingstone, taking the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative
council seats around the country.

With counting now started in London he has already taken the lead over his
Labour rival, whose 30-year career in politics could soon be over.

Mr Johnson is beating Mr Livingstone, with Boris currently on 56% and Ken on 44%
with 14.5% votes processed in the capital so far, according to City Hall's live
results service.

Speaking to reporters as he left his home this morning Boris said he was
'optimistic' he would win a second term as Mayor.

Nationally the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners have been
haemorrhaging support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing
off Ken Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he
had extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win. The final results are expected to be announced this evening.

As he rode his bike from his London home this morning, bookies' favourite Mr
Johnson told the Evening Standard: 'I'm feeling good. I'm optimistic. I wouldn't
say confident, as it's a bit early, but optimistic.

'I'm not sure what I'll be doing tonight but I hope I'll be celebrating.'

While Ken sounded more downbeat, adding he will be doing some gardening this
weekend.

'My immediate future is not affected by winning or losing,' he told the Standard
as he walked his dog.

'My sister-in-law has just moved into a new house and I promised I'd go and sort
out her garden on the Bank Holiday.

'Beyond that, I'll have to wait until Tuesday. Either I'll be back in City Hall
signing off on the fares reduction or I'll be thinking of something else to do.'

Yesterday Mr Johnson campaigned with long-suffering wife Marina by his side, who
allegedly threw him out of home because it was believed he had a string of
affairs behind her back.

Victory for him will lift Tory hearts after a turbulent month for the Government
which has seen its national poll ratings slump.

But elsewhere, Labour was making in-roads in the local elections, albeit on
shockingly low turnouts in many areas. Ed Miliband's party picked up a 13 per
cent swing in one ward in Harlow - a key seat the party needs to win if it wants
to secure a majority in the 2015 General Election - and was on course to take
control of Southampton from the Tories.

Labour appeared to be stealing votes en masse from the Lib Dems in swing seats
such as Winchester, Hull and Havant.

But as well as defeat in London, the Labour leader was facing a humiliating
setback in Scotland, where the Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow
council - a totemic gain in what was once a Labour heartland.

Nick Clegg's party lost its last councillor in Sunderland, wiping out the third
party in a key north-east city.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:16 AM GMT

Dave comes a cropper in the council elections, and without a change of course
he's finished

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 718 words


The results of the local council elections are a wake-up call for David Cameron.

Back in December, after his bold veto of Europe's fiscal union treaty, the
Tories were ahead of Labour in the polls.

But that was before Dave's backtracking over the treaty, the blunders over the
Budget, the arrival of the double-dip recession, the panic over the fuel strike,
the Home Office mix-up over the deportation of terrorist Abu Qatada, and the
chaos at Heathrow.

The fruits of these fumbling four months of general incompetence and feeble
leadership are clear to see.

Early today, with results from more than half of the councils in, Labour have 39
per cent of the vote, the Conservatives 31 and the Lib Dems 16.

Crucially, in the wards where they fielded candidates, UKIP have taken 13 per
cent of the vote - not far behind Nick Clegg's battered party which now has its
fewest councillors since its formation nearly 25 years ago.

The Tories are down nine points since the time this round of councils was last
contested in 2008, Labour is up a whopping 17 points and the Libs are down
eight.

Labour is on course to make over 700 gains while the Tories have already lost
270 wards and the Lib Dems 130. Labour has gained more than 20 councils
including the cities of Birmingham, Cardiff and Southampton.

Loyal Conservative ministers are trying to brush away the dismal performance of
both parts of the Coalition as a predictable mid-term setback and forecasting as
the economy rightens their party will recover and secure victory at the general
election.

Other Tories take a different view. Defence minister Gerald Howarth has
highlighted the Government's predilection for prioritising fringe issues such as
gay marriage and House of Lords reform when the country is struggling to escape
the worst slump since the 1930s.

Normally supportive Devon South West MP Gary Streeter, who represents one of the
most Eurosceptic areas of the country, has fingered the rise of UKIP as one of
the most dangerous threats to the Conservatives.

They are both right to sound the alarm. A survey conducted before the local
elections by the respected pollsters ComRes for the Coalition for Marriage, the
pressure group opposed to redefining marriage, found that for every vote Dave
gained from his eccentric proposal, he lost three.

And if UKIP were to poll anything like today's 13 per cent in a general
election, the Conservatives would be destroyed. Most UKIP supporters are
disaffected Tories. Abusing them as 'fruitcakes and loonies', as the PM has
done, will only make matters worse.

Kelvin Mackenzie, when he was editor of The Sun, once famously banned a reader
from buying the paper when he rang up to complain.

Kelvin was joking, but Dave gives every appearance of feeling much the same way
about his core vote, the solid mass of around 30 per cent of people who normally
vote Conservative whatever the political weather.

Many of these people, living in the market towns, suburbs and villages of Middle
England, are baffled and bemused by the PM's relentlessly chic metropolitan
agenda.

They have nothing against gays, are comfortable with civil partnerships but
cannot see why thousands of years of human tradition, which defines marriage as
a life-long commitment between a man and a woman, has to be torn up to suit the
modish agenda of the urban elite.

They also want the PM to stand up to the EU, take a tough line on crime,
exercise firm controls over immigration and bring down both public spending and
taxes.

For all the much vaunted deficit reduction plan, these disgruntled Tory diehards
know that in cash terms spending is still rising, that health, overseas
development and parts of education have been ring-fenced, and that Britain is
still adding to its trillion pound national debt by borrowing at spectacular
levels.

Later today, Dave should be offered partial relief when, as seems very likely,
Boris is re-elected as London mayor. The results of the parallel elections to
the Greater London Assembly will be far less pretty.

But Boris, ironically Dave's greatest rival for the Tory crown, is winning
despite the PM and his party, not because of them.

The inquest into these dismal mid-term elections begins today. One thing can be
said with confidence. Without a change of course, Dave is heading for defeat at
the next election.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:50 AM GMT

Early lessons from a bad night for the Tories

BYLINE: DONAL BLANEY

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 409 words


As political geeks wake up to see what the voters have decided (albeit not yet
in London or Scotland), the message is clear: the coalition is now suffering at
the polls.

The Labour Party, their union paymasters and their obedient mouthpieces on the
BBC whined about the effect of 'Tory cuts' even before any of those cuts had
been introduced.

The narrative has been written and with barely 15 per cent of the cuts having
occurred, the Tories and Lib Dems are struggling to retain the support of many
millions who voted for them in 2010.

Now the battle begins.

Leaving aside the fatuous and offensive smears from the gaffe prone Baroness
Warsi who juxtaposed UKIP to the BNP with the mathematical elan of a GCSE
dropout (which at least now answers the question as to why she has been so
invisible for the past 2 years), what three lessons are there to be drawn at
this early stage on the morning after the night before?

First, UKIP cannot and should not be dismissed as a party of fruitcakes and
gadflies. UKIP polled strongly in areas where it ran candidates and its
continued rise cannot be ignored. UKIP supporters need to be courted, not
insulted, if the Tories are to reclaim their votes in time for 2015.

Secondly, the Tories did not lose because we had too few wind farms. Or send too
little money to the EU or to developing nations through the foreign aid budget.
Conservative councillors did not lose because too many were not female, gay or
black enough or because council tax was too low. The response needed from
Downing Street is not to ban access to certain internet sites or faster Lords
reform.

It's the economy, stupid. So accelerate the cuts in spending, debt and taxes or
say goodbye to any chance of winning in 2015.

Thirdly, even though the Tories did badly (and the Lib Dems did worse), turnout
was low and Labour failed to break through 40 per cent. Voters are sick of the
main three parties' inability to solve the country's problems - weak growth,
high unemployment, crime, immigration, schools and hospitals.

As George Galloway said, they are three cheeks of the same backside. There was
an appetite for radical reform in 2010 that is, perhaps only just, still there.
Tinkering on irrelevant issues popular with the chattering classes in Notting
Hill or embarking on eye-catching initiatives and stunts is not what is
required.

Conservative MPs and their activists are invariably loyal. But that loyalty
should never be tested too far.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:05 AM GMT

Bloody nose for David Cameron as Labour on course to gain 700 seats amid voter
backlash while Tories lose a third of their councillors and Lib Dems HALF

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3509 words



     ·    Labour on course for big gains in English local elections, with
          projected 39% vote share ahead of the Tories 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    RESULTS SO FAR: Labour +22, Tories -11 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    Lowest turnout in English local elections for 12 years - just 32%
     ·    Labour loses seats in Bradford to Respect party as UKIP also make
          breakthrough
     ·    Scathing attack from ousted Tory council leader who says Cameron needs
          to 'get a grip'
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b***h' after she
          linked the rise of the UK Independence Party with the decline of the
          BNP
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Boris Johnson set to defeat Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% as two in
          ten Labour voters reject their own man


David Cameron and Nick Clegg have suffered been dealt a stinging rebuke by
voters with Labour racking up big gains in the local elections results announced
so far.

Early indications suggest Labour could snatch more than 700 seats, while the
Tories look set to lose a third of their councillors.

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are on course for humiliating defeats as they lose
around half of their seats, meaning they will drop below 3,000 councillors for
the first time in their history.

As Mr Cameron spent the evening with his inner circle at the party HQ, the
defeat sparked a frantic reaction from Tory MPs with some blaming the weather
and many urging the party to ditch their Coalition partners.

Scroll down for live results

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they had suffered a 'bad night' as voters punish
them for a poorly received budget.

They are now pinning their hopes on the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of
London, who is on course to beat Ken Livingstone as two in ten Labour voters
shun their own man, according to the latest YouGov poll.

The polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across
much of the country could result in a low turnout - an estimated 32 per cent of
people voted, which was the lowest turnout for 12 years.

The BBC is projecting Labour a 39 per cent vote share ahead of the Tories 31 per
cent and Lib Dems 16 per cent.

Key councils such as Southampton, Birmingham, Plymouth, Reading, Norwich,
Thurrock and Harlow fell to Labour, as they made inroads into the South of
England. They have also made gains in Wales.

The Prime Minister will be most embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

With around half of votes counted, Labour had racked up more than 470 new seats
and looked set for overall gains of more than 700, while the Tories looked
likely to lose more than 350 seats and the Liberal Democrats around 200.

In a further blow, Mr Cameron's dream of elected mayors in Britain's major
cities looks to be in tatters after the the idea was rejected in referendums.
Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry rejected proposals for elected mayors.
Birmingham and other cities are expected to follow suit.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Lib Dems were not spared pain, being left without a representative on
several powerful councils as voters punished the beleaguered leader for a string
of his betrayals on issues close to the hearts of grass-roots voters since
becoming Deputy PM.

Lord Prescott tweeted: 'The Lib Dems have less than 3000 councillors for the
first time ever. Welcome to #ArmaCleggon'.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg said he was 'really sad' but insisted his party would
'continue to play our role' in Government dealing with the economic crisis.

With the potential for further blows for the Liberal Democrats in Scottish local
elections and the London mayoral contests, Mr Clegg said the coalition was in a
'difficult mid-term period'.

And despite big gains, it was not all celebrations for Labour. George Galloway's
Respect Party took five council seats in Bradford - including the leader - just
weeks after inflicting an humiliating by-election defeat.

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: 'We took the head off the rotten
fish that is the Bradford city council. We defeated a council leader who sat
there, apparently impregnable and utterly complacent, for a decade and a half or
more.'

Labour will also be braced for losses in London and the Scottish heartlands,
where the SNP are making significant gains.

The results have seen also big gains for outsider parties with UKIP making
breakthroughs across England and Wales where it is currently averaging 13% of
the vote.

Tories were quick to blame the poor results on 'mid-term blues'. They pointed to
a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that 'apathy' had played
a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

'These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote,' he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

Mr Hague hinted at frustration within Conservative ranks over the restraints
imposed by the need to work with the Lib Dems.

'Of course the Conservatives can't do everything that we would like to do in
government because we are in coalition within the Liberal Democrats,' he said.

There were even calls for a change in direction from the leadership. Senior
backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy rather
than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

She said: 'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up.
We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to
rain on Labour's parade,' he said.

Tory MP Gary Streeter said party supporters were 'gagging' for some more
traditional right-wing policies in areas such as law and order.

'If the tail has been wagging the dog a little bit too much, we have got to be a
little more small ''c'' and big ''C'' conservative on crime, law and order, some
of our traditional policies. That's what our supporters are waiting, indeed
gagging, to see,' he told the BBC.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth pinned some of the blame for the Tories' poor
performance on support for policies such as gay marriage and House of Lords
reform. They are seen by some in the party as symptoms of a too-strong Liberal
Democrat influence within the coalition.

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said swinging to the right would be a 'bonkers'
strategy for the senior coalition partner.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

Labour jumped on their success as a sign that voters were rejecting Tory
spending cuts.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said: 'I think this is a very encouraging
result. We won councils we did not expect to win, we won in the south and we won
councils where we lost MPs at the last election.

'I think this is very important progress - despite a very bad election defeat
two years ago we have got the biggest share of the vote this year. We are back
in touch and making progress. This has given people strong Labour councils to
protect them from the damage the Coalition is doing.

'People are worried about their living standard and their jobs and the
Government has not listened to them.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties, including a backlash over the granny tax, pasty tax and links to
the Murdoch media empire.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour had tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

Labour has gained control of Caerphilly council in South Wales in a landslide
election victory. Labour has also captured Newport and Cardiff, according to the
latest figures.

Party sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

Labour has taken Birmingham, winning 20 seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib
Dem administration and giving it 77 councillors on the 120-member city council.

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest battle is Nick Clegg, who is on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one Lib
Dem source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

ROW AS BARONESS WARSI LINKS RISE OF UKIP TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

The Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which
is might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will all have revealed their
results later by later today.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

Two in ten Labour voters said they would be voting for Boris instead of Ken,
according to the poll. Had they remained loyal to their party roots Ken
Livingstone would have been expected to win.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

   Aberdeen

    Aberdeenshire

    Adur

    Amber Valley CON No Change

    Angus

    Argyll & Bute

    Barnsley LAB No Change

    Basildon CON No Change

    Basingstoke & Deane CON No Change

    Bassetlaw LAB No Change

    Birmingham LAB gain from NOC

    Blackburn with Darwen

    Blaenau Gwent LAB gain from IND

    Bolton LAB No Change

    Bradford NOC No Change

    Brentwood CON No Change

    Bridgend LAB gain from NOC

    Broxbourne CON No Change

    Burnley

    Bury LAB No Change

    Caerphilly

    Calderdale

    Cambridge LD lose to NOC

    Cannock Chase LAB gain from NOC

    Cardiff

    Carlisle LAB gain from NOC

    Carmarthenshire

    Castle Point CON No Change

    Ceredigion NOC No Change

    Cheltenham LD No Change

    Cherwell CON No Change

    Chorley LAB gain from NOC

    Clackmannanshire

    Colchester NOC No Change

    Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

    Conwy

    Coventry LAB No Change

    Craven

    Crawley

    Daventry CON No Change

    Denbighshire

    Derby LAB gain from NOC

    Doncaster

    Dudley LAB gain from CON

    Dumfries & Galloway

    Dundee

    East Ayrshire

    East Dunbartonshire

    East Lothian

    East Renfrewshire

    Eastleigh LD No Change

    Edinburgh

    Elmbridge CON No Change

    Epping Forest

    Exeter LAB gain from NOC

    Falkirk

    Fareham CON No Change

    Fife

    Flintshire NOC No Change

    Gateshead

    Glasgow

    Gloucester CON lose to NOC

    Gosport CON No Change

    Great Yarmouth LAB gain from CON

    Gwynedd

    Halton LAB No Change

    Harlow LAB gain from CON

    Harrogate

    Hart CON lose to NOC

    Hartlepool LAB No Change

    Hastings LAB No Change

    Havant CON No Change

    Hertsmere CON No Change

    Highland

    Huntingdonshire

    Hyndburn

    Inverclyde

    Ipswich LAB No Change

    Kingston upon Hull LAB No Change

    Kirklees

    Knowsley LAB No Change

    Leeds

    Lincoln LAB No Change

    Liverpool

    Maidstone CON No Change

    Manchester LAB No Change

    Merthyr Tydfil LAB gain from IND

    Midlothian

    Milton Keynes

    Mole Valley NOC No Change

    Monmouthshire CON lose to NOC

    Moray

    Neath Port Talbot LAB No Change

    Newcastle under Lyme

    Newcastle upon Tyne

    Newport

    North Ayrshire

    North East Lincolnshire LAB gain from NOC

    North Hertfordshire

    North Lanarkshire

    North Tyneside

    Norwich LAB gain from NOC

    Nuneaton & Bedworth LAB gain from NOC

    Oldham LAB No Change

    Orkney

    Oxford LAB No Change

    Pembrokeshire

    Pendle

    Perth & Kinross

    Peterborough CON No Change

    Plymouth LAB gain from CON

    Portsmouth LD No Change

    Powys

    Preston LAB No Change

    Purbeck NOC No Change

    Reading LAB gain from NOC

    Redditch

    Reigate & Banstead

    Renfrewshire

    Rhondda Cynon Taff

    Rochdale LAB No Change

    Rochford CON No Change

    Rossendale

    Rotherham LAB No Change

    Rugby

    Runnymede CON No Change

    Rushmoor CON No Change

    Salford LAB No Change

    Sandwell LAB No Change

    Scottish Borders

    Sefton LAB gain from NOC

    Sheffield

    Shetland

    Slough LAB No Change

    Solihull

    South Ayrshire

    South Cambridgeshire

    South Lakeland

    South Lanarkshire

    South Tyneside LAB No Change

    Southampton LAB gain from CON

    Southend on Sea CON lose to NOC

    St Albans NOC No Change

    St Helens LAB No Change

    Stevenage LAB No Change

    Stirling

    Stockport NOC No Change

    Stratford on Avon CON No Change

    Stroud

    Sunderland LAB No Change

    Swansea

    Swindon CON No Change

    Tameside LAB No Change

    Tamworth CON No Change

    Tandridge CON No Change

    Three Rivers

    Thurrock LAB gain from NOC

    Torfaen

    Trafford CON No Change

    Tunbridge Wells

    Vale of Glamorgan CON lose to NOC

    Wakefield

    Walsall NOC No Change

    Warrington

    Watford

    Welwyn Hatfield CON No Change

    West Dunbartonshire

    West Lancashire CON No Change

    West Lothian

    West Oxfordshire CON No Change

    Weymouth & Portland NOC No Change

    Wigan LAB No Change

    Winchester CON gain from NOC

    Wirral LAB gain from NOC

    Woking

    Wokingham

    Wolverhampton

    Worcester CON lose to NOC

    Worthing

    Wrexham NOC No Change

    Wyre Forest CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:22 AM GMT

Bloody nose for David Cameron as Labour on course to gain 700 seats amid voter
backlash while Tories lose a third of their councillors and Lib Dems HALF

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3139 words



     ·    Labour on course for big gains in English local elections, with
          projected 39% vote share ahead of the Tories 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    RESULTS SO FAR: Labour +21, Tories -11 and Lib Dems -1
     ·    Lowest turnout in English local elections for 12 years - just 32%
     ·    Labour loses seats in Bradford to Respect party as UKIP also make
          breakthrough
     ·    Scathing attack from ousted Tory council leader who says Cameron needs
          to 'get a grip'
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b***h' after she
          linked the rise of the UK Independence Party with the decline of the
          BNP
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Boris Johnson set to defeat Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% as two in
          ten Labour voters reject their own man


David Cameron and Nick Clegg have suffered a bitter voter backlash with Labour
racking up big gains in the local elections results announced so far.

Early indications suggest Labour could snatch more than 700 seats, while the
Tories look set to lose a third of their councillors.

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are on course for a second successive year of
humiliating defeats as they lose around half of their seats, meaning they will
drop below 3,000 councillors for the first time in their history.

Scroll down for live results

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they were braced for a 'bad night' of bitter
defeats as voters punish them for a poorly received budget -  and they are now
pinning their hopes on the re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of London.

The polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across
much of the country could result in a low turnout - an estimated 32 per cent of
people voted, which was the lowest turnout for 12 years.

The BBC is projecting Labour a 39 per cent vote share ahead of the Tories 31 per
cent and Lib Dems 16 per cent.

Key councils such as Thurrock, Harlow, Southampton, Birmingham, Norwich, Great
Yarmouth and Chorley have all fallen to Labour.

The Prime Minister was also embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

In a further blow, Mr Cameron's dream of elected mayors in Britain's major
cities looks to be in tatters after the the idea was rejected in referendums.
Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry rejected proposals for elected mayors.
Birmingham and other cities are expected to follow suit.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Lib Dems were not spared pain, being left without a representative on
several powerful councils as voters punished the beleaguered leader for a string
of his betrayals on issues close to the hearts of grass-roots voters since
becoming Deputy PM.

And despite big gains, it was not all celebrations for Labour. In Bradford where
the party is still reeling from their humiliating by-election defeat to George
Galloway, his Respect Party took five council seats from them.

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: 'By anyone's calculation it's
been a fantastic night for Respect. We took seats off all three of the
mainstream parties.'

The results have seen also big gains for outsider parties with UKIP making
breakthroughs across England and Wales where it is currently averaging 13% of
the vote.

Tories were quick to blame the poor results on 'mid-term blues'. They pointed to
a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that 'apathy' had played
a significant part in the results.

Foreign Secretary William Hague sought to play down the scale of the
Conservative losses.

'These results - while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors - are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments and I think not so
good for the Opposition who are not getting 40% of the vote,' he told BBC1's
Breakfast.

'You wouldn't look at this and say Labour was on track to win a general election
at all.'

There were even calls for a change in direction from the leadership. Senior
backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy rather
than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

She said: 'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up.
We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to
rain on Labour's parade,' he said.

Defence Minister Gerald Howarth pinned some of the blame for the Tories' poor
performance on support for policies such as gay marriage and House of Lords
reform. They are seen by some in the party as symptoms of a too-strong Liberal
Democrat influence within the coalition.

But Lib Dem president Tim Farron said swinging to the right would be a 'bonkers'
strategy for the senior coalition partner.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

Labour jumped on their success as a sign that voters were rejecting Tory
spending cuts.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties, including a backlash over the granny tax, pasty tax and links to
the Murdoch media empire.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour had tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

Labour has gained control of Caerphilly council in South Wales in a landslide
election victory.

With one ward recounting later today, the party had 49 seats, with 20 for Plaid
Cymru and two independents.

Labour has also captured Newport. The tally there is 35 seats for Labour, 10 for
Tories and two independents. Three seats are still to be decided. Counting in
both councils resumes this afternoon.

However, sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

Labour has taken Birmingham, winning 20 seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib
Dem administration and giving it 77 councillors on the 120-member city council.

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest battle is Nick Clegg, who is on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one Lib
Dem source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

ROW AS BARONESS WARSI LINKS RISE OF UKIP TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

The Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which
is might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will all have revealed their
results later by later today.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

Two in ten Labour voters said they would be voting for Boris instead of Ken,
according to the poll. Had they remained loyal to their party roots Ken
Livingstone would have been expected to win.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

   Aberdeen

    Aberdeenshire

    Adur

    Amber Valley CON No Change

    Angus

    Argyll & Bute

    Barnsley LAB No Change

    Basildon CON No Change

    Basingstoke & Deane CON No Change

    Bassetlaw LAB No Change

    Birmingham LAB gain from NOC

    Blackburn with Darwen

    Blaenau Gwent LAB gain from IND

    Bolton LAB No Change

    Bradford NOC No Change

    Brentwood CON No Change

    Bridgend LAB gain from NOC

    Broxbourne CON No Change

    Burnley

    Bury LAB No Change

    Caerphilly

    Calderdale

    Cambridge LD lose to NOC

    Cannock Chase LAB gain from NOC

    Cardiff

    Carlisle LAB gain from NOC

    Carmarthenshire

    Castle Point CON No Change

    Ceredigion NOC No Change

    Cheltenham LD No Change

    Cherwell CON No Change

    Chorley LAB gain from NOC

    Clackmannanshire

    Colchester NOC No Change

    Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

    Conwy

    Coventry LAB No Change

    Craven

    Crawley

    Daventry CON No Change

    Denbighshire

    Derby LAB gain from NOC

    Doncaster

    Dudley LAB gain from CON

    Dumfries & Galloway

    Dundee

    East Ayrshire

    East Dunbartonshire

    East Lothian

    East Renfrewshire

    Eastleigh LD No Change

    Edinburgh

    Elmbridge CON No Change

    Epping Forest

    Exeter LAB gain from NOC

    Falkirk

    Fareham CON No Change

    Fife

    Flintshire NOC No Change

    Gateshead

    Glasgow

    Gloucester CON lose to NOC

    Gosport CON No Change

    Great Yarmouth LAB gain from CON

    Gwynedd

    Halton LAB No Change

    Harlow LAB gain from CON

    Harrogate

    Hart CON lose to NOC

    Hartlepool LAB No Change

    Hastings LAB No Change

    Havant CON No Change

    Hertsmere CON No Change

    Highland

    Huntingdonshire

    Hyndburn

    Inverclyde

    Ipswich LAB No Change

    Kingston upon Hull LAB No Change

    Kirklees

    Knowsley LAB No Change

    Leeds

    Lincoln LAB No Change

    Liverpool

    Maidstone CON No Change

    Manchester LAB No Change

    Merthyr Tydfil LAB gain from IND

    Midlothian

    Milton Keynes

    Mole Valley NOC No Change

    Monmouthshire CON lose to NOC

    Moray

    Neath Port Talbot LAB No Change

    Newcastle under Lyme

    Newcastle upon Tyne

    Newport

    North Ayrshire

    North East Lincolnshire LAB gain from NOC

    North Hertfordshire

    North Lanarkshire

    North Tyneside

    Norwich LAB gain from NOC

    Nuneaton & Bedworth LAB gain from NOC

    Oldham LAB No Change

    Orkney

    Oxford LAB No Change

    Pembrokeshire

    Pendle

    Perth & Kinross

    Peterborough CON No Change

    Plymouth LAB gain from CON

    Portsmouth LD No Change

    Powys

    Preston LAB No Change

    Purbeck NOC No Change

    Reading LAB gain from NOC

    Redditch

    Reigate & Banstead

    Renfrewshire

    Rhondda Cynon Taff

    Rochdale LAB No Change

    Rochford CON No Change

    Rossendale

    Rotherham LAB No Change

    Rugby

    Runnymede CON No Change

    Rushmoor CON No Change

    Salford LAB No Change

    Sandwell LAB No Change

    Scottish Borders

    Sefton LAB gain from NOC

    Sheffield

    Shetland

    Slough LAB No Change

    Solihull

    South Ayrshire

    South Cambridgeshire

    South Lakeland

    South Lanarkshire

    South Tyneside LAB No Change

    Southampton LAB gain from CON

    Southend on Sea CON lose to NOC

    St Albans NOC No Change

    St Helens LAB No Change

    Stevenage LAB No Change

    Stirling

    Stockport NOC No Change

    Stratford on Avon CON No Change

    Stroud

    Sunderland LAB No Change

    Swansea

    Swindon CON No Change

    Tameside LAB No Change

    Tamworth CON No Change

    Tandridge CON No Change

    Three Rivers

    Thurrock LAB gain from NOC

    Torfaen

    Trafford CON No Change

    Tunbridge Wells

    Vale of Glamorgan CON lose to NOC

    Wakefield

    Walsall NOC No Change

    Warrington

    Watford

    Welwyn Hatfield CON No Change

    West Dunbartonshire

    West Lancashire CON No Change

    West Lothian

    West Oxfordshire CON No Change

    Weymouth & Portland NOC No Change

    Wigan LAB No Change

    Winchester CON gain from NOC

    Wirral LAB gain from NOC

    Woking

    Wokingham

    Wolverhampton

    Worcester CON lose to NOC

    Worthing

    Wrexham NOC No Change

    Wyre Forest CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:20 AM GMT

Bloody nose for David Cameron as Labour on course to gain 700 seats amid voter
backlash while Tories lose a third of their councillors and Lib Dems HALF

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2980 words



     ·    Labour on course for big gains in English local elections, with
          projected 39% vote share ahead of the Tories 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Lowest turnout in English local elections for 12 years - just 32%
     ·    Labour loses Bradford to Respect party as UKIP also make breakthrough
     ·    Scathing attack from ousted Tory council leader who says Cameron needs
          to 'get a grip'
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory chairman Baroness Warsi a 'b****h' after she
          linked the rise of the UK Independence Party with the decline of the
          BNP
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    Boris Johnson set to defeat Ken Livingstone by 53% to 47% as two in
          ten Labour voters reject their own man


David Cameron and Nick Clegg have suffered a bitter voter backlash as Labour
racked up big gains in the local elections results announced so far.

Early indications suggest David Miliband's party could gain more than 700 seats,
while the Tories look set to lose a third of their councillors.

Meanwhile the Lib Dems are predicted to lose about half of their seats, meaning
they will drop below 3,000 councillors for the first time in their history.

Scroll down for live results

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted they were braced for a 'bad night' of bitter
defeats - they are now pinning their hopes on the re-election of Boris Johnson
as Mayor of London.

The polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across
much of the country could result in a low turnout - an estimated 32 per cent of
people voted, which was the lowest turnout for 12 years.

The BBC is projecting Labour a 39 per cent vote share ahead of the Tories 31 per
cent and Lib Dems 16 per cent.

Key councils such as Thurrock, Harlow, Southampton, Birmingham, Norwich, Great
Yarmouth and Chorley fell to Ed Miliband's party.

The Prime Minister was also embarrassed by losses in his Oxfordshire
constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central, Witney East and
Chipping Norton.

In a further blow, Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry ignored Mr Cameron's
pleas and rejected proposals for elected mayors. Birmingham and other cities are
expected to follow suit.

After it was announced Labour had gained control of Derby City Council, taking
over from a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, former Tory leader of the
council, Philip Hickson, said Prime Minister David Cameron needed 'to get a
grip.'

The Liberal Democrats were not spared pain, being left without a representative
on several powerful councils as voters seemingly punished the Government for
austerity measures.

However, Mr Miliband did suffer a setback in Bradford, where his party lost
seats to Respect.

The results followed George Galloway's shock success in last month's
parliamentary by-election.

Tories pointed to a low turnout, estimated at little over 30%, suggesting that
'apathy' had played a significant part in the results.

Another outsider, UKIP, also made a breakthrough at local elections in England
and Wales - it is currently averaging 13% of the vote in English and Welsh wards
it fought.

But there were also calls for a change in direction from the leadership. Senior
backbencher Bernard Jenkin insisted the party had to focus on the economy rather
than allowing their Lib Dem coalition partners to dictate the agenda.

'The coalition is going to look completely stupid if it follow through on Lords
reform,' he told the BBC.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

LIVE BREAK-DOWN: HOW THE PARTIES PERFORMED IN ENGLAND

ENGLAND

TOTAL COUNCILS

+/-

TOTAL SEATS

+/-

LABOUR

49

+21

1087

+457

CONSERVATIVE

26

-11

548

-245

LIB DEM

3

-1

212

-127

PLAID CYMRU

0

0

32

-11

RESIDENT ASSOC

0

0

12

+4

GREEN

0

0

16

+3

BNP

0

0

0

-3

ENGLISH DEMOCRATS

0

0

0

-1

INDEPENDENT

0

-2

0

0

INDEPENDENT & COMMUNITY HEALTH CONCERN

0

0

5

3

LIBERAL

0

0

2

-4

RESPECT

0

0

5

+5

SOCIALIST

0

0

0

0

UKIP

0

0

2

+2

OTHERS

0

0

59

-40

NO OVERALL CONTROL

7

+1

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up,' she said.

'We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

He said: 'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not
seeking to rain on Labour's parade.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

The Tories lost several seats in West Oxfordshire to Labour, including Chipping
Norton, Witney Central and Witney East - in the Prime Minister's own
constituency. However, they retained control of the council.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour has tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales with continued losses to the SNP in
Scotland when counting begins at 9:00am.

However, sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

The UK Independence Party was picking up support in parts of the country, such
as Bury.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

Labour have taken Birmingham, winning 20 seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib
Dem administration and giving it 77 councillors on the 120-member city council.

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Three of the cities that held referendums on the introduction of elected mayors
have so far rejected the idea - Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry opposed the
proposal.

The leader facing the toughest night is Nick Clegg, who was on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

ROW AS BARONESS WARSI LINKS RISE OF UKIP TO DECLINE OF BNP

A  row broke out late last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi

UKIP are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'bitch' to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

A Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which is
might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

Mr Miliband badly needs a good night after Labour's disastrous loss to George
Galloway and Respect at the recent Bradford West by-election.

A Labour official said: 'We want to show we are regaining ground. We were neck
and neck in the council elections a year ago. If we are two or three points
ahead this time, that will be a step forward.'

'Rebuilding trust will take time, as Bradford showed. This is a staging post not
a destination.'

The remainder of the 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will reveal
their results later.

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until this evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

  Aberdeen

    Aberdeenshire

    Adur

    Amber Valley CON No Change

    Angus

    Argyll & Bute

    Barnsley LAB No Change

    Basildon CON No Change

    Basingstoke & Deane CON No Change

    Bassetlaw LAB No Change

    Birmingham LAB gain from NOC

    Blackburn with Darwen

    Blaenau Gwent LAB gain from IND

    Bolton LAB No Change

    Bradford NOC No Change

    Brentwood CON No Change

    Bridgend LAB gain from NOC

    Broxbourne CON No Change

    Burnley

    Bury LAB No Change

    Caerphilly

    Calderdale

    Cambridge LD lose to NOC

    Cannock Chase LAB gain from NOC

    Cardiff

    Carlisle LAB gain from NOC

    Carmarthenshire

    Castle Point CON No Change

    Ceredigion NOC No Change

    Cheltenham LD No Change

    Cherwell CON No Change

    Chorley LAB gain from NOC

    Clackmannanshire

    Colchester NOC No Change

    Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

    Conwy

    Coventry LAB No Change

    Craven

    Crawley

    Daventry

    Denbighshire

    Derby LAB gain from NOC

    Doncaster

    Dudley LAB gain from CON

    Dumfries & Galloway

    Dundee

    East Ayrshire

    East Dunbartonshire

    East Lothian

    East Renfrewshire

    Eastleigh LD No Change

    Edinburgh

    Elmbridge CON No Change

    Epping Forest

    Exeter LAB gain from NOC

    Falkirk

    Fareham CON No Change

    Fife

    Flintshire NOC No Change

    Gateshead

    Glasgow

    Gloucester CON lose to NOC

    Gosport CON No Change

    Great Yarmouth LAB gain from CON

    Gwynedd

    Halton LAB No Change

    Harlow LAB gain from CON

    Harrogate

    Hart CON lose to NOC

    Hartlepool LAB No Change

    Hastings LAB No Change

    Havant CON No Change

    Hertsmere CON No Change

    Highland

    Huntingdonshire

    Hyndburn

    Inverclyde

    Ipswich LAB No Change

    Kingston upon Hull LAB No Change

    Kirklees

    Knowsley LAB No Change

    Leeds

    Lincoln LAB No Change

    Liverpool

    Maidstone CON No Change

    Manchester LAB No Change

    Merthyr Tydfil LAB gain from IND

    Midlothian

    Milton Keynes

    Mole Valley NOC No Change

    Monmouthshire CON lose to NOC

    Moray

    Neath Port Talbot LAB No Change

    Newcastle under Lyme

    Newcastle upon Tyne

    Newport

    North Ayrshire

    North East Lincolnshire LAB gain from NOC

    North Hertfordshire

    North Lanarkshire

    North Tyneside

    Norwich LAB gain from NOC

    Nuneaton & Bedworth LAB gain from NOC

    Oldham LAB No Change

    Orkney

    Oxford LAB No Change

    Pembrokeshire

    Pendle

    Perth & Kinross

    Peterborough CON No Change

    Plymouth LAB gain from CON

    Portsmouth LD No Change

    Powys

    Preston LAB No Change

    Purbeck NOC No Change

    Reading LAB gain from NOC

    Redditch

    Reigate & Banstead

    Renfrewshire

    Rhondda Cynon Taff

    Rochdale LAB No Change

    Rochford CON No Change

    Rossendale

    Rotherham LAB No Change

    Rugby

    Runnymede CON No Change

    Rushmoor CON No Change

    Salford LAB No Change

    Sandwell LAB No Change

    Scottish Borders

    Sefton LAB gain from NOC

    Sheffield

    Shetland

    Slough LAB No Change

    Solihull

    South Ayrshire

    South Cambridgeshire

    South Lakeland

    South Lanarkshire

    South Tyneside LAB No Change

    Southampton LAB gain from CON

    Southend on Sea CON lose to NOC

    St Albans NOC No Change

    St Helens LAB No Change

    Stevenage LAB No Change

    Stirling

    Stockport NOC No Change

    Stratford on Avon CON No Change

    Stroud

    Sunderland LAB No Change

    Swansea

    Swindon CON No Change

    Tameside LAB No Change

    Tamworth CON No Change

    Tandridge CON No Change

    Three Rivers

    Thurrock LAB gain from NOC

    Torfaen

    Trafford CON No Change

    Tunbridge Wells

    Vale of Glamorgan CON lose to NOC

    Wakefield

    Walsall NOC No Change

    Warrington

    Watford

    Welwyn Hatfield CON No Change

    West Dunbartonshire

    West Lancashire CON No Change

    West Lothian

    West Oxfordshire CON No Change

    Weymouth & Portland NOC No Change

    Wigan LAB No Change

    Winchester CON gain from NOC

    Wirral LAB gain from NOC

    Woking

    Wokingham

    Wolverhampton

    Worcester CON lose to NOC

    Worthing

    Wrexham NOC No Change

    Wyre Forest CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 3:56 AM GMT

Labour predicted to gain 700 council seats in dismal night for Tories... but
Miliband braced for a tartan trouncing

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2340 words



     ·    Labour is on course for big gains in English local elections, with a
          projected 39% vote share ahead of the Tories 31% and Lib Dems 16%
     ·    Lowest turnout in English local elections for 12 years - just 32 per
          cent
     ·    Lib Dems are losing around half the seats they are defending and
          Tories are losing one in three seats
     ·    UKIP spokesman calls Tory Baroness Warsi a 'b****h' after she linked
          the rise of the UK Independence Party with the decline of the BNP
     ·    Lib Dem candidate thrown out of count after trying to punch Labour
          candidate in St Helens, Merseyside
     ·    An eve-of-poll survey suggests that Boris Johnson is set for victory
          today over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%


Labour is on course to top the poll in the local elections, to the dismay of the
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats.

As results started being released from midnight last night, early indications
showed a substantial swing to Labour and there are predictions that the party
could gain more than 700 seats.

The polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across
much of the country could result in a low turnout - the Tories admitted they
were bracing themselves for a 'bad night.'

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

Scroll down for live results

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Early indications suggest suggest Labour is on course for success, with the BBC
projecting a 39 per cent vote share ahead of the Tories' 31 per cent and Lib
Dems' per cent.

Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claimed the election was
'always going to be a difficult one' for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

'Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up,' she said.

'We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening.'

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

He said: 'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not
seeking to rain on Labour's parade.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

LIVE BREAK-DOWN: HOW THE PARTIES PERFORMED IN ENGLAND

ENGLAND

TOTAL COUNCILS

+/-

TOTAL SEATS

+/-

LABOUR

42

+17

761

+121

CONSERVATIVE

26

-8

487

-80

LIB DEM

3

-1

178

-35

RESIDENT ASSOC

0

0

10

+4

GREEN

0

0

14

+2

BNP

0

0

0

-3

ENGLISH DEMOCRATS

0

0

0

0

INDEPENDENT

0

0

0

0

INDEPENDENT AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONCERN

0

0

5

3

LIBERAL

0

0

2

-2

RESPECT

0

0

0

0

SOCIALIST

0

0

0

0

UKIP

0

0

2

+2

OTHERS

0

0

59

-40

NO OVERALL CONTROL

7

+1

The Tories lost several seats in West Oxfordshire to Labour, including Chipping
Norton, Witney Central and Witney East - in the Prime Minister's own
constituency. However, they retained control of the council.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour has tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with continued losses to the SNP
in Scotland.

POLICE CALLED AS POLITICAL PRESSURE LEADS TO LATE-NIGHT ELECTION FRACAS

Police were forced to break up a late-night election count fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Labour councillor Andy Bowden said: 'As the results were coming in it was
becoming clear the Lib Dems had lost quite a few seats.'

He added: 'There were quite a lot of police in the room and at least two
interjected and separated everyone.'

Mr Bowden said Mr Johnson may have twisted his ankle and was giving a statement
to police.

It is understood police officers intervened, but no arrests were made.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat.

TORY CLAIMS SEAT AFTER LOTS DRAWN

Lots had to be drawn to separate Conservative and Independent candidates in a
Tory stronghold council after they polled the same number of votes.

There were three recounts in the Chertsey South and Rowtown ward of Runnymede
Borough Council in Surrey but the candidates could not be separated.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

The Conservatives won 12 of the 14 seats contested, with Independent Residents
winning two.

However, sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as 'at the outer edge of expectations.'

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

The UK Independence Party was picking up support in parts of the country, such
as Bury.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

Labour have taken Birmingham, winning 20 seats from the ruling Conservative/Lib
Dem administration and giving it 77 councillors on the 120-member city council.

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28 per cent from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent and Lincoln
turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

Nottingham, Manchester and Coventry all voted against an elected Mayor.

The leader facing the toughest night is Nick Clegg, who was on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

A Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which is
might otherwise have lost to Labour.

The Lib Dems had feared losses on Cambridge City Council, blaming
disastisfaction with the party's involvement with the coalition government.

Julian Huppert, the city's Lib Dem MP, said he believed national issues 'played
a far greater part in the result than they should' because of aggressive Labour
campaigning.'

He added: 'We have tried to stick to local issues and put forward some really
strong local policies.

'But Labour have played very strongly on national issues and, other than
policies on dog poo and multiple occupancy homes, haven't put forward anything
constructive.

'I do get the sense on the street that people are disappointed with the Lib Dems
nationally.

'I wouldn't choose to be part of a coalition, I certainly wouldn't choose to be
part of a coalition with the Conservatives and I wouldn't choose to be part of a
coalition with no money.'

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015..

Mr Miliband badly needs a good night after Labour's disastrous loss to George
Galloway and Respect at the recent Bradford West by-election.

A Labour official said: 'We want to show we are regaining ground. We were neck
and neck in the council elections a year ago. If we are two or three points
ahead this time, that will be a step forward.'

'Rebuilding trust will take time, as Bradford showed. This is a staging post not
a destination.'

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until Friday evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

HOW DID YOUR AREA PERFORM? CHECK THE                        LIVE UPDATE OF
RESULTS

There are 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales up for election - 128
English councils, 32 unitary authorities in Scotland and 21 Welsh unitary
authorities.

The live results are:

  Aberdeen

    Aberdeenshire

    Adur

    Amber Valley CON No Change

    Angus

    Argyll & Bute

    Barnsley

    Basildon CON No Change

    Basingstoke & Deane

    Bassetlaw LAB No Change

    Birmingham LAB gain from NOC

    Blackburn with Darwen

    Blaenau Gwent

    Bolton LAB No Change

    Bradford

    Brentwood CON No Change

    Bridgend

    Broxbourne CON No Change

    Burnley

    Bury LAB No Change

    Caerphilly

    Calderdale

    Cambridge LD lose to NOC

    Cannock Chase LAB gain from NOC

    Cardiff

    Carlisle LAB gain from NOC

    Carmarthenshire

    Castle Point CON No Change

    Ceredigion

    Cheltenham LD No Change

    Cherwell

    Chorley LAB gain from NOC

    Clackmannanshire

    Colchester NOC No Change

    Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar

    Conwy

    Coventry

    Craven

    Crawley

    Daventry

    Denbighshire

    Derby LAB gain from NOC

    Doncaster

    Dudley

    Dumfries & Galloway

    Dundee

    East Ayrshire

    East Dunbartonshire

    East Lothian

    East Renfrewshire

    Eastleigh LD No Change

    Edinburgh

    Elmbridge CON No Change

    Epping Forest

    Exeter LAB gain from NOC

    Falkirk

    Fareham CON No Change

    Fife

    Flintshire

    Gateshead

    Glasgow

    Gloucester CON lose to NOC

    Gosport CON No Change

    Great Yarmouth LAB gain from CON

    Gwynedd

    Halton LAB No Change

    Harlow LAB gain from CON

    Harrogate

    Hart CON lose to NOC

    Hartlepool LAB No Change

    Hastings LAB No Change

    Havant CON No Change

    Hertsmere CON No Change

    Highland

    Huntingdonshire

    Hyndburn

    Inverclyde

    Ipswich LAB No Change

    Kingston upon Hull LAB No Change

    Kirklees

    Knowsley LAB No Change

    Leeds

    Lincoln LAB No Change

    Liverpool

    Maidstone CON No Change

    Manchester LAB No Change

    Merthyr Tydfil

    Midlothian

    Milton Keynes

    Mole Valley NOC No Change

    Monmouthshire

    Moray

    Neath Port Talbot

    Newcastle under Lyme

    Newcastle upon Tyne

    Newport

    North Ayrshire

    North East Lincolnshire LAB gain from NOC

    North Hertfordshire

    North Lanarkshire

    North Tyneside

    Norwich LAB gain from NOC

    Nuneaton & Bedworth LAB gain from NOC

    Oldham LAB No Change

    Orkney

    Oxford LAB No Change

    Pembrokeshire

    Pendle

    Perth & Kinross

    Peterborough CON No Change

    Plymouth LAB gain from CON

    Portsmouth LD No Change

    Powys

    Preston LAB No Change

    Purbeck NOC No Change

    Reading LAB gain from NOC

    Redditch

    Reigate & Banstead

    Renfrewshire

    Rhondda Cynon Taff

    Rochdale LAB No Change

    Rochford CON No Change

    Rossendale

    Rotherham LAB No Change

    Rugby

    Runnymede CON No Change

    Rushmoor CON No Change

    Salford

    Sandwell LAB No Change

    Scottish Borders

    Sefton LAB gain from NOC

    Sheffield

    Shetland

    Slough

    Solihull

    South Ayrshire

    South Cambridgeshire

    South Lakeland

    South Lanarkshire

    South Tyneside LAB No Change

    Southampton LAB gain from CON

    Southend on Sea CON lose to NOC

    St Albans NOC No Change

    St Helens LAB No Change

    Stevenage LAB No Change

    Stirling

    Stockport NOC No Change

    Stratford on Avon CON No Change

    Stroud

    Sunderland LAB No Change

    Swansea

    Swindon

    Tameside

    Tamworth CON No Change

    Tandridge CON No Change

    Three Rivers

    Thurrock LAB gain from NOC

    Torfaen

    Trafford CON No Change

    Tunbridge Wells

    Vale of Glamorgan

    Wakefield

    Walsall NOC No Change

    Warrington

    Watford

    Welwyn Hatfield CON No Change

    West Dunbartonshire

    West Lancashire CON No Change

    West Lothian

    West Oxfordshire CON No Change

    Weymouth & Portland NOC No Change

    Wigan LAB No Change

    Winchester CON gain from NOC

    Wirral LAB gain from NOC

    Woking

    Wokingham

    Wolverhampton

    Worcester CON lose to NOC

    Worthing

    Wrexham NOC No Change

    Wyre Forest CON lose to NOC

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:57 AM GMT

Boris takes his girls to the polls as he is poised to beat Ken in London Mayor
race... but Tories prepare for a bruising in the rest of the country

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1616 words



     ·    Final poll before ballots close puts Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats
     ·    Mayor results expected tomorrow after 7pm and council elections
          overnight and throughout the day


Boris Johnson is tonight set to defy political gravity by defeating Ken
Livingstone, taking the sting out of the loss of hundreds of Conservative
council seats around the country.

With the Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners haemorrhaging
support to Labour, the London mayor appeared confident of seeing off Ken
Livingstone's challenge in the capital, with a final poll suggesting he had
extended his lead to six points.

Significantly, it also suggested the Tory had scooped up the support of one in
every ten Labour voters. YouGov predicted Mr Johnson would deliver a 53-47 per
cent win. The final results are expected to be announced this evening.

Victory for Mr Johnson will lift Tory hearts after a turbulent month for the
Government which has seen its national poll ratings slump.

But elsewhere, Labour was making in-roads in the local elections, albeit on
shockingly low turnouts in many areas. Ed Miliband's party picked up a 13 per
cent swing in one ward in Harlow - a key seat the party needs to win if it wants
to secure a majority in the 2015 General Election - and was on course to take
control of Southampton from the Tories.

Labour appeared to be stealing votes en masse from the Lib Dems in swing seats
such as Winchester, Hull and Havant.

But as well as defeat in London, the Labour leader was facing a humiliating
setback in Scotland, where the Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow
council - a totemic gain in what was once a Labour heartland.

Nick Clegg's party lost its last councillor in Sunderland, wiping out the third
party in a key north-east city.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In a blow for the Tories, the UK Independence Party showed that it was gaining
traction in the limited number of places where it put up candidates.

In early returns, UKIP had secured 14 per cent of the votes in wards where it
had fielded candidates - enough for third place in some areas, and around 5 per
cent up on last year.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi admitted: 'It's going to be a bad night for the
Conservatives. There are going to be losses across the country. We are beginning
from a very high base.'

But she also sparked controversy by equating UKIP with the far-Right BNP.

Lady Warsi pointed out that while the number of BNP candidates had fallen by 14
per cent, the number of UKIP candidates had risen by the same amount.

In response, UKIP spokesman Gawain Taylor called her a 'bitch' on Twitter. He
later deleted the comment.

Labour was set to win Birmingham and Newport, while the Tories were on course to
lose control of Dudley in the West Midlands.

The earliest results, from Basildon and Sunderland, showed large swings to
Labour and substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of tiny numbers of voters taking part in elections in many
parts of the country, suggesting widespread apathy.

In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln's
turnout was its lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

Mr Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy Mr Clegg are planning a Coalition
'renewal of vows' with a joint appearance on Tuesday as the Government enters
its third year. They will focus on economic policy as the glue that is holding
the two parties together.

The Tories and Lib Dems will seek to pass off the loss of hundreds of
councillors in local elections as traditional 'mid-term blues'.

After their joint appearance, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg will use the Queen's
Speech on Wednesday to unveil new law-and-order measures, including laws on drug
driving and the creation of a National Crime Agency.

Planning is also under way for a Cabinet reshuffle, though it is not expected to
take place in the immediate future.

Tories tipped for promotion include Housing Minister Grant Shapps, Disability
Minister Maria Miller and Employment Minister Chris Grayling. Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley, who had been tipped for the chop following controversy over NHS
reforms, is now thought to be safe.

Overall, Mr Clegg is braced to see the number of Lib Dem councillors slump below
3,000 for the first time since 1986.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next General Election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source insisted.

The Conservatives expect to lose around 450 council seats, but hope their vote
share will be significantly better than recent polls suggest, at around 35 per
cent.

In London, the YouGov survey suggested Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick would
finish a distant third, on 7 per cent compared with 10 per cent four years ago.
Other polls have suggested independent candidate Siobhan Benita could even push
the Lib Dems into fourth.

In the first-choice vote, Mr Johnson leads Mr Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38
per cent, similar to 2008. Once second preferences are allocated, the poll
suggested he would emerge with a six-point lead, on 53 per cent to 47 per cent.

However, in elections to the London assembly, Labour enjoyed a ten point lead
over the Conservatives.

UKIP also looked to be heading for its first seats in the assembly, with the
poll predicting it could secure two. YouGov president Peter Kellner said: 'The
difference between the Mayor and assembly results is striking: a large swing to
Labour since 2008 in voting for the assembly, but no swing in the vote for
Mayor.

'The main reason is the "Boris Labour" vote. We looked at people who told us
they were certain to vote, and would vote Labour if the contest were a General
Election. One in ten told us they will vote for Boris.

'Londoners like politicians with character and a streak of independence. That
used to help Ken, but now it's Boris who has caught the mood of the capital.
Labour supporters used to find Ken entertaining. Now he simply irritates many of
them.'

n PETER Mandelson will today call for a referendum on Britain's membership of
the European Union.

The crisis-hit eurozone will survive only if it operates more as 'a single
political entity' with its own president and national MPs sitting within the EU,
the architect of New Labour will say at a speech in Oxford.

But the staunchly pro-Europe Lord Mandelson will admit that further EU
integration cannot be foisted on to the British public without an in/out
referendum.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:36 AM GMT

Labour predicted to gain 500 council seats in dismal night for Tories... but
Miliband braced for a tartan trouncing

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1762 words



     ·    So far Labour have outperformed the other parties significantly in
          both councils won and seats - winning Harlow has been hailed as
          significant
     ·    Labour spindoctors said they expect to gain around 350 seats in
          England and another 100 in Wales - but early intelligence suggests
          they will lose dozens of councillors to the SNP in Scotland
     ·    The leader facing the toughest night is Nick Clegg, who is on course
          to lose up to 350 seats
     ·    Polls closed at 10pm amid speculation that a drizzly day across much
          of the country could result in a low turnout
     ·    An eve-of-poll survey suggested that Boris Johnson is set for victory
          over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%


Labour is on course to top the poll in the local elections with voters expected
to have delivered a mixed verdict on all three main parties.

Polls closed at 10pm last night amid speculation that a drizzly day across much
of the country could result in a low turnout - so far Labour have consistently
outperformed the other parties.

A senior Labour source hailed victory in Harlow as a 'significant breakthrough',
saying that the party had to win the constituency at the general election 2015
to gain a majority.

Scroll down for live results

The result 'shows people who used to vote Labour returning', according to the
source.

Party organisers in Birmingham were 'very confident' they had taken control of
the key target, and looked set for success in Newport.

But Tories stressed low turnouts in areas such as Dudley, suggesting it could
have dropped to 28% from nearly 37 per cent in 2007.

Party figures also hit out at 'apathy' in mayoral referendums, saying turnout in
one Nottingham ward was just 8.4 per cent.

LIVE BREAK-DOWN: HOW THE PARTIES PERFORMED IN ENGLAND

ENGLAND

TOTAL COUNCILS

+/-

TOTAL SEATS

+/-

LABOUR

19

+7

281

+121

CONSERVATIVE

9

-7

161

-80

LIB DEM

1

0

12

-35

RESIDENT ASSOC

0

0

3

+3

GREEN

0

0

3

+2

BNP

0

0

0

-1

ENGLISH DEMOCRATS

0

0

0

0

INDEPENDENT

0

0

0

0

INDEPENDENT AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONCERN

0

0

0

0

LIBERAL

0

0

0

-1

RESPECT

0

0

0

0

SOCIALIST

0

0

0

0

UKIP

0

0

1

+1

OTHERS

0

0

14

-18

NO OVERALL CONTROL

5

+1

Local Government Secretary and former Tory chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
Labour's gains were to be expected - and predicted the party should claim
another 700 seats.

He said: 'When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not
seeking to rain on Labour's parade.'

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: 'It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

'But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this.'

The Tories lost several seats in West Oxfordshire to Labour, including Chipping
Norton, Witney Central and Witney East - in the Prime Minister's own
constituency. However, they retained control of the council.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties.

Respected election experts Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth
University say Labour's advantage should translate into a dramatic gain of as
many as 700 seats.

That number was seized on by Mr Pickles who said Labour could reach the target
'just by turning up' as he attempted to minimise the impact of any heavy defeat.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

Labour has tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for between
300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with continued losses to the SNP
in Scotland.

However, sources were sounding increasingly bullish, describing victory in Great
Yarmouth as "at the outer edge of expectations".

Insiders predict Ed Miliband's party will garner around 38 per cent of the vote,
compensation for the expected loss of the London mayoral election.

But the Labour leader is facing a humiliating setback in Scotland, where the
Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow Council - a totemic gain in what
was once a Labour heartland.

Senior Tories are expecting to lose several hundred council seats but expressed
hopes that their nationwide share of the vote would hold up at around 34 per
cent - higher than the party has been polling in recent national surveys.

Labour spindoctors said they expected to gain around 350 seats in England and
another 100 in Wales - but early intelligence has suggested they would lose
dozens of councillors to the SNP in Scotland.

'It's not looking good in Scotland,' a senior source conceded.

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

UKIP ROW BREAKS OUT ON BBC

A row broke out last night after Conservative Party co-chairwoman Baroness
Sayeeda Warsi linked the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) with the
decline of the far-right British National Party.

Ukip are tipped to do well as the results pour in this morning, with the BNP
falling further behind.

But Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her 'a bitch'.

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: 'Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact.'

She added: 'There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates.'

Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a 'b***h to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his 'unparliamentary language'.

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: 'Deleted,
out of order on my part'.

He later added: 'Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise.'

Mr Towler later accused Lady Warsi of making 'completely pre-scripted' remarks
as part of a 'planned insult', adding: 'Obviously they see us as a threat.':

'While her comments were contemptible, mine were out of order and I apologise
fulsomely,' he said.

There were reports of shockingly low turnouts from across the country,
suggesting widespread apathy. In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be
just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

The UK Independence Party was picking up support in parts of the country, such
as Bury.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

The leader facing the toughest night is Nick Clegg, who was on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

A Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which is
might otherwise have lost to Labour.

Yesterday's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The party is also poised to retake Southampton council, one of the few Southern
cities where Labour does still have MPs.

Labour is also expected to seize control of a host of councils which currently
have Tory council leaders. Sources predicted progress in Birmingham, Derby,
Plymouth, the Wirral and Newcastle Under Lyme.

Mr Miliband badly needs a good night after Labour's disastrous loss to George
Galloway and Respect at the recent Bradford West by-election.

A Labour official said: 'We want to show we are regaining ground. We were neck
and neck in the council elections a year ago. If we are two or three points
ahead this time, that will be a step forward.

'Rebuilding trust will take time, as Bradford showed. This is a staging post not
a destination.'

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until Friday evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

AREA BY AREA BREAKDOWN OF RESULTS

Labour gain Harlow from Conservatives

Labour gain Exeter

Labour hold Lincoln

Labour gain Great Yarmouth

Labour gain  Nuneaton and Bedworth

Labour hold Halton

Labour hold South Tyneside

Labour hold Knowsley

Labour hold Sunderland

Labour hold Sandwell

Labourhold Bassetlaw

Labour hold Stevenage

Labour hold Wigan

Conservatives lose Worcester to no overall control

Conservatives hold Broxbourne

Conservatives hold Tamworth

Conservatives lose Hart to no overall control.

Conservatives hold Castle Point

Conservatives hold Havant

Weymouth & Portland remains no overall control

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:09 AM GMT

Labour predicted to gain 500 council seats in dismal night for Tories... but
Miliband braced for a tartan trouncing

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1144 words



     ·    So far Labour have outperformed the other parties significantly in
          both councils won and seats
     ·    Labour spindoctors said they expect to gain around 350 seats in
          England and another 100 in Wales - but early intelligence suggests
          they will lose dozens of councillors to the SNP in Scotland
     ·    The leader facing the toughest night is Nick Clegg, who is on course
          to lose up to 350 seats
     ·    Polls closed at 10pm amid speculation that a drizzly day across much
          of the country could result in a low turnout
     ·    An eve-of-poll survey suggested that Boris Johnson is set for victory
          over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%


Labour is on course to top the poll in the local elections with voters expected
to have delivered a mixed verdict on all three main parties.

Polls closed at 10pm tonight amid speculation that a drizzly day across much of
the country could result in a low turnout - so far Labour have held Halton and
Sunderland, while the Tories have held Castlepoint.

Shortly after midnight, the first results in England and Wales will be
announced,  where all 21 unitary authorities are being fought, but counting in
Scotland - where every seat on 32 unitary authorities is also up for election -
will not begin until later tomorrow.

Scroll down for live results

Insiders predict Ed Miliband's party will garner around 38 per cent of the vote,
compensation for the expected loss of the London mayoral election.

But the Labour leader is facing a humiliating setback in Scotland, where the
Scottish Nationalists were set to seize Glasgow Council - a totemic gain in what
was once a Labour heartland.

Senior Tories are expecting to lose several hundred council seats but expressed
hopes that their nationwide share of the vote would hold up at around 34 per
cent - higher than the party has been polling in recent national surveys.

LIVE BREAK-DOWN: HOW THE PARTIES PERFORMED IN ENGLAND

ENGLAND

TOTAL COUNCILS

+/-

TOTAL SEATS

+/-

LABOUR

16

+5

215

+89

CONSERVATIVE

4

-6

87

-59

LIB DEM

1

0

12

-23

RESIDENT ASSOC

0

0

3

+3

GREEN

0

0

2

+2

BNP

0

0

0

-1

ENGLISH DEMOCRATS

0

0

0

0

INDEPENDENT

0

0

0

0

INDEPENDENT AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONCERN

0

0

0

0

LIBERAL

0

0

0

-1

RESPECT

0

0

0

0

SOCIALIST

0

0

0

0

UKIP

0

0

0

0

OTHERS

0

0

14

-18

NO OVERALL CONTROL

5

+1

Labour spindoctors said they expected to gain around 350 seats in England and
another 100 in Wales - but early intelligence has suggested they would lose
dozens of councillors to the SNP in Scotland.

'It's not looking good in Scotland,' a senior source conceded.

Results from Basildon and Sunderland showed large swings to Labour, and
substantial declines in Conservative and Lib Dem support.

There were reports of shockingly low turnouts from across the country,
suggesting widespread apathy. In Kingston-upon-Hull, turnout was reported to be
just 18.7 per cent. Lincoln turnout was the lowest ever, at 26 per cent.

The UK Independence Party was picking up support in parts of the country, such
as Bury.

Polling experts have said that on the basis of recent polls and the chaos
gripping the coalition, Labour ought to make gains of at least 700 seats.

The leader facing the toughest night is Nick Clegg, who was on course to lose up
to 350 seats, leaving the Liberal Democrats with the smallest number of
councillors nationwide since the mid-1980s.

A performance like that will intensify speculation that the party could be all
but wiped out at the next general election and that Mr Clegg could face a
leadership challenge before 2015.

'We always expected elections to be difficult last year and this year,' one
source said. 'If it's nearer 250 losses that will be some sign that we have
stemmed the bleeding but I would expect it to be nearer 350. If it's bad next
year we will be in serious trouble.'

A Lib Dem meltdown is expected to help the Tories hold on to some seats which is
might otherwise have lost to Labour.

Today's poll was seen as a crucial test of Ed Miliband's leadership and a
measure of whether he can win votes in the South where Labour has been virtually
wiped out.

His aides said the vote was an opportunity to 'regain ground and restore trust'
with the electorate.

Labour is expecting to make gains in parts of the country where the party does
not currently have any MPs, like Harlow, Carlisle, Norwich and Reading.

Last year Labour made gains by leeching votes from the Liberal Democrats.

This time they are hopeful of grabbing votes directly.

These are all swing seats in a general election and Labour needs to show
progress there if the party is to have any chance of rebuilding its grassroots
infrastructure that will be necessary if they are to win a majority in 2015.

The party is also poised to retake Southampton council, one of the few Southern
cities where Labour does still have MPs.

Labour is also expected to seize control of a host of councils which currently
have Tory council leaders. Sources predicted progress in Birmingham, Derby,
Plymouth, the Wirral and Newcastle Under Lyme.

Mr Miliband badly needs a good night after Labour's disastrous loss to George
Galloway and Respect at the recent Bradford West by-election.

A Labour official said: 'We want to show we are regaining ground. We were neck
and neck in the council elections a year ago. If we are two or three points
ahead this time, that will be a step forward.

'Rebuilding trust will take time, as Bradford showed. This is a staging post not
a destination.'

Londoners have also been voting for a new mayor - but they will have to wait
until Friday evening to find out who has won that contest.

Prime Minister David Cameron will be hoping that Boris Johnson can buck the
trend by securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London this
morning - is set for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53
per cent to 47 per cent.

AREA BY AREA BREAKDOWN OF RESULTS

Labour gain Harlow from Conservatives

Labour gain Exeter

Labour hold Lincoln

Labour gain Great Yarmouth

Labour gain  Nuneaton and Bedworth

Labour hold Halton

Labour hold South Tyneside

Labour hold Knowsley

Labour hold Sunderland

Labour hold Sandwell

Conservatives lose Worcester to no overall control

Conservatives hold Broxbourne

Conservatives hold Tamworth

Conservatives lose Hart to no overall control.

Conservatives hold Castle Point

Conservatives hold Havant

Weymouth & Portland remains no overall control

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

POLL HOPES & FEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 86 words


TORIES - Best hope: Win for Boris, lose fewer than 250 council seats, hold off
UKIP. Disaster: Ken unseats Boris, party loses more than 500 councillors, Labour
makes inroads in South, UKIP hits hard.

LABOUR - Best hope: Victory for Ken, win more than 800 council seats, take
control of south coast. Disaster: Gain fewer than 400 councillors, beaten by SNP
in Glasgow, lose seats in South.

LIB DEMS - Best hope: Paddick 2nd to Ken, lose fewer than 200 councillors.
Disaster: Lose another 700 councillors, Paddick 4th or 5th.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Labour's come in from cold

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 170 words


LABOUR was set to be the big winner in the local elections last night as polls
closed.

UKIP was also doing well in what looked like a drubbing for the Conservatives
and Lib Dems.

Labour made early gains from the Tories in Basildon, as well as gaining seats in
Great Yarmouth and Southampton.

They also took Harlow from the Conservatives in a "significant breakthrough".
The town has voted for the winning party in every General Election since 1983.

Local Government Secretary Eric Pickles last night said Labour's gains were to
be expected. He added: "When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go."

The Lib Dems were looking at losses in Sunderland, Lincolnshire and Manchester
But cold and wet weather led to low turnouts across Britain, with millions of
people not bothering to vote.

In London, experts predicted a 35 per cent turnout. David Cameron and wife
Samantha voted in Westminster.

A YouGov poll for The Sun last night gave Labour a nine-point lead over the
Tories on polling day - 41 per cent to 32 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Voters ... Sam & Cam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:35 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3793 words


11.25: ¡Basta Ya! After nearly 26 hours, this liveblog is shutting down.
Congratulations to all new councillors, and thank you to every candidate,
whatever your party. Democracy is an honourable pursuit: don't let anyone tell
you otherwise.

The woods are lovely, dark and deep, but I have promises to keep, and miles to
go before I sleep - and miles to go before I sleep...

10.20: Jenny Jones, the delightful archaeologist who contested the London
mayoralty for the Greens, has beaten Brian Paddick, the LibDem, in the battle
for third place. Jenny is a proper radical, who extends the logic of her
politics to the EU, clocking it for the racket it is. She is a strong supporter
of the campaign for an In/Out referendum. It will be interesting to see whether
the BBC, which always treats the LibDems generously, can come up with a formula
that justifies their being bracketed with the big two rather than with the
Greens and UKIP. I'm sure it'll manage.

9.55: Why do you suppose that, despite all the promises, most councils have
stopped counting on Thursday night? Do you imagine that such a change was
proposed by elected councillors? Of course not: like most policies, it was
designed by and for the permanent staff qv fortnightly bin collections, chief
executive remuneration etc).

It's a small but telling example of what our political system has become.
Elected representatives are the front men for the standing nomenklatura. Whether
it's a councillor defending the old system of undemocratic policing ('our chief
constable here is an absolutely first rate man') or a Chancellor defending
UKREP's decision to make Britain liable for bailing out the euro('I got a good
deal for Britain'), we see where true power lies.

8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform?'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 300 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:29 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3728 words


10.20: Jenny Jones, the delightful archaeologist who contested the London
mayoralty for the Greens, has beaten Brian Paddick, the LibDem, in the battle
for third place. Jenny is a proper radical, who extends the logic of her
politics to the EU, clocking it for the racket it is. She is a strong supporter
of the campaign for an In/Out referendum. It will be interesting to see whether
the BBC, which always treats the LibDems generously, can come up with a formula
that justifies their being bracketed with the big two rather than with the
Greens and UKIP. I'm sure it'll manage.

9.55: Why do you suppose that, despite all the promises, most councils have
stopped counting on Thursday night? Do you imagine that such a change was
proposed by elected councillors? Of course not: like most policies, it was
designed by and for the permanent staff (qv fortnightly bin collections, chief
executive remuneration etc).

It's a small but telling example of what our political system has become.
Elected representatives are the front men for the standing nomenklatura. Whether
it's a councillor defending the current system of undemocratic policing ('our
chief constable here is an absolutely first rate man') or a Chancellor defending
UKREP's decision to make Britain liable for bailing out the euro('I got a good
deal for Britain'), we see where true power lies.

8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
