
                               1 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

THE WORST IS YET TO COME FOR THE EURO, WARNS NUMBER 10

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 577 words


DAVID Cameron raised the spectre of the collapse of the euro and years more
economic turmoil yesterday as he confronted his deepest political crisis since
entering Downing Street.

The Prime Minister warned the debt crisis across the Continent was not even
halfway through, blaming the EU's woes for Britain's double dip recession.

With support for the Conservatives at its lowest ebb since 2004, just days
before crucial London mayoral and local council elections, Mr Cameron promised
to strain every sinew' to prompt economic growth.

But he warned that the eurozone's failure to contend with its problems risks
dragging the UK down for years to come.

His remarks will infuriate EU leaders, who face crunch elections in France and
Greece. In both countries, voters are likely to return governments which will
unpick a treaty on fiscal union' which Mr Cameron refused to sign up to.

I don't think we are anywhere near halfway through it because what's happening
in the eurozone is a massive tension between the single currency that countries
are finding very difficult to adapt to,' Mr Cameron told the BBC's Andrew Marr
programme.

It's going to be a very long and painful process in the eurozone as they work
out do they want a single currency with a single economic policy and all the
things that go with it, or are they going to have something quite different?'

He also dismissed the idea that the US is seeing stronger economic growth and
lower employment because it has delayed spending cuts and tax rises.

First of all, the United States' plans are for tougher austerity measures than
we have here in the UK. The second point - they don't have the eurozone on their
doorstep,' he said.

Mr Cameron admitted last week's figures showing the economy shrank by 0.2 per
cent in the first three months of the year - meaning the UK is in its first
double dip recession since 1975 - were extremely disappointing'.

What we mustn't do is throw away our plans for dealing with the debt, dealing
with the deficit, making sure public spending is properly reduced in the
appropriate areas,' he said. The low interest rates we have are absolutely
vital.'

He insisted Britain was having to undergo a very difficult, painstaking process'
of rebalancing its economy away from its dependence on financial services and
the public sector.

Pollsters believe the double dip recession is potentially far more damaging to
the Government's prospects than recent controversies over its links to the
Murdoch media empire.

A YouGov poll yesterday suggested support for the Tories has crashed to 29 per
cent, 11 points behind Labour and the lowest level for eight years.

The Government has stumbled from crisis to crisis following the Budget, which
prompted rows over a granny tax' on pensioners and a pasty tax' on hot takeaway
food.

The anti-EU UK Independence Party has seen its support rise to 10 per cent, not
far behind the LibDems.

The slump has come at the worst possible time, with Boris Johnson fighting to
hold the London mayoralty and nearly 5,000 council seats in 181 town halls also
up for grabs.

However on the key issue of who voters trust to run the economy, the gap has not
closed. Some 36 per cent say they trust Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne, down three
points on a month ago, while 28 per cent say they trust Ed Miliband and Ed
Balls, down two.

Labour leader Mr Miliband will today use a speech in London to denounce a
recession made in Downing Street'.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leaders plan post-election pick-me-up

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355 words


DAVID CAMERON and Nick Clegg are planning a show of Coalition unity after this
week's local elections, where both their parties are expecting major losses.

The Conservative Prime Minister and his Liberal Democrat deputy will stage a
rare joint public appearance in the days after Thursday's polls to highlight
their work in Government.

Both Tory and Lib Dem MPs are expecting their parties to lose significant
numbers of council seats on Thursday. Weekend polls gave the Conservatives some
of their lowest ratings for almost a decade. YouGov put the party on 29 per
cent, behind Labour on 40 per cent.

The Liberal Democrats are on 11 per cent, narrowly ahead of the UK Independence
Party on 10 per cent. Amid signs that voters will use the local elections to
punish the governing parties, the two leaders are planning a public event to
insist that the Coalition will continue.

They are expected to highlight work on overhauling laws on maternity leave and
getting rid of red tape.

About 5,000 seats in 180 councils will be up for grabs on Thursday.

Eric Pickles, the Conservative communities secretary, predicted yesterday that
his party would suffer net losses of up to 450 seats to Labour.

Poor poll ratings and the prospect of losses in the council elections have
increased the importance to the Conservatives of re-election for Boris Johnson
as London mayor.

Senior Tories have privately admitted that a loss for Mr Johnson on Thursday
would be a political disaster for Mr Cameron, who would be likely to be blamed
for hampering the campaign.

Some analysts predicted that the Lib Dems will fare almost as badly as the
Conservatives in the council elections, losing about 300 seats.

Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president, predicted difficult results for his party,
and accepted that the Lib Dems could be outpolled by Ukip.

"I'm fairly confident that will not happen, but we have got to be big enough to
take whatever the outcome is," he said.

"My sense is that these are going to be difficult results for us. In the past 12
months, the Lib Dems' opinion poll rating has edged from pretty dreadful to only
a bit depressing."

Daniel Knowles: Page 15

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Voters will reward competence and honesty;
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Established 1855

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 445 words


Mid-term local elections are rarely happy hunting grounds for governments, and
this Thursday's contests are unlikely to buck the trend. The latest opinion
polls show the Conservatives in their worst shape for eight years but they are
by no means the only party in difficulties. Labour, who are expected to perform
relatively well on Thursday both because they are in opposition and because many
of the contests are in their heartlands, may come a cropper in London, where Ken
Livingstone looks likely to lose to Boris Johnson for the mayoralty, applying
renewed pressure on Ed Miliband after Labour's by-election defeat by Respect in
Bradford West. The Lib Dems, meanwhile, are in dire straits, vying with Ukip for
third place. By this time next week, Nick Clegg could be fighting for his
political life if his party fares as badly as some fear.

For the Conservatives, when they are in difficulties the default option is to
send David Cameron into the fray as a one-man troubleshooter. Last week he
embarked on a televised awayday to try to give the impression of authority and
aptitude; yesterday, the chosen format was an interview with Andrew Marr. Mr
Cameron is good in these face-to-face exchanges: he sounds plausible, convincing
and on top of his brief.

However, the problem for the Prime Minister is that while he just about remains
more popular than his party, he is not the obvious asset that he was until
recently (until the Budget, in fact). In particular, Labour's efforts to portray
Mr Cameron as out of touch seem to be paying dividends, as if the very idea that
Mr Miliband has his finger on the nation's pulse is not itself laughable

But dig deeper into the polls and we find that more people still trust the
Tories to run the economy than Labour: memories are not that short. And a
majority understands that big cuts in spending - bigger, indeed, than we have
seen - are needed. In other words, the core ambition of the Coalition, which is
to restore the credibility of the nation's finances, remains electorally
popular. It is the incoherent way in which they have set out to achieve this
goal that is causing so many of their difficulties.

For the Tories, the traditional pursuit of lower taxes and a smaller state still
has a resonance among voters if they can translate it into policies that bring
obvious benefits to the majority of hard-working people and their families.
After all, what voters want from a government is not slick PR but competence,
honesty and a fair deal for those who have earned it. If they think that any or
all of these have been compromised in any way then all manner of relaunches and
TV interviews will make little difference.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

There's more pain to come...and euro's to blame, says Cameron

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words


THE eurozone strife will keep damaging the British economy until at least 2015,
David Cameron warned yesterday, as he hinted that he could imagine the single
currency breaking up.

The Prime Minister admitted figures suggesting Britain was back in recession
were "extremely disappointing" and pledged to "strain every sinew" to spark
growth.

But Europe's problems were a factor in the UK's difficulties.

Asked if the eurozone crisis was only halfway through, he told the BBC's Andrew
Marr: "I don't think we're anywhere near halfway through it because what's
happening in the eurozone is a massive tension between the single currency that
countries are finding very dif-ficult to adapt to.

choked "I think it's going to be a very long and painful process as they work
out do they want a single currency with a single economic policy and all the
things that go with it, or are they going to have something quite different."

Labour Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls claimed Mr Cameron had made the economic
crisis worse.

"His desperate attempts to blame the eurozone for pushing Britain back into
recession just won't wash. Britain's recovery was choked off 18 months ago, well
before the recent eurozone crisis.

"Our Prime Minister and Chancellor have been cheerleaders for extreme and
selfdefeating austerity which is making things worse, not better."

Mr Balls joins Labour leader Ed Miliband today to launch a tour of election
battlegrounds ahead of Thursday's local polls.

Earlier Mr Cameron continued to face pressure over his Government's dealings
with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. He admitted he had discussed News Corp's
takeover bid for BSkyB with Rupert's son James at a 2010 Christmas party thrown
by then News International chief Rebekah Brooks, which he indicated he now
regretted attending.

He insisted it was a brief conversation in which he simply asserted the matter
would be handled properly.

Mr Cameron had not been involved with decisions and there was no "grand deal"
with the Murdochs.

The PM's lukewarmsounding support for under-fire Jeremy Hunt yesterday led
observers to conclude the Culture Secretary was "on probation".

The PM rejected calls for an immediate inquiry into whether Mr Hunt broke the
ministerial code over the BSkyB bid. He said that "as things stood" he did not
think Mr Hunt broke the code but he would order a probe if evidence to the
Leveson inquiry suggested a breach.

Labour's Harriet Harman said it was "already evident that Jeremy Hunt has
breached the ministerial code in many ways".

She also told BBC1s Sunday Politics that Mr Murdoch should lose his UK broadcast
licence on the grounds that he was "not a fit and proper person".

gAY MARRIAgE bAckIng wIll cost You sEAts, PM told DAVID Cameron was warned
yesterday against ignoring the views of his party's traditional backers.

The warning came after a poll suggested his support for gay marriage could cost
the Tories between eight and 30 seats in a general election.

The survey was for the Coalition For Marriage, which campaigns against same-sex
couples marrying on equal terms to heterosexuals.

Opposition was very strong among people who voted Tory in 2010 but are intending
to support other parties.

Thirty-two per cent of this group said plans to allow gay marriage made them
less likely to vote Conservative.

Opposition to gay marriage is also strong among older voters, who are more
likely than young people to turn out on polling day. Andrew Hawkins, chairman of
ComRes polling company, which carried out the research, said the Conservatives
must win back disaffected 2010 voters in order to succeed at an election.

Mr Cameron was reported to be under pressure from his own MPs to ditch the gay
marriage initiative, after an "avalanche" of protests from Tory voters.

But Number 10 sources insisted the PM remained fully committed to the proposal,
along with Tory traditionalist Iain Duncan Smith.

A separate YouGov poll yesterday found Tory support in general had fallen to
just 29 per cent - its lowest for eight years - with Labour on 40 and the Lib
Dems on 11, just one ahead of Ukip.

Former deputy Prime Minister Lord Heseltine insisted: "We're going through the
mid-term blues. It was ever thus."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron on the spot yesterday
Picture: JEFF OVERS / BBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain battles new Brussels order to fly EU flag every day

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 456 words


NEW Brussels rules forcing British government departments to fly the EU flag all
year round will be resisted, ministerial sources said yesterday.

The regulations would require any organisation managing European funds to
display permanently the EU's blue and yellow pennant.

This is a dramatic scaling up of rules which already force the Communities and
Local Government Department in Whitehall to fly the flag for a week a year from
Europe Day on May 9.

However, sources claimed Local Government Secretary Eric Pickles will fight the
proposals, which he said betray Brussels's "lack of confidence and deep sense of
political insecurity".

In addition more than 1,000 bodies including Cambridge University, Jamie
Oliver's 15 restaurant in Cornwall and Sheffield's Crucible Theatre snooker
centre may have to acknowledge EU funding in English and at least one foreign
language.

The European Commission is said to be looking at tightening demands that
organisations which get grants from its Regional Development Fund put EU
branding on their publicity material - and send photographic proof to Brussels.
Fines totalling millions of pounds have already been slapped on dozens of UK
organisations for not complying.

Brussels documents suggest that the flag-flying requirement, to be introduced in
the next two years, could be extended across Whitehall and to the Welsh and
Scottish administrations, applying to any "managing authority" responsible for
grants made under the European Social, Cohesion, Agricultural or Maritime and
Fisheries Funds.

Mr Pickles said: "Flying a flag should be a pleasure not a chore.

There needs to be a more grownup approach and a sense of proportion on this
whole issue."

Conservative MP Chris Heaton-Harris said: "In a free country people should be
able to choose if they want to fly a flag."

UKIP deputy leader Paul Nuttall said: "The truth hurts. We are in Europe, and
run by Europe."

An EU Commission spokesman said: "The proposal on flags is limited to national
managing authorities. Most of them already fly EU and national flags and
sometimes regional ones."

He said making organisations acknowledge EU funding in a foreign language would
help businesses in other countries spot opportunities, adding: "The biggest
winners will probably be the UK and Ireland as most projects will put up
information in English."

He continued: "These rules, will not be handed down by so-called Brussels
bureaucrats but negotiated by national ministers, including Mr Pickles, and by
MEPs."

opinion: page 12

Should Britain ditch the EU flag?

YES: 0901 792 5300

Yes text DXMonYes to 86611

NO: 0901 792 5301

no text DXMonno to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.
Lines close at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The EU flag alongside the Union Jack in Parliament Square. Left,
minister Eric Pickles is against the new rules

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

David Cameron's statement on Jeremy Hunt: Politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 8025 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen

FULL TEXT

5.30pm: Here's an afternoon summary.[#xfffd] Ed Miliband has accused David
Cameron of "defending the indefensible" after forcing the prime minister to come
to the Commons to answer questions about Jeremy Hunt. It is said to be the first
time a prime minister has been required to answer an urgent question in the
chamber since urgent questions were introduced about 10 years ago. Miliband said
that Cameron should get Sir Alex Allan, his independent adviser on ministerial
interests, to investigate claims that Hunt broke three rules in the ministerial
code in relation to his dealings with News Corporation. Miliband said that he
was right to raise the issue because it raised a wider problem with the
government. Cameron was "too close to a powerful few, out of touch with everyone
else", Miliband said. Miliband also said it was particularly hard to believe
that Hunt's special adviser, Adam Smith, was giving special treatment to News
Corp without Hunt's knowledge.

The culture secretary would have us believe that his special adviser was on a
freelance mission. Six months of daily emails, texts, leaks and the leaking of
confidential information about what opposing parties were saying on one of the
biggest media bids for decades. Is the prime minister really reduced to the News
of the World defence: one rogue individual acting alone? If the culture
secretary really was that clueless about the biggest issue facing his department
he should be sacked anyway.

[#xfffd] Cameron has defended his decision not to order an inquiry into the
allegations about Hunt breaking the ministerial code. In a Commons performance
notable for his bad-tempered aggression towards his opponents, Cameron accused
Miliband of being "weak and wrong" and insisted that there was no evidence that
Hunt had broken the ministerial code. He insisted that it was best for Hunt to
be allowed to give evidence to the Leveson inquiry.

What we have is a judge-led inquiry, witnesses required to give evidence under
oath, full access to papers and records, cross-examination by barristers, all
live on television. There is nothing this tough or this rigorous that the civil
service or the independent adviser could provide ...

I will not wait until the end of the Leveson Inquiry to take action if action is
needed. If new evidence emerges from the Leveson Inquiry that the ministerial
code has been broken, I will either seek the advice of Sir Alex Allan or take
action directly.

Cameron's belligerent stance in the Commons, which included him rudely telling
Dennis Skinner he should retire, seemed to go down well with Tory MPs in the
chamber, but may create a much more negative impression with people waching the
exchanges on television.

[#xfffd] Tory MPs have complained strongly in private about John Bercow's
decision to allow the urgent question. One Tory source told the BBC Bercow was
"rotten with bias".

[#xfffd] Immigration staff have been drafted in from Manchester to Heathrow in
an emergency attempt to avert a repeat of last week's meltdown at the London
airport's passport control which saw passengers facing delays of up to two
hours. In response to an urgent question on the issue in the Commons, Damian
Green, the immigration minister, said, according to the latest figures, 96% of
non-EU passengers at Heathrow queued for less than the target time of 45
minutes. As the Press Association reports, he also said that on four days in the
first half of this month the airport failed to reach its target for non-EU
passengers.Green said the delays last weekend were especially bad because of the
severe weather, which had led to flight diversions and the "bunching" of
arrivals.

[#xfffd] The Cabinet Office has announced details of MyCSP, the first central
government mutal. It wil take charge of civil service pensions.

[#xfffd]Boris Johnson has accused a BBC journalist of talking "fucking bollocks"
after being challenged over his attempts to secure commercial deals with News
International while the Metropolitan police was investigating the company over
phone hacking.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

5.23pm: More web reaction to Cameron. Iain Martin has written a post on his
Telegraph blog saying he thinks Cameron's aggressive approach was
"wince-inducingly ill-judged". Here's an extract.

Righteous indignation can be all very well when your case is strong. But when a
government's case is weak as it is on Jeremy Hunt, BSkyB, Adam Smith and Fred
Michel it is much better to deal with any questions calmly and with a little
humility.

I don't know why some Tory MPs seem to have trouble grasping this point, but
Lord Justice Leveson's remit does not cover breaches of the ministerial code. It
simply doesn't. He was tasked with examining press ethics and practices after
the now-defunct News of the World was revealed to have hacked Milly Dowler's
mobile. But still, clearly put up to it by the whips, a queue of Conservative
MPs lined up to parrot the Prime Minister's not very credible line that he
cannot intervene on the question of the ministerial code until Hunt has appeared
in front of Leveson. A few Tory MPs I spotted at least had the grace to look
embarrassed by their colleagues' toadying.

5.17pm: And here's some more Twitter comment on the Cameron statement.

From Rob Wilson, a Conservative MP and Hunt's pps

#speaker cut short UQ he allowed re Jeremy Hunt. Feeling guilty or was it
because PM taking opposition position apart?

- Rob Wilson (@RobWilson_RDG) April 30, 2012

From Labour MP Kerry McCarthy

Just had a nice little chat with Dennis Skinner in the corridor. Tories coming
up to him saying Cameron was bang out of order.

- Kerry McCarthy MP (@KerryMP) April 30, 2012

From Labour's Tom Watson

Cameron's insult to 81 year old Dennis skinner, who is being productive in older
age is a slur on all active older people.Rude and ignorant.

- tom_watson (@tom_watson) April 30, 2012

From Labour MP Ian Cawsey

Brown met Murdoch 13 times - Cameron just 4 - Dave obviously didn't need any
persuading then!

- Ian Cawsey (@iancawsey) April 30, 2012

5.04pm: David Cameron was particularly aggressive in his reply to Ed Miliband
when he was dealing with the claim that Jeremy Hunt had misled MPs by saying
that he had disclosed all the information about his department's exchanges with
News Corporation when he hadn't. Cameron said that Miliband was wrong, because
Hunt had answered the question in September 2011. (See 3.42pm.) "If you're going
to make these accusations get your facts right before you come here," Cameron
said.

Chris Leslie, a shadow Treasury minister, is on the case. He says Cameron's
wrong.

Asked if PM has problem with Hunt's 3rdMarch pledge to publish "all exchanges
between DCMS & NewsCorp", he hid behind answer to John Mann...

- Chris Leslie (@ChrisLeslieMP) April 30, 2012

..yet answer to Mann on 7thSept says "a search for correspondence...would incur
disproportionate cost to collect" So Hunt DIDN'T publish all

- Chris Leslie (@ChrisLeslieMP) April 30, 2012

...So when Jeremy Hunt tells Parliament on 3rd March that he was publishing "all
exchanges", that means "not all exchanges" then. Obviously.

- Chris Leslie (@ChrisLeslieMP) April 30, 2012

4.54pm: The Financial Times's Jim Pickard has posted his verdict on Cameron's
performance on the FT's Westminster blog. Here's an extract.

David Cameron is a good ally to have in a tight spot: that is one obvious
conclusion to be drawn from his performance over the last 50 minutes in the
House of Commons.

The prime minister had been drawn to the Commons to defend Jeremy Hunt - to the
fury of many Tory MPs - at the decision of the Speaker. (The front bench was
packed with Tory ministers, but not one Lib Dem was visible.)

There, he raged, fumed and argued until he was red in the face to insist that
Hunt had done no wrong - and equally that the right processes were taking place
to ensure that this was the case.

4.41pm: Here's some more reaction to the Cameron statement from Twitter.

From Labour HQ

Cameron says Hunt published full details of dept's contacts with NewsCorp in a
PQ answer. He didn't - PQ is here: bit.ly/IAd0WA

- Labour Press Team (@labourpress) April 30, 2012

From Labour's Douglas Alexander

I've watched 3 Prime Ministers in here. Cameron's abusive answer just now
towards Dennis Skinner was unworthy of his office. #justnotright

- Douglas Alexander (@DAlexanderMP) April 30, 2012

From Labour's Stella Creasy

Prime ministers response to Dennis skinner made even his own side wince- using
being a pensioner as an insult vile...

- stellacreasy (@stellacreasy) April 30, 2012

From Conservative MP Conor Burns

PM just left Chamber to cheers from colleagues. Suspect ED M regrets tabling
that UQ. Win for DC and natural justice

- Conor Burns MP (@Conor_BurnsMP) April 30, 2012

From ITV's Tom Bradby

I know they didn't actually fight, but it sure felt like it. Cameron seems to
really loathe Miliband now, though he may hate Bercow more...

- tom bradby (@tombradby) April 30, 2012

From Sky's Adam Boulton

Whacks for EM, Hodge, MacTaggart, Bryant, Skinner - today's job done for DC.

- adamboulton (@adamboultonSKY) April 30, 2012

4.23pm: It's over. John Bercow said he took 42 backbench questions, and they
have now moved on to an urgent question about the delays at Heathrow. Cameron
did say that he would order an inquiry into the Hunt affair if Hunt's evidence
to Leveson did not settle any outstanding questions, but generally he did not
concede any ground at all and what was most notable about his appearance was his
belligerence. His "Skinner should retire" put down has gone down particularly
badly on Twitter.

That said, I'm not sure Labour really damaged him. Miliband's response will
probably read better on paper than it sounded (to my ears) in the chamber and,
even though Cameron was sometimes on extraordinarily shaky ground, I didn't get
the impression that any of the Labour backbenchers seriously discomforted him.

I'll post some more reaction in a moment.

4.21pm: Labour's Kevin Brennan says that, as a former minister involved in
competition issues, he cannot understand why a political adviser was appointed
to serve as Hunt's link with News Corporation.

Cameron says the decision to let Adam Smith play this role was agreed by the
permanent secretary.

4.20pm: Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative, says prime ministers should take their
time before making decisions. Only a "socialist Yahoo" would do otherwise, he
says.

Cameron says he agrees.

4.18pm: George Eustice, a Conservative, says Tony Blair did not criticise the
"feral beasts" of the media until he stood down. Shouldn't he have to explain
why he did nothing about the reports from the information commissioner about the
use of investigators to obtain illegal information?

Cameron says Labour have some explaining to do. But the opposition at the time
(ie, the Conservatives) were also at fault, he says.

4.17pm: Cameron suggests that Labour ministers just tried to "shrug off" the
misconduct of their special advisers.

4.16pm: Labour's Jack Dromey asks Cameron to confirm that giving News Corp
market-sensitive information would be illegal.

Cameron says this is a very serious allegation. "It does need to be properly
investigated," he says.

4.14pm: Labour's Steve McCabe asks Cameron why he told Andrew Marr yesterday
that the BSkyB bid did come up when he met James Murdoch at dinner at the end of
2010 when he refused to confirm this eight times when asked about it by Labour
MPs last summer.

Cameron says he always said that he had not had an inapprorpriate conversation.

4.12pm: Labour's Barry Sheerman says special advisers work very, very closely
with their ministers.

Cameron says that's why it is important to see what Hunt says when he gives
evidence to Leveson about this.

4.11pm: Cameron says Miliband said last week that the Leveson inquiry should
take its course. But Miliband was bounced by Harriet Harman, who called for
Hunt's resignation. Because he has no judgement, Miliband backed Harman, Cameron
says.

4.10pm: A Welsh MP compares the way Hunt treated News Corporation with the
"shabby" way he treated campaigners for Welsh language television.

Cameron says that the government gets lobbied by lots of organisations,
including the BBC.

4.08pm: Labour's Michael Meacher says it is inappropriate for Cameron to take
the decision about Hunt's future because he has a vested interest in keeping
Hunt, so that he can protect himself.

Cameron says Labour should accept the simple explanation - that he is following
proper procedure.

4.07pm: Julian Brazier, a Conservative, says a company that automatically sacked
a director because one of his subordinates got something wrong would never
survive. Cameron agrees.

4.05pm: Labour's Paul Flynn says that Hunt's defence relies upon the "fiction"
that ministers only communicated with their advisers by email. Cameron should
remember the lesson of the David Mellor scandal, he says: Resignation delayed
equals disgrace multiplied.

4.04pm: Labour's Dennis Skinner asks why Hunt has got better employment rights
than other workers in Britain.

Cameron says Skinner should retire and take his pension.

4.02pm: Labour's Chris Bryant asks Cameron to accept that Hunt's adviser gave
News Corporation advance information about market-sensitive announcements before
they were made in parliament.

Cameron says that Bryant himself used confidential information which he had
obtained as a participant to the Leveson inquiry to make false allegations about
Cameron in the Commons last week. If Bryant had any honour, he would apologise,
he says.

4.00pm: Labour's Tom Watson asks Cameron if he will offer to provide Leveson
with copies of the text messages sent by Treasury special advisers to News
Corporation's lobbyists.

Cameron says Leveson can request whatever evidence he wants.

4.00pm: David Davies, a Conservative, asks if Cameron has ever phoned a
newspaper proprietor to offer his services as a godparent, or to offer to hold a
pyjama party. Cameron says Davies puts that well.

3.57pm: Julian Lewis, a Conservative, asks if Cameron can assure people we are
getting value for money from the independent adviser on ministerial interests in
these "cash-strapped times". (Sir Alex Allan is paid [#xfffd]30,000 a year, and
has not carried out any inquiries.)

Yes, says Cameron, he can give that assurance.

3.56pm: Peter Bone, a Conservative, says he checked with his constituency office
(Mrs Bone) to see if any voters were complaining about the culture department.
There have been hundreds of complaints, he says, but only about Harry Redknapp
not becoming England manager.

3.55pm: Cameron says that it would be easy to say "off you go" every time a
minister got in trouble. But it is important to get the facts, and to allow
natural justice to take its course. That should happen more often, he says.

3.54pm: Ben Bradshaw, the Labour former culture secretary, says Hunt did not
always follow the advice of Ofcom, because Ofcom said the BSkyB bid should be
referred to the Competition Commission.

Cameron says that if Hunt had not indicated his willingess to accept
undertakings in lieu as an alternative, he would have been liable to judicial
review.

3.52pm: Peter Lilley, a Conservative, says it would be sensible to allow Leveson
to establish the facts.

Cameron says he agrees. If he asked the independent adviser to carry out an
inquiry now, that would duplicate the work being carried out by Leveson. The
independent adviser and Leveson would be looking at the same set of papers.

3.51pm: Cameron says he consulted Sir Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary,
about the right process to follow in this case.

3.49pm: John Whittingdale, the Conservative chairman of the culture committee,
asks Cameron to confirm that he will have a proper inquiry if there are any
questions about Hunt's conduct left unanswered after he has given evidence to
Leveson.

Cameron says that of course he will give that assurance. The questioning at
Leveson is more rigorous than it would be under a civil service inquiry. And if
evidence comes forward suggesting that Hunt did break the ministerial code, he
will order an inquiry, he says. But at the moment no such evidence exits.

3.47pm: Labour's Margaret Hodge said Hunt told MPs on Wednesday that his
permanent secretary had "authorised" Adam Smith to play the role he did.

On Thursday the permanent secretary refused to confirm this when giving evidence
to her committee.

But on Friday the permanent secertary wrote to Hodge saying he was just
"content" with the arrangement.

Cameron says he saw the permanent secretary giving evidence. Hodge is wrong, he
says.

3.42pm: Cameron says Miliband is "weak and wrong".

Labour still has not apologised for 15 years of pyjama parties, he says.

On Hunt misleading MPs, he says Hunt gave a full answer in September 2011.

On the role of the special adviser, Cameron says Adam Smith, the adviser, has
said that his contacts went beyond what was authorised.

And on Hunt taking responsibility for his special adviser, he asks who took
responsibility for advisers like Charlie Whelan when Labour was in power.

He also says that Harriet Harman called for Hunt's resignation only 23 minutes
after the Leveson evidence was published, even though she had not read it.

Today we have learned something about Miliband, he says. "Bad judgment, rotten
politics, plain wrong." That is something Miliband will regret, he says.

3.38pm: Ed Miliband says Hunt was in clear breach of the ministerial code.

This matters because we need a government that stands up for ordinary people, he
says.

Lord Justice Leveson said he was not the judge of the ministerial code. Leveson
is doing his job. It is time Cameorn did his, Miliband says.

Miliband identifies the three alleged breaches of the ministerial code.

First, Hunt told MPs he was revealing all his department's exchanges with News
Corporation. But he left out the Adam Smith contacts, he says.

Second, News Corporation was given confidential information before it was
disclosed to the Commons about the BSkyB takeover.

Thirdly, Hunt is claiming his special adviser was "on a freelance mission". But
is Cameron really reduced to the News of the Word defence - one rogue person,
acting alone. If Hunt is that clueless, he should be sacked anyway.

The special adviser had to go to protect Hunt. And Hunt has to stay to protect
Cameron, he says.

Cameron is "too close to a powerful few, out of touch with everybody else".

3.31pm: Cameron says he answered questions on this last week. But he will set
out the position again.

He set up the Leveson inquiry. No other government has set up such a
wide-ranging media inquiry, he says.

On Hunt's conduct, he says Hunt followed the advice of independent regulators.
He took four decisions that went against the wishes of News Corporation. Cameron
says he has seen no evidence that Hunt broke the ministerial code.

He says the permanent secretary at the Department for Culture approved of Adam
Smith, Hunt's adviser, working as a link with News Corp. It is normal to have
contact between the department and a company in these cases. But Smith's
dealings with News Corp went too far.

On the call for an inquiry, Cameron says he does not want a new inquiry to cut
across the Leveson inquiry. Under Leveson, people are being cross-examined on
television. A Whitehall inquiry would not be as thorough, he says.

Cameron says he accepts that Leveson will not examine whether Hunt broke the
ministerial code. But he does not want a Whitehall inquiry to "cut across" what
Leveson is doing. He says that Leveson's statement on Wednesday (in which
Leveson said he wanted his inquiry to be allowed to run its course) indicated
that he thought the same.

On links with the media, he says the press and politicians have been too close
for years. He does meet journalists to try to get them to support what he is
doing. But there was no "grand bargain" with News Corp, he says. If there had
been, he would not have made Vince Cable business secretary. The Murdochs have
denied that there was a deal, and he will do the same when he gives evidence to
Leveson.

He says Labour are trying to use the Leveson inquiry for party political
purposes. Instead, they should be honest about the mess they left the country,
he says.

3.30pm: Ed Miliband asks his urgent question. Will David Cameron refer the
Jeremy Hunt case to the independent adviser on ministerial interests?

3.20pm: The Tory MP Anna Soubry told BBC News that she thought John Bercow's
decision to grant an urgent question on the Hunt affair was "very odd". An
urgent question should relate to something urgent, she said. She went on:

I don't know what there is that is new that has led to this to happen. What new
information is there? Hunt last week spent well over an hour answering questions
until there were no more questions left to be asked.

She did not accuse Bercow of bias. But she suggested that he was leaving himself
open to this charge.

The Speaker has to be careful, to be truthful, because [the media] commentate,
look at things and observe, and say 'What is this all about?' He has to be very
careful that whatever he does is not open to any form of misinterpretation,
especially in the run up to very important elections on Thursday, not just here
in London but right across the country. It is important he is seen to be
absolutely fair.

I've taken the quotes fromPoliticsHome.

3.00pm: David Cameron will be answering the urgent question about Jeremy Hunt at
3.30pm. Before he starts, here's some background reading about the Hunt/News
Corportation controversy.[#xfffd] The ministerial code (pdf)[#xfffd] All the
emails and texts between Jeremy Hunt's special adviser, Adam Smith, and News
Corporation, set out in a Guardian timeline.[#xfffd] The Guardian story about
the revelations.[#xfffd] Hunt's statement in the Commons on Wednesday about the
controversy.

[#xfffd] The Labour press release claiming Hunt broke the ministerial code three
times.

[#xfffd] The BBC video of Andrew Marr's interview with Cameron yesterday, much
of which was devoted to the Hunt affair.[#xfffd] The BBC story about what
Cameron said in the interview.

2.48pm: Here is some reaction from the web to John Bercow's decision to force
David Cameron to answer an urgent question about Jeremy Hunt.

[#xfffd] Gary Gibbon on his Channel 4 News blog says he's surprised John Bercow
granted the urgent question.

I must admit I didn't think Speaker Bercow would dare. It's pre-election,
campaigning going on everywhere. Even summoning the PM will be seen as an
implied rebuke for the PM's understanding of the rules on ministerial
responsibility. Tory MPs are livid.

What will have weighed with the speaker is the fact that parliament is about to
rise so there is no prime minister's questions for two weeks (a recess around
the Queen's speech). The support of two ex Cabinet secretaries over the weekend
for the view that Alex Allen should be looking into Jeremy Hunt will have helped
the speaker weigh in on Ed Miliband's side, as will the call from the Tory
public administration committee chair, Bernard Jenkin, for an Alex Allan
inquiry.

[#xfffd][#xfffd]Robert Colvile at the Telegraph says Bercow is the most
irritating man in British politics.

This is the Great Bercow Paradox. What he's done as Speaker has, by and large,
been a good thing. He hasn't kept his promise to be a new broom on expenses -
indeed, he's kowtowed shamelessly to MPs - but his handling of the parliamentary
timetable, and willingness to grant emergency questions, has gone a long way
towards making the House of Commons (as it should be) the cockpit of national
affairs.

But here comes the "but". It's impossible to avoid the suspicion that John
Bercow has done this not to reinvigorate democracy, but to glorify John Bercow.
Put simply, the Speaker's overweening vanity and irresistible impulse towards
self-publicity make him the most irritating man in British politics (edging out
Ed Balls by a nose, if only due to the contribution of wife Sally).

2.46pm: Is this afternoon's statement good or bad for Jeremy Hunt? Here's a
theory from Sky's Joey Jones.

maybe UQ paradoxically not bad thing for j hunt - expect pm will be less
circumspect in support than yesterday because of labour pressure.

- joeyjones (@joeyjonessky) April 30, 2012

2.08pm: Labour claim that Jeremy Hunt broke the ministerial code in three
respects. For the record, here's the news release from Harriet Harman, the
Labour deputy leader and shadow culture secretary, setting out what she thinks
those three breaches are.

Yesterday the Independent on Sunday ran a beefed up version of this story,
containing more information about how Hunt may have broken the rule about not
misleading parliament.

2.06pm: And here's the BBC's Ben Wright on the Bercow backlash.

A Tory close to Jeremy Hunt says 'the Speaker is rotten with bias. He should not
be Speaker".

- Ben Wright (@BBCBenWright) April 30, 2012

1.54pm: On the World at One Martha Kearney tried her hardest to get Lady Warsi
(pictured), the Conservative co-chairman, to take a pop at John Bercow over his
decision to allow the Hunt UQ. Warsi wouldn't bite. But she did criticise Labour
for raising the issue.

If you go out and speak to ordinary people, this is not what they are obsessing
about. When people look in Westminster Village and see us obsessing about these
kinds of issues, and see us playing party politics, using systems and processes
to score points against each other in this way, they say 'a plague on all their
houses'. What people care about is their schools, their future, and that is what
they want us to be talking about.

But Warsi also made it clear that she thought the UQ was unnecessary. Jeremy
Hunt gave a statement on the issue last week, and David Cameron addressed the
issued in his Andrew Marr interview yesterday, she said.

I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

1.53pm: More on the Bercow backlash. This is from ConservativeHome's Tim
Montgomerie.

Furious Downing Street source: If John Bercow has any opportunity to be
self-important or the centre of attention he'll take it.

- Tim Montgomerie (@TimMontgomerie) April 30, 2012

1.51pm: According to Labour, this is the first time that a prime minister has
been summoned to answer an urgent question in the Commons since urgent questions
were introduced a decade ago.

1.23pm: Ed Miliband should get hold of a read-out from the Number 10 lobby
briefing before he asks his UQ on Jeremy Hunt. The exchanges illustrated some of
the questions which David Cameron could find it hard to answer. Here are more
details.

[#xfffd] Will Cameron definitely order an inquiry into allegations that Jeremy
Hunt broke the ministerial code? Cameron has said that he wants Hunt to be
allowed to give evidence to the Leveson inquiry and his spokesman repeated this
line this morning. "We should let the process run its course, let the inquiry
establish the facts," the spokesman said. But Leveson has said that it is not
his job to investigate breaches of the ministerial code, and the prime
minister's spokesman was unwilling to say categorically that Cameron would refer
this matter to his independent adviser on ministerial interests, Sir Alex Allan,
if Leveson did not address it. All he would say was: "The prime minister has
been very clear that he would not duck his responsibilities on the ministerial
code." That's a hint that Cameron will order an investigation in due course, but
not a confirmation. Cameron may have to firm that up this afternoon.

[#xfffd] Why does Cameron think Hunt has not breached the ministerial code when
people like Lord Butler think he did? Asked about the remarks from Butler the
spokesman just said that Cameron "has said that he has seen no evidence that the
code has been broken".

[#xfffd] Has Cameron asked Hunt directly what he knew about what his special
adviser, Adam Smith, was saying to News Corporation about the BSkyB takeover?
Asked about this, the spokesman said that this would be covered by the evidence
given to Leveson. He also said that Leveson has given a ruling asking people not
to disclose their evidence before it is heard by the inquiry.

[#xfffd] Why did Hunt tell MPs that he had published all details of his
department's exchanges with News Corporation when he hadn't? In March last year
Hunt told MPs: "We are publishing all the documents relating to all the meetings
- all the consultation documents, all the submissions we received, all the
exchanges between my department and News Corporation." But he did not release
details of the exchanges between his special adviser and the News Corporation
lobbyist, Fred Michel. This information only emerged in a 163-page dossier
released by the Leveson inquiry last week. Asked about this, the prime
minister's spokesman said that Hunt addressed this point in his statement last
week. When journalists said that Hunt did not actually answer this question last
week, the spokesman replied: "I have nothing further to add to what the
secretary of state said.

[#xfffd] Why did Hunt tell the Commons that he always accepted the advice of
independent regulators when he did not follow Ofcom's advice and refer the BSkyB
bid to the Competition Commission? Asked about this, the spokesman insisted that
Hunt said he was minded to refer the bid to the Competition Commission. (David
Leigh went into this in more detail in a Guardian article last week.)

[#xfffd] Will Cameron reveal all his text messages and emails with Rebekah
Brooks? Do the text messages still exist? And, if they are disclosed, will they
be redacted? All the spokesman would say on this was that Cameron would provide
the Leveson inquiry with "whatever he is asked to provide".

[#xfffd] What contact have government officials had with Lord Justice Leveson
about his inquiry? Last week it was revealed that Sir Jeremy Heywood, the
cabinet secretary, spoke to Leveson about the Hunt affair. Today the prime
minister's spokesman said: "I am sure that there have been contacts between
senior officials and the Leveson team." Some journalists found this potentially
suspicious, particularly when the spokesman declined to elaborate what those
contacts were, but the spokesman said contacts of this kind were to be expected
given the fact that several ministers are giving evidence to Leveson. The
spokesman also insisted that the inquiry was "entirely independent".

1.19pm: Here's what Ed Miliband said this morning about the Jeremy Hunt affair.
He was he was asking an urgent question about it because it "goes to the
character of the government".

People need to know, particularly in these times, that they have a Government
that stands up for them, not the rich and powerful. People need to know that
there is the utmost probity and integrity in the way that government is run. I
am afraid the events of the last week suggest that something other than that has
been going on.

It is a pattern with this prime minister, particularly around News
International. He resists the calls for change. He resists the calls to do the
right thing. Exactly as he did in phone hacking last summer, exactly as he did
with Rebekah Brooks, exactly as he did with Andy Coulson. He is doing the same
now when everyone can see that the obvious thing for him to do is make this
referral to Alex Allan. That is what he should get on and do rather than seeking
to use Jeremy Hunt as a firewall.

12.50pm: At the 11am briefing the prime minister's spokesman made it pretty
clear that Cameron felt he had better things to do this afternoon than attend
the Commons to answer an urgent question about Jeremy Hunt. This is what the
spokesman said when asked if Cameron would be answering an urgent question (UQ)
on the matter.

That's a matter for the Speaker. [Cameron] answered questions at PMQS last week
and [Hunt] made a statement answering questions himself.

12.45pm: John Bercow's decision to grant the Jeremy Hunt UQ was unexpected. In
the Conservative party, he's already a b[#xfffd]te noire.After this, they're
going to hate him even more ...

12.42pm: Number 10 says David Cameron will be responding to Ed Milband's UQ on
Jeremy Hunt. Cameron has cancelled a visit to Milton Keynes so that he can do
it.

12.38pm: It's not clear yet who will be responding to the urgent question Jeremy
Hunt. The Speaker's office do not know. Labour want David Cameron to appear, but
he could delegate it to someone like Sir George Young, the leader of the
Commons.

At the lobby briefing Number 10 made it clear that Cameron felt there was no
need for him to answer questions on this today. He answered questions on it at
PMQs last week, the spokesman said, and Jeremy Hunt made his own statement last
week.

12.36pm: The BBC's Nick Sutton has posted this on Twitter.

Speaker grants Labour's request for PM to be called to the Commons to answer why
Jeremy Hunt is not being investigated by Sir Alex Allen

- Nick Sutton (@suttonnick) April 30, 2012

11.59am: I'm just back from the lobby briefing. It lasted almost an hour, and
was largely devoted to some heroic stonewalling from the prime minister's
spokesman on the subject of Jeremy Hunt and, to a lesser extent, on the border
delays at Heathrow. I'll post a summary shortly.

10.51am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, arehere.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some stories and articles that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] David Millward in the Daily Telegraph says the Home Office tried to
stop Heathrow circulating a leaflet encouraging people to complain to the
government about delays at passport control.

On Saturday BAA, the owner of Heathrow, tried to defuse tensions with a leaflet
apologising to passengers for the "very long delays" and saying people entering
the country "deserved a warmer welcome".

The leaflet suggested that passengers should complain to the Home Office.

However, Marc Owen, the director of UK Border Agency operations at Heathrow,
told BAA the leaflet was "inappropriate".

He threatened to "escalate" the matter with ministers who were likely to take a
"very dim view".

[#xfffd] Oliver Wright in the Independent says a report from Policy Exchange
claims that it is too simplistic to say that the Tories do not do well in the
north.

Neil O'Brien, director of Policy Exchange, said it was too neat to talk about a
political north-south divide and that the real variations were between urban and
rural areas.

"It's certainly true that the Conservatives do better in the south and Labour in
the north, but within these regions there are huge differences," he said. "If
you took the TransPennine Express from Liverpool to Newcastle you would find
that 13 of the stops are in Conservative-held seats and 19 in Labour. It is in
the northern cities specifically that the Conservatives do badly rather than the
North as a whole."

He added: "The results of our research show that political parties need to focus
on addressing cost-of-living issues such as reducing energy bills and the price
of petrol rather than broader issues affecting the state of the nation. The
evidence also suggests that neither Labour nor the Conservatives have succeeded
in appealing to ordinary working people."

You can read the full Policy Exchange report here (pdf).

[#xfffd] Jim Pickard in the Financial Times (subscription) says MPs on the
Commons culture committee are split over the report they are publishing tomorrow
on phone hacking.

Tory and Labour members of the culture select committee are at odds over how far
to criticise the Murdoch family just days before publishing a report on phone
hacking and News International.

The 11 members of the committee are set to vote on several of the most disputed
issues at a meeting on Monday in an attempt to forge some sort of consensus
ahead of publication the following day.

But the group has been deeply divided in discussions, with Labour MPs such as
party vice-chairman Tom Watson keen for a more scathing judgment on James
Murdoch, in particular. Mr Murdoch was called in front of the committee on July
19 and recalled on November 10.

[#xfffd] Sarah Neville and George Parker in the Financial Times (subscription)
say that reform of social care is at least 18 months away.

While the Queen's Speech, due on May 9, will highlight the importance the
government attaches to social care reform, no bill will be brought forward in
the coming session of parliament.

Instead, ministers will be given "drafting authority" to prepare legislation,
which will not be formally introduced until the following parliamentary session
and is unlikely to become law any earlier than late next year.

The coalition's white paper on health reform, published almost two years ago,
had promised "legislation in the second session of this parliament to establish
a sustainable legal and financial framework for adult social care".

But the timetable has slipped, amid growing tensions within government over how
to fund proposals drawn up by a government-commissioned review led by the
economist Andrew Dilnot. Mr Dilnot called for a cap of about [#xfffd]35,000 on
the costs of care that must be shouldered by elderly and disabled people, with
the state paying anything above that figure.

[#xfffd] Rhoda Buchanan in the Times (paywall) say cleaners have left a letter
on Iain Duncan Smith's desk asking for them to be paid the living wage.

Whitehall cleaners are calling on Iain Duncan Smith to increase their pay in
line with the "living wage", which is paid to staff working in Parliament and
Downing Street and has been publicly endorsed by David Cameron and Boris
Johnson.

The letter, directly addressed to the Secretary of State and left in his office
over the weekend, points out that payment for cleaning staff varies across
government departments.

Cleaners for the DWP and most other Whitehall departments are currently employed
via agencies and paid [#xfffd]6.08 to [#xfffd]6.50 an hour, in line with the
national minimum wage. But since 2009, cleaners at the Department for Education
have been paid a higher rate of [#xfffd]7.60 an hour, while no one working in
Parliament, No 10 Downing Street or City Hall earns less than the "living wage"
- calculated at [#xfffd]8.30 an hour in London and [#xfffd]7.20 elsewhere.

[#xfffd] James Lyons in the Mirror says a poll for the paper shows that 78% of
people do not believe David Cameron's claim that "we're all in this together".

[#xfffd] Vernon Bogdanor in the Times (paywall) says Ukip are the nearest thing
we have to an English nationalist party.

The European project emphasises the transcending of national sovereignty. In
Scotland, the SNP welcomes this, as it sees the EU as an enabler of
independence. In England, by contrast, it is seen as a threat to national
independence. Yet no big party represents England. The Conservatives, the most
obvious candidates, role, are disqualified since, as a Unionist party, they seek
to represent the whole of the United Kingdom. As a result there is a
disconnection in England between Parliament and the people on Europe.

Into this breach steps UKIP, which favours an English parliament and is the
nearest thing we have to an English nationalist party. In the 2009 euro
elections, it came second, winning 12 of the 58 English seats at Strasbourg,
more than Labour or the Liberal Democrats. The Conservatives were in opposition
that year and claimed to be eurosceptic, promising a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty. With the Conservatives in government, UKIP must believe that it has a
strong chance of winning the 2014 euro elections.

[#xfffd] Paul Goodman in the Financial Times says David Cameron should respond
to the rise of Ukip by tackling immigration.

This is the key to Ukip: its supporters are not so much eurosceptic voters as
anti-politics. They have more in common with George Galloway's Respect party
than either would care to admit ...

Could Ukip do a Respect, or burst through to hold the balance of power at the
next election? To date, it has a poor by-election record and lacks a charismatic
Galloway equivalent. It controls one town council. Its total number of
councillors has yet to reach three figures. First past the post voting
frustrates the party's quest for a breakthrough. Even the defection of a
Conservative MP or two wouldn't lower the electoral fence for Ukip. Its best
means of breaking through is to press for a binary in-out referendum on the EU,
which has the potential to split the Tories to Ukip's gain.

Despite this risk, there is a tactical case for Mr Cameron to concede such a
referendum when he comes to campaign for re-election. Removing the referendum as
an attack issue for Ukip would make it possible that the party could fold
altogether, removing the threat it poses in constituencies where its vote was
bigger than the Tory majority.

But these are speculations. What is clear is that Mr Cameron's best means of
stopping Ukip have less to do with Europe than with keeping the promises he
signed up to in the coalition agreement all those months ago. In particular, he
should concentrate on getting immigration from outside the EU down to tens of
thousands of people.

I'm off to the Number 10 lobby briefing now. I'll post again after 11.30am.

10.14am: Lord Ashdown (pictured), the former Lib Dem leader, has criticised
David Cameron for saying yesterday that the euro crisis could go on for years.
This is what Ashdown told the Times (paywall).

I don't think one's neighbours would regard as [a] friendly act where, as their
house was on fire, you throw on cans of petrol.

As the Times says, this is the strongest criticism that has come from the Lib
Dems so far of Cameron's comments on the Andrew Marr show.

10.02am: The Queen's Speech is next week. That's when the government will set
out its legislative programme for the next session of parliament.

Today Ed Miliband is announcing what it would say if he were writing it. Or at
least he's announcing five priorities, in a speech at the beginning of his Q&A
with Ed Balls. Here's an extract.

I want to talk briefly today about five of the Bills we would introduce if
Labour was in government now and writing this year's Queen's Speech.

These measures offer practical ways to help people right now and get our economy
moving again ...

[#xfffd] A Fair Deal on tax. Alongside implementing Labour's five point plan for
jobs and growth, Labour's finance bill would reverse tax cuts for people earning
over [#xfffd]150,000 a year. We would use that money to help pensioners on fixed
incomes hit by the "granny tax" and we would restore cuts in tax credits which
have hit families.

[#xfffd] A Fair Deal on Energy. Labour's energy bill would break up the
dominance of the Big Six power companies and require them by law to offer 4
million elderly people the lowest rate available.

[#xfffd] A Fair Deal on Transport. Labour's transport bill would stop train
operators raising fares by more than one per cent above inflation, stop them
exploiting commuters with unadvertised rates and give local authorities more
control over bus firms.

[#xfffd] A Fair Deal for Consumers. Labour's consumer bill would give new powers
to the Financial Conduct Authority and Competition and Markets Authority to stop
rip-off surcharges by banks, low-cost airlines and pension firms.

[#xfffd] A Fair Deal on Jobs. Labour's jobs bill would ensure some of the money
raised from a tax on bank bonuses is used to provide real jobs, with real wages
and responsibilities, to more than 100,000 young people aged 18-24.

9.45am: The Ken Livingstone campaign have issued this statement on the Evening
Standard poll. (See9.13am.)

The election is neck and neck and going all the way to the final vote cast on
Thursday. With soaring fares, police cuts and double-dip recession Londoners
have the opportunity this week to ensure the Tories don't get away it. The Tory
Mayor has stood by and made things worse in difficult times, and Londoners will
be better off with a Labour mayor.

9.30am: I think there may have been a problem with the comments earlier. Sorry
about. They should be working normally now.

9.19am: The Lib Dem MP John Pugh wants David Cameron to make Vince Cable
chancellor. He's explained why in an article for PoliticsHome.

There are at least three reasons why it would benefit the coalition in current
circumstances to have Vince Cable as chancellor. He recognises the coalition
needs a clear industrial and financial strategy, he identifies the need to take
a more aggressive approach with the banks and he is acutely sensitive to the
downside risks of deficit reduction. He was also of course right about Murdoch.
There is too a widespread,unmatched faith and confidence amongst the general
public and in commercial circles in his ability in matters economic. He would be
the people's choice even if not first on the No10 dinner party list.

Pugh also says that the overall number of Lib Dem ministers should be cut to
compensate for Cable having the second most important job in government.

Of course, George Osborne will not be worrying about Cable nabbing his office.
It's not going to happen. But he might be mildly concerned about the fact that
at the weekend the Daily Mail was speculating about him being sent to the
Foreign Office, with William Hague taking his job in a reshuffle.

9.13am:Boris Johnson is increasing his lead over Ken Livingstone, according to a
YouGov poll in today's Evening Standard.It says that, when second preferences
are taken into account, Johnson is leading Livingstone by four points - 52% to
48%.

9.01am: Labour's Emily Thornberry (pictured), the shadow attorney general, has
said that David Cameron should "man up" and sack Jeremy Hunt. According to
PoliticsHome, this is what she told ITV's Daybreak.

We're accusing the prime minister of not doing his job properly. We think that
he is responsible for the behaviour of his ministers, that's what it says in the
ministerial code. He needs to man up a bit and do his job ... He should get rid
of this minister [Hunt], he should move on.

8.45am: Labour want David Cameron to come to the Commons today to explain why he
has not ordered an immediate inquiry into claims that Jeremy Hunt broke the
ministerial code. Patrick Wintour has the detailsin a frontpage story in today's
paper.

In a lengthy interview with the BBC's Andrew Marr programme, Cameron admitted he
had got too close to the Murdoch empire, but said there had been "no grand deal"
in return for the support of News International at the last election.

He vowed to make the same denial under oath to the Leveson inquiry.

But Labour, facing a dilemma over whether to focus on the economy or Murdoch in
the three days running into local election polling day, will press Cameron to
come to parliament. They want him personally to explain why he is perverting the
original purpose of the Leveson inquiry when he has a custom-built method of
examining Hunt - the independent adviser on the ministerial code, Sir Alex
Allan.

A Labour source said: "Cameron is trying to hide behind the Leveson inquiry.
With parliament breaking up on Tuesday, Cameron must come to the Commons and
explain to the British people why he is ducking his responsibilities to enforce
the ministerial code."

Cameron could decide to give a statement voluntarily, but this seems unlikely.
If he doesn't, it will be up to the Speaker, John Bercow, to decide whether or
not to grant an urgent question (UQ) on the subject. Normally the Speaker
doesn't like granting UQs to MPs who publicise their intention to call for one
in advance, and Hunt himself has already given his own Commons statement on
this, and so I would guess that Bercow is likely to say no. But, equally, you
should never underestimate his willingess to stir things up. We'll find out for
sure what's happening before lunch.

Otherwise, it's relatively quiet. Here's the agenda.

10am: Ed Miliband and Ed Balls host a Q&A in London. They intend to talk mostly
about the economy and living standards.

12.30pm: Frank Field gives a speech to Policy Exchange on child poverty targets

Around 3pm: Peers begin a debate on Lords reform.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

London mayoral election - what do you think of the campaign so far? Live blog

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4839 words

ABSTRACT

Join Boris biographers Andrew Gimson and Sonia Purnell to discuss the politics
of the 2012 mayoral election -[#xfffd]from 1-2pm

FULL TEXT

9am: We have looked in detail at all the major policies of all the candidates in
the 2012 London mayoral race over the last few weeks - please click here - and
today are joined by two guests to discuss the politics of the campaign:

[#xfffd] Andrew Gimson, author of Boris: The Rise of Boris Johnson.

[#xfffd] Sonia Purnell, author of Just Boris: A Tale of Blond Ambition.

Unfortunately Andrew Hosken, who wrote Ken: The Ups and Downs of Ken
Livingstone, has had to pull out.

The biographers will be here from 1-2pm. Post your questions about the race so
far for them below.

Meanwhile, I've made this short animated video explaining the campaign so far.

The 2012 London mayoral election campaign has been a frustrating one. Try as
they might, neither of the main candidates, nor the media, seem to have been
able to decisively resolve the two most bitterly-contested policy disputes:
namely whether or not Ken Livingstone could afford to cut transport fares by 7%,
as he promises, and whether Boris Johnson has cut or increased police numbers.

Otherwise the campaign has largely focused on Livingstone's personal flaws: the
alleged hypocrisy of his decision to channel his media earnings through a
company and thus pay corporation tax, which is lower than income tax, while
criticising those engaged in tax avoidance; offensive remarks he made about
Jewish voters; and whether his tears at his party political broadcast were a
sign of his deep concern for Londoners or sadness at what may be the final act
of a long political career.

Johnson can usually be relied upon to say a few offensive things too. In his
time he has made regrettable remarks about various groups, including, in no
particular order, the people of Liverpool, the people of Portsmouth, the people
of Ireland, the people of Papua New Guinea, gay people, Muslims, and black
people.

But the Boris running for election this year has been quiet and sensible to the
point of dull, and has ruffled few feathers - unless you count calling Ken a
"fucking liar" three times in a lift after a bad-tempered debate about their tax
arrangements. Equally, we have seen little of the mayor's genuine wit and
enthusiastic intellectualism; there has been no sign of the Boris who even
managed to make Gordon Brown smile with a brilliantly eccentric speech about
"wiff waff" (table tennis) during the Olympic handover rally from Beijing to
London in 2008.

If there is hope for Ken, it lies in the polls. Livingstone can probably take
little credit for a last-minute turnaround in his YouGov poll rating which,
according to today's poll, has brought him within four points of Johnson, 52-48,
after weeks of trailing behind the incumbent mayor. The government's
well-publicised woes since the budget have seen Labour nationally soar to leads
of up to 13 points over the Tories - and in London Ed Miliband's party has
pulled 16 points ahead of David Cameron's. This election Johnson has proved more
popular than his party, and Livingstone less popular (a new and unwelcome
experience for him) - but even so, Labour now seems to be managing to drag Ken
upwards while the Tories drag Boris down.

(Rival pollsters ComRos disagree, and produced a survey last Thursday that gave
Johnson a healthy eight-point lead.)

Johnson has run London in a more or less centrist fashion for the last four
years, meaning there has been much less enthusiasm on the left for the kind of
passionate anti-Boris campaign we saw in 2008.

But last week, perhaps in an attempt to shore up his base, he gave a
surprisingly rightwing interview to the Sunday Times in which he declined to
back gay marriage and launched a strong attack on immigration, saying:

The [London] population is expanding massively. That is partly a function of
immigration, legal or illegal. If you ask me as mayor of London, do I want to
see tough immigration controls, the answer is yes ... I want a much tighter grip
on immigration.

And in yesterday's Sunday Telegraph, his deputy, Kit Malthouse, reiterated the
mayor's support for George Osborne's decision to cut the 50p rate of tax.

Such forthright statements obviously risk alienating other sections of his
support, but perhaps he has written off some of those already. He was the only
candidate not to agree to do an online Q&A with Guardian readers on this blog.

Brian Paddick, the Liberal Democrat candidate, has found it hard to make an
impact. When he appeared on this blog, some (sympathetic) readers suggested he
may have made better progress if he had run an independent, warning that the Lib
Dem label would drag him down. Paddick has attempted to distance himself from
the coalition, telling the Guardian that he found his party's decision to join
the Tories in government "heartbreaking", and emphasising that he is standing on
a Lib Dem, rather than coalition, ticket. But that approach seems to assume that
voters only dislike the Conservative half of the coalition - that doesn't seem
to be the case.

Paddick has had an interesting life and a career as a serial rebel on important
and dramatic issues in the police, from cannabis to phone-hacking to the death
of Jean Charles de Menezes. On paper he is a great candidate, but somehow he is
never able to communicate that; he comes across both on TV and in real life as
stiff and wooden - like a senior policeman, in fact - and this lack of charisma
is especially problematic given that his opponents have taken personalised
politics to new levels. In today's YouGov poll, Paddick was on 6%, up from 4%
the day the campaign officially started; in last week's ComRes survey he had
been pushed into fourth place, with 5%.

Jenny Jones, the Green candidate, went to considerable lengths to prove her
party was focused on more than the environment, but her biggest impact on the
campaign came when she forced Johnson and Livingstone to release their tax
returns, and her poll numbers remain tiny according to YouGov - 3% in today's
poll, up from 1% at the beginning of the campaign. ComRes put her in third place
in its poll last Thursday, but she still only scored 6%.

Independent Siobhan Benita, despite her protests to the contrary, received acres
of rapturous press coverage - but saw no comparable surge in interest from the
public. She was at 3% in today's YouGov poll (she was not mentioned by YouGov in
their first poll) and scored the same in ComRes's survey. But Benita has
successfully raised her profile and I have already heard her mooted as Labour's
candidate for 2016.

Ukip's Lawrence Webb was also on 3% in last week's YouGov poll, up from 1% at
the start of the campaign, and on 2% according to ComRes, while the BNP's Carlos
Cortiglia had to make do with 1%, according to ComRes.

This has been the Boris and Ken show from start to finish.

Post your questions on the politics of the campaign for Boris and Ken
biographers Andrew Gimson and Sonia Purnell below. They will be here from 1-2pm
to debate them with you.

10.01am: As Tony Travers of the LSE points out in today's London Evening
Standard, the latest poll result "suits both teams because each candidate needs
to get their vote out".

Ken Livingstone's team has put out a statement which seems to back up Travers's
analysis. A spokesperson for Livingstone said:

The election is neck and neck and going all the way to the final vote cast on
Thursday. With soaring fares, police cuts and double-dip recession Londoners
have the opportunity this week to ensure the Tories don't get away it. The Tory
mayor has stood by and made things worse in difficult times, and Londoners will
be better off with a Labour mayor.

Livingstone's team has also put out a new poster attempting to tie Boris Johnson
to the Tory party, David Cameron, George Osborne and the recession - all of
which are more unpopular than the mayor. "The Tories are on a different planet,"
it reads.

12.00pm: Green candidate Jenny Jones and independent Siobhan Benita have just
been in the office speaking to our morning meeting.

Jones said Boris Johnson had a "lack of ideology ... You might as well ask what
the cat thinks." She added: "He doesn't like taking decisions. Too many people
under him are taking decisions."

Why was Johnson so popular? "I have no idea," said Jones. "He's not popular with
me. I do laugh at his jokes though; that's the awful thing. He's engaging."

She was much more positive about Ken Livingstone, and has asked her supporters
to give him their second preference votes (the London voting system is explained
here).

She said: "He does sort of understand climate change", although his "old-style
socialism" often trumped green concerns.

"In the eight years I watched Ken and we spoke he never promised anything he
didn't deliver. I do trust Ken."

She said he could be honest - "painfully honest" sometimes. "He said that the
reason I was good on TV was that I looked like everybody's mother. Apparently
that's true." (She may have been referring to the fact that she is the mother of
a senior editor at the Guardian.)

On Ken's disputed 7% fare cut policy, she said: "If Ken says it, it can be
done." Johnson and the Tories "think that's OK to make life more expensive for
the average Londoner. I don't understand it. For me it's a no-brainer that fares
have to go down."

Boris had come to her to say that they had to talk after the election, implying
he would offer her a job, but she said she would refuse because she did not
trust him.

She acknowledged that she wouldn't win on Thursday and was pushing for people to
vote for Green candidates on the London assembly, pointing out that from this
year the assembly would have the power to block the mayor's budget - potentially
making it a much more substantial body.

Siobhan Benita said she was standing because she believed this "should be an
independent role". "The mayor role is the one opportunity the voters get to vote
for an individual and not have party politics come into play."

She defended her controversial decision to back the building of a third runway
at Heathrow. "I'm doing that because I'm not party political. The other
candidates are playing politics with something that is hugely important."

She said it was a myth that people in nearby Hounslow and Hillingdon opposed the
runway. In fact it had been blocked because Labour and the Tories were fighting
for votes in Twickenham and Richmond, where the idea of the runway was
unpopular, she claimed. She said that a third runway would not damage Britain's
efforts to meet its cap on carbon emissions.

Of Livingstone and Johnson, she said: "They are divisive. They are deliberately
playing groups off each other ... I genuinely believe they are very similar.
They are similar in the way they play politics."

She said she had always voted Labour in the past, although she voted Lib Dem in
the last local elections. "In the general election I honestly don't know which
way I'll vote ... The government and opposition are in meltdown, in identity
crisis. I hope that changes. I can see my daughters getting totally turned off
by politics - and I don't blame them." She said there were no positive role
models in national politics.

Would she vote for Labour for the London assembly? "I honestly don't know yet."

She said she would "possibly" run as an MP after the election, but neither
Labour nor the Tories had approached her.

12.51pm: Communications experts LEWIS have built an infographic monitoring
social media conversations relating to the London mayoral elections. View it
here.

12.53pm: Brian Paddick's team has just put out a statement calling for Labour
voters disillusioned with Ken Livingstone to vote for the Lib Dem instead. The
statement said it had been "a desperate and divisive campaign by the Labour
candidate, in which he made crude comments about homosexuality and Jews, has
been utterly hypocritical over his personal tax affairs and promised an
undeliverable fares cut". Paddick is quoted as saying:

I understand why many Labour supporters are struggling with the thought of
backing Ken Livingstone and his divisive and opportunistic politics. My message
to you is: if you want a positive alternative to Boris Johnson, if you want real
change, vote for me.

1.05pm: Boris biographers Andrew Gimson and Sonia Purnell are online now and
answering your questions below the line.

Gimson is asked how Boris Johnson would look on the world stage opening the
Olympics, and whether this consideration should be part of voters'
decision-making process.

He responds:

I suspect Boris will buy a new suit and look astonishingly well turned out. He
might even have his hair cut so short that it cannot blow about in the wind.
This would be a cruel blow to all those who enjoy criticising him for looking
scruffy. But his wiff-waff speech in Beijing in 2008 was so funny that it would
make sense for him to do something completely different this time. Step forward
Boris the world statesman. If you want this to be part of the voting decision,
why not? The mayor's representative function is in many ways the most important
one he has.

1.15pm: Ken Livingstone has seized on an anti-Boris tweet from the leader of the
Richmond Liberal Democrats, Cllr Stephen Knight, to ask Lib Dem voters not to
give their second preference votes to Boris Johnson. Livingstone said:

Many Liberal Democrat voters will have their own doubts about endorsing the
Conservative party at this time. Such a senior London Liberal Democrat saying
his vote will not go to the Tories, and urging 'sack Boris', sends a clear
signal to Lib Dems all over the capital. My message to Liberal Democrat
supporters is don't vote for the only candidate, the Conservative, who will
raise your fares.

1.19pm:dfic1999 asks:

One for Sonia Purnell: I read your piece on why women were favouring Johnson,
and ended it none the wiser. Is it policy, personality, lazy media coverage, or
something else?

Sonia Purnell responds:

Hi. On Pienaar on Politics on 5 Live last night, a woman voter described how
Boris had given her 'that look' whilst out campaigning and on the basis of that
she was going to support him. I have seen the effect of 'that look' time and
time again and marvel at it. I do also think that his apparent optimism is also
infectious. I understand the reluctance to attribute this female support to the
supposed love of a 'loveable cad' and yet the evidence suggests that there is
something in it. I would add that a certain sort of straight man is just as
susceptible to Boris's charms as women. A lot of men hero-worship Boris, only
wishing they could emulate his free-wheeling life.

1.23pm: We are often criticised on this blog for giving this election more
prominence than it deserves, considering not everyone in the UK lives in London.

Sonia Purnell says the mayoral election does affect the rest of the country:

If Boris wins again, he will be an electoral titan in the Conservative party.
MPs are already talking him up as their next leader because he is a winner. So a
victory in London would almost certainly shorten the odds of him becoming the
next PM.

1.34pm:Tonytoday writes:

I think people a) re tiring of Boris a little more slowly than they are becoming
heartily sick of the tories (Cameron, Osborne & Co) overall. What puts them off
then voting for Labour is that - rightly or wrongly - they see Ken as the same
old same old. Perhaps we should expect either a lower turnout or the minor
parties (apart from the LibDooms) picking up more votes than expected?

Andrew Gimson responds:

This is a very sophisticated analysis. I suppose we tire of all politicians, or
at least need a break from them. Churchill in 1945, Thatcher in 1990, Blair in
2007 ...

With Boris, I think that while some people are just tiring more slowly of him,
others actually like him because he seems to them to be a more genuine figure
than Cameron and Osborne. So Boris stood up for bankers, and called for a cut in
the top rate of tax, at a time when C & O thought this was not something you
could say in front of the voters. It is not that people necessarily agree with
Boris about the bankers: but he gets marks for courage and honesty by defending
them: a thought which may even have occurred to him before he did so.

Ken does, as you say, have a problem with being seen as "the same old same old":
especially, I would guess, on the left, where he has made so many enemies over
the years. I seem to remember voting for Ken in order to annoy Blair. Voting for
Ken could still annoy a lot of people this time, but not in such a joyous way as
when it was a way of having a crack at the insufferably self-righteous New
Labour establishment.

But I don't expect a lower turnout: I think voters think this battle matters,
and that the minor parties are likely to get badly squeezed.

1.50pm:Andrew Gimson responds to the question of whether those outside London
should care about this race:

I've some sympathy with your irritation. But if I were a national newspaper
editor, I would still give the Ken-Boris fight a fair bit of prominence. After
Galloway won in Bradford, he got, and is still getting, a lot of coverage. He
deserved that, in my opinion, because his victory was a dreadful defeat for
Labour; and because Galloway himself is one of the great orators and
provocateurs of our time.

Similar arguments can be applied to London. What happens here will be seen as a
defeat for either Labour or the Tories. And Ken and Boris are interesting
figures in their own right: almost as difficult as Galloway to categorise, and
certainly not just the almost indistinguishable career politicians who fill most
of the places in the cabinet and shadow cabinet. In Boris's case, he is also a
potential successor to David Cameron. So what happens in London matters beyond
London, just as what happened in Bradford mattered far beyond Bradford.

2.06pm: My colleague Dave Hill has just tweeted this:

Boris to BBC when asked about talking to News Int: "Come on this is the most
important thing. Stuff [Tim] Donovan and his fucking bollocks."

- DaveHill (@DaveHill) April 30, 2012

My colleague Peter Walker is at a mayoral hustings on cycling and will be
sending more later. For now he sends this picture of Ken and Boris throwing
their arms around each other:

Boris and Ken cuddle up at #cyclesafe hustings twitter.com/peterwalker99/...

- peterwalker99 (@peterwalker99) April 30, 2012

ConnectComms adds:

Ha! Snappers go nuts at #cycling hustings as Ken & Boris have a bit of a play
cuddle/wrestle. Sure Boris pulled Ken's hair...

- ConnectComms (@Connect_Comms) April 30, 2012

2.14pm: Some context regarding Boris's latest outburst of bad language from Dave
Hill:

Blimey. Boris just used the F word straight into BBC London camera on lunch time
bulletin. Was being asked about Murdoch & sponsorship.

- DaveHill (@DaveHill) April 30, 2012

2.17pm: Many thanks to Sonia Purnell and Andrew Gimson for taking part in
today's Q&A - and thanks to you for all your questions.

2.22pm: My colleague Peter Walker is at a mayoral hustings on cycling. All the
candidates have arrived, and the room is completely packed, Peter reports. He
says that as a long-time London cyclist he would never have predicted even a few
years ago that he would see a room full of politicians all competing for the
cycling vote. "Yes, like motorists have managed to do for decades, to their
endless benefit, cyclists might soon be a proper, vocal lobby."

Peter adds:

The London mayoral cycle hustings have been organised by Sustrans, the cycling
and green travel pressure group, and the Times, which has over recent months
been running a high-profile and influential campaign called Cycle Safe. It's a
mark of the potential electoral impact of the estimated half-million people who
ride a bike in London daily that the four major candidates - Boris Johnson, Ken
Livingstone, Brian Paddick and Jenny Jones - as well as the independent, Siobhan
Benita - will all attend. All five have signed up to both the Times's campaign
and the London Cycling Campaign's "Love London, Go Dutch" policy, which calls
for more segregated cycle lanes to encourage greater cycling numbers.

It'll be interesting to see how the candidates outline their policies, not least
Johnson, the only one of the five to be specifically criticised by co-sponsor
Sustrans. For all his much-worked image as a regular cyclist, Johnson's apparent
focus on vehicle traffic flow and his reluctance over a possible 20mph limit on
urban roads argues something different. Sustrans praises all the others to
differing degrees, although it did irritate Jones's camp by labelling her
transport plans a bit vague.

It's worth noting the very real manifestation of cycle lobby power in London
this weekend - an estimated 10,000 cyclists braving the rain on Saturday to join
a London Cycling Campaign-organised Big Ride, calling for better cycling
infrastructure. These people are all potential voters ...

A pair of polls today have reiterated that. One for the Times found that around
a third of people who had heard of the paper's Cities fit for Cycling campaign
would switch their vote according to bike-based policies. A separate poll for
British Cycling found that more than half of London's cyclists think better bike
lanes should be a mayor's main transport priority.

Peter is also tweeting @peterwalker99 and will write a longer piece once it's
over on the Bike blog.

2.27pm:Peter Walker sends more from the cycling hustings:

The five candidates have had their initial say, and Johnson has already been
heckled from the floor for claiming that cycling in London is now safer an it
was when he took office. On his priorities he lists more of the same - more
cycle superhighways and large "Trixi" mirrors at junction. For good measure he
refers to the audience as "fellow cyclists".

Livingstone, as ever, is the detail-driven technocrat, promising that on day one
he would order Transport for London to make pedestrian and cycle safety their
main priority, and give cyclists a head start at traffic lights to turn left. He
would make Jenny Jones his cycling tsar, he says.

Paddick agrees on TfL, also saying he would push for compulsory motion sensors
on long vehicles to protect cyclists. Jones talks of he "dream" of no road
deaths and says she'd like to have 6.5% of all journeys in London taken by bike.

Siobhan Benita is a bit more vague but pledges a "complete relentless focus" on
cycling.

On follow-up questions, Johnson is heckled again, twice. This is quite a bear
pit for him. For the UK's most famously cycling politician he's not very popular
with his pedalling peers.

2.34pm: Coral bookmakers say they have seen "a surge of bets for Boris Johnson"
to win the mayoral race and have cut his price to 1-6 (from 1-4). Ken
Livingstone is now at 7-2 (from 11-4).

"We're seeing only Boris money now," said Coral spokesman Gary Burton.

2.36pm: The odds from William Hill are 1/5 for Boris Johnson and 10/3 for Ken
Livingstone. Here's a mixed metaphor from spokesman Rupert Adams:

The odds suggest that the London election is a straight fight between Boris
Johnson and Ken Livingstone, but Boris is on his bike, while Ken is on foot.

So Ken will probably win the fight, because Boris will presumably be hampered by
the fact that he's sitting on a bike?

2.56pm:Peter Walker sends more from the mayoral cycling hustings:

To little surprise, much of the debate has ended up being Johnson and
Livingstone bickering, mainly over the latter's plans to cut public transport
fares and how this would equate with more transport spending. At one point the
moderator, Times editor James Harding, asks them to stick to the questions from
the floor. "We'll take it to the lift," Livingstone quips, referring to a bust
up earlier in the campaign at a radio station.

The main pair's contrasting styles in answering questions is interesting -
Johnson is fluent but says little of detail. Livingstone quotes statistics and
clearly knows his brief inside out. Livingstone keeps on mentioning Jones as his
chosen cycling supreme. The Green candidate smiles ruefully.

About half a dozen questions in we've learned little new, though, particularly
in policy terms. Lots of talk, few concrete promises - perhaps a reflection of
the limited powers of the mayor's office.

3.04pm: Here's the full story on Boris Johnson swearing again, from my
colleagues H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland and Dave Hill.

Boris Johnson accused a BBC journalist of talking "fucking bollocks" after being
challenged over his attempts to secure commercial deals with News International
while the Metropolitan police were investigating the company over phone hacking.

Johnson's attack, filmed by the BBC and broadcast on the Monday lunchtime
bulletin, comes less than a month after the Conservative candidate came under
fire for calling his Labour rival Ken Livingstone a "fucking liar", in a lift
after a row over their respective tax arrangements ...

Johnson hit out when placed under scrutiny over his efforts to lobby News
International at such a sensitive time as he defended his decision to lobby
private sector contributions for the "benefit of London".

Tim Donovan, the BBC London political editor, has been investigating the fact
that Johnson - who had responsibility for chairing the Metropolitan Police
Authority at a time the force was looking to News International - was trying to
get NI to sponsor the cable car in east London and a school academy; no deal was
eventually done.

Johnson told the BBC: "I don't know of any discussions going on about that but
what I can tell you is that I think it's right to work with the private sector
to get contributions that will be for the benefit of London.

"I'm very proud that over the last four years we've got more than [#xfffd]100m
in sponsorship that I've raised for this city: [#xfffd]50m for the bikes,
[#xfffd]36m for the cable car.

"You've got to get this on the air! Come on, this is the most important thing.
Stuff Donovan and his fucking bollocks."

3.16pm: An update from Peter Walker, who is at a mayoral cycling hustings:

Some more questions, one about whether the candidates would put a cyclist on the
board of Transport for London. Johnson fudges it, saying that he chairs the
board and cycles every day. That'll be a no, then.

Livingstone answers a question about Addison Lee, the minicab firm which wants
to use London's bus lanes. Addison Lee represent "everything that's unattractive
about the taxi trade", he says, pledging to do everything he can to stop
minicabs using bus lanes.

Johnson is then asked about what is, for bike lobby groups, a major bugbear
about his cycling policy - his emphasis on smoothing motorised traffic flow, as
a higher priority than pedestrian and cycle safety. He muddles the answer,
waffling about cyclists not being "morally superior" to other road users, and
how we cannot "pastoralise" our roads.

This irritates Paddick, saying he's "very angry" at this attitude.

3.30pm: Sounds like things are not going that well for Boris Johnson at the
transport hustings.

'I'm not whippet thin, I don't have dreadlocks or jump lights,' Boris says. As
boos rise, he adds quickly, 'And neither are you'. #cyclesafe

- peterwalker99 (@peterwalker99) April 30, 2012

3.51pm:Peter Walker sends details of the closing remarks from the cycling
hustings:

Jenny Jones, who has had to almost try the least here given her party's track
record on cycling and her endearingly open admission that she is extremely
unlikely to become mayor, promises that Greens on the London assembly will work
tirelessly for cyclists. Brian Paddick, who's done very well today, pledges to
make London "a more civilised place" where cyclists are as safe as car users.

Ken Livingstone agrees with both, and makes the point that with most of London's
transport infrastructure full to capacity we need a mayor to plan 10 or 20 years
ahead, not just till the next election.

Boris Johnson lets loose one of his extemporised, chat show-style verbal riffs
and comes badly unstuck. Stressing his cyclist credentials he notes that he is
not a "stereotypical cyclist ... I'm not whippet-thin, brown legs, dreadlocks,
dressed in Lycra, jumping lights ... "

As the boos rise he adds, quickly, " ... and nor are you," but it's too late.
"I'd quit now," Paddick advises as the mayor struggles on.

Instant verdicts? Four out of five for Paddick and Benita, who held her own in
what is her only hustings on equal terms with the big four. A solid 3.5 for
Livingstone and Jones - good on the issues but a bit less passion than you might
expect. Johnson limps in with 1.5. He misjudged the audience, tried to be
flippant at the wrong moments and seemed very light on detailed knowledge.

I'm back to the office on a bike journey which takes in a series of terrifying
junctions, not least Parliament Square and the King's Cross one-way system.
Whoever wins, there's a lot of work to be done.

4.31pm: That's it from the London mayoral election live blog today. Tomorrow
we'll be looking at the candidates' policies on the Olympics and their legacy.
Thanks again to our guests and thanks for all your comments.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

London mayor race is too close to call

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1000 words

ABSTRACT

Final result depends on wether it's the Labour and Conservative party machine
which best brings out its supporters

FULL TEXT

The two frontrunners for the London mayoralty, Conservative candidate Boris
Johnson and Labour's Ken Livingstone, have been on a long and sometimes bitter
slog for votes since the start of the year - and for months before that - yet
with the winning post approaching on Thursday, no one can be sure of victory.

The latest opinion poll, from YouGov, has given Johnson the latest in a
succession of narrow leads he has held since January. Yet with bad economic news
turning voters against the Conservative-led national government especially in
the capital, the veteran Livingstone, whom Johnson defeated in 2008, might still
mobilise enough support to pip his rival at the post and complete a rare
political restoration.

Psephological orthodoxy has been challenged by Johnson's continuing popularity
in spite of the Tory dip. The received wisdom has been that national leanings
are the greatest factor in determining local or regional elections,
notwithstanding the highly personalised nature of mayoral tussles. Livingstone
paid for Labour's national unpopularity four years ago, despite his then strong
personal vote. But the X-factor component of the contest in 2012 has kept
Johnson ahead.

While the Conservative's poll ratings have been consistently higher than those
of his party in the capital, Livingstone's have stubbornly lagged behind those
of Labour. Ed Miliband has accompanied on the streets in recent days in a clear
attempt to swing the London Labour vote fully behind him, with significant
numbers of voters claiming they'd support Labour in a general election but
prefer Johnson as mayor.

Livingstone has been hampered for much of the year by greater media interest in
his financial arrangements than in his policies after it emerged he had set up a
private firm through which to channel his earnings, meaning he paid a lower rate
of tax. His attempts to claim - inaccurately, as it turned out - during a radio
debate that Johnson had done something similar in the past so angered the
Conservative that he called Livingstone a "fucking liar" during a confrontation
in a lift after the show.

Accusations of dishonesty have flown freely in the Labour candidate's direction
from the Johnson campaign and its numerous allies in the press. These include
the Telegraph, which pays Johnson £250,000 a year for writing a weekly column -
far more than his salary as mayor of £144,000. The clear strategy of Johnson's
campaign boss Lynton Crosby, famous for his negative campaigning techniques, has
been to exploit voter perceptions, borne out in polls, that Livingstone is the
less trustworthy.

Johnson has pointedly echoed doubts about Livingstone's flagship pledge to
reduce public transport fares by 7% by October or resign, freeze them in 2013
and hold rises to the rate of inflation for the next two years, with other
policies for reducing the high cost of living endured by "ordinary Londoners",
including restoring the education maintenance allowance and introducing a
not-for-profit accommodation letting agency to help hold down rents and improve
security of tenure in London's growing private rented sector.

Polls have consistently shown Johnson as by far the more charismatic, which
appears to have translated strongly into voting intentions. His celebrity and
jovial public persona appear to have insulated him against much of the
unpopularity of Tory-led coalition national policies, despite these impacting
strongly on London in terms of spending cuts and unemployment. A YouGov poll
earlier this month found that one-third of Londoners view Johnson as "a mayor
for the rich", yet many poorer voters preferred him anyway.

The mayoral race is decided by supplementary vote system, which gives electors a
first and a second preference for mayor. If no candidate receives a majority of
first preference votes, the top two candidates alone proceed to a second round
with all others eliminated. Any second preference votes for the remaining two
candidates are then added to their first preference totals, and the one with the
largest final total wins.

With attention focused closely on the race's leading men, other candidates have
struggled to make an impact. Brian Paddick, the former senior Metropolitan
police officer who is running for the Liberal Democrats - as he too did in 2008
- was in a distant third place in the latest YouGov survey, with just 6% of
first preference votes compared with Johnson's 44% and Livingstone's 41%.
Independent Siobhan Benita and Lawrence Webb of Ukip came next on 4%, followed
by the Green party's Jenny Jones on 3%.

With two campaign days left tensions are running high again as Johnson seeks to
protect his advantage and Livingstone strives to pare it down. There are signs
that Johnson is being protected as far as possible from tough media scrutiny as
polling day nears. He declined to be interviewed live on the London section of
the BBC's Sunday Politics programme, claiming he had a prior "private
engagement". However, it emerged via Twitter that he was in fact campaigning in
Wimbledon and Kingston while the show was on air.

When asked by BBC London about a story by its political editor Tim Donovan
concerning his seeking sponsorship from News International while the Met was
investigating claims of phone hacking at the News of the World, he blurted into
the camera: "Stuff Donovan and his fucking bollocks." Johnson, who is
responsible for the strategic direction of the Met, once described the
phone-hacking allegations in September 2010 as "codswallop" that "looks like a
politically motivated put-up job by the Labour party".

The head-to-head finding of the YouGov survey, which seeks to anticipate the
outcome of a second round of counting round, put Johnson ahead of Livingstone by
52% to 48%. The success with which Labour and Tory campaigns can get supporters
to turn out might prove the truly decisive factor.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 30, 2012
                                 First Edition

twitter sphere

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 268 words


LouiseMensch as a schoolgirl I read a sci-fi story set on a planet where it
constantly rained. Astronauts went mad (Louise Mensch, MP)

Schofe RT @Carolinawinder Is the ark done yet? May I board it before I float
away! Just loading the animals, but I''m leaving the wasps behind (Phililip
Schofield, TV personality)

amber_benson I am writing in the food court of a Casino where the cashier just
asked me if i was on a liquid diet cause i ordered soup and a beer. (Amber
Benson, actress)

BSheermanMP Sad to see closure of Jumbo Chinese restaurant in
Huddersfield,lifeline for hungry students.Shows real squeeze on student
finances! (Barry Sheerman, MP)

georgegalloway Small local fuss over one of our council candidates pictured
holding a rifle on an aid convoy in Afghanistan years ago. Labour orchestrated
(George Galloway, MP)

MikeTyson Great trip. Heading home with the family. Can''t wait to check on my
birds. Just built a new coop. (Mike Tyson, former boxer)

OwenJones84 MT @Lord_Sugar I am off to White Hart Lane today to see Spurs v
Blackburn. We need a win maybe my presence will help or hinder > Lord Hubris
(Owen Jones, journalist)

paulwaugh Mebbe PM shdve cited Shakespeare re Hunt/EdM:The man that once did
sell the lion''s skin/While the beast lived, was killed with hunting him (Paul
Waugh, journalist)

jayrayner1 To answer a question I''m getting, My Dining Hell is ebook only.
Welcome to modern publishing folks. (Jay Rayner, food writer)

bengoldacre UKIP candidate says gays all owe straight ppl a drink. i especially
love the idea that straight ppl are somehow her gang (Ben Goldacre, science
writer)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 30, 2012
                                 First Edition

Freeing up democracy;
We need more independents to break the parties' stranglehold My View

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1041 words


Fed up with all three main parties? Fancy a bold, clever, sensible independent
candidate to represent your city? That's what Londoners are being offered on
Thursday, but the political and media establishments are doing their best to
crush her. We have a 20th-century political system failing to cope with
21stcentury politics.

This matters not just in the capital.

Two other cities are voting for a mayor this week and 10 more are voting on
whether or not to have one in the future. And we've seen all over the country
that today's politics are tending towards tohell-with-the-lot-of-them. In
Bradford West, George Galloway won more votes than Labour, the Tories and the
Liberal Democrats combined.

In Scotland, the SNP won an absolute majority in a proportional-representation
system that wasn't supposed ever to deliver such a thing. And national opinion
polls show the fastest-growing support is for "others".

The introduction of city mayors was supposed to usher in more independent
candidates. The idea was that we might have a Richard Branson or a Michael
Bloomberg as Mayor of London. Hartlepool showed its distaste for the mainstream
parties by electing a man in a monkey suit. But he was locally famous and
Branson is nationally famous. If you are someone such as Siobhan Benita, the
rules are seriously stacked against you.

Benita is one of seven candidates for London Mayor. She was a highflying civil
servant for 15 years and has more experience in government than either Boris
Johnson or Ken Livingstone. She has no rich backers - the biggest donation she
has taken is £3,000 - and has spent nothing on posters or advertisements.

Yet despite that, she is third favourite to win on Thursday, and her odds have
shortened from 500-1 to 33-1, putting her way ahead of the Liberal Democrat,
Brian Paddick, and the Green, Jenny Jones. It's not surprising that Londoners
are looking for a new contender when the three main parties have rolled out
exactly the same tired candidates as last time round.

So why hasn't Benita been allowed to take part in any debates with Boris and
Ken? This matters, because in a city of 5.8 million voters, airtime is by far
the most effective way to be seen and heard. Every time Benita has had even a
few seconds on television, visits to her website have soared. Yet, while Paddick
and Jones have been on television debates and even the British National Party
candidate has been allowed an election broadcast, Benita has been shut out.

The BBC's election guidelines say it should take into account past and current
electoral support in determining how much coverage each candidate/party should
have during the campaign, and whether they should be allowed an election
broadcast. It interprets this guidance in a grossly unfair way.

Independent candidates such as Benita can't point to past electoral support if
they haven't run before. Nor can they point to evidence of support for their
party as they don't have one. As for current support, Benita is scoring just 3
per cent in the polls, but that''s higher than Jones, who was given a place in
the television debates, and higher than the BNP, which got an election
broadcast. What's more, she argues, she would be doing a lot better in the polls
if more voters knew of her existence.

Benita has offered other evidence of current support to the BBC. Her betting
odds are far shorter than those of her smallerparty rivals, and even than the
Liberal Democrat's. She has as many Twitter followers as Boris, and she has had
more positive and fewer negative tweets than any other candidate. The BBC has
told her that Twitter is new and untested - but so is the notion of independents
standing for the London mayoralty. It's a pusillanimous argument.

For Benita is the future. Membership of a political party these days feels as
quaint as membership of the Mothers' Union. We join Twitter, not the Tories, if
we want to hang out with like-minded people.

Over the past few decades, we've become much less tribal in our political
allegiances, willing to judge each election on its merits. The logical
conclusion of that, particularly when traditional politicians are so despised,
is that we'll be ever more tempted to vote for "none of the above".

One way of doing that is to abstain.

Another is to vote for a small party - and it''s no coincidence that Ukip (whose
London mayoral candidate has also been treated badly) is now nudging the Liberal
Democrats for third place in national polls. A third is to vote for a genuine
independent.

This won't happen much in general elections. Party machines, however depleted
they are these days, are still needed to campaign locally and run policy
centrally. But in citywide mayoral elections, it should be much easier for
candidates of no party to run and win - as long as the rules aren't designed to
exclude them.

The London mayoralty already places quite high hurdles on potential candidates.
They need 330 supporting signatures (10 from each of the boroughs), plus a
£10,000 deposit and a further £10,000 in order to be included in the election
leaflet that goes out to each voter. This process keeps the numbers down to a
manageable level.

In some countries, all seven candidates would have to be treated equally. That's
what''s happened in the French presidential campaign. But if our broadcasters
believe that seven is too many for a television or radio debate, surely they
could include the two front-runners in each one and rotate the other candidates
so they all have a chance? There must be a better way, and we should demand it.
If you live in London and are shocked by the unfairness of the system, you have
a chance to say so on Thursday. Give your first preference vote to Siobhan
Benita and your second to Boris, Ken, Brian, Jenny or whoever, and you will
double your influence.

You will be able to vote for the candidate of your choice (as, barring miracles,
Benita will be knocked out and her votes redistributed).

But you will also be able to send a sharp message to the political and media
barons that you cherish the idea of independents and you are determined that
they should be given a fair run.

i@independent.co.uk

We've become much less tribal in our political allegiances, willing to judge
each election on its merits

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                 First Edition

We need more independents to break the stranglehold;
Mayoral elections

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1042 words


Fed up with all three main political parties? Fancy a bold, clever, sensible
independent candidate to represent your city? That's what Londoners are being
offered on Thursday, but the political and media establishments are doing their
best to crush her. We have a 20th-century political system failing to cope with
21st-century politics.

This matters not just in the capital. Two other cities are voting for a mayor
this week and 10 more are voting on whether or not to have one in the future.
And we've seen all over the country that today's politics are tending towards
to-hell-with-the-lot-of-them. In Bradford West, George Galloway won more votes
than Labour, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats combined. In Scotland, the SNP
won an absolute majority in a proportional-representation system that wasn't
supposed ever to deliver such a thing. And national opinion polls show the
fastest-growing support is for "others".

The introduction of city mayors was supposed to usher in more independent
candidates. The idea was that we might have a Richard Branson or a Michael
Bloomberg as Mayor of London. Hartlepool showed its distaste for the mainstream
parties by electing a man in a monkey suit. But H'Angus the Monkey was locally
famous and Branson is nationally famous. If you are someone such as Siobhan
Benita, the rules are seriously stacked against you.

Benita is one of seven candidates for London Mayor. She was a high-flying civil
servant for 15 years and has more experience in government than either Boris
Johnson or Ken Livingstone. She has no rich backers - the biggest donation she
has taken is £3,000 - and has spent nothing on posters or advertisements. Yet
despite that, she is third favourite to win on Thursday, and her odds have
shortened from 500-1 to 33-1, putting her way ahead of the Liberal Democrat,
Brian Paddick, and the Green, Jenny Jones. It's not surprising that Londoners
are looking for a refreshing new contender when the three main parties have
rolled out exactly the same tired candidates as last time round.

So why hasn't Benita been allowed to take part in any debates with Boris and
Ken? This matters, because in a city of 5.8 million voters, airtime is by far
the most effective way to be seen and heard. Every time Benita has had even a
few seconds on television, visits to her website have soared. Yet, while Paddick
and Jones have been on television debates and even the British National Party
candidate has been allowed a party-election broadcast, Benita has been shut out.

The BBC's election guidelines say it should take into account past and current
electoral support in determining how much coverage each candidate/party should
have during the campaign, and whether they should be allowed an election
broadcast. It interprets this guidance in a grossly unfair way.

Independent candidates such as Benita can't point to past electoral support if
they haven't run before. Nor can they point to evidence of support for their
party as they don't have one. As for current support, Benita is scoring just 3
per cent in the polls, but that's higher than Jones, who was given a place in
the television debates, and higher than the BNP, which got an election
broadcast. What's more, she argues, she would be doing a lot better in the polls
if more voters knew of her existence.

Benita has offered other evidence of current support to the BBC. Her betting
odds are far shorter than those of her smaller-party rivals, and even than the
Liberal Democrat's. She has as many Twitter followers as Boris, and she has had
more positive and fewer negative tweets than any other candidate. The BBC has
told her that Twitter is new and untested - but so is the notion of independents
standing for the London mayoralty. It's a pusillanimous argument.

For Benita and her ilk are the future. Membership of a political party these
days feels as quaint as membership of the Mothers' Union. We join Twitter, not
the Tories, if we want to hang out with like-minded people. Over the past few
decades, we've become much less tribal in our political allegiances, willing to
judge each election on its merits. The logical conclusion of that, particularly
when traditional politicians are so despised, is that we'll be ever more tempted
to vote for "none of the above".

One way of doing that is to abstain. Another is to vote for a small party - and
it's no coincidence that Ukip (whose London mayoral candidate has also been
treated badly) is now nudging the Liberal Democrats for third place in national
polls. A third is to vote for a genuine independent. This

won't happen much in general elections. Party machines, however depleted they
are these days, are still needed to campaign locally and run policy centrally.
But in citywide mayoral elections, it should be much easier for candidates of no
party to run and win - as long as the rules aren't designed to exclude them.

The London mayoralty already places quite high hurdles on potential candidates.
They need 330 supporting signatures (10 from each of the boroughs), plus a
£10,000 deposit and a further £10,000 in order to be included in the election
leaflet that goes out to each voter. This process keeps the numbers down to a
manageable level.

In some countries, all seven candidates would have to be treated equally. That's
what's happened in the French presidential campaign. But if British broadcasters
believe that seven is too many for a television or radio debate, surely they
could include the two front-runners in each one and rotate the other candidates
so they all have a chance?

There must be a better way, and we should demand it. If you live in London and
are shocked by the unfairness of the system, you have a chance to say so on
Thursday. Give your first-preference vote to Siobhan Benita and your second to
Boris, Ken, Brian, Jenny or whoever, and you will double your influence. You
will be able to vote for the candidate of your choice (as, barring miracles,
Benita will be knocked out and her second preferences redistributed). But you
will also be able to send a sharp message to the political and media barons that
you cherish the idea of independents and you are determined that they should be
given a fair run.

m.sieghart@independent.co.uk

twitter.com/MASieghart

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 10:32 AM GMT

Boris is out to win, and he could just save Dave's bacon

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 564 words


Dave has one reason to be cheerful amid all the angst in Tory ranks. Boris has
had a good weekend.

A new, more sober and conservative Boris was plastered all over the front page
of The Sunday Telegraph. And, for once, he was almost entirely on message.

With the polls in the London mayoral election pointing to a win for Britain's
most popular Tory over Ken Livingstone on Thursday, Boris in chains dutifully
belted out many of the favourite Tory tunes.

He was aggressively in favour of tax cuts, promised to cut London's council tax
if re-elected, and pledged a further crackdown on crime. His key beliefs were
freedom, democracy and low public spending. And, most importantly, he was
photographed in a grey suit and purple tie.

True his hair was as tousled as ever and his suit was spectacularly creased. But
for all that, Boris is clearly out to win.

On message Boris sounds a contradiction in terms. In fact, it is a tribute to
his jailor... sorry I mean campaign manager, the formidably no-nonsense Aussie
Lynton Crosby, who on home soil in the 1990s delivered four straight general
election victories for arch-conservative John Howard.

Lynton has Boris in a headlock that will not be released until the votes are
safely counted on Friday.

And his famously delinquent candidate is following exactly the right strategy.

Mayoral elections, like local elections, are marked by low turnouts. In the

2008 contest, only 45 per cent of those registered to vote actually bothered to
make it to the polling booth, compared with the 65 per cent at the 2010 general
election.

Victory tends to go to the candidate best able to persuade his party's core vote
to get out of bed.

Hence, the carefully calibrated appeal to traditional Tories hankering after a
familiar soundtrack.

As the Sunday Telegraph pointed out, Boris steered well clear of modish causes
championed by Dave, such as gay marriage or green taxes.

True, there was also a modest pitch for the centre ground with his talk of how
he had secured extra money for housing and Crossrail and how he relished a
scrum-down with George Osborne's Treasury bean-counters.

But this was a manifesto aimed at the good burghers of Bromley, Croydon and
Barnet and firing them up sufficiently to keep Red Ken at bay.

We will see if it works. Boris's problem is that he is running for office
against the background of a slump in the Tory vote nationally. The YouGov poll
for The Sunday Times has the Conservatives on just 29 per cent, 11 points behind
Labour. The Libs are down to 11 per cent, half their general election score, and
only one point in front of UKIP.

Another survey, conducted by ComRes for the Coalition for Marriage and published
in The Sunday Telegraph, suggested that core Conservatives are defecting to UKIP
in large part because of Dave's backing for gay marriage.

For every vote Dave gains from gay marriage, he is losing three.

The numbers are pointing to dreadful local election results for the Tories.

But the media spotlight is elsewhere. If Boris wins, he will take the headlines,
making the ensuing inquest into the national Tory meltdown much less
uncomfortable for Cameron.

In the longer run, Boris is Dave's greatest rival. A fellow Etonian and habitue
of Oxford's Bullingdon Club, he remains untainted by the 'arrogant posh boy'
jibe that has come to stick to Dave.

The irony is that this week it could well be Boris who saves Dave's bacon.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 4:33 PM GMT

It will take years for the Conservatives to convince ethnic minority voters -
unlike Eurosceptic voters, whom they could win back tomorrow

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 630 words


Do you know what the chief denominator of Conservative support is? It's not how
much you earn or how old you are or whether you go to church or which newspaper
you read. It's whether or not you're white.

Lord Ashcroft, who knows all about this sort of thing, has been doing some
in-depth quantitative and qualitative research. To cut a long story short, he
finds that many black and Asian Britons have a cultural aversion to the
Conservative Party that has little to do with its policies.

This is obviously bad news for the Tories. It might be bad news, too, for ethnic
minorities. Evidence from abroad suggests that, when a group becomes wholly
identified with one party, it risks marginalisation. That party can take it for
granted; the others can ignore it.

For democracy to work properly, you need candidates to compete on policy. When
people feel obliged to vote for 'their' party on racial or religious grounds,
they make that party complacent. We have seen the phenomenon in those parts of
Europe where single-issue parties represent national or linguistic minorities.
We have seen it in Northern Ireland. We may be starting to see it in England as
a result of George Galloway's sectarian campaigning.

For as long as I can remember, Conservatives have been asserting that members of
this or that immigrant group are 'natural Tories' because they believe in hard
work, strong families and so forth. It sounds logical enough: immigration
implies a degree of enterprise and ambition, and few people choose to settle in
a new country without some patriotic attachment to it. Plainly, though, appeals
to values are not enough. Only 16 per cent of black and Asian Britons voted Tory
last time.

Canada's Tories used to have the same problem. They, though, are well on the way
to solving it, largely as the result of the heroic work of an MP called Jason
Kenney, now the minister for citizenship and immigration. He, too, had wrestled
with the dilemma of how to get immigrant and ethnic minority Canadians to, as he
puts it, 'vote their values'. In the end, he stumbled on something which, in
retrospect, seems obvious. If voters don't get to meet you, you risk being
defined by your opponents. Many newcomers had been approached by the local
Liberals soon after arriving, and consequently started seeing Canadian politics
through Liberal eyes. Several, indeed, would confidently declare that they had
entered Canada in the first place as the result of Liberal policies - when the
chronology showed they had arrived during Brian Mulroney's immigration boom.

There is, Jason explains, no short-cut. You have to put yourself where the
voters are. And you have to keep doing it year after year. Having black and
Asian Conservatives in prominent positions is all well and good, but it's
insufficient. The LibDems, after all, have an all-white parliamentary party, but
do better among ethnic minority voters. No, if we want genuinely broad appeal,
we need open primaries, which will allow minority candidates to emerge who are
truly representative of their localities.

As much as seven per cent of the electorate might be in play - potentially the
difference between a Cameron government and a Miliband government. It's true
that it takes years to shift cultural assumptions: seven per cent won't be won
over in one election.

The same is not true, though, of the seven per cent who have abandoned the
Conservatives for UKIP. There, the solution is much simpler: an In/Out
referendum, paving the way to a merger.

One of the things unearthed by the Ashcroft research is that ethnic minority
Britons tend to be Eurosceptic and resentful of an immigration policy which
offers free access to EU citizens at the expense of the Commonwealth. You see?
The Conservatives can pursue both objectives at once.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 4:33 PM GMT

It will take years for the Conservatives to convince ethnic minority voters -
unlike Eurosceptic voters, whom they could win back tomorrow

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 630 words


Do you know what the chief denominator of Conservative support is? It's not how
much you earn or how old you are or whether you go to church or which newspaper
you read. It's whether or not you're white.

Lord Ashcroft, who knows all about this sort of thing, has been doing some
in-depth quantitative and qualitative research. To cut a long story short, he
finds that many black and Asian Britons have a cultural aversion to the
Conservative Party that has little to do with its policies.

This is obviously bad news for the Tories. It might be bad news, too, for ethnic
minorities. Evidence from abroad suggests that, when a group becomes wholly
identified with one party, it risks marginalisation. That party can take it for
granted; the others can ignore it.

For democracy to work properly, you need candidates to compete on policy. When
people feel obliged to vote for 'their' party on racial or religious grounds,
they make that party complacent. We have seen the phenomenon in those parts of
Europe where single-issue parties represent national or linguistic minorities.
We have seen it in Northern Ireland. We may be starting to see it in England as
a result of George Galloway's sectarian campaigning.

For as long as I can remember, Conservatives have been asserting that members of
this or that immigrant group are 'natural Tories' because they believe in hard
work, strong families and so forth. It sounds logical enough: immigration
implies a degree of enterprise and ambition, and few people choose to settle in
a new country without some patriotic attachment to it. Plainly, though, appeals
to values are not enough. Only 16 per cent of black and Asian Britons voted Tory
last time.

Canada's Tories used to have the same problem. They, though, are well on the way
to solving it, largely as the result of the heroic work of an MP called Jason
Kenney, now the minister for citizenship and immigration. He, too, had wrestled
with the dilemma of how to get immigrant and ethnic minority Canadians to, as he
puts it, 'vote their values'. In the end, he stumbled on something which, in
retrospect, seems obvious. If voters don't get to meet you, you risk being
defined by your opponents. Many newcomers had been approached by the local
Liberals soon after arriving, and consequently started seeing Canadian politics
through Liberal eyes. Several, indeed, would confidently declare that they had
entered Canada in the first place as the result of Liberal policies - when the
chronology showed they had arrived during Brian Mulroney's immigration boom.

There is, Jason explains, no short-cut. You have to put yourself where the
voters are. And you have to keep doing it year after year. Having black and
Asian Conservatives in prominent positions is all well and good, but it's
insufficient. The LibDems, after all, have an all-white parliamentary party, but
do better among ethnic minority voters. No, if we want genuinely broad appeal,
we need open primaries, which will allow minority candidates to emerge who are
truly representative of their localities.

As much as seven per cent of the electorate might be in play - potentially the
difference between a Cameron government and a Miliband government. It's true
that it takes years to shift cultural assumptions: seven per cent won't be won
over in one election.

The same is not true, though, of the seven per cent who have abandoned the
Conservatives for UKIP. There, the solution is much simpler: an In/Out
referendum, paving the way to a merger.

One of the things unearthed by the Ashcroft research is that ethnic minority
Britons tend to be Eurosceptic and resentful of an immigration policy which
offers free access to EU citizens at the expense of the Commonwealth. You see?
The Conservatives can pursue both objectives at once.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 4:33 PM GMT

It will take years for the Conservatives to convince ethnic minority voters -
unlike Eurosceptic voters, whom they could win back tomorrow

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 630 words


Do you know what the chief denominator of Conservative support is? It's not how
much you earn or how old you are or whether you go to church or which newspaper
you read. It's whether or not you're white.

Lord Ashcroft, who knows all about this sort of thing, has been doing some
in-depth quantitative and qualitative research. To cut a long story short, he
finds that many black and Asian Britons have a cultural aversion to the
Conservative Party that has little to do with its policies.

This is obviously bad news for the Tories. It might be bad news, too, for ethnic
minorities. Evidence from abroad suggests that, when a group becomes wholly
identified with one party, it risks marginalisation. That party can take it for
granted; the others can ignore it.

For democracy to work properly, you need candidates to compete on policy. When
people feel obliged to vote for 'their' party on racial or religious grounds,
they make that party complacent. We have seen the phenomenon in those parts of
Europe where single-issue parties represent national or linguistic minorities.
We have seen it in Northern Ireland. We may be starting to see it in England as
a result of George Galloway's sectarian campaigning.

For as long as I can remember, Conservatives have been asserting that members of
this or that immigrant group are 'natural Tories' because they believe in hard
work, strong families and so forth. It sounds logical enough: immigration
implies a degree of enterprise and ambition, and few people choose to settle in
a new country without some patriotic attachment to it. Plainly, though, appeals
to values are not enough. Only 16 per cent of black and Asian Britons voted Tory
last time.

Canada's Tories used to have the same problem. They, though, are well on the way
to solving it, largely as the result of the heroic work of an MP called Jason
Kenney, now the minister for citizenship and immigration. He, too, had wrestled
with the dilemma of how to get immigrant and ethnic minority Canadians to, as he
puts it, 'vote their values'. In the end, he stumbled on something which, in
retrospect, seems obvious. If voters don't get to meet you, you risk being
defined by your opponents. Many newcomers had been approached by the local
Liberals soon after arriving, and consequently started seeing Canadian politics
through Liberal eyes. Several, indeed, would confidently declare that they had
entered Canada in the first place as the result of Liberal policies - when the
chronology showed they had arrived during Brian Mulroney's immigration boom.

There is, Jason explains, no short-cut. You have to put yourself where the
voters are. And you have to keep doing it year after year. Having black and
Asian Conservatives in prominent positions is all well and good, but it's
insufficient. The LibDems, after all, have an all-white parliamentary party, but
do better among ethnic minority voters. No, if we want genuinely broad appeal,
we need open primaries, which will allow minority candidates to emerge who are
truly representative of their localities.

As much as seven per cent of the electorate might be in play - potentially the
difference between a Cameron government and a Miliband government. It's true
that it takes years to shift cultural assumptions: seven per cent won't be won
over in one election.

The same is not true, though, of the seven per cent who have abandoned the
Conservatives for UKIP. There, the solution is much simpler: an In/Out
referendum, paving the way to a merger.

One of the things unearthed by the Ashcroft research is that ethnic minority
Britons tend to be Eurosceptic and resentful of an immigration policy which
offers free access to EU citizens at the expense of the Commonwealth. You see?
The Conservatives can pursue both objectives at once.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 2:14 PM GMT

The 1922 Committee is threatened by a modernisers' coup

BYLINE: By Donata Huggins

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 432 words


Fans of Peter Bone will be disappointed. A group of new MPs are looking to
remove him from the executive of the 1922 Committee. The Guardian reports that a
coup is coming to the famous backbench committee: the modernising 301 Group will
be running a slate in an attempt to oust the Tory old guard. Details of the
slate can be found here.

The Committee is currently run by a group of mostly cantankerous old farts who
do little to further Right-wing ideas in Britain. Just last week they stirred up
a fight with the Government on Lords reform. Just imagine if that brought down
the Coalition? Not unemployment or economic growth: the things that matter to
their constituents, but reform of a place many see as a retirement home for
politicians. The Conservatives shouldn't allow Ed Miliband's repetition of "out
of touch Tories" to ring true.

The new MPs want a backbench committee that starts from a place of understanding
with the Government, lobbying them to campaign on Right-wing issues that
resonate with voters rather than banging on about the EU at the expense of
everything else. As Kris Hopkins, one of the MPs driving the changes, says:
"Quite often, certainly senior members of the 1922 have seen the Prime Minister
and the government as the opposition.That is not the way to go about it. They
should be challenged."

Quite. Whinging about Mr Cameron on the radio is not the best way to convince
the population - or the Liberal Democrats - to support Conservative ideas. Given
that the opinion polls show that the Conservatives are in their worst shape for
eight years, they should focus on building support.

The rise of Ukip is not a sign that Mr Cameron should listen to the old guard.
As Paul Goodman says in today's FT (£): "Mr Cameron's best means of stopping
Ukip have less to do with Europe than with keeping the promises he signed up to
in the coalition agreement." That said, the PM should keep a firm eye on the
findings of Lord Ashcroft's recent study on ethnic minority views on his party.
Lord Ashcroft argues that they need to be careful with their language: too much
talk about multiculturalism deters voters that might otherwise agree with them.

Sure, the new slate want to be kinder to the Government, but that does not mean
it's a whitewash for Dave. The MPs put forward are not Left-wingers. Priti
Patel, for instance, once advocated the return of the death penalty and Charlie
Elphicke is credited with trying to privatise his local port.

Put simply, Right-wingers need to chill out and realise that they'll be more
effective if they act like they're all in it together.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 2:14 PM GMT

The 1922 Committee is threatened by a modernisers' coup

BYLINE: By Donata Huggins

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 432 words


Fans of Peter Bone will be disappointed. A group of new MPs are looking to
remove him from the executive of the 1922 Committee. The Guardian reports that a
coup is coming to the famous backbench committee: the modernising 301 Group will
be running a slate in an attempt to oust the Tory old guard. Details of the
slate can be found here.

The Committee is currently run by a group of mostly cantankerous old farts who
do little to further Right-wing ideas in Britain. Just last week they stirred up
a fight with the Government on Lords reform. Just imagine if that brought down
the Coalition? Not unemployment or economic growth: the things that matter to
their constituents, but reform of a place many see as a retirement home for
politicians. The Conservatives shouldn't allow Ed Miliband's repetition of "out
of touch Tories" to ring true.

The new MPs want a backbench committee that starts from a place of understanding
with the Government, lobbying them to campaign on Right-wing issues that
resonate with voters rather than banging on about the EU at the expense of
everything else. As Kris Hopkins, one of the MPs driving the changes, says:
"Quite often, certainly senior members of the 1922 have seen the Prime Minister
and the government as the opposition.That is not the way to go about it. They
should be challenged."

Quite. Whinging about Mr Cameron on the radio is not the best way to convince
the population - or the Liberal Democrats - to support Conservative ideas. Given
that the opinion polls show that the Conservatives are in their worst shape for
eight years, they should focus on building support.

The rise of Ukip is not a sign that Mr Cameron should listen to the old guard.
As Paul Goodman says in today's FT (£): "Mr Cameron's best means of stopping
Ukip have less to do with Europe than with keeping the promises he signed up to
in the coalition agreement." That said, the PM should keep a firm eye on the
findings of Lord Ashcroft's recent study on ethnic minority views on his party.
Lord Ashcroft argues that they need to be careful with their language: too much
talk about multiculturalism deters voters that might otherwise agree with them.

Sure, the new slate want to be kinder to the Government, but that does not mean
it's a whitewash for Dave. The MPs put forward are not Left-wingers. Priti
Patel, for instance, once advocated the return of the death penalty and Charlie
Elphicke is credited with trying to privatise his local port.

Put simply, Right-wingers need to chill out and realise that they'll be more
effective if they act like they're all in it together.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 2:14 PM GMT

The 1922 Committee is threatened by a modernisers' coup

BYLINE: By Donata Huggins

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 432 words


Fans of Peter Bone will be disappointed. A group of new MPs are looking to
remove him from the executive of the 1922 Committee. The Guardian reports that a
coup is coming to the famous backbench committee: the modernising 301 Group will
be running a slate in an attempt to oust the Tory old guard. Details of the
slate can be found here.

The Committee is currently run by a group of mostly cantankerous old farts who
do little to further Right-wing ideas in Britain. Just last week they stirred up
a fight with the Government on Lords reform. Just imagine if that brought down
the Coalition? Not unemployment or economic growth: the things that matter to
their constituents, but reform of a place many see as a retirement home for
politicians. The Conservatives shouldn't allow Ed Miliband's repetition of "out
of touch Tories" to ring true.

The new MPs want a backbench committee that starts from a place of understanding
with the Government, lobbying them to campaign on Right-wing issues that
resonate with voters rather than banging on about the EU at the expense of
everything else. As Kris Hopkins, one of the MPs driving the changes, says:
"Quite often, certainly senior members of the 1922 have seen the Prime Minister
and the government as the opposition.That is not the way to go about it. They
should be challenged."

Quite. Whinging about Mr Cameron on the radio is not the best way to convince
the population - or the Liberal Democrats - to support Conservative ideas. Given
that the opinion polls show that the Conservatives are in their worst shape for
eight years, they should focus on building support.

The rise of Ukip is not a sign that Mr Cameron should listen to the old guard.
As Paul Goodman says in today's FT (£): "Mr Cameron's best means of stopping
Ukip have less to do with Europe than with keeping the promises he signed up to
in the coalition agreement." That said, the PM should keep a firm eye on the
findings of Lord Ashcroft's recent study on ethnic minority views on his party.
Lord Ashcroft argues that they need to be careful with their language: too much
talk about multiculturalism deters voters that might otherwise agree with them.

Sure, the new slate want to be kinder to the Government, but that does not mean
it's a whitewash for Dave. The MPs put forward are not Left-wingers. Priti
Patel, for instance, once advocated the return of the death penalty and Charlie
Elphicke is credited with trying to privatise his local port.

Put simply, Right-wingers need to chill out and realise that they'll be more
effective if they act like they're all in it together.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 11:49 AM GMT

Boris Johnson opens 4-point lead over Livingstone;
Boris Johnson increased his lead over Labour challenger Ken Livingstone to four
points in an opinion poll as the campaign for London mayor entered its final
week today.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 471 words


Mr Livingstone's team insisted they were not dispirited by the YouGov survey for
the Evening Standard, which gave Conservative Mr Johnson a four-point lead of
52%-48%, after second preferences were taken into account.

Labour said the race remains "neck and neck" with just three days to go before
voters across the capital cast their ballots on May 3.

Mr Livingstone released a poster today portraying Mr Johnson, Prime Minister
David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne as blue-faced aliens under the
slogan "The Tories are on a different planet", as he sought to drive home his
claim that the Conservative candidate is out of touch with voters' needs as
Britain returns to recession.

Meanwhile, Mr Johnson will make the UK's biggest ever conference call this
evening, contacting more than 50,000 Londoners by phone in an hour.

The mayor is expected to take questions from hundreds of people across London
using the iNHouse Connex system developed in the US.

Days after Britain entered a double-dip recession, today's poll of 1,231
Londoners found that 28% believe Mr Johnson is best-placed to lead the city back
to recovery, against 23% for Mr Livingstone, according to the YouGov poll.

Mr Johnson was seen as the best candidate at tackling crime by 29% of those
questioned, compared to Mr Livingstone's 21%, with Liberal Democrat and former
Metropolitan Police officer Brian Paddick on 19%.

Under London's two-round voting system, some 44% of those taking part in the
poll said they would make Mr Johnson their first-choice vote, three points ahead
of Mr Livingstone on 41%, with Mr Paddick trailing on 6%. Independent Siobhan
Benita, Ukip's Lawrence Webb and Green Jenny Jones each had 3% support.

After the backers of less successful candidates were redistributed for the
second-round run-off between the two front-runners, Mr Johnson secured 52%
against Mr Livingstone's 48%.

There were indications of a decrease in the so-called "Livingstone drag" effect
which has made Labour's candidate less popular than his party in London polls.
Only 9% of those planning to vote Labour in the London Assembly elections said
they would back Mr Johnson in the mayoral ballot - compared to 13% two weeks
ago.

Mr Livingstone said: "Tory fare hikes, Tory recession, Tory police cuts, Tory
scandal over phone-hacking all mean we need Labour values and a Labour
administration in London.

"If I am elected, London will have a Labour mayor who from day one will work to
make London commuters on average £1,000 better off by cutting fares. I will cut
fares, reinstate education maintenance allowance, help with the cost of
childcare and household energy costs, and reverse the Tory police cuts.

"The alternative is a Conservative mayor who stands for a privileged minority,
raising fares and campaigning for lower taxes for the richest."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Lib Dems look for salvation in shape of Tories' disarray;
The party's senior councillors are in for a drubbing but hope that more anger
will be directed at their 'incompetent' coalition partners, Jill Sherman writes

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 853 words


The string of problems hitting the Tories could save the Liberal Democrats from
a catastrophic meltdown in this Thursday's local elections, party chiefs claimed
yesterday.

The Lib Dems are still expecting to lose up to half their 650 council seats in
England and Wales as voters continue to blame Nick Clegg for joining the
coalition. They could do even worse in Scottish local elections.

But Gerald Vernon-Jackson, leader of Liberal Democrat councillors in England and
Wales, said that in the past two weeks there had been signs on the doorstep that
voters were blaming the coalition's current woes on the Conservatives rather
than their partners. "It's not only that the Tories are in disarray," Mr
Vernon-Jackson, also leader of Portsmouth City Council, said. "But they are
incompetent and they are not on the side of the people. They are not 'one of
us'."

One of the key concerns was the Tories' decision to cut the 50p tax in the
Budget and the dithering over the charities tax. "The perception is that they
have gone back to type - that they are on the side of very rich people and not
ordinary people," Mr Vernon-Jackson said. "They were doing well over the
austerity package but this may now be outweighed by their incompetence and being
out of touch."

Last week Sarah Dinage, a Tory councillor and sister of Caroline Dinage, Tory MP
for Gosport, defected to the Lib Dems in Portsmouth.

Instead of losing control of the town hall, Mr Vernon-Jackson now expects to
gain two or three seats from the Tories to bolster his party's lead.

He claims the same shift is beginning all over the country and will help the
party in any areas where it is fighting the Tories - mainly in southern England
and Wales. "Last year part of the problem was the AV referendum, which brought
out a higher turnout of Tories than expected to vote against it. We won't have
that this time round," Mr Vernon-Jackson said.

However, other senior Lib Dems caution against such optimism, pointing out that
the elections are concentrated in the northern urban seats where the fight is
still with Labour. Cambridge, the party's only council in the East of England,
is also vulnerable to Labour gains. The Lib Dems are also expecting to lose
hundreds more seats in councils where they did badly last year, including
Newcastle, Leeds and Sheffield. More importantly they could lose their majority
in Stockport, which fell into no overall control last year.

A wipe-out is also likely in Scotland, as this will be the first national vote
on the Lib Dems in coalition. The party could lose up to 20 of its seats in
Cardiff, where it has a minority administration, which would let Labour gain
power.

"We are still sticking with our 50 per cent losses," said one senior Liberal
Democrat source who believes that the party could face a similar drubbing as
last year when it lost half its councils. "People are beginning to listen to us
on the doorstep, but we don't know if that will translate into votes."

But Tony Travers, an expert on local government based at the London School of
Economics, also senses a shift and has revised his position on the Lib Dem and
Tory results.

Last week he agreed with Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher, leading
psephologists, that Labour would gain more than 700 seats, while the Lib Dems
and Tories would lose between 250 and 350 seats each, depending on the political
mix of contests. "Now I think Labour will gain 700 to 800 seats, the Tories will
lose 500 to 600, while the Liberal Democrats will lose 100 to 200," he said. "It
seems the Liberal Democrats might not do quite so badly this year as last year
because the Conservatives are in such trouble."

More than 5,000 council seats are up for election on Thursday in England, Wales
and Scotland. In England, the Lib Dems are defending 527 seats, the Tories 1,128
seats and Labour 579. The Lib Dems now only hold 14 councils out of 350 in
England and none in Scotland and Wales

Mr Travers said if the Lib Dems did lose half their seats in England and Wales
it would have dire consequences for the next general election. "A sharp decline
in the number of Lib Dem MPs at Westminster now appears almost inevitable at the
next general election because the activists and councillor base is melting away
like snow," Mr Travers said.

Professor John Curtice, of the University of Strathclyde, pointed out the Lib
Dems were still trailing badly in the opinion polls and were likely to sustain
heavy losses this week. "If the Lib Dems continue to have similar results over
the next two years as they did last year, they will lose all the support they
have accumulated since the 1970s by the next general election," he said.

Ten battles to watch

LABOUR GAINS?

1 Birmingham from a Tory/Lib Dem coalition

2 Bradford from NOC, but could be scuppered by Respect

3 Sefton from NOC

CONSERVATIVE LOSSES?

4 Walsall to NOC

5 Plymouth to Labour

6 Southampton to Labour

LIB DEM LOSS?

7 Cambridge to Labour

OTHERS TO WATCH

8 Eastleigh Chris Huhne's constituency where UKIP is fielding seven candidates

9 Hastings the Granny Tax row could help Labour gain from NOC

10 Glasgow Labour could lose control to the SNP

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UKIP is giving Englishness the voice it craves;
As Europe becomes a divisive issue again, protest votes are flowing away from
the Lib Dems

BYLINE: Vernon Bogdanor

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 937 words


Two years ago in the 2010 election one in three of those who voted supported
parties other than Labour or the Conservatives, the largest protest against the
two-party system since the 19th century. The main beneficiaries were the Liberal
Democrats, who took nearly a quarter of the vote. But a party of government
cannot also be a party of protest. Nor can a party of the Left easily find a
home in a coalition with the Right. As Tony Blair put it, if you have opposed a
Labour Government for 13 years from the left, and now find yourself governing
with the Conservatives, you have a problem.

It is hardly surprising, therefore, that the Lib Dems have plummeted in the
polls. Last year the party lost about 700 local council seats. It stands to lose
many hundreds more - perhaps more than half of those it holds - in Thursday's
local elections. For the party faces a crisis not just of support, but of
identity, one that it cannot hope to resolve if it remains tied to the Tory
chariot wheel until the end of the Parliament in May 2015.

The Lib Dem collapse leaves a space for an alternative party of protest. Who
will fill it? In 2010 the BNP secured nearly 2 per cent of the vote, by far the
highest gained by a far right party in Britain. In the 1930s, in far worse
economic circumstances, Oswald Mosley's British Union of Fascists was too weak
to put up candidates in general elections; unlike the BNP, it never won a local
council seat.

But the BNP is tainted, its voters reluctant to admit their allegiance. UKIP,
which won 3per cent of the vote, a million votes, in 2010, is not.Its voters
were not just protesters, but made a clear choice to support a party whose
identity was stamped with the Union Jack and a big "No" to Europe.

In 21 marginal seats the UKIP vote added to that of the Conservatives was higher
than the Labour or Liberal Democrat winners. So, ironically, the intervention of
an anti-European party might well have handed the balance of power to Britain's
most pro-European party, the Lib Dems.

As Liberal Democrat fortunes have declined, so UKIP's have risen, putting the
two neck and neck in recent polls. One YouGov poll last week had UKIP as
Britain's third party.

Until now, UKIP's progress has been hampered by voters' reluctance to consider
Europe as important as the economy or the public services. But this may be about
to change. The rumbling eurozone crisis, which has already had an impact on the
British economy, may reach another critical phase as France and Greece go to the
polls and Spain struggles with its debt. At the same time unpopular decisions
have caused public pressure to mount for Britain to withdraw from the European
Court of Human Rights. Pressure for a referendum on Britain's membership of the
EU cannot lag far behind.

Euroscepticism is becoming an increasingly important component of Englishness.
Indeed, in his recent book English Nationalism and Euroscepticism Ben Wellings
suggests that Englishness is actually coming to be defined by hostility to the
European project, rather than by hostility to devolution.

The European project emphasises the transcending of national sovereignty. In
Scotland, the SNP welcomes this, as it sees the EU as an enabler of
independence. In England, by contrast, it is seen as a threat to national
independence. Yet no big party represents England. The Conservatives, the most
obvious candidates, are disqualified since, as a Unionist party, they seek to
represent the whole of the United Kingdom. As a result there is a disconnection
in England between Parliament and the people on Europe.

Into this breach steps UKIP, which favours an English parliament and is the
nearest thing we have to an English nationalist party. In the 2009 Euro
elections, it came second, winning 12 of the 58 English seats at Strasbourg,
more than Labour or the Liberal Democrats. The Conservatives were in opposition
that year and claimed to be eurosceptic, promising a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty. With the Conservatives in government, UKIP must believe that it has a
strong chance of winning the 2014 Euro elections.

Since 1951, when the two main parties secured 97 per cent of the vote between
them, their support has been declining, but at a glacially slow rate. However,
the introduction of proportional representation for devolved bodies, the London
Assembly and the European Parliament and the direct election of mayors have
encouraged the habit of voting for parties other than the big two, speeding up
the transition towards a multi-party system.

The crisis in the eurozone will accelerate the process still further. It could,
indeed, lead to a crisis of confidence in the British Establishment, many of
whom favoured Britain's joining the EU, even if they opposed the euro. If Greece
or another member state leaves the euro - still more, if the eurozone breaks up
- the psychological effects on English politics will be profound, comparable
perhaps with the collapse of the gold standard in the 1930s or the winter of
discontent in 1978-79. Those crises realigned the established parties. The
eurozone crisis threatens to undermine them.

For more than 40 years, Europe has been a deeply divisive political issue,
raising as it does profound issues of national identity. In 1970, it split
Labour; in the 1990s, it almost destroyed John Major's Conservative Government.
It could prove equally divisive in the future, realigning both the political
parties and also the nations comprising the UK.

Vernon Bogdanor is Research Professor at the Institute of Contemporary History,
King's College London

A eurozone collapse could undermine the two main parties

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A march for UKIP, the nearest thing we have to an English nationalist
party

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 29, 2012 Sunday 12:58 AM GMT

Local elections: Labour hopes to gain if it's a dismal night for Lib Dems;
While Ed Miliband aims to take the north of England, expectations are low for
Nick Clegg's party

BYLINE: Matt Chorley, Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 945 words


Ed Miliband is planning a reshuffle of his top team in the wake of what he
expects will be a strong night of local election results this week, The
Independent on Sunday has learnt.

The latest poll puts his party on 40 per cent, giving it an 11 per cent lead
over the Conservatives, who are on 29 per cent, their lowest showing since 2004.
The Liberal Democrats were at 11 per cent, only one ahead of UKIP. The Labour
leader is therefore expected to declare victory in the north of England, but
could well lose Glasgow council, make little headway in the south of England,
and fail to install Ken Livingstone as London mayor. Nick Clegg's party are
bracing themselves for a dismal night.

Mr Miliband is expected to capitalise on any progress Labour make with a
shake-up of the Shadow Cabinet. Liam Byrne, the shadow Work and Pensions
Secretary, is to quit the Shadow Cabinet to run for mayor of Birmingham if, as
expected, voters in the city back having a directly elected leader. Friends of
Mr Miliband say he would like to use the vacancy to bring his brother, David,
back on to the frontbench. However, David is unlikely to agree to the move less
than 18 months after losing out to his younger brother in the Labour leadership
contest. A friend of David Miliband said the situation was still "very raw".

Instead, there is a possible move for shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander
to take over policy from Mr Byrne, who critics inside the party say has made
little progress. A party source said: "We need to go further and faster, step
things up a gear." Mr Alexander, one of the party's prominent intellectuals,
will hit the ground running on policy, say insiders.

Labour strategists have sought to dampen expectations before Thursday's poll,
when elections are held for 128 English councils, all 32 in Scotland and 21 of
the 22 Welsh local authorities. While sources close to the party's campaign have
said it expects 200 to 300, some polling experts say Mr Miliband must make net
gains of at least 700 seats to back up his recent lead in opinion polls.

The battle to become London Mayor, a straight fight between Boris Johnson and
Ken Livingstone, is a major test for both Mr Miliband and David Cameron. Whoever
emerges victorious will hope it is a predictor of the 2015 general election.

Professor Colin Rallings of Plymouth University said: "This is a very important
test for Ed Miliband. Can he get Labour supporters to the ballot box?" In recent
days the Labour campaign has focused on claims to have caught Lib Dems
"yellow-handed... saying different things to different people in different parts
of the country".

It is likely to be another grim night for the Lib Dems, who are contesting 70
per cent of the council seats up for grabs. "The Lib Dems were absolutely
slaughtered by Labour last year and they go into these elections on the same
basis," said Professor Rallings.

In an interview with The Independent on Sunday this month, the Lib Dem leader
Nick Clegg said he thought the party was entering a "new phase" and voters were
"starting to listen to us". However, his party has remained stubbornly stuck on
under 10 per cent in the opinion polls, and policy wins have been overshadowed
by the rows and scandals which have engulfed the coalition in recent weeks.

The Lib Dems are expected to drop below 3,000 councillors for the first time
since 1986, with predictions of worse to come unless they can dramatically
change their electoral fortunes.

Professor John Curtice from the University of Strathclyde has warned repeated
hammerings in local elections could threaten the party's entire activist base.
"If the party were to continue to perform at this level in future rounds of
local elections in this Parliament, most of the local electoral progress it has
achieved during the past 30 years - and thus perhaps the activist base that it
helped develop - would be wiped out. The party's continued ability to challenge
the Conservative-Labour hegemony would be seriously compromised."

Last year the Tories won more council seats than Labour in the south of England,
a key battleground come the next general election. As the party took votes from
the Lib Dems last year, Labour strategists believe they will also make gains
from the Tories this time round, particularly in key seats such as Harlow, Derby
and Birmingham. The Labour campaign has been cast as a "referendum on David
Cameron's government", claiming last month's Budget gave a tax cut to
millionaires while taxing families and pensioners more.

New vision of grassroots politics

Politicians have struggled to persuade British voters to come out and vote in
recent years, as apathy has taken hold of politics at a local and national
level.

But Britain's political parties have turned to a new wave of foreign-born
candidates in an attempt to breathe new life into town halls across the country.

While turnout in local elections has plummeted to barely 40 per cent over the
past decade, scores of "foreigners" are trying to inspire British-born voters
into action - even if that is limited to going to a polling-station and voting.

The experiences of candidates who were not born, or did not grow up in the UK,
suggest that their politics have been influenced and moulded by their
experiences in their home countries.

Shabbar Jaffri, an SNP candidate in Glasgow, said: "What I have noticed among
the SNP candidates is a certain amount of energy and vibrancy, and I am a part
of that. And that is what is not found in Pakistan."

Maria Aretoulaki, standing for the Pirate Party in Manchester, said she had been
surprised by low turnouts - par- ticularly compared to her native Greece.

Emily Short and William Kennedy

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 29, 2012
                                 First Edition

Labour hopes to gain if it's a dismal night for the Lib Dems;
SPECIAL REPORT Local elections While Ed Miliband aims to take the north of
England, expectations are low for Nick Clegg's party. Matt Chorley and Jane
Merrick report

BYLINE: Matt Chorley and Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1110 words


Ed Miliband is planning a reshuffle of his top team in the wake of what he
expects will be a strong night of local election results this week, The
Independent on Sunday has learnt.

The latest poll puts his party on 40 per cent, giving it an 11 per cent lead
over the Conservatives, who are on 29 per cent, their lowest showing since 2004.
The Liberal Democrats were at 11 per cent, only one ahead of UKIP. The Labour
leader is therefore expected to declare victory in the north of England, but
could well lose Glasgow council, make little headway in the south of England,
and fail to install Ken Livingstone as London mayor. Nick Clegg's party are
bracing themselves for a dismal night.

Mr Miliband is expected to capitalise on any progress Labour make with a
shake-up of the Shadow Cabinet. Liam Byrne, the shadow Work and Pensions
Secretary, is to quit the Shadow Cabinet to run for mayor of Birmingham if, as
expected, voters in the city back having a directly elected leader. Friends of
Mr Miliband say he would like to use the vacancy to bring his brother, David,
back on to the frontbench. However, David is unlikely to agree to the move less
than 18 months after losing out to his younger brother in the Labour leadership
contest. A friend of David Miliband said the situation was still "very raw".

Instead, there is a possible move for shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander
to take over policy from Mr Byrne, who critics inside the party say has made
little progress. A party source said: "We need to go further and faster, step
things up a gear." Mr Alexander, one of the party's prominent intellectuals,
will hit the ground running on policy, say insiders.

Labour strategists have sought to dampen expectations before Thursday's poll,
when elections are held for 128 English councils, all 32 in Scotland and 21 of
the 22 Welsh local authorities. While sources close to the party's campaign have
said it expects 200 to 300, some polling experts say Mr Miliband must make net
gains of at least 700 seats to back up his recent lead in opinion polls.

The battle to become London Mayor, a straight fight between Boris Johnson and
Ken Livingstone, is a major test for both Mr Miliband and David Cameron. Whoever
emerges victorious will hope it is a predictor of the 2015 general election.

Professor Colin Rallings of Plymouth University said: "This is a very important
test for Ed Miliband. Can he get Labour supporters to the ballot box?" In recent
days the Labour campaign has focused on claims to have caught Lib Dems
"yellow-handed ... saying different things to different people in different
parts of the country".

It is likely to be another grim night for the Lib Dems, who are contesting 70
per cent of the council seats up for grabs. "The Lib Dems were absolutely
slaughtered by Labour last year and they go into these elections on the same
basis," said Professor Rallings.

In an interview with The Independent on Sunday this month, the Lib Dem leader
Nick Clegg said he thought the party was entering a "new phase" and voters were
"starting to listen to us". However, his party has remained stubbornly stuck on
under 10 per cent in the opinion polls, and policy wins have been overshadowed
by the rows and scandals which have engulfed the coalition in recent weeks.

The Lib Dems are expected to drop below 3,000 councillors for the first time
since 1986, with predictions of worse to come unless they can dramatically
change their electoral fortunes.

Professor John Curtice from the University of Strathclyde has warned repeated
hammerings in local elections could threaten the party's entire activist base.
"If the party were to continue to perform at this level in future rounds of
local elections in this Parliament, most of the local electoral progress it has
achieved during the past 30 years - and thus perhaps the activist base that it
helped develop - would be wiped out. The party's continued ability to challenge
the Conservative-Labour hegemony would be seriously compromised."

Last year the Tories won more council seats than Labour in the south of England,
a key battleground come the next general election. As the party took votes from
the Lib Dems last year, Labour strategists believe they will also make gains
from the Tories this time round, particularly in key seats such as Harlow, Derby
and Birmingham. The Labour campaign has been cast as a "referendum on David
Cameron's government", claiming last month's Budget gave a tax cut to
millionaires while taxing families and pensioners more.

NEW VISION OF GRASSROOTS POLITICS

Politicians have struggled to persuade British voters to come out and vote in
recent years, as apathy has taken hold of politics at a local and national
level.

But Britain's political parties have turned to a new wave of foreign-born
candidates in an attempt to breathe new life into town halls across the country.

While turnout in local elections has plummeted to barely 40 per cent over the
past decade, scores of "foreigners" are trying to inspire British-born voters
into action - even if that is limited to going to a polling-station and voting.

The experiences of candidates who were not born, or did not grow up in the UK,
suggest that their politics have been influenced and moulded by their
experiences in their home countries.

Shabbar Jaffri, an SNP candidate in Glasgow, said: "What I have noticed among
the SNP candidates is a certain amount of energy and vibrancy, and I am a part
of that. And that is what is not found in Pakistan."

Maria Aretoulaki, standing for the Pirate Party in Manchester, said she had been
surprised by low turnouts - par- ticularly compared to her native Greece.

Emily Short and William Kennedy

"My accent will be noticed. Because people recognise you're not from around
here, that was a real incentive to improve my accent."

PEDRO FAUSTINO Portuguese, Cambridgeshire

"I wasn't interested in politics in South Africa. But I was so passionate about
things like graffiti, I thought I'd stand."

PIETER SMIT South African, Cambridgeshire

"In Greece, it is a case of the devil or the deep blue sea: you must vote for
one and you hate it. Voting is compulsory, so you will be forced."

MARIA ARETOULAKI Greek, Manchester

"The main difference is how we are regulated. In terms of expenses, we get
chicken feed compared to politicians in Pakistan."

SHABBAR JAFFRI Pakistani, Glasgow

"The difference between me and other politicians is that I'm interested in the
people and the world that we live in."

JOE NAITTA Kenyan-Indian, Derby

"I realised the future for Scotland was to be a sovereign independent nation.
Independence is a natural state for any country to be in."

FEARGAL DALTON Irish, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 29, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I vote for fair play;
LETTERS

BYLINE: Carol Jackson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 68 words


GIVEN THE forthcoming election for the Mayor of London, why haven't the BBC and
ITV included independent mayoral candidates in the televised debates? With UKIP
only one per cent behind the Lib Dems in the opinion polls it's hardly
democratic to show only the candidates representing the main parties.

It's about time everyone was given the same airtime and an open debate held
involving all political parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 29, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Poll shock: 82% think Cameron is out of touch;
Hopelessly out of touch

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6,7

LENGTH: 1005 words


Poll shock: 82% think Cameron is out of touch EIGHT out of 10 voters believe the
Coalition has lost touch with ordinary families. An exclusive poll for the
Sunday Express reveals a widening gulf between the political elite and the
British public, writes Kirsty Buchanan.

It comes after backbench Tory MP Nadine Dorries branded David Cameron and George
Osborne "arrogant posh boys" in another calamitous week for the Government.

Days before key local elections across the UK, more than 2,000 people were asked
by pollsters Angus Reid whether they thought the Coalition was "in touch with
the concerns TURN TO PAGE 6

Voters fire a warning shot at a Premier accused of high handed leadership and
losing his grip FROM PAGE ONE of ordinary people". Eighty-two per cent branded
the Government out-of-touch. Only 18 per cent thought they were in touch.

The scale of public anger should serve as a warning shot to a prime minister
accused of high-handed leadership and losing grip on the Coalition's mission to
pull Britain free of Labour's toxic debt legacy.

In the last month the Government has been rocked by scandals, bungles and bad
headlines as the Budget bombed and Britain slipped into a double dip recession.

More than half of voters - 53 per cent - now say they don't trust Mr Cameron to
run the country, putting him almost level with Labour leader Ed Miliband, at 51
per cent.

Nigel Farage, UKIP leader, fares better but only just. Some 42 per cent of
voters said they would not trust him to run the country despite better recent
poll ratings for his party.

With Britain's growth rate shrinking for the second quarter in a row, the public
has little faith that Mr Osborne's economic plan is working.

Some 52 per cent of those polled think things will get worse for "Britain plc"
over the next 12 months while 41 per cent see no signs of improvement. Seven per
cent think things will get better.

The Angus Reid poll comes as Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt fights for his
political life following revelations at the Leveson Inquiry about the close
contact between his special adviser and News Corporation during its planned
takeover of BSkyB.

Adviser Adam Smith resigned last week and Downing Street is facing demands for
an independent probe into whether Mr Hunt breached the Ministerial Code which
states that politicians bear ultimate responsibility for their advisers'
behaviour. Half those polled believe he should quit.

Pay freezes, job cuts and the soaring cost of living have left voters
disenchanted with MPs who they believe are more concerned with protecting the
needs of bankers and businessman than of hard working families.

That growing disconnect was echoed in an extraordinary outburst from Mid
Bedfordshire MP Nadine Dorries last week. She told BBC show Daily Politics that
Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne were "two arrogant posh boys" with "no passion to want
to understand the lives of others" and "no remorse" about their lack of insight
beyond Westminster.

The tipping point for the Tories came last month as the Chancellor delivered a
spectacularly mishandled Budget. His decision to cut the top 50p tax rate while
making a grab on pensioner savings, pasties, churches and charities obliterated
Coalition claims that in an age of austerity, "we are all in this together".

Our poll reveals there is no public appetite for state funding for political
parties. Only 33 per cent of voters think taxpayers should foot the bill for
politicians while 67 per cent disagree.

Ironically, research by Cameron's favourite think tank Policy Exchange, due to
be published tomorrow, also confirms a growing gulf between the political elite
and the public.

It commissioned pollsters YouGov to chart attitudes to recent political leaders.
The polling, carried out before the Budget, puts Baroness Thatcher ahead of Mr
Cameron with a popularity rating among all voters of 4.5 out of 10.

Mr Cameron follows on 4.2, Tony Blair achieves 3.8, Mr Miliband ties with Gordon
Brown on 3.2 while Nick Clegg fares worst, with an approval rating of two.

In the Policy Exchange research, almost half of all swing voters thought
Conservatives and Labour needed to recruit more working class MPs.

Policy Exchange director Neil O'Brien said: "Voters want more female and
minority MPs but also want more working class MPs and people with experience
outside politics. People were very critical of what they see as a 'political
class' detached from real world concerns."

The Sunday Express poll and Policy Exchange research make grim reading for the
main parties before Thursday's elections. Each leader has something at stake -
Mr Cameron needs to slam the brakes on the runaway Tory train disaster, Mr
Miliband will hope to recover from Labour's by-election loss to Respect's George
Galloway in Bradford and Mr Clegg must avoid the ballot box battering the Lib
Dems suffered last year.

A third of the council seats in 36 metropolitan districts and 16 unitary
councils are being contested, along with seats in all 74 shire authorities.
Almost all the council seats in Wales and all 32 Scottish authorities face
elections. Nearly all the seats contested in England and Wales were last fought
in 2008 when Labour slumped to an historic low of 24 per cent, the Tories
achieved a game-changing 43 per cent and the Lib Dems an astonishing 23 per
cent.

More than a dozen councils are set to fall into Labour hands. The big prize will
be Birmingham, where it stands to seize control from a Tory and Lib Dem
administration. However, Labour needs at least 700 extra seats to claim a good
night.

The Tories may have to be content with a smattering of successful referenda on
elected city mayors and seeing Boris Johnson defeat Ken Livingstone to stay as
London Mayor.

The Conservatives will blame "mid-term blues" but privately senior Tories accept
they still have a "long, long, long way" to go before breaching northern cities
such as Manchester.

OPINION AND COMMENT: PAGE 36 WHO DO YOU TRUST TO RUN THE COUNTRY?

Voters fire a warning shot [...]

'Growing gulf between public and the elite'

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONTENDER: Ken Livingstone
DEFENDER: Boris Johnson
OUTBURST: MP Nadine Dorries attacked 'arrogant posh boys'
POLL BATTLE: Ed Miliband
LOSING THEIR GRIP: Bad headlines and bungling have led to public disenchantment
with the Cameron-Clegg Coalition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

PM TANKS TO POLL LOW

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words


DAVID Cameron is being deserted in droves - with four in ten supporters saying
they won't vote for him again.

A shock poll today reveals the PM's popularity at an all-time low after his
worst month in power.

Labour has opened an 11-point lead as the Tories slump below 30 per cent for the
first time. Only 29 per cent say they would vote for Cameron in a general
election tomorrow. His approval rating is minus 31, down from minus 23 a week
ago.

Labour are at 40 per cent, Tories 29 and the Lib Dems 11, according to a YouGov
poll for today's Sunday Times.

A fifth of those who voted Tory at the last election are now "don't knows" or
"will not vote". But 1.4million others who backed Cameron in 2010 have defected
to anti-EU UKIP.

If they carried out their threat at the 2014 Euro elections, it would make UKIP
the biggest single British party in the European Parliament.

The PM is planning a major TV interview today in a bid to get things back on
track. An insider said: "We are clearly tanking after the events of the past
weeks, starting with the Budget."

Meanwhile all three main parties are set to miss out in Thursday's town hall
elections. Mr Cameron stands to lose 400 seats, wiping out the 250 gains made in
2008.

The Lib Dems could fare even worse than last year's low point, with 300
councillors kicked out.

Leader Nick Clegg has virtually given up on huge swathes of the country. Party
support has been halved and it is fielding 1,200 fewer candidates than its
rivals.

A small swing to the Tories could see the Lib Dems lose control of Portsmouth.
More losses are feared in Liverpool.

Labour is expected to make huge gains on the back of the Coalition's
unpopularity. But leader Ed Miliband can also expect a bloody nose as Ken
Livingstone looks sure to lose to Boris Johnson in London's mayoral race.

And the Scottish Nationalists are set to end 40 years of Labour rule in Glasgow.
More than 5,000 seats in 184 councils are up for grabs.

LABOUR Set to lose in London & Glasgow

CONS Set to lose 400 council seats

LIB DEM Set to lose 300 council seats

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: All-time low . . David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAMERON CAUGHT IN PERFECT STORM;
The prime minister's popularity has plunged amid an 'omni-shambles'. A blip or a
symptom of strategic weakness? Isabel Oakeshott and Mark Hookham report

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Mark Hookham; Kathryn Cooper

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 2464 words


On Tuesday afternoon Downing Street staff were in party mood. Isabel Spearman,
fashion adviser and assistant to Samantha Cameron, was due to get married in a
few days and colleagues at No 10 had organised a surprise bash in her honour.
They were looking forward to clocking off at a reasonable time and toasting her
over a glass of wine.

Inside David Cameron's private office the atmosphere was calm. The prime
minister, who usually dislikes having the television on while at his desk, had
spent some of the afternoon watching the Leveson inquiry into press standards.

Some commentators had predicted that James Murdoch, deputy chief operating
officer of News Corporation, which owns The Sun, The Times and The Sunday Times,
might use his appearance to make embarrassing revelations about Downing Street.
To Cameron's relief it had not happened. Murdoch's testimony about the
government's handling of News Corp's bid to buy the 61% of BSkyB that it did not
already own had revealed little about the prime minister.

True, the evidence that day had also covered communications between Adam Smith,
a special adviser to Jeremy Hunt, secretary of state for culture, and Frederic
Michel, a lobbyist at News Corp. Nobody was particularly concerned. Smith was
known as conscientious and cautious, unlikely to have done anything to worry the
boss.

Then, as the inquiry was wrapping up for the day, a clerk pressed a computer
button and published documents associated with that day's evidence. Within
minutes all hell was breaking loose.

More than 160 pages of emails between Smith and Michel appeared to show a secret
back channel between News Corp and Hunt, the cabinet minister with quasijudicial
responsibility for determining whether the BSkyB bid should go ahead.

On the face of it, the correspondence suggested Hunt had quietly supported News
Corp all along, keeping the company in the loop about developments and even
providing a "highly illegal" tip-off of market sensitive information. The
revelations plunged No 10 in turmoil. Officials had failed to register as "core
participants" in the Leveson inquiry, meaning they had no advance sight of any
of the explosive documents. It was an omission that left them scrambling to
catch up.

To make matters worse, Downing Street was sitting on a painful secret: the UK
economy was back in recession. Cameron knew the latest GDP figures, to be
published the following day, would show Britain's economy was shrinking, not
growing. With only 10 days to go before the local council and London mayoral
elections, the timing could not have been more unfortunate.

After rows over granny tax, pasty tax, charity tax, fuel strikes, jerry cans and
the terror suspect Abu Qatada, the government was already being accused of
presiding over an "omni-shambles". Now a cabinet minister's career was teetering
on the brink and the coalition's core economic strategy was under fire.

This weekend the effects are evident in the results of a YouGov poll for The
Sunday Times. It reveals that for the first time since 2004 support for the
Conservatives has dropped below 30%. Cameron's personal approval ratings are
plunging and many despairing right-wing voters are starting to turn to UKIP.

Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, said: "For the first time since he became
prime minister, David Cameron risks not just a short-term setback but a
long-term nightmare.

"Until last month the Conservative party's support remained at roughly its 2010
election level of 37%. But in the five weeks since the budget it has lost one
fifth of its support.

"Worse still, the prime minister is no longer a clear asset to his party. His
net rating is minus 31. Only Gordon Brown can match such a collapse in
popularity. It is not a happy precedent."

Another weekend poll, conducted by ComRes, showed that by a 2-1 margin people
think the coalition is incompetent.Is it just the mid-term blues or have real
weaknesses been exposed in Cameron and his administration?

AFTER a string of bad headlines, Steve Hilton, Cameron's outgoing policy guru,
recently burst into a meeting of civil servants in Downing Street and declared:
"Everything we're doing this week is shit!"

The government was being hammered over the budget; a staffing crisis was
emerging in the immigration department at Heathrow, leading to horrendous
passenger queues; and Theresa May, the home secretary, appeared to have bungled
the deportation of Abu Qatada following a farcical confusion over the deadline
for a judicial appeal.

For the Camerons, domestic life was not easy either. The children's nanny was
away for six weeks and Samantha had been forced to draft in a temporary
stand-in. The new woman, an Australian in her twenties, was still learning the
ropes.

Last Monday morning Cameron attempted to regain the initiative with an interview
on BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

He did his best to sound calm and focused, fielding a succession of difficult
questions about the Abu Qatada affair. May was still not off the hook - but she
was in luck.

Within 24 hours of Cameron's interview, her troubles were completely
overshadowed by the crisis engulfing Hunt.

For several hours after the story broke, not a single Tory minister or even MP
came to the defence of the culture secretary.For one thing, nobody in government
had had time to go through all 160 pages of the newly released evidence, so they
could not be sure how much trouble Hunt was in.

At the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, Hunt's team frantically prepared
an official statement insisting the minister had done nothing wrong. Riddled
with punctuation errors, the press release reeked of panic.

It was clear Hunt's career was in the balance. In a series of private
conversations with the prime minister that night, Hunt repeatedly insisted he
had handled the highly sensitive BSkyB bid with total propriety.Cameron was
reassured.

With fewer than 100 days to go before the Olympics, the last thing Cameron
wanted was to lose his culture secretary. Besides, he had been planning to
promote Hunt to a bigger department at the next reshuffle. He assured Hunt of
his full support.

Smith, however, appeared to have overstepped the mark in his dealings with
Michel at News Corp. At the regular 8.30am meeting of the prime minister and his
key advisers on Wednesday morning, a decision was taken to accept Smith's
resignation.

Cameron was far from out of the woods. Ahead of him was prime minister's
questions in the Commons, where he knew he would face a showdown with Ed
Miliband, the Labour leader, over Hunt and the economy.

Cameron told his security detail that he would walk down Whitehall to the
Commons instead of being driven. He wanted to clear his head.

At the dispatch box Cameron's hands were shaking. One shocked No 10 aide, who
was in the chamber and had a good view, said they had never seen him so worked
up.

A few seats along on the front bench, Hunt was going over his emergency
statement. Before standing to address MPs, the culture secretary listened in
relief as the prime minister voiced his support.

For the time being at least, Hunt's job seemed safe. For the prime minister
himself, however, there was little respite. Appearing before Leveson the
following day was Rupert Murdoch, chairman and chief executive of News Corp.

Murdoch, 81, was asked about his dealings with prime ministers, including
whether in 2006 he had thought that Cameron, then the newly elected Tory party
leader, was a lightweight.

His response was: "No. Not then, certainly. No. He hasn't had - I think it's too
early to make that judgment." It was hardly a ringing endorsement.

AMID the disarray, coalition tensions are mounting and ministers are becoming
increasingly frustrated with Downing Street. There is a growing sense among Tory
MPs that the No 10 operation has lost momentum and the government is being
tossed around by events.

The rising power of Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary, has become a source
of resentment among ministers who feel they lack ready access to figures in
Downing Street with whom to discuss policy.

Increasingly vociferous complaints are made about the No 10 policy unit, now
largely manned by civil servants.

According to one Tory aide: "It is stuffed with Heywood apparatchiks. We spend
half our time batting off their crazy policy ideas. A lot of them were there
under Labour and keep trying to revive their old pet schemes. It is a
nightmare."

Many Tory MPs and aides fear the sense of drift will only increase if Cameron
refuses to appoint some political heavyweights to the unit. The mercurial but
brilliant Hilton, whose endless stream of ideas and impatience for public
service and welfare reform had energised the Tory leadership, is leaving to go
to the United States. As yet there is no sign of a replacement, although there
is talk of drafting in Neil O'Brien, the director of Policy Exchange, Cameron's
favourite think tank.

Meanwhile, Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, has his own personnel
problems. Two of his closest aides - Lena Pietsch, his spokeswoman, and Polly
Mackenzie, his adviser - remain on maternity leave.Clegg's equivalent of Hilton
- Richard Reeves - is also disappearing to the United States. Liberal Democrat
ministers also bemoan the absence of any regular meetings with No 10 to thrash
out ideas.

One complained: "It's like we've been dropped behind enemy lines and just left
to get on with it, without any contact with mission control. We can go weeks
without talking to anyone in No 10."

A further curious dimension to Cameron's troubles is his relationship with the
chancellor.The problem, say some observers, is the opposite of the distrust that
festered between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown: some say Cameron and George
Osborne are too close.

"David trusts George to such an extent that he largely leaves him to get on with
it," said one Downing Street insider. "That can be a good thing, but it also
means we are not subjecting the Treasury to as much scrutiny as we perhaps
should." The source cited the budget as an example, saying Cameron's team should
have examined Osborne's proposals far more closely before signing them off.

Others believe the more urgent issue is the one raised by Nadine Dorries, the
Tory backbencher - the perception among some voters that Cameron, Osborne and
other cabinet ministers are so rich and posh that they cannot relate to ordinary
folk.

O'Brien believes the party must make more progress in proving it is "not just a
party of the rich". He said: "Though Downing Street are clearly working on this
'blue collar' modernisation there is a long way to go."

This weekend Hunt's fate is still uncertain. After No 10 failed to divert the
affair into the long grass of the Leveson inquiry, Labour and others are calling
for an investigation into whether Hunt broke the ministerial code. Officials at
the culture department have been raking through every item in his email account
and examining all his iPhone records. So far, sources say, they have found
nothing damning.

Among key pieces of evidence to back up Hunt's claim that he had acted
impartially is a little publicised text message that he sent shortly after
taking over responsibility for the BSkyB bid from Vince Cable, the business
secretary.

The message to Michel politely made clear that Hunt could not have any more
chummy off-the-record conversations with him. "Thanks Fred, all contact with me
now needs to be through official channels until decision made," Hunt wrote.

The Tories may also receive a boost next week from the London mayoral election,
where the polls suggest that Boris Johnson is likely to win a second term. But
such is the state of public opinion about the government that Johnson's advisers
are desperately keen for him not to be seen with any cabinet ministers.

THE spectre hanging over everything is the economy. Although Cameron and Osborne
had been prepared for a weak GDP figure, the 0.2% decline in the first quarter
of the year was worse than most independent forecasters had expected.

Osborne took it on the chin. "It's clearly very disappointing news, I don't
disguise that for one second. And it reminds us that Britain faces a very tough
economic situation," he said.

Many independent experts suspect the outlook is not as grim as painted. "Our
reaction to these figures is one of disbelief," said Andrew Goodwin, senior
economic adviser to the Ernst & Young ITEM Club, which uses the Treasury's own
models. "Certainly the impression we have from talking to businesses is that the
UK economy is not in recession."

Some economists expect the GDP figure will be revised upwards later. But the
political damage is already evident. Labour seized on the figures to claim the
coalition's austerity package was not working. Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor,
said: "David Cameron's and George Osborne's self-defeating austerity policies
have plunged Britain back into recession."

Calls for a plan B are growing.Robert Shiller, a respected professor of
economics at Yale University, suggested last week that Osborne should scrap
middle-class benefits, increase taxation and spend the money "on job-creating
investment in transport and energy infrastructure".

The Tories take comfort from the fact that the next election is not due for
three years. Past governments have lost votes in mid-term only to recover later.

This weekend Kellner suggested the poll results were so bad for Cameron, with
many Tories defecting to UKIP, that an alternative scenario should be
considered.

"Suppose the economy continues in the doldrums," he said. "Suppose Cameron's
ratings stay on the floor. In 2014, a year before the next general election,
Europe's voters will decide who represents them in the European parliament.

"Voting will take place under a proportional system that helps smaller parties -
and UKIP most of all. Last time in 2009 it came second, ahead of Labour. Unless
the Tories recover I would not bet heavily against UKIP topping the poll in
2014, or coming close.

"If that happens, the dynamic of the next general election could crucify the
Tories."

Additional reporting: Kathryn Cooper Britain needs the spirit of the 1980s,
Editorial, page 18

Your view Is David Cameron in control of government? Yes 39% No 47% Don't know
14% Should George Osborne remain chancellor? Yes 24% No 45% Don't know 31% What
is the main reason for Britain being back in recession? The government's
economic policy and cuts 32% Global factors and eurozone debt crisis 29% Other/
don't know 12% Banks not lending 10% Deficit left by last government 17% Should
Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary criticised for his handling of News Corp's
bid for BSkyB, resign? Yes 59% No 14% Don't know 27% Source: YouGov survey of
1,717 adults, April 26-27 Changing fortunes How support for main parties has
shifted since 2010 election

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORIGINAL PAINTING THE RAFT OF THE MEDUSA BY THEODORE GERICAULT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories at lowest ebb for 8 years

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 400 words


THE prime minister is facing his gravest political crisis since entering Downing
Street as the Conservatives plummet in the polls.

A devastating YouGov poll today reveals that support for the Tories has dropped
to 29%, the lowest level since 2004.

After a turbulent month during which key measures in the budget unravelled, the
government presided over a series of domestic fiascos and the economy returned
to recession, David Cameron's personal approval ratings have collapsed.

The only other prime minister to have suffered such a rapid loss in popularity
in recent times is Gordon Brown after he scrapped plans to hold a snap election.

Many right-wing voters appear to be turning to the UK Independence party (UKIP)
or are so disillusioned they no longer know how they would vote in a general
election.

It comes just days before local council elections in England, Scotland and
Wales, with nearly 5,000 seats at stake in 181 town halls. The London mayoral
contest will also take place on Thursday, with the outcome seen as critical by
both parties.

In a frank interview with The Sunday Times this weekend, Eric Pickles, the local
government secretary, admitted it had been a difficult period, describing it as
the "darkest time".

According to the YouGov poll for The Sunday Times, Ed Miliband's party is on
40%, the Tories are on 29% and the Liberal Democrats are on 11%, with UKIP hot
on their heels at 10%. The popularity gap between Cameron and Miliband has
narrowed from 23 points to seven points in a week.

Today the prime minister will attempt to regain the initiative in a BBC
television interview in which he is expected to acknowledge that the government
has made mistakes but to insist he is the right person to lead the country out
of financial crisis.

It is less than a week since his last attempt to fight back became mired in a
new crisis over the handling by Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, of News
Corporation's bid for control over BSkyB.

This was just the latest setback for Cameron's administration after rows over
budget measures such as the "granny tax" on pensioners, a "pasty tax" on hot
takeaway food and the exposure by The Sunday Times of the Tory party treasurer
who was willing to give access for cash.

Pickles said the country faced a "long, slow, hard slog" because of the huge
deficit: "You know ... it's going to be hard for the rest of the year."

Eric Pickles interview, page 4

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 29, 2012 Sunday 12:14 AM GMT

Boris Johnson: We need more tax cuts;
Boris Johnson piles more pressure on David Cameron's Government by launching a
fresh offensive over cutting taxes.

BYLINE: By Patrick Hennessy and Robert Watts

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1595 words


Mr Johnson uses an interview in the Sunday Telegraph to make a direct appeal to
his party's core values, presenting himself as a "tax-cutting Conservative" and
promising to cut council tax if re-elected as London mayor.

His intervention will be seen as a gesture to his party's leadership, which is
facing increasing claims of losing touch with grass roots supporters.

As well as his insistence on a low-tax agenda Mr Johnson cites freedom,
democracy and low government spending as his key beliefs, and vows to crack down
further on crime.

Mr Johnston, who takes on Labour's Ken Livingstone in this week's mayoral
election in London, makes no mention of issues such as gay marriage and the
environment - policies which Mr Cameron has strongly promoted recently, earning
him criticism from his own party.

The Mayor also describes George Osborne, his possible future rival for the Tory
leadership, as "the jaws of death" - a jibe which comes as the Chancellor faces
continuing attacks over the Budget and last week's confirmation that Britain has
re-entered recession.

Mr Johnson makes his intervention as the Prime Minister struggles to cope with a
series of crises gripping his government. Downing Street last night signalled
falling support for Jeremy Hunt, the Culture Secretary, who is accused of
breaking the Ministerial Code in his dealings with Rupert Murdoch's media
empire.

A No 10 spokesman sent the first clear signal that Mr Hunt - who will submit
details of his personal text messages and emails to Lord Leveson's inquiry into
media standards this week - faces a separate Whitehall investigation into his
conduct, which ultimately could lead to him being force from Government.

The growing sense of crisis added to the Tories' troubles ahead of Thursday's
local elections in which they are expected to lose hundreds of council seats,
which would further hit grassroots morael, and came as:

- Research by Lord Ashcroft, the former deputy Conservative chairman, shows that
the party is out of touch with many ethnic minority voters. Only four per cent
of black voters said they identified with the Tories in a poll for Lord Ashcroft
given to the Sunday Telegraph. The peer warns the party's failure to woo black
and Asian voters will exact a penalty in marginal seats at the next General
Election.

- A survey by pollsters ComRes suggested Mr Cameron's strong support for
same-sex marriage could cost his party up to 30 seats in a general election. The
United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) stands to benefit most from the drop in
Tory support on this issue, the survey indicates, in what will be seen as
further evidence that the Prime Minister is concentrating on policies which fail
to appeal in his party's heartlands.

- The Sunday Telegraph has learned the Treasury is "looking seriously" at a plan
to retreat over proposals to tax charitable donations by the wealthy - another
policy which has been attacked by traditional Tory supporters and tbackbench
MPs. The new plan would see rich donors surrender their tax relief to charities.
It would protect charities' incomes but would still be unlikely to win the
backing of philanthropists.

The low tax call from Mr Johnson follows last week's intervention by Liam Fox,
the former defence secretary, who urged further cuts in state spending to make
room for tax cuts aimed at business - a demand being made ever more volubly by
the Tory Right.

The Mayor sends a clear signal he believes in a low tax economy for all groups
of voters with the emphasis on lower council tax and pro-growth policies to help
business.

"I certainly think London needs to be tax competitive," Mr Johnson says. "I've
got to look what I can do to bear down on people's expenses... We've frozen
council tax over four years, we'll have cut it by 10 per cent in the next four
years."

His barbed reference to Mr Osborne comes as he describes his "fight" to obtain
the best deal for London. "We've saved Crossrail [the new railway in London]
from the jaws of death - AKA George Osborne," he claims.

"I don't mind having a row in Whitehall, I don't mind how much plaster comes off
the ceiling, providing it's done in a robust and sensible way and London gets
the money it needs."

Asked what are the key values driving his campaign Mr Johnson replies: "Freedom,
democracy, taxpayer value and building up the sense of neighbourliness and duty
towards each other - how's that?"

He also echoes the Eurosceptic views of most Tory MPs by insisting "Parliament
should be sovereign" with Britain better able to resist diktats from Europe. He
says, of the radical preacher wanted on terror charges in Jordan, "Abu Qatada
should be put on the plane, there's not doubt about it."

Polls show Mr Johnson heading for victory over Mr Livingstone and five other
candidates on Thursday but he insists the contest is "going down to the wire".
In an attempt to deflect attention from the likelihood of his taking over from
Mr Cameron as Tory leader, he describes his chances as the same as his "being
locked in a disused fridge".

His race is the most high-profile contest in this week's local elections across
Britain, in which the Tories overall are expected to perform badly in the wake
of crises hitting the government - losing hundreds of council seats.

Heavy defeats will add to the storm concerning Mr Hunt's political future. This
weekend the Culture Secretary appears closer to being the subject of an inquiry
by Sir Alex Allan, the independent adviser on the Ministerial Code, in his
conduct over the bid by Mr Murdoch's News Corporation for BSkyB last year.

The Culture Secretary's special adviser, Adam Smith, resigned last week after
emails published by the Leveson Inquiry appeared to show him passing
confidential information about the bid to News Corp at a time when Mr Hunt had a
quasi-judicial role in the process.

The No 10 spokesman added: "Once Jeremy Hunt's evidence is made public and he is
questioned [by Leveson], if there is anything that suggests there has been a
breach of the code, the Prime Minister would of course act."

Senior Tory and Lib Dem MPs have called for an independent inquiry. However,
Andrew Mitchell, the International Development Secretary, rallied round his
cabinet colleague last night - although he too hinted at an inquiry.

"Jeremy is as straight as a die," Mr Mitchell said. "He will shortly appear
before the Leveson Inquiry where he will be cross-examined by a very tough
barrister. Let people wait until he has done that before they judge him.

"I have no doubt that then, if questions remain, the Prime Minister will subject
him to the full rigour of the Ministerial Code."

Lord Ashcroft's research, published in today's Sunday Telegraph, shows that Mr
Cameron's party is out of touch with Britain's growing ethnic minority groups,
which now account for 10 per cent of the country's population. Just 29% of more
than 10,000 people polled by the former deputy Conservative chairman said they
though the Tories "understand minorities".

Nearly 70% of black voters polled said they thought Conservative politicians
looked down on people from different ethnic or religious backgrounds more than
those from other parties.

In a separate survey of more than 2,000 people, by ComRes, Mr Cameron's support
for changing the law to permit same-sex marriages was identified as high-risk in
terms of lost votes for his party.

If this week's local elections were a general election, the poll, commissioned
by the Coalition for Marriage pressure group, suggested that the Tories could
lose between eight and 30 seats over the issue.

Andrew Hawkins, the chief executive of ComRes, said the Tories were losing three
voters for every one they gained on the issue, Mr Hawkins added.

UKIP, which is expected to make gains in this week's local elections, would be
the main beneficiary, the survey showed.

Mr Osborne, the Chancellor, is this weekend facing opposition from within the
Cabinet on another policy announced in last month's Budget.

Iain Duncan Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary, is fighting the Chancellor's
plan to cut welfare spending by an extra £10bn between 2014 and 2016.

When asked if he considered such a cut acceptable, the Work and Pensions
Secretary said: "My view is it's not... There is in my view no such thing as an
easy cut to welfare. Some people think there is: until I show them where we
spend the money."

His comments fuel the sense of a botched Budget. Separately, David Gauke, the
tax minister, will meet charities this week in a bid to end the row over plans
to cap tax relief for wealthy philanthropists.

The Chancellor is "looking seriously" at a plan proposed by the British Red
Cross, whereby charities would be allowed to keep the tax relief currently
enjoyed by their richest donors.

More than 800 charities are calling for the abandoment of the plan announced
last month to limit the tax relief available to large donors at £50,000 a year
or 25% of a donor's annual earnings - whichever is greater.

Some wealthy givers have said they will be less generous if the current
proposals remain.

Under plan wealthy donors could opt to surrender tax relief on their donations,
transferring into the charity they are giving to. However, if the donor still
chose to receive the tax relief themselves it would be subject to the annual
limits proposed by the Chancellor in the Budget.

The plan has won backing from the Institute for Fundraising, which represents
hundreds of charities including Oxfam, the NSPCC and Cancer Research.

However, it is not certain the plan would win the support of donors.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday

THE QUEEN'S MEN AND A CHIPPY CLASS WARRIOR

LENGTH: 1113 words


ON SATURDAY


BY QUENTIN LETTS

  TWO OF the Queen's senior represen-tatives were given a torrid time at a
Commons committee this week. The Lord-Lieutenants of East Lothian and Cheshire
were appearing at the Public Administration Select Committee. They were soon
assailed for being rich, Gentile, male and white'.Lord-Lieutenants (or Lords
Lieutenant, if you prefer) are the Monarch's point men in the shires. Unpaid,
they do charitable works, organise royal visits, advise on honours and recommend
who should be invited to Buckingham Palace garden parties. This all proved too
much for Labour MP Paul Flynn (Newport), a veteran republican and class warrior.

He disclosed that, in his days as a steel worker, he applied to become a
Lord-Lieutenant. He was, alas, unsuccessful.Addressing East Lothian's Sir Garth
Morrison and Cheshire's David Briggs at Tuesday's meeting, Mr Flynn quite
roughly asserted that in order to become a Lord-Lieutenant it remains  necessary
to live in a large house, be rich, have a military career,  be a Gentile, male
and white'. Mr Flynn alleged that all Lord-Lieutenants were Tories. When did a
Lord-Lieutenancy last go to a single mum on benefits? Sir Garth, 74, although
indeed a male ex-naval officer who farms near North Berwick, was by now not so
much white as a distinct shade of scarlet. He was far too polite to tell Mr
Flynn to bog off a sweeter, more courtly old gent it would be hard to find but
he was plainly taken aback by the assault and blushed hard. Mr Briggs, younger,
had less hesitation in returning fire. He told Mr Flynn he was a small
businessman with a normal home. To be a Lord-Lieutenant was a privilege, yes,
but it cost him a good deal of money.Throughout, MPs used the term the great and
the good' in a pejorative manner. It made me boil.  What do they want instead?
The mediocre and the malign? Lord-Lieutenants may not be voted into office. They
may be a relic of a  different hierarchy. But they  provide useful local
knowledge. Sir Garth disclosed that one  Lord-Lieutenant had to ring  London to
warn that a proposed recipient of a major honour was in fact cooling his heels
in prison. LAH-DE-DAH GUNNER CAMERON!ANDREW MITCHELL, International Development
Secretary, had useful advice for David Cameron before the PM's recent trip to
Burma. He told Mr Cameron to mug up on the classic TV comedy It Ain't Half Hot,
Mum. It is Burmese democracy  campaigner Aung San Suu Kyi's favourite show. She
came to love it and characters such as Windsor Davies's shouty  sergeant-major
(pictured), wet Captain Ashwood (so like Nick Clegg) and Lah-De-Dah' Gunner
Graham when living in Britain in the 1970s. Mr Cameron needs little
encouragement to reminisce about cheesy TV shows. He is an admirer of Dad's Army
and knows every word and move from the video of Benny Hill's 1971 song Ernie. On
such things are diplomatic  triumphs made.HANDBAGS AT DAWN, LADIES?HOW the BBC
loved the claim by Nadine Dorries (right) that Messrs Cameron and Osborne were
arrogant posh boys'. I received a dozen invitations from various parts of the
BBC they were still at it yesterday to discuss Mr Cameron's class.In the same
period, the European Union sank closer to disaster with the collapse of the
Dutch government and economic upheavals in Spain. Funnily enough, there came not
a single request from the BBC to talk about that.Meanwhile, Mrs Dorries's attack
was too much for the burningly loyal Cameroon Claire Perry (Con, Devizes). Mrs
Perry (left) stomped into the MPs' tea room at the Commons and complained that
Mrs Dorries should jolly well (not quite that expression, actually) defect to
UKIP.Friends helpfully reported this back to Mr Dorries, who in turn now refers
to the statuesque Mrs Perry as Miss Tight Tunic' and retorts that she, Dorries,
has been in the Tory Party a great many more years than her critic and fully
intends to stay put, thang yew.Dorries v. Perry. It could be as watchable a
rivalry as that of tennis legends Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova.INFORMAL
LIFE OF BRIAN & COOFF-CUTS from a day at the  Leveson Inquiry:*?LEADING counsel
Robert Jay QC uses a hand-written script. From my vantage point, the ink seems
to be pink.*?COURT rules are less stiff than at the Hutton Inquiry, which was
held in the same room. A man in the public gallery chomps fish and chips during
the lunch hour. *?MR JAY is less deferential to Lord Justice Leveson than I have
known some barristers be to judges. There is little of the my lord' business. In
the corridor outside he refers to him  as Brian'. *?RUPERT MURDOCH, although a
U.S. citizen, has not lost his Aussie accent. He pronounces quango' as
quongo'.*?THE Murdochs are a demonstrative family. Mr Murdoch greets son
Lachlan with a hug. Lachlan responds by patting Dad on the back and  stroking
his neck. *?THE media tycoon rubbishes the idea that New Yorker Irwin Stelzer
is, as is sometimes claimed, his  economic guru'. He is just a clever friend'.
Mr Jay, with beautifully  subtle sarcasm, later refers to Dr Irwin Stelzer, with
all his intellectual  abilities'. Miaow! SCOTLAND Yard boss Bernard Hogan-Howe
has stated firmly that police officers must pass fitness tests. They should be
able to run and fight,' he told MPs the other day. That is not to say that my
staff or the Police Federation agree with me.'Until recently the Yard's most
senior officer was Deputy Commissioner Tim Godwin, whose working day invariably
began with six bangers in the canteen. Tim was so chubby he couldn't have caught
a suspect fleeing on a Zimmer frame,' says an acquaintance. Mr Hogan-Howe's
reference to the Federation is intriguing. Can he be referring to its chairman,
Paul Puddings' McKeever? It brings new meaning to the term a belt-tightening
exercise'. EDWARD MILIBAND is not yet one of life's scintillators. The Labour
leader visited the Reading suburb of Tilehurst this week to campaign for local
candidates, including one Haji Banaras. Alas, in the course of a speech by Mr
Miliband, Comrade Banaras fell asleep.  I know the feeling, Haji.CULTURE
Secretary Jeremy Hunt's troubles may have complicated the selection process for
the next Arts Council chairman, officially in Mr Hunt's gift. Events have not
helped the candidacy of low-brow TV producer Sir Peter Bazalgette. But have Sir
Peter's chances  been exaggerated anyway? Downing Street has started to take an
interest in the  Arts Council.David Cameron has put the black spot on
Bazalgette,' I am told. He is also determined Lord (Gus) O'Donnell will not be
the next Bank of England governor.' A little-known outsider in the Arts Council
race may be John Preston, novelist and Fleet Street arts journalist.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THERE is a spring in [...];
INSIDE POLITICS

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 73 words


THERE is a spring in the step of UKIP supporters in the run-up to local
elections on Thursday largely thanks to a rash of favourable opinion polls. In
London the mayoral candidate Lawrence Webb and London Assembly candidate Steven
Woolfe are making particular inroads on housing policy with a plan to give
long-standing London residents priority over immigrants. Don't be surprised if
the fourth party scores some notable successes next week.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Judge finally jails a career burglar... then feels sorry and cuts a year off

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 430 words


A SOFT-TOUCH judge provoked anger yesterday for cutting the jail sentence of a
prolific burglar.

Career criminal Jason Reed committed 22 break-ins after the judge failed to lock
him up the first time he appeared before her.

Reed, who is also a convicted rapist, left victims terrified in a series of
crimes after being handed only a three-year suspended sentence by Judge Carol
Hagen.

Three weeks ago Judge Hagen, who has a history of leniency, finally took
decisive action and jailed Reed, 39, for six years.

But she brought him back to court after having second thoughts and reduced his
sentence by a year.

The jail term was lowered under the so called "slip rule" which gives the court
the power to alter a sentence within 56 days.

Judge Hagen claimed she changed her mind after taking into consideration police
comments that Reed, who was convicted of rape in 2004, had helped them clear up
a catalogue of past crimes, was doing well in his fight to get off drugs until
he had a relapse and had targeted homes he thought were unoccupied.

She told Reed at Bristol Crown Court: "On reflection I felt that I had given
insufficient weight to your cooperation and the effect that has had on victims.
I hope that will encourage others to come forward and say what they have done."

Judge Hagen opted out of jailing Reed in June last year, despite him admitting
burglary. She gave him a suspended sentence to tackle his drug habit.

After being freed he committed crime after crime in a nine-month spree. During
one burglary two children aged 14 and 11 hid in a wardrobe and thought they were
"going to die" after he smashed his way into their home and stole the girl's
laptop.

He also stole a precious collection of war medals from Army doctor Dave
Winfield, 40, who served in Afghanistan, Iraq, Bosnia and Kosovo. Back in court
at the beginning of April, he admitted one burglary and one theft and asked for
49 other break-ins over the past decade to be taken into consideration. Almost
half his crimes had been committed since Judge Hagen failed to jail him.

Yesterday UK Independence Party spokesman Gerard Batten said: "This is
ludicrous. This man had to really try hard to get any kind of prison sentence at
all. Now the judge feels sorry for him and knocks a year off.

"He's only going to serve half the time anyway. Sentences should actually mean
what they say."

After having his medals stolen, Dr Winfield said: "The needs of the victims are
the most important in crimes like this and judges should think about them
first."

OPINION: PAGE 16

'Courts should put the needs of the victims first'

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reed carried out 49 break-ins in total
Judge Carol Hagen initially chose not to jail Reed
Pictures: SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 28, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

The public's verdict on Coalition: Out of touch and inept;
Most voters think the Lib Dems have sacrificed too many of their principles,
says Andrew Grice

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: ANDREW GRICE

LENGTH: 1057 words


Seven out of 10 people who voted Liberal Democrat at the last election believe
the party has sacrificed too many of its principles since joining the Coalition
with the Conservatives. And more than half of the party's 2010 voters think it
has almost no influence over the Government's policies.

Click HERE to view 'Unpopularity contest: The poll results' graphic

The findings emerge in a ComRes survey of 2,000 people for The Independent which
contains some bad news for the leaders of all three main parties. David
Cameron's personal ratings are in line with those of the Conservatives. This
suggests the shine has come off his image: only two months ago, Tory MPs were
told that the Prime Minister was 16 points ahead of his party.

According to ComRes, 37 per cent of people say they like the Conservatives and
38 per cent that they like Mr Cameron. More men (30 per cent) than women (23 per
cent) like the Prime Minister. While some three in four Conservative supporters
(77 per cent) like both the party and its leader, a further 16 per cent like the
party but not Mr Cameron.

In contrast, Ed Miliband has the biggest image problem of the three leaders.
While 45 per cent like Labour, only 21 per cent like Mr Miliband. Even a
majority of Labour supporters (54 per cent) like the party but not its leader.
The findings will worry Labour strategists, who accept privately that Mr
Miliband needs to close the gap.

Nick Clegg trails his party but by much less than the Labour leader does his.
Some 37 per cent of the public like the Liberal Democrats, while 30 per cent
like Mr Clegg. Although 63 per cent of current Liberal Democrat supporters like
both party and leader, this falls to just 35 per cent among Liberal Democrat
voters at the 2010 election.

The poll gives Labour a five-point lead. Labour is on 39 per cent, down one
point since the ComRes survey for The Independent on Sunday published last
weekend; the Conservatives on 34 per cent (unchanged); the Liberal Democrats on
10 per cent (down one point) and others on 17 per cent (up two points).

If repeated at a general election, the latest figures would give Labour an
overall majority of 69, with the Liberal Democrats' 57 MPs reduced to just 18.
Only two in five people who voted Liberal Democrat at the 2010 election say they
would do so now. The party is just one point ahead of the UK Independence Party,
which is on 9 per cent.

By a 2-1 margin, people think the Coalition Government is incompetent. Only 27
per cent agree that it is proving competent, while 56 per cent say it is not. By
a margin of 67 to 21 per cent, the public believes Mr Cameron and George Osborne
are out of touch with ordinary people - including two-thirds of people (65 per
cent) in the highest AB social group and three out of 10 Tory supporters.

And by 68 to 20 per cent, people agree that the Government can no longer say "we
are all in it together". One in three Conservative supporters (35 per cent)
thinks the slogan is no longer valid. The ComRes findings suggest the Liberal
Democrats have a mountain to climb to avoid heavy losses at the next election. A
majority of voters (58 per cent) think Mr Clegg's party has sacrificed too many
of its principles since joining the Coalition, including more than half of
today's Liberal Democrat supporters (55 per cent). Only 22 per cent of the
public disagree.

By a margin of 49 to 35 per cent, people agree that the Liberal Democrats seem
to have almost no influence over the Government's policies - including one in
three current Liberal Democrat supporters. But a majority of Conservative
supporters (62 per cent) disagree with this statement.

According to ComRes, 18 per cent of people would be more likely to vote Liberal
Democrat at the next general election if Mr Clegg stood down as party leader
before then - including 31 per cent of the party's 2010 voters. But 61 per cent
of the public disagree.

One positive note for the Liberal Democrats is that more people (40 per cent)
agree it is better for the country that the Conservatives have to work with the
Liberal Democrats in a coalition government than if they had won an overall
majority in 2010, while 36 per cent disagree.

However, only 31 per cent of people would be happy with another coalition
government after the next election, while 47 per cent would not.

ComRes interviewed a representative sample of 2,015 GB adults online between
April 25-27, 2012. Data were weighted to be demographically representative of
all GB adults and by past vote recall. ComRes is a member of the British Polling
Council and abides by its rules.

Timeline: How the Lib dems have fallen since 2010

2010 May (general election) 23% Up on last general election, but they win five
fewer seats.

June 19% Weeks after chummy scenes in Downing Street Rose Garden, support begins
to wane after formation of Coalition.

July 16% Backing slides sharply following George Osborne's austerity Budget.

September 16% Holding steady as widely predicted bloodbath at party conference
in Liverpool fails to materialise.

October 14% George Osborne sets out to cut spending by £81bn. Lib Dem support
falls, Tories up.

November 13% Violence at student march against £9,000 tuition fees. Lib Dems
face criticism for reneging on election promises.

December 11% A new low as the Commons approves tuition fees, with the party
split over the issue.

2011 January 12% Party comes second in Oldham by-election.

March 13% Minor recovery, but party crashes to humiliating sixth in Barnsley
Central by-election.

April 13% Government forced to "pause" NHS reforms plans.

May 11% Dire performance in local elections, losing 750 councillors. Clegg
humiliated in referendum on electoral reform.

June 11% Clegg steps up efforts to differentiate his party from its coalition
partner and calls for shares in privatised banks to be given to voters.

July 13% Phone-hacking scandal erupts. Labour gains in polls.

August 13% Nation's attention on riots around the country.

September 12% Conference goes off without major hitch.

November 11% Lib Dems stage major Lords rebellion over health reforms, but get
no credit.

December 12% Clegg critical of Cameron's European veto.

2012 Jan 13% Lib Dems hope their fall in support has bottomed out as they enter
the new year.

Feb 12% Chris Huhne quits to fight charges over speeding fine

Mar 11% Post-election low after controversial Budget.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

LEADERS LIVING IN DIFFERENT WORLD

BYLINE: TONY PARSONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 755 words


ON June 27 it will be five years to the day since this country had a Prime
Minister who was in 10 Downing Street because he actually won a General
Election.

Gordon Brown never won a general election and David Cameron never will.

A large part of the antipathy towards Cameron is because nobody asked him to be
Prime Minister - at least, not enough of us to win him a general election.

Perhaps our democracy will be restored to its former rude health and the next
general election will give a politician a Parliamentary majority and a mandate
from the people.

But don't hold your breath.

Because all across Europe there is a growing disillusion with major political
parties.

In these desperate times, voters are turning to the dark margins of politics for
desperate solutions.

In France, the National Front's Marine Le Pen took 18% of the vote in their
presidential elections, giving the extremist party its best result ever, and
leaving the NF holding the balance of power.

Here, UKIP, for so long derided as the Monster Raving Euro-sceptic Party, are
pushing the desperate Liberal Democrats into third place.

And although Labour are buoyant in the polls, they not only lost the safe seat
of Bradford West to maverick George Galloway, they lost it by a majority of over
10,000 votes.

The National Front in France, UKIP and George Galloway, all appeal to different
parts of the population. Galloway attracts Muslims who despise the major
political parties for casually starting their dirty little wars in some far-off
Islamic country.

UKIP woo disenchanted Conservative voters who feel that the European Union is
dragging our country down while a Tory Prime Minister is unwilling or unable to
do a thing about it.

And in France, Le u ol lik And in France, Le Pen benefits from fears about
immigration that Nicolas Sarkozy only felt like addressing when it transpired
from fears abou that Nico only felt l when i iti that he out of Le Pen undoub
that he is about to be out of a job. Some of Le Pen's support is undoubtedly
racist.

a n's b But some of it will be from people who are panicked by terrorist attacks
on French streets, or the changing face of France, or of losing their jobs.

Galloway, UKIP, Le Pen - they are all so different, but their success sends
exactly the same message. For the established political parties, there is no
longer such a thing as a safe seat.

Many people in Europe - whether an unemployed plumber in Marseilles, or a lapsed
Tory voter in the Home Counties, or a teenage Muslim in the north of England -
no longer believe they have the answers to our problems.

This is a fantastically dangerous state of affairs.

As Europe teeters on the brink of the greatest financial catastrophe in our
lifetime, we have weak leaders, a hopelessly fractured political landscape and
extremists of every hue offering easy solutions. Our politicians have let us
down.

I suspect that future historians will be interested in Mrs Gillian Duffy, 65,
the very embodiment of old fashioned, Labour-voting decency, who was dismissed
by Gordon Brown in the 2010 General Election as a "bigoted woman" for daring to
openly fret about immigration.

In her quiet way, Mrs Duffy measured the huge disconnect between the politicians
and the people.

Worried about immigration? Racist! That is the attitude that cost poor old
Gordon his job and, far more importantly, revealed how out of touch Westminster
is from the real world.

I don't recall this country ever having a serious debate about immigration. It
was all "rivers of blood" (against) or "good for the economy" (for).

I don't recall one politician asking difficult questions about exactly how many
immigrants our primary schools could cope with, or our National Health Service,
or our roads, or our social housing, or our welfare state.

These questions were simply never asked.

Is it any wonder that given the choice between Cameron, Clegg and Brown, most
people would have voted for Mrs Gillian Duffy? If the political class can offer
us nothing but mediocre little men, with the same private educations, the same
rich, tax-dodging friends, the same self-serving cliches and the same naked
terror about debating real issues, then they will increasingly surrender ground
to the parties on the margins.

Our democracy is in dangerous, perhaps terminal, decline.

Of course Cameron and Osborne are out of touch - they were never unemployed,
they never ran a business, they never lay awake at night worried sick about how
to pay the bills.

How could they ever be anything other than hopelessly out of touch?

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No love lost as Ken and Boris square up for poll showdown;
As London prepares to vote, Anushka Asthana meets the two feuding rivals On that
spat: 'He's a barefaced ...' [pauses] Liar? 'Yes' The Tory Mayor

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 1962 words


Boris Johnson believes that British workers need to be instilled with a
"competitive spirit" and "will to work" that will help them to win jobs over
hardworking Eastern Europeans.

The Tory Mayor of London says that young Britons are "falling by the wayside".
He wants 200,000 new jobs, which he hopes to create in the capital, to go
largely to people who have grown up in the city.

Mr Johnson is fighting to keep his job and the mayoral election is only days
away as he speaks to The Times. "I've got nothing against migrant talent from
Eastern Europe and elsewhere," he says. "They've done a superb job for this
city. But we are seeing far too many new jobs created in London not being taken
up by young people who have grown up in London or indeed this country."

It is the story of Carl Cooper, a Kent businessman, that has caught his
attention.

Mr Cooper was reported to be furious after seven new recruits failed to turn up
for work - put off by the torrential rain.

"I'm afraid that is not how they behave if they come from Latvia - they don't.
They come in, they work hard," says Mr Johnson, who is dressed in a smart grey
suit, but still looks ruffled, perhaps because of his messy hair. "We need to
make sure young people in London are competitive ... It is about getting them in
a state of mind."

He hopes to accomplish that by a series of new apprenticeships that will help to
train largely British workers.

With Thursday's election looming, Mr Johnson knows that he cannot afford to be
complacent. "It is going to be very, very close," he says, leaning forward and
placing his elbows on the table. And that the economy has plunged into a
double-dip recession is hardly likely to help, he admits.

"But it is all the more reason for Londoners to want a mayor who focuses on
value for money and who doesn't squander hundreds of millions on wasteful
projects of no economic benefit to the city, doesn't spend his time to go and
see Latin American dictators."

His bitter dislike of Labour's Ken Livingstone is evident throughout. But does
he regret confronting his opponent in a lift and screaming "f***ing liar" three
times in front of other candidates? Surely that was just plain bad manners?
"No," he replies without hesitation.

"It is very important that you understand the context. I had taken the trouble
politely to correct Ken Livingstone about his description of my tax affairs. He
said we had the same arrangements.

I've never paid myself through some service company. I've never avoided tax in
that way, I've paid my full share."

Yet Mr Livingstone persisted in saying the opposite, he claims. "When someone
does that and when they are trying to divert attention from themselves by
smearing you, you are entitled to get stroppy."

He says that his opponent, who is accused of using a company to minimise tax,
has still failed to produce evidence of his own full earnings. "It is
unbelievable.

He is a barefaced ..." Liar? "Yes." No regrets there, then.

Perhaps it is the tightening polls that have made him nervous. Despite
allegations about Mr Livingstone's tax avoidance, a confrontation with the
Jewish community, and claims that his central policy on cutting transport fares
does not add up, the Labour candidate is snapping at Mr Johnson's heels days
before the election.

And it is not just the recession that could hurt Mr Johnson's chances in the
final week. The mayor cannot ignore that his party has taken a battering in the
media after some deeply unpopular Budget measures. Take the so-called Granny
tax, for instance.

"Pensioners want to talk to me about the freedom pass," he says, refusing to be
drawn. "I tell them what I'm doing to keep that."

Not that he is shy of taking on his Conservative colleagues in Westminster.This
is the man who warned against "Kosovo-style social cleansing" when the
Government presented its housing benefit reforms. "There is no point in picking
gratuitous fights," he says, while adding that he is very prepared to have them.

If he wins the election, he says, the biggest fight of his next term will be to
persuade David Cameron and George Osborne to introduce a "Barnett formula" for
London - diverting money from the North towards the capital. He believes that it
is unfair that the city generates more towards GDP than it gets back in
spending.

And Mr Johnson says that he has persuaded the Treasury to look into his
proposals - because "clever economists" know it could boost the economy. "London
is the motor. London is a massive exporter of tax to the rest of the country. It
has got the biggest potential of anywhere in the UK to get the UK moving. If
London isn't moving, the UK is nowhere.A pound spent in Croydon or Tottenham,
the areas hit by the riots last year, will generate far more for the rest of the
economy than a pound spent in Strathclyde."

Asked about national politics, he squirms. "I'm far more interested in
driverless trains." And then he hits out at Mr Livingstone again. "'I won't
automate the Tube,'" he says, mimicking his opponent. "LUDDITE! The guy is a
Luddite."

And he claims that Mr Livingstone's pledge to cut fares or resign doesn't add
up. Then he throws in one of his own ideas for transport - to get the under-16s
to sign up to a "courtesy card" in which they qualify for free travel only if
they promise to respect fellow travellers. No swearing for them then?

The Labour rival

On tax: 'My criticism is that he's not doing his day job'

Ken Livingstone is knocking on doors in Dollis Hill, northwest London. And he is
receiving a positive response.

A woman leans out of her window and shouts: "What is it?" When she catches sight
of the London candidate for Mayor of London, she smiles. "I'll vote for you."

A builder shouts from the roof: "You will win, Ken, won't you?" And three
passing vans beep their horns and stretch out arms with raised thumbs.

With days to go before Londoners head to the ballot box, Mr Livingstone is
feeling confident. He thinks the fact that Britain has entered a double-dip
recession will put people off his Conservative rival, Boris Johnson. "It brings
home the fact that this Government's economic strategy has failed. I was saying
that. Ed Balls was saying that. Ed Miliband was saying that. Just contrast it to
[President] Obama."

Voters in London associate Mr Johnson with those policies, he adds. And the bad
economic news will hurt the Lib Dems too.

"You only have to look at Vince Cable's body language to know this isn't the
sort of coalition he wanted to be in," adds Mr Livingstone as he walks down the
road with his dog, Coco. "My hope is that they will leave the coalition and form
one instead with Ed Miliband."

Wishful thinking, perhaps. Talk turns to Mr Livingstone's tax affairs. He has
faced heavy attack for channelling earnings of about a quarter of a million
pounds a year through a company, Silveta Ltd. He then pays himself a lower
salary of about £55,000.

Critics say it is designed to minimise tax, a charge strongly denied by Mr
Livingstone, who says the money is used to pay salaries.

So why, when recently asked to publish his tax returns, did he only reveal the
salary coming out of Silveta and not the money going in? "We would have done it
six months ago, but in the last six days of the election we didn't have the time
to extract the information. Company accounts don't go into that much detail," he
insists.

The Labour candidate has been described as a hypocrite, as he previously
described tax avoiders as "rich bastards" and called for higher income tax rates
for the best off. Asked if he would release further details of his total
earnings after the election, he insists that he would not be doing anything
except the job of Mayor.

"My criticism of Boris Johnson is that he is not doing his day job. He takes
time off to write a book about Dick Whittington and Florence Nightingale," he
says, adding that Mr Johnson also writes a column for the Telegraph newspaper.
"I had a column from The Independent [when I was Mayor] and I gave it up because
I didn't have time." Now, he says, he does charity work and unpaid visits
abroad.

As he speaks, Alexander, 36, who works in the building trade, walks up. "Good
hard-working citizens are struggling but people on the dole are living the life
of Riley. How are you going to fix that? How can you be in full employment and
not able to afford to feed your family?" Mr Livingstone talks about cutting
energy bills and his centrepiece policy of reducing fares by seven per cent. He
says there is a surplus in Transport for London's accounts. TfL staff say there
is no such money. Are they lying? "They are lying," he says, insisting the
policy will come into place if he is elected.

He talks of people like Alexander - men struggling to make ends meet - and
blames Margaret Thatcher for starting the process of "neglecting manufacturing".
"It wiped out the jobs that working-class men used to get." He claims to have
predicted a financial crisis in 1983, but was simply shocked it took so long to
come.

He says he is not arrogant enough to say "I told you so", then adds: "I did."

The walkabout follows a less comfortable event earlier in the week when Mr
Livingstone confronted critics in the Jewish community. Members of the audience
questioned Mr Livingstone on his links with an Egyptian cleric; allegations that
he said that Jews were too rich to back him; taking money from the
Iranian-backed Press TV; and so on.

Mr Livingstone hit back on all the points. He was unapologetic about welcoming
Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi, the Muslim cleric who condoned suicide bombings in
Israel, to City Hall when he was Mayor of London. He said that the cleric wanted
to speak out, telling Muslims not to strike their wives, attack Jews or be
homophobic.

Mr Livingstone said that he disagreed with the Sheikh on Israel, but added that
he had denouced terror attacks in Britain and US, calling for Muslims to donate
blood to 9/11 victims. As such the visit was fine in his eyes.

"Should I refuse to meet someone who is condemning terrorist attacks in Britain?
No," he said. He asked why this was such an "obsessive" point for some in the
Jewish community.

On Press TV, he said that he was happy to appear on it because he was never
"censored" and welcomed the chance to broadcast in Iran as a lifelong atheist.
"I loathe Iran," he added, arguing that if he was Iranian he would have been
killed for his political views.

Who's still standing

Boris Johnson (C) Odds: 1/5 Ken Livingstone (Lab) 10/3 Siobhan Benita (Ind) The
former civil servant of 15 years offers herself as "a credible alternative to
Boris and Ken". She resigned from a senior Cabinet Office position to stand. Has
promised a "free London day" when all transport will be free of charge. 33/1

Brian Paddick (Lib Dems)

The former police commander campaigned under the slogan "fresh ideas for
London", and is well respected on crime and policing. Trying to win the votes of
Londoners who "won't vote Boris, can't vote Ken". 100/1

Lawrence Webb (UKIP)

Stood for the London Assembly twice and has campaigned against the expansion of
the low emission zone and the EU's financial services directive. 150/1

Jenny Jones (Green)

A former deputy mayor under Ken Livingstone, London borough councillor and
archaeologist, she has closely allied herself with Ken, encouraging her voters
to use their second votes for him. 200/1

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP)

Uruguayan who moved to the UK in 1989 and wants "a British Britain". 500/1

Femi Solola (Ind)

The Nigerian police community support officer and former teacher says he is "all
about helping to develop communities". 500/1

Odds from William Hill

" A pound spent in Croydon or Tottenham will generate far more than one spent in
Strathclyde " "

"My hope is that the LibDems with Ed Miliband " will leave the Coalition and
form one instead"

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson joins commuters, left, while campaigning earlier this
week. He called his opponent, Ken Livingstone, a Luddite for opposing driverless
Tube trains and said London deserves to receive more public money
Ken Livingstone with Ed Balls at Southwark College in Bermondsey this week: the
Labour candidate has promised to cut energy bills and reduce fares in the
capital by 7 per cent
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, PAUL ROGERS
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, MARY TURNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

No love lost as Ken and Boris square up for poll showdown;
As London prepares to vote, Anushka Asthana meets the two feuding rivals On that
spat: 'He's a barefaced ...' [pauses] Liar? 'Yes' The Tory Mayor

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1970 words


It is the story of Carl Cooper that has caught the attention of Boris Johnson,
the Conservative candidate for Mayor of London. The Kent businessman was said to
be furious after seven new recruits failed to turn up for work - put off by the
torrential rain.

"I'm afraid that is not how they behave if they come from Latvia - they don't.
They come in, they work hard," says Mr Johnson. His biggest aim if he wins
Thursday's election and retains his position is to instil British workers with a
"competitive spirit" and "will to work" that will help them take on diligent
Eastern Europeans, he says.

He wants to make sure that the bulk of 200,000 new positions in London he hopes
to create will go largely to those who have grown up in the city.

"I've got nothing against migrant talent from Eastern Europe and
elsewhere.They've done a superb job for this city," he told The Times. "But we
are seeing far too many new jobs created in London not being taken up by young
people who have grown up in London or indeed this country."

He believes hundreds of thousands of new apprenticeships will pave the way for
young Brits to become more competitive.

But with five days to go before Londoners head to the polls, Mr Johnson knows
that he can't afford to be complacent.

"It is going to be very, very close," he says. And the fact that the economy has
plunged into a double-dip recession is hardly likely to help, he admits. "But it
is all the more reason for Londoners to want a Mayor who focuses on value for
money and who doesn't squander hundreds of millions on wasteful projects of no
economic benefit to the city; doesn't spend his time to go and see Latin
American dictators."

His bitter dislike of Labour's Ken Livingstone is evident throughout. But does
he regret confronting his opponent in a lift and screaming "f***ing liar" three
times in front of other candidates? Surely that was just plain bad manners?
"No," replies Mr Johnson without hesitation. "It is very important that you
understand the context. I had taken the trouble politely to correct Ken
Livingstone about his description of my tax affairs. He said we had the same
arrangements. I've never paid myself through some service company, I've never
avoided tax in that way, I've paid my full share."

Yet Mr Livingstone persisted in saying the opposite, he claims. "When someone
does that and when they are trying to divert attention from themselves by
smearing you, you are entitled to get stroppy."

He says his opponent, who is accused of using a company to minimise tax, has
still failed to produce evidence of his own full earnings. "It is unbelievable,"
he snipes. "He is a barefaced ..." Liar? "Yes." No regrets there, then.

Perhaps it is the tightening polls that have made him nervous. Despite
allegations about Mr Livingstone's tax avoidance, a confrontation with the
Jewish community, and claims that his central policy on cutting transport fares
does not add up, the Labour candidate is snapping at Mr Johnson's heels days
before Thursday's election.

And the Mayor cannot ignore the fact that his party has received a battering in
the media on the back of some deeply unpopular Budget measures.

Take the so-called "Granny tax", for instance.

"Pensioners want to talk to me about the freedom pass," says Mr Johnson,
refusing to be drawn. "I tell them what I'm doing to keep that."

Not that he is shy of taking on his Conservative colleagues in Westminster.

This is the man who warned against "Kosovo-style social cleansing" when the
Government unveiled its housing benefit reforms. "There is no point in picking
gratuitous fights," he says, while adding that he is very prepared to have them.

If he wins the election, Mr Johnson says the biggest fight of his next term will
be to persuade David Cameron and George Osborne to introduce a "Barnett formula"
for London - diverting money from the North towards the capital. He said it is
unfair that the city generates more towards GDP than it gets back in spending.

"London is the motor. London is a massive exporter of tax to the rest of the
country. It has got the biggest potential of anywhere in the UK to get the UK
moving. If London isn't moving, the UK is nowhere. A pound spent in Croydon or
Tottenham, the areas hit by the riots last year, will generate far more for the
rest of the economy than a pound spent in Strathclyde."

He has raised the issue with the Prime Minister. "He said, 'Well I'm on my way
to Derby, how can I explain that to the people of Derby.' I said, 'Well it is
bloody simple' ." Mr Johnson argued that investment in transport in London would
benefit the northernbased company, Bombardier, and as such generate jobs in
Derby. "[Mr Cameron] said, 'Oh well okay, we'll look at that' ." He adds: "The
Treasury basically understands it."

Asked about national politics, Mr Johnson squirms. "I'm far more interested in
driverless trains." And then he hits out at Mr Livingstone again. "'I won't
automate the Tube,' " he says, mimicking his opponent's voice. "LUDDITE.

The guy is a Luddite."

And he claims that Mr Livingstone's pledge to cut fares or resign doesn't add
up. "He should just save time and resign now." Then he throws in one of his own
ideas for transport - to get under-16s to sign up to a "courtesy card" in which
they only qualify for free travel if they promise to respect fellow travellers,
including giving up seats. No swearing for them then? The Labour rival On tax:
'My criticism is that he's not doing his day job'

Ken Livingstone is knocking on doors in Dollis Hill, northwest London. And he is
receiving a positive response.A woman leans out of her window and shouts: "What
is it?" When she catches sight of the London candidate for Mayor of London, she
smiles. "I'll vote for you."

A builder shouts from the roof: "You will win, Ken, won't you?" And three
passing vans beep their horns and stretch out arms with raised thumbs.

With days to go before Londoners head to the ballot box, Mr Livingstone is
feeling confident. He thinks the fact that Britain has entered a double-dip
recession will put people off his Conservative rival, Boris Johnson. "It brings
home the fact that this Government's economic strategy has failed. I was saying
that. Ed Balls was saying that. Ed Miliband was saying that. Just contrast it to
[President] Obama."

Voters in London associate Mr Johnson with those policies, he adds. And the bad
economic news will hurt the Lib Dems too.

"You only have to look at Vince Cable's body language to know this isn't the
sort of coalition he wanted to be in," adds Mr Livingstone as he walks down the
road with his dog, Coco. "My hope is that they will leave the coalition and form
one instead with Ed Miliband."Wishful thinking, perhaps.

Talk turns to Mr Livingstone's tax affairs. He has faced heavy attack for
channelling earnings of about a quarter of a million pounds a year through a
company, Silveta Ltd. He then pays himself a lower salary of about £55,000.

Critics say it is designed to minimise tax, a charge strongly denied by Mr
Livingstone, who says the money is used to pay salaries.

So why, when recently asked to publish his tax returns, did he only reveal the
salary coming out of Silveta and not the money going in? "We would have done it
six months ago, but in the last six days of the election we didn't have the time
to extract the information. Company accounts don't go into that much detail," he
insists.

The Labour candidate has been described as a hypocrite, as he previously
described tax avoiders as "rich bastards" and called for higher income tax rates
for the best off. Asked if he would release further details of his total
earnings after the election, he insists that he would not be doing anything
except the job of Mayor.

"My criticism of Boris Johnson is that he is not doing his day job. He takes
time off to write a book about Dick Whittington and Florence Nightingale," he
says, adding that Mr Johnson also writes a column for the Telegraph newspaper.
"I had a column from The Independent [when I was Mayor] and I gave it up because
I didn't have time." Now, he says, he does charity work and unpaid visits
abroad.

As he speaks, Alexander, 36, who works in the building trade, walks up. "Good
hard-working citizens are struggling but people on the dole are living the life
of Riley. How are you going to fix that? How can you be in full employment and
not able to afford to feed your family?" Mr Livingstone talks about cutting
energy bills and his centrepiece policy of reducing fares by 7 per cent. He says
there is a surplus in Transport for London's accounts. TfL staff say there is no
such money. Are they lying? "They are lying," he says, insisting the policy will
come into place if he is elected.

He talks of people like Alexander - men struggling to make ends meet - and
blames Margaret Thatcher for starting the process of "neglecting manufacturing".
"It wiped out the jobs that working-class men used to get." He claims to have
predicted a financial crisis in 1983, but was simply shocked it took so long to
come.

He says he is not arrogant enough to say "I told you so", then adds: "I did."

The walkabout follows a less comfortable event earlier in the week when Mr
Livingstone confronted critics in the Jewish community. Members of the audience
questioned Mr Livingstone on his links with an Egyptian cleric; allegations that
he said that Jews were too rich to back him; taking money from the
Iranian-backed Press TV; and so on.

Mr Livingstone hit back on all the points. He was unapologetic about welcoming
Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi, the Muslim cleric who condoned suicide bombings in
Israel, to City Hall when he was Mayor of London. He said that the cleric wanted
to speak out, telling Muslims not to strike their wives, attack Jews or be
homophobic.

Mr Livingstone said that he disagreed with the Sheikh on Israel, but added that
he had denounced terror attacks in Britain and US, calling for Muslims to donate
blood to 9/11 victims. As such the visit was fine in his eyes.

"Should I refuse to meet someone who is condemning terrorist attacks in Britain?
No," he said. He asked why this was such an "obsessive" point for some in the
Jewish community.

On Press TV, he said that he was happy to appear on it because he was never
"censored" and welcomed the chance to broadcast in Iran as a lifelong atheist.
"I loathe Iran," he added, arguing that if he was Iranian he would have been
killed for his political views.

Who's still standing

Boris Johnson (C) Odds: 1/5

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 10/3

Siobhan Benita (Ind) The former civil servant of 15 years offers herself as "a
credible alternative to Boris and Ken". She resigned from a senior Cabinet
Office position to stand. Has promised a "free London day" when all transport
will be free of charge. 33/1 Brian Paddick (Lib Dems)

The former police commander campaigned under the slogan "fresh ideas for
London", and is well respected on crime and policing. Trying to win the votes of
Londoners who "won't vote Boris, can't vote Ken". 100/1 Lawrence Webb (UKIP)

Stood for the London Assembly twice and has campaigned against the expansion of
the low emission zone and the EU's financial services directive. 150/1 Jenny
Jones (Green)

A former deputy mayor under Ken Livingstone, London borough councillor and
archaeologist, she has closely allied herself with Ken, encouraging her voters
to use their second votes for him. 200/1 Carlos Cortiglia (BNP)

Uruguayan who moved to the UK in 1989 and wants "a British Britain". 500/1 Femi
Solola (Ind) The Nigerian police community support officer and former teacher
says he is "all about helping to develop communities". 500/1

Odds from William Hill

" A pound spent in Croydon or Tottenham will generate far more than one spent in
Strathclyde " "

My hope is that the Lib Dems with Ed Miliband " will leave the Coalition and
form one instead

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson joins commuters, left, while campaigning earlier this
week. He called his opponent, Ken Livingstone, a Luddite for opposing driverless
Tube trains and said London deserves to receive more public money
Ken Livingstone with Ed Balls at Southwark College in Bermondsey this week: the
Labour candidate has promised to cut energy bills and reduce fares in the
capital by 7 per cent
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, PAUL ROGERS
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, MARY TURNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

No love lost as Ken and Boris square up for poll showdown;
As London prepares to vote, Anushka Asthana meets the two feuding rivals On that
spat: 'He's a barefaced ...' [pauses] Liar? 'Yes'

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1954 words


The Tory Mayor Boris Johnson believes that British workers need to be instilled
with a "competitive spirit" and "will to work" that will help them to win jobs
over hardworking Eastern Europeans.

The Tory Mayor of London says that young Britons are "falling by the wayside".
He wants 200,000 new jobs, which he hopes to create in the capital, to go
largely to people who have grown up in the city.

Mr Johnson is fighting to keep his job and the mayoral election is only days
away as he speaks to The Times. "I've got nothing against migrant talent from
Eastern Europe and elsewhere," he says. "They've done a superb job for this
city. But we are seeing far too many new jobs created in London not being taken
up by young people who have grown up in London or indeed this country."

It is the story of Carl Cooper, a Kent businessman, that has caught his
attention.Mr Cooper was reported to be furious after seven new recruits failed
to turn up for work - put off by the torrential rain.

"I'm afraid that is not how they behave if they come from Latvia - they don't.
They come in, they work hard," says Mr Johnson, who is dressed in a smart grey
suit, but still looks ruffled, perhaps because of his messy hair. "We need to
make sure young people in London are competitive ... It is about getting them in
a state of mind."

He hopes to accomplish that by a series of new apprenticeships that will help to
train largely British workers.

With Thursday's election looming, Mr Johnson knows that he cannot afford to be
complacent. "It is going to be very, very close," he says, leaning forward and
placing his elbows on the table. And that the economy has plunged into a
double-dip recession is hardly likely to help, he admits.

"But it is all the more reason for Londoners to want a mayor who focuses on
value for money and who doesn't squander hundreds of millions on wasteful
projects of no economic benefit to the city, doesn't spend his time to go and
see Latin American dictators."

His bitter dislike of Labour's Ken Livingstone is evident throughout. But does
he regret confronting his opponent in a lift and screaming "f***ing liar" three
times in front of other candidates? Surely that was just plain bad manners?
"No," he replies without hesitation."It is very important that you understand
the context. I had taken the trouble politely to correct Ken Livingstone about
his description of my tax affairs. He said we had the same arrangements.I've
never paid myself through some service company. I've never avoided tax in that
way, I've paid my full share.

"Yet Mr Livingstone persisted in saying the opposite, he claims. "When someone
does that and when they are trying to divert attention from themselves by
smearing you, you are entitled to get stroppy."

He says that his opponent, who is accused of using a company to minimise tax,
has still failed to produce evidence of his own full earnings. "It is
unbelievable.He is a barefaced ..." Liar? "Yes." No regrets there, then.

Perhaps it is the tightening polls that have made him nervous. Despite
allegations about Mr Livingstone's tax avoidance, a confrontation with the
Jewish community, and claims that his central policy on cutting transport fares
does not add up, the Labour candidate is snapping at Mr Johnson's heels days
before the election.

And it is not just the recession that could hurt Mr Johnson's chances in the
final week. The mayor cannot ignore that his party has taken a battering in the
media after some deeply unpopular Budget measures. Take the so-called Granny
tax, for instance.

"Pensioners want to talk to me about the freedom pass," he says, refusing to be
drawn. "I tell them what I'm doing to keep that."

Not that he is shy of taking on his Conservative colleagues in Westminster.This
is the man who warned against "Kosovo-style social cleansing" when the
Government presented its housing benefit reforms. "There is no point in picking
gratuitous fights," he says, while adding that he is very prepared to have them.

If he wins the election, he says, the biggest fight of his next term will be to
persuade David Cameron and George Osborne to introduce a "Barnett formula" for
London - diverting money from the North towards the capital. He believes that it
is unfair that the city generates more towards GDP than it gets back in
spending.

And Mr Johnson says that he has persuaded the Treasury to look into his
proposals - because "clever economists" know it could boost the economy. "London
is the motor. London is a massive exporter of tax to the rest of the country. It
has got the biggest potential of anywhere in the UK to get the UK moving. If
London isn't moving, the UK is nowhere.

"A pound spent in Croydon or Tottenham, the areas hit by the riots last year,
will generate far more for the rest of the economy than a pound spent in
Strathclyde."

? Mr Johnson's comments provoked fury in Scotland, with Gordon Matheson, leader
of the Labour group at Glasgow City Council, saying: "I think Boris has lost the
plot. Everyone has to fight their corner but we need investment across the
country, not just in one part of it.

"These are deeply bewildering remarks which probably explain why the Tories are
almost as unpopular in London as they are in Scotland. I always stand up for my
city - but don't want to do down others."

The Labour rival On tax: 'My criticism is that he's not doing his day job' en
Livingstone is knocking Kon doors in Dollis Hill, northwest London. And he is
receiving a positive response.

A woman leans out of her window and shouts: "What is it?" When she catches sight
of the London candidate for Mayor of London, she smiles. "I'll vote for you."

A builder shouts from the roof: "You will win, Ken, won't you?" And three
passing vans beep their horns and stretch out arms with raised thumbs.

With days to go before Londoners head to the ballot box, Mr Livingstone is
feeling confident. He thinks the fact that Britain has entered a double-dip
recession will put people off his Conservative rival, Boris Johnson. "It brings
home the fact that this Government's economic strategy has failed. I was saying
that. Ed Balls was saying that. Ed Miliband was saying that. Just contrast it to
[President] Obama."

Voters in London associate Mr Johnson with those policies, he adds. And the bad
economic news will hurt the Lib Dems too.

"You only have to look at Vince Cable's body language to know this isn't the
sort of coalition he wanted to be in," adds Mr Livingstone as he walks down the
road with his dog, Coco. "My hope is that they will leave the coalition and form
one instead with Ed Miliband."

Wishful thinking, perhaps.

Talk turns to Mr Livingstone's tax affairs. He has faced heavy attack for
channelling earnings of about a quarter of a million pounds a year through a
company, Silveta Ltd. He then pays himself a lower salary of about £55,000.

Critics say it is designed to minimise tax, a charge strongly denied by Mr
Livingstone, who says the money is used to pay salaries.

So why, when recently asked to publish his tax returns, did he only reveal the
salary coming out of Silveta and not the money going in? "We would have done it
six months ago, but in the last six days of the election we didn't have the time
to extract the information. Company accounts don't go into that much detail," he
insists.

The Labour candidate has been described as a hypocrite, as he previously
described tax avoiders as "rich bastards" and called for higher income tax rates
for the best off. Asked if he would release further details of his total
earnings after the election, he insists that he would not be doing anything
except the job of Mayor.

"My criticism of Boris Johnson is that he is not doing his day job. He takes
time off to write a book about Dick Whittington and Florence Nightingale," he
says, adding that Mr Johnson also writes a column for the Telegraph newspaper.
"I had a column from The Independent [when I was Mayor] and I gave it up because
I didn't have time." Now, he says, he does charity work and unpaid visits
abroad.

As he speaks, Alexander, 36, who works in the building trade, walks up. "Good
hard-working citizens are struggling but people on the dole are living the life
of Riley. How are you going to fix that? How can you be in full employment and
not able to afford to feed your family?" Mr Livingstone talks about cutting
energy bills and his centrepiece policy of reducing fares by seven per cent. He
says there is a surplus in Transport for London's accounts. TfL staff say there
is no such money. Are they lying? "They are lying," he says, insisting the
policy will come into place if he is elected.

He talks of people like Alexander - men struggling to make ends meet - and
blames Margaret Thatcher for starting the process of "neglecting manufacturing".
"It wiped out the jobs that working-class men used to get." He claims to have
predicted a financial crisis in 1983, but was simply shocked it took so long to
come.

He says he is not arrogant enough to say "I told you so", then adds: "I did."

The walkabout follows a less comfortable event earlier in the week when Mr
Livingstone confronted critics in the Jewish community. Members of the audience
questioned Mr Livingstone on his links with an Egyptian cleric; allegations that
he said that Jews were too rich to back him; taking money from the
Iranian-backed Press TV; and so on.

Mr Livingstone hit back on all the points. He was unapologetic about welcoming
Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi, the Muslim cleric who condoned suicide bombings in
Israel, to City Hall when he was Mayor of London. He said that the cleric wanted
to speak out, telling Muslims not to strike their wives, attack Jews or be
homophobic.

Mr Livingstone said that he disagreed with the Sheikh on Israel, but added that
he had denouced terror attacks in Britain and US, calling for Muslims to donate
blood to 9/11 victims. As such the visit was fine in his eyes.

"Should I refuse to meet someone who is condemning terrorist attacks in Britain?
No," he said. He asked why this was such an "obsessive" point for some in the
Jewish community.

On Press TV, he said that he was happy to appear on it because he was never
"censored" and welcomed the chance to broadcast in Iran as a lifelong atheist.
"I loathe Iran," he added, arguing that if he was Iranian he would have been
killed for his political views.

Who's still standing

Boris Johnson (C) Odds: 1/5

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 10/3

Siobhan Benita (Ind) The former civil servant of 15 years offers herself as "a
credible alternative to Boris and Ken". She resigned from a senior Cabinet
Office position to stand. Has promised a "free London day" when all transport
will be free of charge. 33/1

Brian Paddick (Lib Dems)

The former police commander campaigned under the slogan "fresh ideas for
London", and is well respected on crime and policing. Trying to win the votes of
Londoners who "won't vote Boris, can't vote Ken". 100/1

Lawrence Webb (UKIP)

Stood for the London Assembly twice and has campaigned against the expansion of
the low emission zone and the EU's financial services directive. 150/1

Jenny Jones (Green)

A former deputy mayor under Ken Livingstone, London borough councillor and
archaeologist, she has closely allied herself with Ken, encouraging her voters
to use their second votes for him. 200/1

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP)

Uruguayan who moved to the UK in 1989 and wants "a British Britain". 500/1 Femi
Solola (Ind) The Nigerian police community support officer and former teacher
says he is "all about helping to develop communities". 500/1

Odds from William Hill

" A pound spent in Croydon or Tottenham will generate far more than one spent in
Strathclyde " "

My hope is that the LibDems with Ed Miliband " will leave the Coalition and form
one instead

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson joins commuters, left, while campaigning earlier this
week. He called his opponent, Ken Livingstone, a Luddite for opposing driverless
Tube trains and said London deserves to receive more public money
Ken Livingstone with Ed Balls at Southwark College in Bermondsey this week: the
Labour candidate has promised to cut energy bills and reduce fares in the
capital by 7 per cent
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, PAUL ROGERS
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, MARY TURNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

LENGTH: 468 words


BELEAGUERED Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt and Co and his former special adviser
Adam Smith look rather precious. Yesterday, talking to reporters about the final
programme for the Cultural Olympiad, Hunt mentioned the current David Hockney
exhibition' which has closed. And how 40 of Shakespeare's plays - all in foreign
languages - were being staged by the Royal Shakespeare Company. In fact it's 37
plays in 37 different languages. He said Britain's film industry has more
international hits than Hollywood. Not so. Hunt left his press conference early.
But not early enough perhaps.

FORMER political editor and redtop love rat' Michael Crick, 53, who left the BBC
for Channel 4 last year after 20 years - having been informed he was losing his
Newsnight gig - might still be smarting from this indignity. After it's
announced that Channel 4 editor Jim Gray is leaving after 14 years, Crick posts
a Tweet saying that in this time Newsnight has had seven editors'.

VETERAN singer-songwriter Buffy Sainte-Marie, 71,  pictured in her prime,
performed on May 8, 1966, at the Royal Albert Hall. Music writer Kingsley Abbott
was there. After signing his programme, Canadian-born Buffy disappeared carrying
his pen. Now, 46 years on, after an interview with Abbott for Record Collector
magazine, she returned the pen. Isn't life grand?

PRIAPIC Boris Johnson is named the most appealing romantic companion of the
current mayoral candidates by the  website freedating.co.uk, polling 43 per cent
compared to 24 per cent for Labour's Ken Livingstone. Who, incidentally, once
startled a date by advising her: I'm like a broomstick in the morning.' Why
would any sensible woman entertain either smelly old tomcat?

UKIP leader Nigel Farage tells Radio 4's Sarah Montague we would be better off
by 50million quid a day' if we quit the EU. Farage is on the up but isn't it
time for him to have a clear-out of extinct Tory volcanoes from the Ukip ranks?
Languid old booby Lord Hesketh did them no good on BBC2 recently, drivelling
about campaigning as a seven-year-old with Harold Macmillan, Tory premier from
1957 to 1963. Please!

RIGHT-leaning historian Niall Ferguson, now based in the US, urges his Oxford
colleagues to honour Margaret Thatcher, arguing: No graduate of Oxford
University did more to restore Britain's postwar economic fortunes.' In 1985,
Lady Thatcher was denied the traditional honorary degree awarded to
Oxford-educated premiers, purportedly because of her cuts to university funding.
Pointing out that former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger has been welcomed
back to Harvard, having being banished over the Vietnam War transgressions he
now regrets, Ferguson says: Now it is Oxford's turn to grow up.' Might they take
more notice of him if he didn't say he now preferred the US to Britain?

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Johnson 'will be re-elected mayor, but without key allies'

BYLINE: Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 274 words


BORIS JOHNSON will be re-elected mayor next week but risks becoming crippled
politically without key aides or an effective majority in the London Assembly,
according to an opinion poll.

The poll, by Survation for The Daily Telegraph, gives Mr Johnson an eightpoint
lead over his Labour rival, Ken Livingstone, after second-preference votes are
counted.

The poll, the second in two days to show this lead, will come as a relief to
Tory strategists after weeks of disasters for the Government and an earlier
survey showing the race effectively neck-and-neck.

But the Tories face a collapse in their vote for elections to the London
Assembly the same day. The poll says they will be reduced to just eight of the
assembly's 25 seats, one short of the one-third majority Mr Johnson needs to
pass his budget.

Brian Coleman, Mr Johnson's fire authority chairman, seems likely to lose his
assembly seat, the poll says. Mr Johnson's deputy mayor, Richard Barnes, is also
at risk. The most high-profile Tory casualty could be Mr Johnson's policing
chief, Kit Malthouse, whose lead over Labour in his assembly seat is within the
margin of error.

The poll of 1,450 Londoners is the first to measure specific voting intentions
by assembly constituency, though pollsters cautioned that small samples mean
there is a wider than normal margin of error.

Tony Travers, of the London School of Economics, said: "There is now the chance
of a classic American congress versus president-style gridlock."

The poll also says that the UK Independence Party and the Greens will do better
than expected, winning four assembly seats and 10 per cent of the mayoral vote
between them.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU migrants to get free healthcare here

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words


BRITAIN was ordered by EU chiefs last night to give millions of foreigners full
access to NHS healthcare.

In a move that could cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of pounds, the
Brusselsbased European Commission insisted that immigrants from within the EU
are entitled to stay and use the service indefinitely even if they do not pay UK
taxes.

The Eurocrats ordered the British Government to scrap current rules stating that
jobless EU citizens cannot stay in the country for more than three months unless
they have their own health insurance.

"This breaches EU law," said a statement from the commission.

It insisted that "entitleour ment to treatment by the UK public healthcare
scheme" was sufficient to allow migrants without health insurance to stay
indefinitely.

The Government was given just two months to comply or face being dragged to the
EU's European Court of Justice and hit with a swingeing fine.

And it was also instructed to go much further in giving full rights to EU
citizens to live and work in Britain.

Furious critics of the EU last night urged David Cameron to stand up and flout
the latest diktat coming out of Brussels.

Tory MP Peter Bone said: "We cannot allow the EU to force us to allow health
tourists to come and sponge off NHS. I hope the Government will do all it can to
resist this directive."

Fellow Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "Another week, another outrage from
Brussels.

"I thought we elected a government to run Britain but it seems we are governed
by Europe.

"Our grandparents' generation created a national welfare system but Brussels is
trying to turn it into a welfare system for every European.

We have to get out of the EU."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "These demands
with menaces from Brussels destroy any ability of the UK to set conditions on EU
nationals from entering the UK and once here taking advantage of our welfare
state.

"The EU is undermining British interests.

"I would like to remind the Eurocracy that the NHS is the National, not the
International Health Service." The latest onslaught from Brussels follows
demands for Britain to give EU migrants rights to claim a string of welfare
benefits.

Employment Minister Chris Grayling has vowed that the Government will fight that
decision - which could cost taxpayers around £1billion a year. The Commission
also demanded that Britain allows non-EU relatives of EU citizens to travel to
or apply for residency in the UK.

"The UK laws do not grant this important right which lies at the heart of free
movement," the European Commission said.

And it also wants the UK to scrap rules which prevent workers from Bulgaria and
Romania having full rights to live in Britain.

A European Commission spokeswoman confirmed failure to comply could mean a fine.

opinion: page 12

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

COMMENTARY;
NiGEL faraGE Euro MP and UK Independence Party

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 270 words


I MUST again remind the EU - Britain has the National Health Service, not the
International Health Service.

When a bully starts to lose their power, they redouble their efforts to exert
control. The EU faces the collapse of the Dutch Government over EU austerity
plans, the destruction of democracy in Italy and Greece, and the growth of debt
and unemployment.

They are realising the game is up, and now their bully side shows.

So it should come as no surprise the EU wants Britain to roll over to its
demands to drop what little border controls we have left over migration from
Bulgaria and Romania.

In a strongly worded order, the EU has instructed the UK to tear up its legal
defences against people taking advantage of our welfare state.

But Britain reserves the right to ensure that those who come here from Bulgaria
and Romania are required to "have sufficient resources and sickness insurance".

Not according to the EU. To them, the fact we have a NHS means they don't need
to provide for themselves.

They must be forcefully reminded the National Health Service was not built by
taxes and sweat of generations in this country for the EU to decide who may or
may not have access to it.

Our schools and hospitals didn't just pop up out the ground, fully equipped and
staffed. They were created to ensure that the people of this country were
educated and looked after in sickness.

At no point did those men and women think that a foreign power would have the
desire or ability to instruct our Government to do as it was told over these
vital services.

We are in grave danger of becoming a vassal state, nothing more, nothing less.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip pins election hopes on 'disenchanted' voters

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words


ANTI-Brussels party Ukip is expecting a "big increase" in its vote at next
week's local elections - thanks to unprecedented disenchantment with the
traditional main parties, leader Nigel Farage said yesterday.

Launching the party's manifesto for the May 3 polls he said Ukip was attracting
support from across the political spectrum, including disaffected Labour and Lib
Dem supporters, as well as Conservatives.

One recent poll put Ukip ahead of the Lib Dems in voter support. But Mr Farage
said he could not predict how many seats the party would have by next Friday.
Ukip is contesting only about 30 per cent of seats up for election.

Mr Farage said that unlike some other parties it could not pinpoint specific
areas where its supporters were concentrated since it had backers right across
the country.

"I just don't know how many seats we are going to win - but we will travel
optimistically," he said.

"We expect a big increase in our vote, particularly in seats where we have stood
before although I also think in seats we are fighting for the first time we will
do respectably well."

He was "very confident", however, that Ukip would win its first seats in the
London Assembly.

Last year Ukip won control of its first council - Ramsey Town Council in
Cambridgeshire.

In 2009 it secured the second largest share of votes after the Conservatives in
UK elections to the European Parliament, pushing Labour into third place.

Mr Farage said his party had evolved from a "protest group" focused on winning
independence from Brussels to develop policies for how Britain could be governed
once that goal was achieved.

Ukip's "straight-talking manifesto for the local elections" includes freezing
permanent immigration for five years and withholding state benefits from
migrants until they have been lawfully here for five years.

Mr Farage also pledged to end the "unrestricted, open door flow of labour from
eastern Europe".

Other Ukip policies include halting cuts to frontline council, police and health
staff; giving local people more power over police, planning, education and
transport services; opposing wind farms and the HS2 high speed rail link;
building more grammar schools; and "insisting that schools teach the three Rs".

Mr Farage also pledged to hand "power to the people" locally or nationally to
call binding referenda on key issues.

He told the launch: "Disenchantment with the so-called main parties has never
been greater. You cannot put a cigarette paper between them on issues of major
substance."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sorry, we can't turn up for new job...it's raining

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 559 words


COMPANY bosses who offered jobs to seven benefit claimants were shocked to be
told they couldn't come in - because it was raining.

When Stefan Black and Carl Cooper challenged the work-shy slackers, they simply
said they were better off at home in the dry and living on benefits.

One told them: "Oh, it's raining, sorry", another claimed - at 12.45pm - they
had overslept and a third said her father had told her she was better off on the
dole.

Mr Cooper, 26, who runs a telesales firm with Mr Black in Canterbury, Kent, said
yesterday: "They were quite honest about it - that they would rather not have to
get up in the morning, not come out in the rain, not spend £5 getting into work
and not lose their benefits."

Mr Black, 39, added: "The underlying message from most of them was that coming
into work wasn't worth their time, and that they were worried they were going to
lose their benefits."

The businessmen revealed their shock just a week after official figures showed
the number of Britons on the dole is growing.

Twisted The jobs with online marketing firm Car Smart were advertised through
recruitment websites and the Jobcentre.

Anyone taking up a job would receive basic pay of £100 a week plus whatever they
could earn in commission for sales.

Mr Cooper said: "Even the basic pay for fulfilling the minimum requirements of
the work would be double what they could get on job seekers' allowance. But for
seven to be no-shows is unbelievable. They have no motivation.

"For some people, they would rather sit at home on PlayStation rather than
interact and build their social skills. It's a toxic virus that's affecting the
whole employment market."

Mr Cooper said he had even rented extra office space to accommodate the new
staff, set up computers and sent out paperwork and maps to the successful
applicants.

He said: "We spent time setting up folders for them yet not one had the decency
to phone in to say they weren't coming.

"These are people who are so morally twisted that they would rather stay on the
dole than work.

All seven are currently unemployed. One told me because he is in a relationship
and has children, he would lose too much in benefits and couldn't afford that."

Canterbury Tory MP Julian Brazier said: "The benefits system is shot to pieces.

"This story is just one more reason why we need reforms the Government is
bringing in.

"We have to restore the incentives to work by changing the levels of benefits
and taxes and we need much tougher penalties for those who fail to turn up for
jobs."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, the local Euro MP, said: "The benefits system as it is
discourages work. There should be benefits from working.

"We need a carrot and stick approach with changes to the tax system to help
those on low wages and greater incentives to get off benefits and into jobs."

Adam Marshall, of the British Chamber of Commerce, said he had heard similar
tales from businessmen around the country.

He said: "It is ridiculous that businesses find themselves making offers in good
faith to find the applicants caught in a benefits trap. "There are thousands of
vacancies that go unfilled for a long time despite the depressed jobs market.

"Work should always pay more than the benefits system. We want a country were
people get not just a pay cheque but the value, confi-dence and self-esteem that
comes with being in the workplace."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shocked Carl Cooper at his office yesterday
Picture: SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP is making big strides;
THE NORTHERN & SHELL BUILDING NUMBER 10 LOWER THAMES STREET, LONDON EC3R 6EN
Tel: 0208 612 7000 (outside UK: +44 208 612 7000)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 155 words


NO CARTEL in history has ever welcomed a newcomer into the marketplace so the
invective that is thrown at the United Kingdom Independence Party by Labour, the
Lib Dems and the Conservatives is only to be expected.

For years voters have been told that UKIP is a refuge for extremists or even for
the insane. As recently as this month Tory Energy Minister Greg Barker described
its agenda as "swiveleyed".

But the smears have stopped working as UKIP has been proved right on the euro
and on wider EU issues too.

UKIP's agenda has now broadened to include other commonsense policies that were
long ago abandoned by the three established parties: more grammar schools, lower
taxes, strong defence, less foreign aid, radical cuts to immigration and a
tougher approach to law and order.

Its leader Nigel Farage is predicting another major advance in local elections
next week. If he achieves one then shockwaves will be felt in Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

London mayoral election - how to vote

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 615 words

ABSTRACT

Paul Owen explains the London voting system - and how you can vote tactically on
3 May

FULL TEXT

Thursday's elections for mayor of London and the London assembly both use voting
systems that are different from Westminster's.

The London voting systems are intended to more closely reflect voters' views
than the traditional first-past-the-post system that is used to elect MPs.

Voters will get three ballot papers: a yellow one and an orange one for the
London assembly, and a pink one for the mayor.

Mayor of London

For this contest, you get a pink ballot paper and can cast two votes: one vote
in the first column for your first choice, the second vote in the second column
for your second choice. Vote with a cross not a number.

If a candidate receives more than half of the first-choice votes, he or she is
elected.

If not, the two candidates with the most first-choice votes - almost certainly
Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone - go to a run-off, with all the other
candidates eliminated.

All the ballot papers where eliminated candidates are down as first choice are
looked at again, and any second-preference votes for the top two candidates are
added to the totals for those candidates.

The candidate with the most first- and second-choice votes combined wins.

Tactical tips

1. If you are voting for Livingstone or Johnson as your first preference, your
second preference will almost certainly not count. Second preferences are only
redistributed when a ballot paper has as its first preference someone who was
eliminated in the first round - and neither Livingstone nor Johnson are likely
to be eliminated in the first round.

2. If you are in favour of Lib Dem Brian Paddick, Green Jenny Jones, independent
Siobhan Benita, Ukip's Lawrence Webb, or the BNP's Carlos Cortiglia, put them as
your first preference rather than your second. This is the only way they stand a
chance of making it into the second round. If you give them a second-preference
vote, this will only count if they get enough first-preference votes from other
people to get into the second round.

3. Because the second round is likely to be between Ken and Boris, if you have
voted for any other candidate as your first choice, it might be a good idea to
choose between Labour and the Conservatives for your second - as then you will
still get some say in who will run London even if your real favourite is
eliminated.

London assembly

As well as voting for the mayor of London, you can also elect the 25 members of
the London assembly, which acts as a check on the mayor.

The assembly is made up of 14 constituency members - who represent different
areas of the capital - and 11 London-wide members, who represent the city as a
whole.

Your yellow ballot paper allows you to vote for a constituency member (your
constituency is usually made up of your borough and a neighbouring borough).
This is exactly the same as voting for an MP in a general election: you vote for
one candidate with a cross, and the candidate with the most votes in that
constituency wins that seat.

Your orange ballot paper is for the London-wide members. It lists all parties
standing in London. You vote for one party with a cross.

Then all the orange London-wide votes are added together, and any party
receiving less than 5% of the vote is eliminated. The 11 London-wide assembly
seats are then allocated in proportion to their share of the vote. So last time,
for example, the Greens received 8.29% of London-wide votes and got two
London-wide seats on the assembly.

The 11 London-wide seats and the 14 constituency seats make up the whole
assembly.

· Paul Owen is live-blogging the mayoral election campaign at
guardian.co.uk/london-mayor-blog-2012

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 699 words


&#10002;We're all getting older or living longer. That's the good bit. But all
this longevity is expensive, and nobody knows how we are going to pay for it.
That's the bad. And so it is right that MPs on the all-party local government
group plan a searching inquiry into the future of social care. They'll look at
the stats, hear from experts and hope to channel the results into the
government's hotly anticipated white paper. The inquiry itself will not be cheap
but it will be independent, officials tell us. They have a process filled with
checks and balances. MPs who, like our friend Mr Hunt, the culture secretary,
prize their integrity. And so it doesn't really matter that essential funding
for the project is being provided by Partnership, "the largest provider of
long-term care annuities in the UK", judged "best long-term care provider" at
the Health Insurance awards 2009, 2010 and 2011. It's not a problem. It's merely
an example of public-private partnership. As we know, to date, those have gone
really well.

&#10002;Another day, another ball dropped by those who would govern. Ministers
continue to argue with the European court about their right to deport the terror
superstar Abu Qatada. And is this making them nervous about the other legal
entanglements they might have with Europe? You bet. Can government say "what
assessment they have made of whether their proposal for minimum pricing on
alcohol is compliant with European Union law", asked the Ukip peer Lord
Willoughby de Broke? In a word, no, replied the Home Office via Lord Henley:
"The legal advice which the government have received on this issue is subject to
legal privilege. We do not, therefore, believe it appropriate to disclose this
advice (or any summary of it)." All part of the new transparency.

&#10002;No Ken Clarke, alas, at the annual meeting of British American Tobacco.
Having served his time as advocate for the worldwide fagmeisters, the justice
secretary retired from the board in 2008. But those who remain were at London's
Banqueting House. Aren't you ashamed, asked Deborah Arnott, of the anti-smoking
charity Ash, of making so much profit out of "misery" and "addiction",
particularly from those drawn to your cigarettes at an early age? Er, no, said
chairman Richard Burrows. It's a legal product. We don't encourage children. And
the room was with him. Well, almost. He did get an earful from one angry
shareholder. Where are the light refreshments, the complainant said.

&#10002;An exciting time on the London mayoral campaign trail for Lib Dem Brian
Paddick, meanwhile. He won't win next Thursday's race. But his burgeoning
political career will have taken another lurch upwards. Next stop the House of
Lords, perhaps. It's been an all-encompassing campaign, but it would be
understandable if the candidate's eye were drawn to events in Norway, where
rightwing terrorist Anders Breivik stands trial for the murder of 77 people.
Paddick, it emerges, was married in the same Oslo courthouse. A place of joy,
and incalculable sorrow.

&#10002;All week we've been reviewing the 1970s via the curious index of Dominic
Sandbrook's new history, Seasons in the Sun: The Battle for Britain 1974-1979.
And throughout the question has lingered, what does he have to say about
Margaret Thatcher and the Tory former home secretary Reginald Maudling? Each
made their contribution to the national life; thus each has a place in
Sandbrook's evocation. There's Maudling: "drinks a jug of Dubonnet and gin";
"likens Thatcher to a grub"; and "summons up enough energy to be quite rude". As
for Thatcher herself, she "likes to be made a fuss of by a lot of chaps". Later,
she "makes a mess of some Cadbury Creme Eggs". The least of her crimes, we
think.

&#10002;But then she had much to contend with. Remember John Nott, who led the
Ministry of Defence as our boys headed for the Falklands? Left to him, he told
an anniversary conference at the University of Kent, the outcome would have been
very different. He was too busy looking eastwards, he said, because "without
nuclear weapons we would now be part of the Soviet Union". And she would have
said: "Frit, frit, frit."

Diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 27, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Letters: As predicted, here's the recession

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1641 words


The UK is now back in recession. The Coalition may be right that in the
long-term the economy needs to be "rebalanced" away from the public sector to
the private sector. But how do we get to a point when that can start to happen?

The Opposition's claims of "cutting too fast and too deep" sound a bit more
convincing now. I was never convinced that after decades of over-reliance upon
the public sector, job losses in that sector would inevitably lead to
job-creation and growth in the private sector. It would appear you can't just
cut your way to economic growth.

John Boylan

Hatfield, Hertfordshire

I am sorry but not surprised to hear that our economy has entered a double-dip
recession.

Time and time again it has been proven that investment is the key to an economic
rebound. Economic contraction was clearly going to happen under a Chancellor
determined to continue with 19th-century fiscal policy, as any attempt to
eliminate the deficit rapidly was always going to threaten economic recovery.

When Labour left office in 2010, we were benefiting from real economic growth,
sustained by a budget deficit that would be closed in good time. But this wasn't
good enough for the Tories. They warned that Labour would borrow at an
unsustainable level, to the extent that we'd end up like Greece. Now it emerges
that we are set to borrow £150bn more than Chancellor Darling had planned and
we've regressed into the first double-dip recession since the 1970s, probably
triggering even more borrowing.

If any other senior Government had made such a monumental error, surely they
would be expected to resign. If there ever was a need for Plan B, it is now.

Jack H G Darrant

London SW2

I fail to understand why people are blaming the Government for the double-dip
recession. At the last general election, the Tories stood on a policy of
austerity. Almost all economists whose views I heard at the time said that this
would almost certainly lead to a double-dip recession.

The simple fact is that the voters elected a government with a manifesto which
in effect promised to regress the economy. Instead of complaining, surely we
should instead be applauding the Government for fulfilling an election pledge so
quickly after coming to power.

James Ingram

London SE1

Murdoch and Hunt: complicity or shambles?

So Adam Smith, long-time "special adviser" to the Culture Secretary, Jeremy
Hunt, has fallen on his sword and resigned. There are two possible explanations.

One is that Jeremy Hunt knew exactly what was going on. The second is that his
office was so shambolic that he didn't have a clue what was going on and that in
relation to one of the most significant issues that his department was dealing
with, his senior official didn't think it was worth informing him of his illicit
and potentially illegal contacts with BSkyB.

Richard Knights

Liverpool

I wonder if your readers can enlighten me, as I feel I'm missing something in
the Jeremy Hunt saga. Wouldn't most people involved in negotiations over the
BSkyB takeover have thought: "Duh, my special adviser has close connections with
News International. They're bidding for BSkyB. Perhaps I shouldn't really employ
this adviser at this time"?

Is Mr Hunt very stupid or just very naive? In either case, is he fit to be a
minister? Someone needs to clean out the Augean stables of the special adviser
issue - quickly.

Pamela Manfield

Stotfold, Bedfordshire

What is most disturbing is that politicians treat us with such contempt. They
seem to take it as read that they can deny all knowledge of wrongdoing and sack
an underling and the great British public will take their word.

How an earth can these people refer to each other as "the honourable"? Is there
such a thing as a conviction politician with an ounce of integrity or dignity
left?

Glyn Scott

Barry

Have the rules changed regarding managers, leaders and those in positions of
responsibility? During my working life it was always accepted that when mistakes
are made the buck stops at the top.

However, in the case of Jeremy Hunt it appears this rule does not apply. In his
case ignorance is bliss. How many other ministers do not know what is going on
in their offices and how many special advisers are loose cannons acting without
recourse to their managers and the electorate?

This is not democracy; it is anarchy.

Graham Jarvis

Guiseley, West Yorkshire

Both James Murdoch and Jeremy Hunt were guilty of working on the principle "hear
no evil, see no evil".

Mr Murdoch repeatedly claimed he did not know what his staff did. He wasn't told
and didn't ask, he didn't remember reading crucial emails. Therefore what
happened while he was in charge was nothing to do with him. Mr Hunt claims that
because he acted with "total integrity" the behaviour of his special adviser was
nothing to do with him.

What planet do they live on?

Peter Moyes

Brightlingsea, Essex

Nine months after "the most humble day of his life" Rupert Murdoch has clearly
overcome his humility.

Last year, some apologies were made, some people were sacked, some large
pay-outs were made to a handful of phone-hacking victims and a newspaper was
shut down.

A swift damage limitation exercise by News Corp's public relations helped the
company's share price to stabilise and circulation figures of the new title
launched to fill the vacuum left by the News of the World top 2.5 million.
Despite being the central figure in a scandal that goes to the core of our
democratic politics Murdoch's demeanour now suggests that of a man who does not
see what all the fuss is about.

Stefan Simanowitz

London NW3

Did Jeremy Hunt say to David Cameron, "We're all in this together"?

Howard Pilott

Lewes

Young women on the phone

John Walsh is concerned about his daughter's constant mobile phone use ("I never
used to worry that mobiles could damage your health. I worry now", 26 April).

Why do so many young women - far more than their male counterparts - seem to
spend so much time talking or texting on their mobiles? Almost every young woman
I see in public is constantly using her mobile phone, whether she's crossing the
road, queuing at a cash machine, doing her weekly shop, travelling on public
transport, pushing a pram or even exercising in the gym.

Also, on several occasions recently, my wife and I have witnessed young women
sitting together in a pub or restaurant, but spending the entire evening
obsessively checking their phones every minute or running outside to "take a
call", instead of actually talking to each other. Why?

Pete Dorey

Bath

Nuns in clash with the Vatican

I really cannot allow Tom Baxter's comments on the Catholic nuns in the USA to
go unchallenged(letter, 24 April). It is disgraceful to suggest that these women
support abortion. They are in favour of the whole package of President Obama's
healthcare reforms, and rightly so.

I heard the leader of the group on the radio recently and she was obviously
bemused by the violence of the opposition of the Vatican to what they were
saying. In that she might be ingenuous, but that is what happens in Rome these
days.

In his letter of 21 April Dr Michael Johnson mentions Hildegarde of Bingen: she
advised the Pope of the day, and we are told that the advice was taken. Am I
cynical in thinking that in the Vatican today she would be expected to make the
coffee and keep quiet? I am a "cradle catholic".

Monica Finan

Formby, Merseyside

Mystery of the 'spy in a bag'

When I lived in Cheltenham in the early 1980s another occupant of our rented
house worked at GCHQ. He worked on flex-time and one Monday morning there was a
misunderstanding. He expected to start work at 10am; his manager expected him in
at 09am.

At 09:20 I answered the door. A man with a walkie-talkie asked me if I'd seen
the employee or if I knew where he might be. He also asked, too casually to my
ear, if I thought all was OK with him.

It seems that Gareth Williams had an important job with GCHQ/MI6. Why did his
line manager not effectively check on his well-being as soon as he was reported
missing?

William Roberts

Bristol

Butterflies still in trouble

Michael McCarthy's report (20 April) that several of our rarer species of
butterfly showed large percentage increases in abundance between 2010 and 2011
is very welcome news. However, we should not be lulled into complacency, because
the increase was from a very low base and could be just as quickly reversed.

The Duke of Burgundy and a number of other rarities now occur only on a very
limited number of sites and remain very vulnerable to extinction. It is vital,
therefore, that we should all support Butterfly Conservation's efforts to
protect these species.

Jonathan Wallace

Newcastle upon Tyne

The European pretenders

Steve Richards writes on 17 April: "... it is a piece of cake for UKIP to
pretend from the sidelines that the UK can be independent in an interdependent
world."

The UK is a member of the European Union, that is going full speed to become a
superstate. Last time I looked, Argentina, Australia, Canada, Saudi Arabia,
South Africa, and South Korea were fully independent states, with a smaller
population than the UK and all with G20 economies.

Who is doing the pretending? It is not UKIP.

William Dartmouth MEP (UKIP, South-West England)

Newton Abbot, Devon

Off the wall

The spat between Banksy and Blek is hilariously ironic (letter, 26 April). When
my Euromillions numbers come up I'm going to pay a team of people to graffiti
over the collected works of these two "artists". Surely it's what they would
have wanted.

Chris Morpeth

Berwick-upon-Tweed

Opportunity

David Halley (letter, 26 April) would like "hundreds of harmless people" to
"mass photo" the Olympic sites. Could he arrange this for the evening so that it
could be a flash mob?

H Kilborn

London SE12

Elusive

My wife tells me that there is an article on the G-spot in today's Independent
(26 April). I looked but I couldn't find it.

Mark Thomas

Histon, Cambridgeshire

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 27, 2012 Friday 11:17 PM GMT

The Queen's men and a chippy class warrior

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 1213 words


Two of the Queen's senior representatives were given a torrid time at a Commons
committee this week.

The Lord-Lieutenants of East Lothian and Cheshire were appearing at the Public
Administration Select Committee. They were soon assailed for being 'rich,
Gentile, male and white'.

Lord-Lieutenants (or Lords Lieutenant, if you prefer) are the Monarch's point
men in the shires. Unpaid, they do charitable works, organise royal visits,
advise on honours and recommend who should be invited to Buckingham Palace
garden parties.

This all proved too much for Labour MP Paul Flynn (Newport), a veteran
republican and class warrior. He disclosed that, in his days as a steel worker,
he applied to become a Lord-Lieutenant. He was, alas, unsuccessful.

Addressing East Lothian's Sir Garth Morrison and Cheshire's David Briggs at
Tuesday's meeting, Mr Flynn quite roughly asserted that in order to become a
Lord-Lieutenant it remains  necessary 'to live in a large house, be rich, have a
military career,  be a Gentile, male and white'. Mr Flynn alleged that all
Lord-Lieutenants were Tories. When did a Lord-Lieutenancy last go to a single
mum on benefits? Sir Garth, 74, although indeed a male ex-naval officer who
farms near North Berwick, was by now not so much white as a distinct shade of
scarlet.

He was far too polite to tell Mr Flynn to bog off - a sweeter, more courtly old
gent it would be hard to find - but he was plainly taken aback by the assault
and blushed hard.

Mr Briggs, younger, had less hesitation in returning fire. He told Mr Flynn he
was a small businessman with a normal home. To be a Lord-Lieutenant was a
privilege, yes, but it cost him a good deal of money.

Throughout, MPs used the term 'the great and the good' in a pejorative manner.
It made me boil.  What do they want instead? The mediocre and the malign?
Lord-Lieutenants may not be voted into office. They may be a relic of a
different hierarchy. But they  provide useful local knowledge.

Sir Garth disclosed that one  Lord-Lieutenant had to ring  London to warn that a
proposed recipient of a major honour was in fact cooling his heels in prison.

Edward Miliband is not yet one of life's scintillators. The Labour leader
visited the Reading suburb of Tilehurst this week to campaign for local
candidates, including one Haji Banaras. Alas, in the course of a speech by Mr
Miliband, Comrade Banaras fell asleep.  I know the feeling, Haji.

Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt's troubles may have complicated the selection
process for the next Arts Council chairman, officially in Mr Hunt's gift.

Events have not helped the candidacy of low-brow TV producer Sir Peter
Bazalgette.

But have Sir Peter's chances  been exaggerated anyway? Downing Street has
started to take an interest in the  Arts Council.

'David Cameron has put the black spot on Bazalgette,' I am told. 'He is also
determined Lord (Gus) O'Donnell will not be the next Bank of England governor.'

A little-known outsider in the Arts Council race may be John Preston, novelist
and Fleet Street arts journalist.

Scotland Yard boss Bernard Hogan-Howe has stated firmly that police officers
must pass fitness tests. 'They should be able to run and fight,' he told MPs the
other day. 'That is not to say that my staff or the Police Federation agree with
me.'

Until recently the Yard's most senior officer was Deputy Commissioner Tim
Godwin, whose working day invariably began with six bangers in the canteen.

'Tim was so chubby he couldn't have caught a suspect fleeing on a Zimmer frame,'
says an acquaintance.

Mr Hogan-Howe's reference to the Federation is intriguing. Can he be referring
to its chairman, Paul 'Puddings' McKeever? It brings new meaning to the term 'a
belt-tightening exercise'.

Handbags at dawn, ladies?

How the BBC loved the claim by Nadine Dorries that Messrs Cameron and Osborne
were 'arrogant posh boys'. I received a dozen invitations from various parts of
the BBC - they were still at it yesterday - to discuss Mr Cameron's class.

In the same period, the European Union sank closer to disaster with the collapse
of the Dutch government and economic upheavals in Spain. Funnily enough, there
came not a single request from the BBC to talk about that.

Meanwhile, Mrs Dorries's attack was too much for the burningly loyal Cameroon
Claire Perry (Con, Devizes). Mrs Perry stomped into the MPs' tea room at the
Commons and complained that Mrs Dorries should jolly well (not quite that
expression, actually) defect to UKIP.

Friends helpfully reported this back to Mr Dorries, who in turn now refers to
the statuesque Mrs Perry as 'Miss Tight Tunic' and retorts that she, Dorries,
has been in the Tory Party a great many more years than her critic and fully
intends to stay put, thang yew.

Dorries v. Perry. It could be as watchable a rivalry as that of tennis legends
Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova.

Informal life of Brian & Co

Off-cuts from a day at the  Leveson Inquiry:

Leading counsel Robert Jay QC uses a hand-written script. From my vantage point,
the ink seems to be pink.

Court rules are less stiff than at the Hutton Inquiry, which was held in the
same room. A man in the public gallery chomps fish and chips during the lunch
hour.

Mr Jay is less deferential to Lord Justice Leveson than I have known some
barristers be to judges. There is little of the 'my lord' business. In the
corridor outside he refers to him  as 'Brian'.

Rupert Murdoch, although a U.S. citizen, has not lost his Aussie accent. He
pronounces 'quango' as 'quongo'.

The Murdochs are a demonstrative family. Mr Murdoch greets son  Lachlan with a
hug. Lachlan responds by patting Dad on the back and  stroking his neck.

The media tycoon rubbishes the idea that New Yorker Irwin Stelzer is, as is
sometimes claimed, his  'economic guru'. He is just a clever 'friend'. Mr Jay,
with beautifully subtle sarcasm, later refers to 'Dr Irwin Stelzer, with all his
intellectual abilities'. Miaow!

Lah-De-Dah Gunner Cameron!

Andrew Mitchell, International Development Secretary, had useful advice for
David Cameron before the PM's recent trip to Burma. He told Mr Cameron to mug up
on the classic TV comedy It Ain't Half Hot, Mum.

It is Burmese democracy  campaigner Aung San Suu Kyi's favourite show. She came
to love it - and characters such as Windsor Davies's shouty  sergeant-major
(pictured), wet Captain Ashwood (so like Nick Clegg) and 'Lah-De-Dah' Gunner
Graham - when living in Britain in the 1970s.

Mr Cameron needs little encouragement to reminisce about cheesy TV shows. He is
an admirer of Dad's Army and knows every word and move from the video of Benny
Hill's 1971 song Ernie. On such things are diplomatic  triumphs made.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 27, 2012 Friday 2:26 PM GMT

Queen's GP and peer in statue row

BYLINE: RICHARD KAY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1220 words


Nearly all the money has been raised, an eminent sculptor has been chosen and
Princess Alexandra has been pencilled in by Buckingham Palace to do the
unveiling.

But now, nine years after Labour peer Baron Soley started a campaign for the
first statue to pay tribute to a black woman in Britain, he is mystified that a
number of eminent folk are objecting - including the Queen's former physician
Sir Richard Thompson.

Sir Richard, 72, the president of the Royal College of Physicians, has written
objecting to plans to put the 8ft bronze in the garden of St Thomas's Hospital
in London.

The statue is of Jamaican-born Mary Seacole who, like Florence Nightingale,
nursed British soldiers in the Crimean War.

But Lord Soley could not have foreseen that he was stepping into a quagmire of
sensitivities because St Thomas's also houses the Florence Nightingale Museum
and it was where she founded the Nightingale nursing school.

Objections have even come from across the Atlantic. Canadian sociologist Dr Lynn
McDonald says honouring Mary Seacole at St Thomas's would denigrate Florence
Nightingale.

Sir Richard, who was head of the Queen's medical household from 1993 to 2005,
says St Thomas's is not the right place, not least because the 'enormous' statue
will dominate views of the public garden there and because Mary had no
connection with the hospital, unlike Florence, whose statue is much smaller.

A baffled Lord Soley, former Labour MP for Hammersmith, says: 'I first got
interested when members of the Caribbean community approached me in the Eighties
asking for help to find Mary Seacole's grave in Kensal Rise cemetery, which I
did.

'My answer to those who say the statue shouldn't be at St Thomas's is that
nurses from all over the world, including Jamaica, came to work at St Thomas's -
and they are still coming to work there.

'I don't want to denigrate Florence Nightingale, but I don't see why we should
not applaud what Mary Seacole did, too.

'We've been absolutely clear this is not about Mary Seacole vs Florence
Nightingale. Both were absolutely remarkable women.'

Money on UKIP move

Money is changing hands on whether a sitting MP will quit the Conservatives and
join UKIP. Party treasurer millionaire businessman Stuart Wheeler tells me he
has put several hundred pounds on UKIP having a seat in the near future.

The 77-year-old spread-betting tycoon and former Tory donor says he has a
'three-figure bet' with Ladbrokes. 'I have money at 2/1 on a sitting MP
defecting before the next election,' he says. Following a poll this week showing
UKIP has overtaken the Lib Dems, perhaps supporters are not 'fruitcakes' after
all, as David Cameron described them.

Fawn rejects porn king film role

Who better to play the beloved daughter of porn and property baron Paul Raymond
in forthcoming biopic the King Of Soho than his granddaughter Fawn James?

Dubbed the queen of Soho after inheriting half of Raymond's £650 million empire,
Fawn, 26, is pursuing an acting career and is perfectly placed to play her own
mother, Debbie, who died when Fawn was six of a heroin overdose.

However, Fawn tells me that she had no wish to star in the film, which is
directed by Michael Winterbottom with Steve Coogan as her grandfather.

'Michael is amazing but I would definitely not be in the film,' she says. 'That
would be weird and highly inappropriate.' Instead, the lovely Imogen Poots will
be playing Debbie.

Neither will Fawn, who I can reveal turned down an offer to advise on the film,
appear in a rival movie her uncle Howard is making.

Instead, she is leaving her flat in Soho, where she lives with her boyfriend of
four years, Nick Lawson, to study  at the Lee Strasberg Institute of Film in LA
over the summer.

Fawn adds: 'I am looking forward to seeing both films but I have decided it is
best not to be involved in either.'

Marine Monty too busy to marry

He's been described as the 'Action Man David Attenborough', but macho TV
presenter Monty Halls says he has no plans to marry his girlfriend - despite her
presenting him with his first child five months ago.

'I'm much too busy to even think about marriage,' says Monty. 'I mean I'm 45 and
this is my first baby so I'm already a late starter!' Former Marine Monty met
Tamsyn Smith, 32, who used to work for the BBC Wildlife Fund charity, when they
were both at the Underwater Channel three years ago. 'We've left London and got
a flat in Dartmouth and are very happy,' says Monty at a party for his book, The
Fisherman's Apprentice.

'When I was a young man in the Marines, I travelled the world and lived the life
of a carefree bachelor, so my life has totally changed. We are setting up our
own wildlife tour firm, which is going to take a lot of work so we're not even
engaged yet,' he says, adding: 'All in good time!'

A Dickens of a royal pardon!

Actress Keeley Hawes is feeling snubbed by the Queen after being left off the
invitations for the  royal Charles Dickens bicentenary celebrations, unlike her
husband - handsome Little Dorrit star Matthew Macfadyen.

Asked who she'd most like to have a cup of tea with, Keeley - who played Lizzie
Hexam in an acclaimed TV version of Our Mutual Friend - says: 'The Queen. My
husband went to Buckingham Palace recently. He was invited as part of the
Dickens anniversary celebrations, which I was a part of, too, so I don't know
what happened to my invite!'

However, she adds diplomatically: 'I'm a huge fan of the Queen - I'll forgive
her.'

Keeley, who plays Lady Agnes Holland in Upstairs Downstairs, wanted to be a
ballet dancer 'like a lot of little girls', but opted for acting early on.

'I went to stage school and did both there. Unfortunately, it soon becomes
obvious if someone has rhythm or not,' she says.

He cleared his busy schedule to watch his godson's school play, and now it looks
as if Prince Harry will have to find time in his diary for another engagement.
For Major Rupert Lewis, Harry's Blues and Royals squadron commander on his first
tour of Afghanistan in 2008, has become engaged to Daisy Whitehead, 36, whose
late grandfather Lord Inchyra was ambassador to Germany.

Daisy, who runs a London-based curtain design company, is likely to marry near
her parents' Wiltshire home this autumn. 'We are all extremely pleased,' Daisy's
mother Annabel, a former lady-in-waiting to Princess Margaret, tells me.

PS If Home Secretary Theresa May wanted someone to commiserate with about the
Abu Qatada fiasco, she had to look no further than Dragons' Den star Duncan
Bannatyne, who has had his own trials and tribulations with the legal system.
Mrs May met the irascible Bannatyne at the Victoria and Albert Museum, where
they were celebrating the 50th birthday party of showbiz agent Jonathan Shalit.
At one stage the minister and the Dragon were huddled in a group with unlikely
ladies' man the Earl of Strathclyde, Leader of the Lords. Their conversation? 'A
secret,' I am told.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP YOUTH ON EU-PAID BOOZY TRIP;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 142 words


YOUNG UKIP supporters plan to use a taxpayer-funded fact-finding trip to
Brussels to go on a boozy "session".

The anti-EU right-wingers were invited to the European Parliament for "political
banter, nice dinners and bar hopping" for three days early in June, said a party
email.

UKIP events co-ordinator Sanya-Jeet Thandi told members they will enjoy a
"session" at a bar called Delirium "with its 2,400 beer varieties and 400
absinthes", adding: "I'm sure it will prove to be an ace few days!" Labour's
Emma Reynolds called the Party "hypocritical" for taking the cash - around
pounds 8,170. She added: "They run for election on this basis of attacks on the
EU and its spending - yet they indulge in weekends away paid for by the European
taxpayer."

But a UKIP spokesman said the email "made clear the subsidy is for accommodation
and transport", not alcohol.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TXT US ON 07900 946 486

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 139 words


Don't forget to include your name. Standard text rates from your provider apply

WHAT'S wiv the Simon Cowell baitin lately? He's a warm, kind, funny, generous
man who works hard, plays hard. Green-eyed monster raisin its ugly head. Would
only buy the book if it was his own story.

PAULINE, Kent

DON'T the Beckhams have a buggy 4 that child or is Victoria still too posh to
push?

RUTH, Exeter

NO party represents enslaved Brits 2day. Tories = idle rich, Labour = benefit
loafers, Lib Dems = clueless, UKIP= talk SOME sense. Overall = SS Brittania
sunk!

KW

LEWIS JOLLY says his Boris Johnson tattoo will be a talking point when he gets a
girlfriend. I think that's "if", not "when".

ANON

AFTER working hard for 50yrs in building trade, I'm writing my autobiography and
bringing out my perfume - oh, and mustn't forget my clothing range.

CHAS, London

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DEM 'N BLAST;
Fox aims work reforms fury at Clegg

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 314 words


THE Lib Dems are blocking key work reforms that would pluck the economy out of
recession, a senior Tory will declare today.

Liam Fox accuses Nick Clegg's party of forcing the Government to drive "with the
handbrake on" because they won't bin company red tape.

The ex-Cabinet minister's dramatic intervention shatters the fragile Coalition
consensus on how to find desperately-needed growth - and exposes a bitter feud.

Top of the Conservatives' wish list is to give bosses the right to dismiss lazy
employees swiftly and without an agreed reason with pre-arranged pay offs - a
policy dubbed "fire at will".

The unproductive workers would be banned from taking firms to employment
tribunals. The move was urged in a secret report for the PM drawn up by venture
capitalist and Conservative Party donor Adrian Beecroft - and backed by business
leaders.

But the Libs' Business Secretary Vince Cable refused to sanction it, arguing
workers were already suffering in the grim jobs market.

Mr Fox, the former Defence Secretary, told The Sun: "If you have a deficit
reduction strategy without labour market reform you are driving with the
handbrake on.

"The Lib Dems will be totally liable if they are the roadblock to deregulation.

"Any small company in Britain will tell you they are scared of taking people on
because they can't get rid of them if it doesn't work out. It makes it
impossible to take on new people."

Dr Fox's call for reform is given extra urgency after Wednesday's news that
Britain has slipped back into a double dip recession.

Crucially, his broadside is with Chancellor George Osborne's explicit approval,
The Sun has learned.

The Tories' woes worsened last night when they scored their worst poll rating in
Government so far. Support for the party has sunk to 31 per cent, with Labour on
43 per cent. The Lib Dems are in joint third place with UKIP on nine.

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angry ... Liam Fox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

DEM 'N BLAST;
Fox aims work reforms fury at Clegg

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 314 words


THE Lib Dems are blocking key work reforms that would pluck the economy out of
recession, a senior Tory will declare today.

Liam Fox accuses Nick Clegg's party of forcing the Government to drive "with the
handbrake on" because they won't bin company red tape.

The ex-Cabinet minister's dramatic intervention shatters the fragile Coalition
consensus on how to find desperately-needed growth - and exposes a bitter feud.

Top of the Conservatives' wish list is to give bosses the right to dismiss lazy
employees swiftly and without an agreed reason with pre-arranged pay offs - a
policy dubbed "fire at will".

The unproductive workers would be banned from taking firms to employment
tribunals. The move was urged in a secret report for the PM drawn up by venture
capitalist and Conservative Party donor Adrian Beecroft - and backed by business
leaders.

But the Libs' Business Secretary Vince Cable refused to sanction it, arguing
workers were already suffering in the grim jobs market.

Mr Fox, the former Defence Secretary, told The Sun: "If you have a deficit
reduction strategy without labour market reform you are driving with the
handbrake on.

"The Lib Dems will be totally liable if they are the roadblock to deregulation.

"Any small company in Britain will tell you they are scared of taking people on
because they can't get rid of them if it doesn't work out. It makes it
impossible to take on new people."

Crucially, his broadside is with Chancellor George Osborne's explicit approval,
The Sun has learned.

Eurosceptic Dr Fox also pledged his support to the Chancellor last night on his
controversial new £10billion loan to the IMF.

The Tories' woes worsened last night when they scored their worst poll rating in
Government so far. Support for the party has sunk to 31 per cent, with Labour on
43 per cent. The Lib Dems are in joint third place with UKIP on nine.

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angry ... Liam Fox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TXT US ON 07900 946 486

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 127 words


WHAT'S wiv the Simon Cowell baitin lately? He's a warm, kind, funny, generous
man who works hard, plays hard. Green-eyed monster raisin its ugly head. Would
only buy the book if it was his own story.

PAULINE, Kent DON'T the Beckhams have a buggy 4 that child or is Victoria still
too posh to push? RUTH, Exeter NO party represents enslaved Brits 2day. Tories =
idle rich, Labour = benefit loafers, Lib Dems = clueless, UKIP= talk SOME sense.
Overall = SS Brittania sunk!

KW LEWIS JOLLY says his Boris Johnson tattoo will be a talking point when he
gets a girlfriend. I think that's "if", not "when". ANON AFTER working hard for
50yrs in building trade, I'm writing my autobiography and bringing out my
perfume - oh, and mustn't forget my clothing range.

CHAS, London

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 27, 2012 Friday 3:56 PM GMT

France's centre-Left is on the march, but so are darker forces;
Ed Miliband should not celebrate yet - Le Pen may well be mightier than Mr Milk
Pudding, says Mary Riddell

LENGTH: 990 words


THE job of French president is grim, but someone has to do it. Such was the view
of Charles de Gaulle. "My mission seemed clear and terrible," he once said. "At
this moment, the worst in her history, it was for me to assume the burden of
France." François Hollande, the first-round victor in the race for the
presidency, is more upbeat.

The Socialist leader, nicknamed "Monsieur Flanby", after a milk pudding, senses
triumph against Nicolas Sarkozy. Adieu, Mr Bling; enter the human blancmange.
"Change is afoot," Mr Hollande tweeted. "Nothing will stop it now." We shall
see. Mr Sarkozy, who will fight to the end to prove him wrong, may yet prevail.
If, however, France elects its first Socialist president since 1988, Mr Hollande
will shoulder not only internal problems but also the dreams of those leaders,
Ed Miliband included, who hope the centre-Right's grip on Europe is weakening.
Angela Merkel, who has campaigned for Mr Sarkozy, faces possible ejection in the
forthcoming German elections.

If ever a president authored his own fate, it is Mr Sarkozy, whose anti-Islamic
stance and racist allusions gave legitimacy to the public grievances amplified
by Marine Le Pen, for whom one in five have voted. But, despite a YouGov poll
predicting a 54 per cent victory against 46 per cent for Mr Sarkozy, Mr Hollande
also has cause for worry. His first-round win was due, in part, to the National
Front's breakthrough. The slump in backing for the far-Left means that he will
need to win support not only from centrist voters but also from the unemployed
blue-collar workers who favour Le Pen but loathe Sarkozy. Across northern
Europe, the Left is vulnerable to the rage vote, as George Galloway's rout of
Labour in Bradford West has shown.

But although mavericks of all stripes threaten the established order, the rise
of Marine Le Pen fits an emerging pattern of hard-Right resurgence that should
chill all those who inhabit the tolerant centre ground. Le Pen is a
proto-fascist, peddling a glossy rebrand of hatred that has seduced some French
voters and disarmed observers on both sides of the Channel who have greeted her
achievement with something approaching respect. Yet its patina of politeness
makes designer fascism more insidious, and thus more poisonous, than cruder
anti-immigrant bile.

Those Sarkozy backers who would prefer a racially divisive provocateur than a
socialist for president should also be more careful what they wish for, as the
far-Right jubilation that taints France finds echoes throughout Europe. At one
end of the spectrum of extremism lies the acceptable face of xenophobic
politics. In Britain, Ukip's lead over the Lib Dems in some polls means that
David Cameron must decide whether he should succumb to backbench sirens and tack
to the Right. The likely spectacle of Mr Sarkozy doing just that in a last bid
to cling to power by unsavoury means should convince the PM of the folly of such
a course.

Meanwhile, on the eve of St George's Day, neo-Nazis of the English Defence
League brawled in Brighton. In Malmö, the setting for the new BBC4 crime series,
The Bridge, a spate of real-life killings on a poor estate has revealed a Sweden
riven by social and racial tensions. In a Norwegian courtroom, Anders Behring
Breivik epitomises the pomposity of evil as he flaunts his slaughter of teenage
activists who, had they lived, might have challenged his white supremacist world
view. Breivik, a puffy-faced computer game nerd, may be uniquely vile, but the
small resentments that metastasised into mass murder flicker in the souls of
law-abiding citizens across Europe. The link between economic blight and
far-Right extremism casts a long and darkening shadow over this continent, while
demographics set another force in play.

As the American immigration expert Frank Sharry explained at a recent event held
by the British Future think tank, the huge rise in the minority vote, especially
among the Hispanic population, is likely to secure Barack Obama's second term.
The only recent Republican to beguile minorities was George W Bush, whose appeal
makes insiders predict that his brother, Jeb, will run for president next time
round, should Mitt Romney fail.

For assorted reasons, not least poverty, a similar story is taking shape in
Britain, where Labour attracted 68 per cent of the ethnic minority vote in the
2010 election, against the Tories' 16 per cent. With minority voters increasing
as far-Right sentiment burgeons and economic misery deepens, Europe risks
electoral and social earthquakes that no party dares ignore.

At this pivotal moment, a French socialist with the charisma of cheese may yet
determine the future of his continent. Mr Hollande's economic prospectus, hazy
though it is, has been unfairly billed as rabidly Left-wing. Mr Normal's
deficit-cutting agenda is not greatly different to the incumbent's. If elected,
he may, like Mitterrand before him, discard rasher campaign promises. Even so,
Mr Hollande would challenge the orthodoxy of austerity, champion growth and
promote, to Germany's anxiety, the more activist European Central Bank that Ed
Balls has demanded.

Mr Miliband expects Mr Hollande, if elected, to become the most hated man in
Britain. But should the incomer stumble on the alchemy of creating hope and
jobs, then extremist resentment might wither and faith in mainstream politics
rise again. In that case, Mr Miliband would find himself, along with his new
best friend, on the right side of history.

Should Mr Hollande crash and burn, however, then the dreams of Europe's
centre-Left could combust with him. Neither scenario may ever come to pass if Mr
Sarkozy stages a resurrection, as he might. In the absence of such a turnaround,
the role of Atlas - the mythic supporter of the heavens - will fall on the
drooping shoulders of François Hollande, the most unlikely of all titans in the
bleakest of all times. Even de Gaulle might have balked at such a burden.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 27, 2012 Friday 8:20 AM GMT

Boris Johnson to be re-elected, but Brian Coleman, Richard Barnes and Kit
Malthouse at risk: new poll

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1162 words


We have a poll in tomorrow's paper from Survation, a member of the British
Polling Council. Like today's ComRes, it shows Boris Johnson in an eight-point
lead, 54-46, to retain the mayoralty.

That's the good news for Boris. The bad news is (a) the fieldwork was done
before the economy went into double-dip recession and (b) even so, some of his
key political allies - including Brian Coleman, his fire authority chair,
Richard Barnes, his statutory deputy mayor, Roger Evans, the Tory group leader,
and even Kit Malthouse, his policing man - are looking distinctly vulnerable in
their London Assembly seats.

It looks like the Tories could be caned on the Assembly, going down to just
eight seats out of 25 - which would mean that Boris wouldn't have an automatic
majority to pass his budget (it can be blocked with a two-thirds majority, 17
votes.) That raises the faint possibility, over the next four years, of the
Assembly being a body that actually matters.

Survation is the first company in this contest to poll using individual Assembly
constituency candidate names and is also using a new technique where voters are
presented (online) with exact facsimiles of the ballot papers they will see in
their polling stations. They give their responses by clicking the relevant box
on the ballot paper.

Damian Lyons Lowe, the chief executive, says that simulating the "election
experience" gives better overall results than the other firms and is fairer to
smaller candidates, who are not "prompted" by the other pollsters - that is,
their individual names are not given to respondents at first, only the option
"other."

Survation does show the minor parties doing better. They predict that UKIP and
the Greens will get two Assembly seats each, and 10 per cent of the
first-preference mayoral vote between them. The BNP is on 3.5pc for the
mayoralty and 3.2pc for the assembly (losing its seat) and Siobhan Benita is
last with 3.3pc.  The Lib Dems' Brian Paddick also enjoys his best poll numbers
of the campaign, 10.3 per cent. The Lib Dems will get three Assembly seats,
Survation say. Labour will end up with ten.

Boris is 11 per cent ahead of Ken on first preferences, compared with 9 per cent
in the ComRes poll; his lead drops back 3 points on second prefs, suggesting
that second prefs are breaking less favourably for him than last time. If the
race tightens - as it surely must - this could be important.

The pan-London sample is larger than normal - almost 1500 voters - but the
Assembly constituency samples are small, only about 100 each (14 of the 25
members are elected by constituencies under first-past-the-post and 11 on a
Londonwide list system). So there's a wider margin of error, 8.5 per cent, on
these results. That margin puts the seats of Coleman, Malthouse and Barnes in
play. Coleman is behind Labour, the other two ahead, but in each case within the
margin of error. Remember, too, that the news has got worse for the Tories in
the three days since this polling was done. And even if some or all of these men
hold on, the Tories will still lose seats in "compensation" on the list side.

The scalp of Brian Coleman, one of London's most colourful and combative
politicians, would please a lot of people on the Left (and one or two inside
Team Boris) no end. Like most journalists, however, I like him and would miss
him. He's also the fire authority chair, a post he could keep if he lost his
Assembly seat, I'm told, though Boris might decide to lose him. He might still
hang on - his seat, Barnet & Camden, has a big Jewish Tory vote.

Kit Malthouse, another at-risk big beast, is deputy mayor with responsibility
for the Metropolitan Police. Again, it's not clear whether he could survive in
that post without an Assembly seat. One of his predecessors, Toby Harris, had to
quit the chairmanship of the then Metropolitan Police Authority after losing his
seat in 2004 - but the MPA has now been abolished, and arrangements are
different. Boris would almost certainly want to keep Malthouse if he can.

If Labour can win Malthouse's seat, West Central, which consists of the Tory
heartlands of Westminster, Kensington & Chelsea and Hammersmith & Fulham, that
would be a huge coup. Malthouse's majority in 2008 was more than 30 per cent. A
Labour win is not, however, totally impossible. The party did well here at the
general election - holding the parliamentary seats of Hammersmith and
Westminster North, against expectations.

And the fact that this seat is even in play shows just how bad things are for
the Tories now - with the exception of Boris. His personal popularity is proving
incredibly resilient to the Government's sustained efforts to lose every vote it
possibly can. The question for his supporters is: will the anti-Tory tide get so
strong that even Boris cannot resist it?

Mayoral results (first preference vote)

Boris Johnson (Con)  42.2pc

Ken Livingstone (Lab)  31pc

Brian Paddick (LD)  10.3pc

Lawrence Webb (Fresh Choice/UKIP)  5.3pc

Jenny Jones (Green) 4.4pc

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) 3.5pc

Siobhan Benita (Ind) 3.3pc

After second preferences

Boris Johnson (Con) 54pc

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 46pc

London Assembly party standings (predicted)

Labour 10   Conservative 8  Lib Dem 3   UKIP 2  Green 2

London Assembly list vote

Labour 32.6pc

Conservative 28.4pc

Lib Dem 9.6pc

Green  8.1pc

UKIP 7pc

English Democrats 3.6pc

BNP 3.2pc

Others 7.5pc

London Assembly constituency vote

Labour 35.8pc

Tories 28.8pc

Lib Dems 13.2pc

Selected individual constituency results (margin of error +/- 8.5pc)

Barnet & Camden

Andrew Dismore (Lab) 38.4pc

Brian Coleman (Con) 36.6pc

Audrey Poppy (Green) 11.9pc

Christopher Richards (LD) 8.8pc

Ealing & Hillingdon

Richard Barnes (Con) 35.5pc

Onkar Sahota (Lab) 31.8pc

Helen Knight (Fresh Choice/ UKIP) 12.5pc

Michael Cox (LD) 7.8pc

West Central

Kit Malthouse (Con) 40.1pc

Todd Foreman (Lab) 35.1pc

Susannah Rustin (Green) 9.9pc

Elizabeth Jones (Fresh Choice/UKIP) 7.9pc

Havering & Redbridge

Mandy Richards (Lab) 39.5pc

Roger Evans (Con) 28.4pc

Lawrence Webb (Fresh Choice/UKIP) 9.9pc

Malvin Brown (Res) 9.6pc

Merton & Wandsworth

Richard Tracey (Con) 34.3pc

Leonie Cooper (Lab) 31.9pc

Mazhar Manzoor (Fresh Choice/UKIP) 12.4pc

As I say, a small-sample health warning on these results. The overall London
sample size (for Mayor and pan-Assembly numbers) was a healthy 1453. The survey
dates were 18-24 April. I'll post data tables as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

EU BUDGET BLOWOUT WILL COST UK £1BN

BYLINE: BY GERRI PEEV POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 766 words


EU demands for an inflation-busting 7 per cent budget increase have been met
with outrage by politicians.

Britain would have to shell out an extra £1billion under the European
Commission's proposals for a massive spending boost.

Downing Street and the Treasury vowed to fight the demands, saying they were
unrealistic.

The Commission's proposal would increase the EU's budget by 6.8 per cent to
nearly £114billion. Britain's share, at around 12.5 per cent, would be
£16.6billion - a rise of more than £1billion. EU officials argued that the extra
money was needed to pay bills for projects already signed off by member states.

Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso said the budget rise was not money for
Brussels' but would be ploughed back for the benefit' of EU citizens, including
Britons. EU budget commissioner Janusz Lewandowski described it as an
anti-crisis package'.

He said: We will not restore growth by cuts only; Europe needs to invest wisely
for its own future, starting today. That is what the EU budget is for, that is
what our draft budget for 2013 is about.'

The Commission's proposals come at a time when member states across the bloc are
trying to save their faltering single currency by imposing swingeing cuts.

David Cameron made clear he would not entertain backing such a huge spending
rise.

His official spokesman said: Clearly that kind of increase, an increase that is
in excess of inflation, is unacceptable when governments across Europe are
having to make very difficult decisions on public spending.

We will be talking to other countries and pushing for a much more realistic
budget that recognises the economic situation in Europe. Last year, we worked
with other countries to bring down the proposals for a large increase in the
budget and we will be doing the same this year.'

Financial secretary to the Treasury Mark Hoban said: It is unacceptable for the
Commission to propose an inflation-busting budget increase when governments
across Europe are making difficult decisions on public spending.'

A Treasury source added: The Commission has wilfully ignored repeated calls for
budgetary restraint. This is despite failing to get its own house in order by
cutting administrative costs or curb chronic high spending.'

UK government departments are on average facing budget cuts of 19 per cent.

Director of the Open Europe think-tank, Mats Persson, said: Taxpayers around
Europe will rightly wonder how in the world the same Commission that orders
countries to cut hard and deep in public spending, has the nerve to propose a
near 7 per cent increase for itself.

The fact that this comes in a week when we have seen a national government
(Holland) collapse under the weight of EU-mandated austerity targets is just
surreal.' Marta Andreasen, a former EU chief accountant and now a UKIP MEP,
urged the UK government to cut contributions to the EU. She said the EU demands
were selfish, unrealistic and insulting to taxpayers already under the cosh'.

This demand is cloud-cuckoo land stuff. Have the European Commission finally
completely lost their grip on reality?'

Richard Ashworth, leader of the UK's Conservative MEPs, said the proposed
increase was outlandish'.

Talks on next year's budget are likely to take until December and will run
alongside even more robust battles over the EU's next long-term budget, for
2014-2020. The commission has proposed an allocation of almost 1 trillion euros
for its next seven-year budget.

GOOD VALUE? £5.7M ON A BLOGGING DONKEY

HERE are just some of the questionable projects the EU has used your money for:

÷ £20million was spent on building three ports in Spain and Italy that are still
unused four years after they were completed.

÷ A TV propaganda channel for the European Parliament costs £7million a year to
run but has only 830 viewers a day.

÷£180million a year is spent on moving MEPs from Brussels to Strasbourg to
appease France's insistence that it also plays host.

÷ £570million of development money was given to Turkey - the country is not even
a member of the EU.

÷ A businessman was given £79,000 to build a ski slope on a Danish island where
snow does not fall.

÷ A Swedish city was given £65,000 to create a virtual version of itself in the
Second Life fantasy world.

÷ A blogging donkey, Donkeypedia, was part of a £5.7million programme to foster
European identity'. It involved a donkey travelling through Europe with a solar
panel, video camera and GPS, to provide images and videos on an online map.

÷ An Estonian theatre got £162,000 to develop co-operation between the puppetry
masters and museology specialists'.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

London mayoral election - who is standing?

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 47 words

ABSTRACT

The seven people running for mayor of London

FULL TEXT

· Siobhan Benita, independent

· Carlos Cortiglia, British National party

· Boris Johnson, Conservatives

· Jenny Jones, Green party

· Ken Livingstone, Labour

· Brian Paddick, Liberal Democrats

· Lawrence Webb, UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

Vote for me, I'm a lawyer

BYLINE: Alex Aldridgeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 974 words

ABSTRACT

Alex Aldridge: Politics holds a special appeal for people who scrutinise the law
every day

FULL TEXT

A disproportionate number of Chinese politicians come from engineering
backgrounds, while in Africa the military is the favoured route into public
life. In the west we like our leaders to be lawyers - a taste reflected in the
fact that lawyers-turned-politicians make up almost a tenth of Time Magazine's
recently-compiled list of the world's hundred most influential people.

The step from law into politics is a natural one in democracies, as Suella
Fernandes, a barrister at No5 Chambers and one of the Conservative candidates
for next week's London Assembly elections, explains. "When you use law on a
daily basis, the idea of becoming a member of a body that creates legislation
holds a strong appeal," she says. The requisite skillsets for careers in the law
and politics match nicely, too, with an ability to balance competing priorities,
cope with detail and express yourself succinctly central to success in both
roles.

Not that it's an easy transition to make. Steven Woolfe, a financial services
lawyer who is first on Ukip's London Assembly ticket, says that campaigning is
incredibly time-consuming - particularly for members of the smaller parties.
"For Labour and Tory candidates, who have much bigger teams, a great deal of
commitment is needed. But for parties outside the mainstream, the level of work
you need to put in is equivalent to a full-time job," he says.

And if you make it into office, don't expect life to get any easier. Indeed, it
was concern about the "demands it makes on one's time" that put Jonathan (now
Lord) Sumption off going into politics, alongside the "very narrow apex" with
"not much of any interest below the top." Now, with the perks associated with
public service roles diluted in the wake of the MPs' expenses scandal, the
incentive for young legal rising stars to have a crack at joining the Commons
has decreased further. "My view is that politicians get treated pretty badly at
present. They get kicked from pillar to post. I admire them greatly for doing
what they do nevertheless," says barrister Alex Deane, David Cameron's former
chief of staff, who - for the moment - has decided to limit his political
ambitions to a role as a common councilman in the City of London.

These challenges mean the current crop of lawyers looking to combine their
already pretty hectic professional lives with the additional burden of public
life tend to be unusually driven - either by idealism, thirst for power, or a
bit of both. The small party candidates like Woolfe, who are the least likely to
launch big careers on the back of their London Assembly campaigns, seem the most
idealistic. Having flirted with both Labour and the Tories during an adult life
spent "falling in and out of love with politics", Moss Side-born Woolfe's claim
that "the mainstream parties have stopped helping people" sounds as if it comes
from the heart. There's no doubt that Woolfe would face less risk at work if he
were representing a mainstream party. "Firms are understandably frightened of
appearing to oppose governments and regulators, especially European regulators,"
he points out.

Trade Union and Socialist Coalition (Tusc) London Assembly candidate Nick Wrack,
a barrister at Tooks Chambers, demonstrates similar levels of conviction, having
forgone the advantage that being a lawyer would usually afford in politics to
fit into his party's culture. Last week, the Guardian's Hugh Muir suggested in
his diary column that Wrack had lost out on top position on the Tusc London
Assembly list because the union funding much of the campaign wanted one of its
own there instead. Wrack's only comment on Muir's piece is that "my fellow
candidates - train drivers, tube workers, local government workers, fire
fighters - are all as articulate and capable as I am". He adds: "There are many
brilliant people who would like to represent others, yet all too frequently
lawyers end up being candidates."

Candidates representing the main parties enjoy a smoother ride - plus they may
one day experience real power. Speaking on the Legal Cheek podcast in January,
the shadow attorney general Emily Thornberry, one of Wrack's colleagues at Tooks
Chambers, described herself as a "burning-passion, mad-eyed commitment
politician", but also admitted that "I enjoy people hugging me on the street" in
her Islington constituency.

Attorney general Dominic Grieve concedes that the "ego factor" played a part in
his move into politics, too. "Well, certainly anybody who involves themselves in
a profession with a public profile may well have underlying psychological
motivations. But I think that's for others to judge," was how he put it when I
interviewed him.

One quality that marks both Grieve and Thornberry out from other lawyers, who as
a breed tend to be risk averse, is their willingness to subject themselves to
the whims of the electorate. Certainly, it's difficult to imagine an equivalent
rise to Grieve's when he became an MP - a dream he was on the verge of
abandoning until the cash for questions scandal saw him rushed in to fill an
incumbent candidate's newly vacated position - occurring in the rigidly
hierarchical legal world, where steady progression is the norm. Prior to that
big break, the attorney general experienced a host of knockbacks, the bitterest
being his failure to be granted a seat to fight at the 1990 general election
after unsuccessfully contesting a Labour stronghold five years previously.

The gaggle of lawyers standing in the London Assembly elections, which take
place on Thursday 3 May, will need to show similar resilience on the road to
what must be one of the toughest careers around. The full list of London-wide
candidates is available here.

Alex Aldridge is the editor of LegalCheek.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

Politics live blog: Ed Miliband interviewed on Today

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6193 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all today's political developments
as they happen, including reaction to Rupert Murdoch's Leveson evidence and Ed
Miliband's Today interview

FULL TEXT

3.45pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] Jonathan Stephens, the permanent secretary at the Deparmtent for
Culture, has confirmed that he endorsed the decision to allow Adam Smith, Jeremy
Hunt's special adviser, to act as a link with News Corporation over the BSkyB
takeover. At a select committee this morning Stephens refused to comment on
this. But the department has just put out this statement.

The permanent secretary did not feel it was appropriate to provide further
information ahead of the department's evidence to the Leveson Inquiry. As Jeremy
Hunt's statement yesterday made clear, the permanent secretary was aware that
Adam Smith was amongst a small number of individuals in the department who were
in contact with News Corp and was content with that arrangement. As Adam Smith's
statement makes clear, the content and extent of his contact was done without
authorisation, and were contrary to the clear requirements set out by Jeremy
Hunt and the permanent secretary.

[#xfffd] Harriet Harman has said that Hunt should publish his email
correspondence with Smith if he wants people to accept his claim that he did not
know what Smith was doing. And Bernard Jenkin, the Conservative chairman of the
public administration committee, has said that the matter should be investigated
by the prime minister's independent adviser on ministerial interests. (See
1.56pm and 1.58pm.)

[#xfffd] News Corporation has withdrawn evidence from the Leveson inquiry that
suggested Rupert Murdoch had met David Cameron on at least three occasions that
had not been declared by Downing Street.

[#xfffd] A senior judge has said the local elections present "enormous
opportunities" for vote-rigging and electoral fraud. As the Press Association
reports, Judge Richard Mawrey - who in 2005 disqualified six Birmingham
councillors in a case which he said would have "disgraced a banana republic" -
said virtually nothing had been done since then to improve the security of the
voting system. "The sticking plaster approach hasn't worked," he told BBC Radio
4's The World at One. The opportunities for fraud are now precisely the same as
they were at Birmingham, he said.

Particularly in local elections, where a small number of votes will make a
considerable difference, then the opportunities for fraud are enormous, the
chances of detection very small, and a relatively modest amount of fraud will
guarantee you win the election.

[#xfffd] The Leveson inquiry have released correspondence between Gordon Brown
and Rupert Murdoch about the war in Afghanistan.[#xfffd] George Galloway has
denied claims in the New Statesman that he is a Muslim.[#xfffd] The EU's drug
agency has said that new "legal highs" and other synthetic drugs are appearing
on the market at the rate of one a week.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

2.54pm: Here's an afternoon reading list.

[#xfffd] Joe Klein at Swampland says Mitt Romney should learn from what has
happened in the UK.

As a general rule, deficit spending on capital programs-real investments in the
future, like the Interstate highway system-is a good thing. Deficit spending on
old-age entitlements, by contrast, is a disaster. It would be nice to have a
conversation about this issue in the presidential campaign this year, especially
now that Mitt Romney seems intent on returning from the Island of the Ignorant.
And in that spirit, I have a proposal: Romney should make a personal pledge
never again to utter the ridiculous phrase: "Government doesn't create jobs." He
certainly shouldn't utter it while also supporting a defense budget far larger
than we need, including job-creating weapons systems that would have been more
appropriate to the cold war.

As David Cameron is learning, rather painfully, in times of trouble, government
can be the most reliable job creator we have.

[#xfffd] Paul Krugman on his blog says David Cameron's economic policies have
failed.

When David Cameron became PM, and announced his austerity plans - buying
completely into both the confidence fairy and the invisible bond vigilantes -
many were the hosannas, from both sides of the Atlantic. Pundits here urged
Obama to "do a Cameron"; Cameron and Osborne were the toast of Very Serious
People everywhere.

Now Britain is officially in double-dip recession, and has achieved the
remarkable feat of doing worse this time around than it did in the 1930s.

[#xfffd] Carl Gardner on his HeadofLegal blog on how Jeremy Hunt's handling of
the BSkyB takeover could have been unlawful.

The position in law is clearly worse for Hunt than it was for Vince Cable.
Cable's case was one about pre-determination - the question whether he had
closed his mind before making the decision. But politicians are expected to have
views on the public interest matters, and it was not clear Cable had truly
closed his mind. Had that issue gone before a court, a decision by Cable might
well have been defensible.

The issue in Hunt's case is not pre-determination, but bias. His publicly-known
favourable attitude to NewsCorp and to the bid was not a legal problem. What is
a problem is that during the process he now appears to have been partial to
NewsCorp, to secretly have been on their side, and to have shared information
with NewsCorp - specifically advanced information about what he'd say to
Parliament - that he ought not to have. He appears to have been in the arena
with NewsCorp, rather than acting fairly.

(Thanks to yahyah in the comments for flagging this up.)

[#xfffd] Michael Meadowcroft at the Guardian's Northerner blog says referendums
should have no place in British politics.

If we go down the referendum path we will diminish still further the quality of
representation in parliament and we will make it impossible for MPs to take
necessary but unpopular decisions in years one and two of a government with the
judgement that they will be shown to be justified by years four and five - in
time for the next general election.

Historically the referendum has been the tool of the demagogue. Both Napoleons,
Hitler and de Gaulle all used the referendum and the plebiscite to gain support
over the heads of elected parliamentarians. We need better politics and better
parliamentarians and we will not get them if we support an unwanted and
ineffective sleight of hand.

[#xfffd] Guido Fawkes on his blog says Tom Watson did not choose his words very
well when he was on LBC this morning urging voters to back Ken Livingstone.

[#xfffd] Hamish Macdonnell at Coffee House says Alex Salmond is being damaged by
his relationship with rich businessmen.

2.45pm:Lady Warsi, the Conservative party co-chairman, has written to the
parliamentary commissioner for standards asking him to investigate Chris Bryant
for disclosing confidential information from a Leveson witness statement in the
Commons. (See1.30pm.) Here's her comment.

Chris Bryant needs to make urgent apologies to Parliament and to Lord Justice
Leveson for his inappropriate release of evidence supplied to him under a
confidentiality agreement and a restriction order handed down by a senior judge.
Chris Bryant has shown that he cannot be trusted with confidential evidence. He
should do the right thing and voluntarily relinquish his "core participant"
status which gives him access to such information.

2.17pm: The Western Morning News has been handing out Cornish pasties to MPs and
their researchers in the House of Commons today as part of their campaign
against the "pasty tax". The leftovers made it up to the press gallery, and I've
just scoffed one. Very nice it was too.

1.58pm: And Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, has been on the offensive on
this issue too. She has just told Sky's Boulton & Co that, if Jeremy Hunt wants
to show that he was unaware of the full extent of the contact between his
special adviser Adam Smith and News Corporation, he should publish his email
correspondence with Smith.

One of the MPs yesterday in the House of Commons, Tom Harris, said the
relationship between special advisers and secretaries of state is like this.
It's closer than they are to their wife or husband. They see more of them than
they see of their children or the prime minister. The idea that [Hunt] did not
know what [Smith] was doing is simply not credible. If he can prove I'm wrong,
if he thinks I'm overly suspicious, he can prove it by publishing the emails.

Harman also said that she was writing to Jonathan Stephens, permanent secretary
at the Department for Culture, to find out whether he really did authorise Smith
to serve as the department's link with News Corporation over the BSkyB deal, as
Hunt claims. She said the idea that a permanent secretary would authorise a
political adviser to play this role, in a matter involving a quasi-judicial
decision, "does not sound at all credible".

1.56pm: Bernard Jenkin, the Tory MP who chairs the Commons public administration
committee, told the World at One that Sir Alex Allan, the prime minister's
independent adviser on ministerial interests, should investigate the allegations
against Jeremy Hunt. I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

I have not had a chance to study this myself yet enough, but it shouldn't be a
question for me. It should be refered to Sir Alex Allan and he should decide
whether there is a case to answer. That's what should happen.

Jenkin also said he thought Hunt's decision to let his special adviser get
involved in a quasi-judicial decision of this kind was "extraordinary".

1.30pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Rupert Murdoch has admitted to the Leveson inquiry that there was a
"cover-up" at News International over the phone-hacking scandal. He made the
comment in his final evidence session, which has only just ended. There are full
details on our live blog.[#xfffd] David Cameron has rejected calls for an
investigation into claims that Jeremy Hunt broke the ministerial code in his
dealings with News Corporation. Yesterday Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy
leader, wrote to Cameron asking him to get Sir Alex Allan, his independent
adviser on ministerial interests, to investigate claims that Hunt broke three
rules in the ministerial code. Today Number 10 said that there were "no plans"
for an investigation and that Cameron was satisfied that Hunt acted properly.
(As my colleague Patrick Wintour points out, Allan has said in the past that he
may stand down if he feels he is being sidelined. "If I felt that I was being
deliberately bypassed in favour of the Cabinet Secretary doing investigations
then, yes, I would agree that in those circumstances there was not any point in
my continuing in the role and I would step down," Allan told a Commons
committee.)[#xfffd] Ed Miliband has said that Jeremy Hunt's failure to resign
over the help he provided to News Corporation in its BSkyB takeover battle is
"incredible". He said that he presumed Cameron had not sacked Hunt because Hunt
was acting as a "firewall" protecting the prime minister.

[#xfffd] Downing Street has denied claims that it misled MPs about Cameron's
meetings with Rupert Murdoch. As the Press Association reports, Labour MP Chris
Bryant told the Commons that a list of meetings submitted by Murdoch suggested
that the pair had met more often than was admitted by Downing Street. However,
Lord Justice Leveson this morning indicated that the list, which has not yet
been published, may be revised by lawyers before being released to the public.
And he issued a warning against leaks by "core participants" in the inquiry,
such as Bryant, who have advance access to documents and witness statements via
a secure computer system called Lextranet. Yesterday Bryant told MPs: "Rupert
Murdoch - this has been published by the Leveson Inquiry - made it clear that
there were meetings with the prime minister on May 18, May 25, July 21, another
on July 21 and July 22." He said that this appeared to contradict the list of
the PM's meetings with press proprietors, editors and senior media executives
released by Downing Street, which recorded only one meeting with Murdoch between
May 2010, when he took office, and July 2011. Cameron's spokesman told reporters
this morning: "We are confident that the list we published was correct. As I
understand it, there is some revised evidence being presented to the inquiry
this morning detailing meetings. I haven't seen that because it hasn't been
published. Our list is based on our diary records and we believe those diary
records are comprehensive." [#xfffd] Jonathan Stephens, permanent secretary at
the Department for Culture, has refused to answer questions about Jeremy Hunt's
links with News Corporation. Stephens was giving evidence to the Commons public
accounts committee about the Olympics. Asked about Hunt and News Corp, he said:
"I am very sorry. These are very important matters. They are rightly the subject
of interest and that is why the secretary of state made the statement on the
question [yesterday] and that is why he wants to give evidence to the Leveson
Inquiry and is preparing his evidence."

[#xfffd] Johann Lamont, Labour's leader in Scotland, has branded Alex Salmond a
"sucker" because of his close relations with Rupert Murdoch.She made the claim
in First Minister's Questions in the Scottish parliament.

[#xfffd] Ed Miliband has said that he wants to give more power to headteachers.
He made the comment in a Today programme interview in which he claimed that he
was committed to decentralisation. "I'm not somebody who thinks that the
centralised state has all the answers," he said. (See 8.56am.)

[#xfffd] A new poll has put Boris Johnson eight points ahead of Ken Livingstone
in the contest to become London mayor.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has claimed that Britain is at the forefront of global
efforts to develop renewable energy. Caroline Flint, the shadow energy
secretary, said: "No amount of hot air from David Cameron can disguise this
Government's failure to get behind British green businesses and jobs."[#xfffd]
Bakers have been holding a protest in Westminster about the "pasty tax".

12.50pm: Inhis morning briefing email,the Telegraph's Benedict Brogan said Sir
Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary, was involved in talks with Lord Justice
Leveson about whether the Leveson inquiry would look into Jeremy Hunt's contacts
with News Corporation.

Jeremy Hunt's statement and the disposal of Adam Smith, his "rogue" adviser,
have won him some breathing room. That and the decision to let Lord Justice
Leveson rule on his behaviour - a decision apparently brokered between Sir
Jeremy Heywood and the inquiry chairman on Tuesday night.

As PoliticsHome report, the Cabinet Office have now issued this statement about
the Heywood/Leveson contact,

The cabinet secretary and the Treasury solicitor spoke to the judge on Tuesday
afternoon to inform him of the fact that members of Parliament were asking the
cabinet secretary to investigate some of the allegations which were being made
against Jeremy Hunt and to seek his views which he has now made public.

12.11pm: Jemima Khan has interviewed George Galloway for the New Statesman. I
haven't read the full interview yet, but the New Statesman has sent out some
extracts. Here are the best points.

[#xfffd] Galloway is a Muslim, the NS says. "He converted more than ten years
ago in a ceremony at a hotel in Kilburn, north-west London, attended by members
of the Muslim Association of Great Britain," the magazine says. "Those close to
him know this. The rest of the world, including his Muslim constituents, does
not."

[#xfffd] Galloway thinks that he could become a national treasure.

One day, maybe I'll be a national treasure like Tony Benn, but not yet, I hope.

[#xfffd] He thinks that Ed Miliband's decision to stand against his elder
brother in the Labour leadership contest represented "moral turpitude". Here's
the full quote.

I think one of the problems, call it Shakespearian or call it biblical, is that
[Ed Miliband] is marked with the original sin of doing something that is
unnatural, doing something against the natural order of things. It is moral
turpitude to stand against your older brother and, in doing so, plunge a dagger
into his breast. And I think that might, in the end, be a very telling point in
what comes next. Because it would be even more Shakespearian if the brother got
up out of the grave and murdered the brother that had murdered him.

11.58am: I can't put it off any longer. I'm afraid I've got to write about David
Cameron's environment speech this morning.

As my colleague Damian Carrington explained yesterday, Cameron was due to make
an important speech on the subject today. But it was downgraded, and instead it
became something that, frankly, was rather dull. He said some green energy
investments being announced today could create up to 800 jobs. And he said that
a new partnership, Norstec, will be announced to develop offshore wind
opportunities in the North Sea. You can read full details on the Number 10
website.

There's some Guardian video from his speech here.

It only lasts a minute.

11.43am: And, for the record, here are the YouGov GB polling figures from last
night.

Labour: 43% (no change since Tuesday night)Conservatives: 32% (no change)Lib
Dems: 9% (up 1)

Labour lead: 11 points

Government approval: -40

11.41am:A ComRes poll puts Boris Johnson eight points ahead of Ken Livingstone
in the London mayoral race. The election takes place a week today.

11.05am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

I don't normally flag up Guardian stories in my round up, partly because if you
are reading this, you may be reading other stories on the site anyway, and
partly because I take the view that the Guardian's always good and it's
invidious to pick out certain articles and not others. But I'll make an
exception today because some of our coverage is exceptional. I'd particularly
recommend:

[#xfffd] Harold Evans on how Rupert Murdoch's account of his takeover of the
Times and the Sunday Times was wrong.[#xfffd] Nick Davies on how Rupert
Murdoch's evidence yesterday was more revealing than he intended.

[#xfffd] Michael White's sketch on Rupert Murdoch.[#xfffd] Simon Hoggart's
sketch on Jeremy Hunt.

[#xfffd] David Leigh on whether or not the claims made by Jeremy Hunt in his
defence stand up.[#xfffd] Martin Kettle on how the demise of the Murdochs could
affect Britain's Europe policy for a generation.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some articles that are particularly
interesting.

[#xfffd] Peter Oborne in the Daily Telegraph suggests the Murdoch affair could
bring down David Cameron.

There is emerging circumstantial evidence that the Cameron government entered
into what looks suspiciously like a Grand Bargain with the Murdoch newspaper
empire before the last election. It may have gone like this: the Murdoch press
would throw its weight behind the Conservative Party in the 2010 general
election, and in return the Conservatives would back known Murdoch policy
objectives ...

At this stage the evidence is only circumstantial, but the charge that the
Cameron government has done commercial favours for the Murdochs in return for
political support is very serious. This, if true, would amount to corruption.
Certainly, if proven, it would force the resignation of Mr Hunt. But it is not
impossible that the Government would fall. Mr Hunt is one of Mr Cameron's
closest friends in the Cabinet, and would never have set out on the course he
did without the agreement of the Prime Minister.

[#xfffd] Steve Richards in the Independent says a government has never been as
fragile since the Major government in the 1990s.

The Leveson Inquiry and the police investigation continue and will make waves
every now and again right up until the next election. Cameron can just about
brush aside allegations that he got too close to Murdoch on the basis that his
Prime Ministerial predecessors did the same, although it becomes much harder for
him to claim he is a different type of leader who has learnt from the past. But
it is the BSkyB deal that makes the association more toxic, and there are too
many emails and investigations to assume that no more will emerge.

A government has never been as fragile since John Major staggered from crisis to
crisis in the mid 1990s.

[#xfffd] Cahal Milmo and Oliver Wright in the Independent says the Financial
Services Authority may launch an inquiry into Jeremy Hunt's adviser.

[#xfffd] Rowena Mason in the Daily Telegraph says Rupert Murdoch met David
Cameron on at least five more occasions than Cameron has admitted.

10.34am:Sir George Young, the leader of the Commons, has published a green paper
on parliamentary privilege (pdf). He has also announced that the government will
set up a joint committee of both Houses to consider. Here's an extract from the
green paper.

All strong democracies have at their core the recognition that parliamentarians
must be free to speak their mind in debates - and MPs to represent their
constituents' views - without fear or favour. This is at the heart of the
privileges of Parliament which are an integral part of our constitutional
arrangements. Indeed, the privileges of the Westminster Parliament are the model
for the privileges of many legislatures around the world.

But parliamentary privilege is little understood outside of Westminster, and the
connotation of the word "privilege" is unfortunate in its suggestion of special
treatment for Members of Parliament. That connotation was reinforced in 2010
when some MPs and peers attempted to invoke parliamentary privilege to prevent
criminal prosecutions for offences relating to their parliamentary expenses. Of
course, this attempt ultimately failed; it was reassuring that it did so,
because it showed that privilege is only intended to provide protection in
relation to the core functions of Parliament. Nonetheless, it served as a
reminder that even the most durable of constitutional tenets should periodically
be reviewed.

The green paper covers issues like whether the Commons should have the power to
fine members of the public for not cooperating with select committee inquiries.

10.06am: Rupert Murdoch has started giving evidence again to Leveson. Josh
Halliday and John Plunkett are covering it on their live blog.

Lord Justice Leveson started by saying that he was tightening up the rules about
witness statements and exhibits. This seemed to be a rebuke to the Labour MP
Chris Bryant, who used a point of order in the Commons yesterday to accuse David
Cameron of misleading MPs about his meetings with Rupert Murdoch.As a partipant
in the inquiry, Byrant has access to witness statements before they are made
public, and he was referring to information that he thought had already been
released.

9.59am: Yesterday there were not many Liberal Democrats speaking up for Jeremy
Hunt in the Commons. But this morning Don Foster, the Lib Dem backbencher, has
spoken up for the culture secretary. It's not the most ringing endorsement I've
ever heard, but it is positive. Here's what Foster said on Radio 5 Live. I've
taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

What I'm trying to tell you is very simple. I do not know, and no evidence has
yet been provided that Jeremy Hunt himself, the person who made the decision,
actually did anything wrong. He tried his very best to be as impartial as he
could, and ultimately he took a decision that anybody who's accusing him of bias
would find difficult to explain, how did he make a decision that was not the one
News Corporation wanted him to make, despite him having been accused as a
cheerleader for the Murdochs.

8.56am: As well as giving an interview to the Today programme, Ed Miliband has
also been on Radio 5 Live. Here's a summary of the main points from both
interviews. I've taken some of the quotes from the Press Association and
PoliticsHome.

[#xfffd] Miliband said it was "incredible" that Jeremy Hunt had not already
resigned because it was impossible to believe that his adviser passed all the
information that he did to News Corporation without Hunt's knowledge.

It beggars belief that he's still in his job, because to believe that he should
stay you have to believe that his special adviser was, if you like, a lone wolf,
who spent six months in collusion with News Corporation, passing information
that was to be announced in the House of Commons, providing information about
discussions with the regulator, providing information about what opposing
parties were saying. I think it's incredible that Jeremy Hunt hasn't resigned
and that David Cameron has kept him in his job.

He also said that Hunt was now acting as a "firewall" for Cameron.

[#xfffd] Miliband rejected claims that Labour were just as bad as this
government in allowing themselves to become too close to Rupert Murdoch. "There
is a world of difference between being too close to the Murdochs and the pattern
of behaviour we've seen revealed in the past few days," Miliband said. But he
did accept that that Labour's relationship with the Murdochs should have been
different. "In retrospect we all should have been more wary about our
relationships with them," he said.[#xfffd] He claimed that he believed strongly
in decentralisation. He insisted that he did not believe the "centralised state"
was the solution to all social problems.

One of the issues in Britain today is that people aren't in love with the
private sector, some parts of the private sector, but they certainly aren't in
love with the state either. As a constituency MP, what do people come and talk
to me about? They come and talk to me about their problems with state agencies
and state bureaucracies. I'm not somebody who thinks that the centralised state
has all the answers.

By decentralisation, Milband seemed to be talking about devolving power from
central government to local state providers, rather than from the state to the
private sector, because he cited education as an example.[#xfffd] He said Labour
wanted to give headteachers more power.

As we think about our education policy, let's think about what more powers can
be devolved to headteachers ... We shouldn't be the people who say let's hoard
power in the centre. We should be the people who say, if there are good
heateachers, they should have more power, not less. Or indeeed all headteachers.
Let's devolve more power down to headteachers.

[#xfffd] He rejected the idea of introducing regional pay in the public sector.

The lessons of regional pay as I have seen them are that it doesn't particularly
work. In a way it's an acceptance of the north/south divide. You are basically
saying to people, if you don't live in the south of England, you are going to
get much lower living standards and much lower pay.

[#xfffd] He said that he wanted Labour to address "intergenerational equality".
This came up when he was asked about Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande, the Socialist
candidate in the French presidential election. Miliband said he did not support
Hollande's plan for a 75% top rate of tax, but that he hoped that he would win
and that he supported what he was saying about intergenerational equality.

One thing he is talking about is a question of intergenerational equality. I
think that is a big issue for our country going forward. If I talk to young
people, they feel their lives - and I'm not just talking about this government
but more generally - they can't find a job, their tuition fees have trebled,
they can't get a house. It is going to be a big issue.

[#xfffd] He said Labour had to show voters it was willing to take tough
decisions.

Why has the left been losing elections around the world? Partly because, I
think, if you want tough decisions to be made, some people will think it's only
the right, rightwing governments that can make that. I say that's not the case.

[#xfffd] He said that he disagreed with the Tories on how to create wealth.

They believe that the way an economy succeeds ... you cut taxes at the top, and
then wealth can trickle down. I don't believe that. I think it is the
hardworking people of this country that create the wealth. We should be
rewarding them.

(Miliband was using an argument that Barack Obama developed at length in a
particularly good speech in the US earlier this month.)

[#xfffd] He refused to put a figure on his preferred size of the state as a
proportion of GDP. When Evan Davis asked him if he was comfortable with 45%, he
dodged the question. But he also said that getting the economy to grow would
automatically lead to state spending as a share of GDP coming down.

8.45am: Here's some Twitter reaction to Ed Miliband's Today interview.

From ConservativeHome's Tim Montgomerie

Clear from that Ed Miliband interview that he's a centraliser -- opposing
regionalised pay and Gove's schools reforms

- Tim Montgomerie (@TimMontgomerie) April 26, 2012

From the Telegraph's Iain Martin

V good @EvanHD interview with ED M on @BBCr4today - beyond the fuss of the
moment, very revealing. At root Ed really loves the big state

- Iain Martin (@iainmartin1) April 26, 2012

From Michael Dugher, the shadow Cabinet Office minister

@iainmartin1 Ed pro-academies but wants to see a stronger local role and give
more powers to heads. Sounds like your cup of tea, Iain.

- Michael Dugher (@MichaelDugherMP) April 26, 2012

From Stewart Wood, a shadow minister and one of Miliband's key policy advisers

.@TimMontgomerie Hi Tim: there are many reasons to oppose regionalised pay &
question free schools other than an instinct for centralisation

- Stewart Wood (@StewartWood) April 26, 2012

From the Daily Mail's James Chapman

Ed Miliband right to hit on intergenerational unfairness as a big issue. But
logically means he must support granny tax? #today

- James Chapman (Mail) (@jameschappers) April 26, 2012

From the Guardian's Polly Curtis

Miliband: "I do believe" "I do say" "I do think" "let me speak to that point".
It's not important but it's not how people speak... #r4today

- polly curtis (@pollycurtis) April 26, 2012

From the Financial Times's Jim Pickard

Ed miliband should drop the irritating phrase, "I say to you"...

- Jim Pickard (@PickardJE) April 26, 2012

8.28am: I'm not sure that was particularly revealing. I like the way Evan Davis
adops a "let's explore some big issues" approach to interviewing instead of the
"admit you're useless" approach or the crude headline-creating approach, but it
only works if the interviewee is willing to open up, and today Miliband was not
being particuarly candid.

Still, Miliband was clear on regional pay, he was interesting on the need for
the left to show that it can take tough decisions, he intriguingly said that he
agreed with Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande on inter-generational justice and he gave
us some fresh quotes on Jeremy Hunt. He also said something about wanting to
devolve more power to headteachers which sounded new to me. I'll post a summary
soon.

8.23am: They turn to health.

Q: Do you object to private health insurance?

Miliband says he is not going to stop Davis taking out private health insurance.

But he would like to show people that the NHS can be better.

Q: What do you think of Fran[#xfffd]ois Hollande in France?

Miliband says he is not planning a 75% top rate of tax. But Hollande is saying
austerity alone will not achieve what France needs. Miliband says he agrees with
that.

The last Labour government did not do enough to change the economy.

Q: Are you hoping Hollande wins?

Miliband says Hollande represents Labour's sister party, so he's wishing him
luck.

Hollande is also interested in inter-generational equality. That's a big issue.

8.20am: Davis turns to decentralisation.

Q: Would you support regional pay?

Miliband says the evidence suggests it does not work. Regional pay would cement
a north/south divide.

On the wider point, he says he is not someone who believes the state has all the
answers. Michael Gove is a centralising education secretary, he says. Miliband
says he does not agree. He would like to devolve more power to headteachers.

Q: That's the same as Gove, isn't it?

No, says Miliband. Gove does not see a role for local authorities. Miliband says
he does see a role for them.

Miliband also says Gove's policies are for the few, not the many. Davis cuts him
off, because he does not just want to hear him slagging off the government.

Q: But your answer on regional pay suggests you will revert to a centralising
model.

Miliband says regional pay would not work.

8.14am: Davis moves on to other issues.Q: How big should government spending be
as a proportion of national income? Roughly?

Miliband says the government promised prosperity. The economy works well for
those at the top. But it is not delivering for the majority who are "really
squeezed". We are in a double-dip recession and we need to change the way the
economy works.

Labour is showing how it would stand up to vested interests.

Miliband says he has taken a strong stand on executive pay.

Q: Would you be comfortable with a state representing 45% of national income?
It's at about that figure at the moment.

Miliband says the proportion of national income that the state takes relates to
the extent to which your economy is growing. So "let's not pluck out of the air
figures for this percentage or that". Labour has to show it is a party for tough
times as well as easy times. The left has been losing elections around the world
because people think parties of the right are the only ones that can take tough
decisions in hard times. But Miliband says he does not agree.Q: But your
opponents would say this. Can you flesh out what is different about you?

Miliband says Labour would not have cut the 50p top rate of tax.

Miliband says this is not just a technocratic argument about whether the 50p
rate raises money. The right believe that if you cut taxes, wealth will trickle
down. Miliband says he thinks that you have to allow those in the middle to
create wealth.

8.10am: Evan Davis is interviewing Ed Miliband. He's starting now.Q: Lord Fowler
said yesterday on the programme that politicians should not be invovled in media
ownership decisions. Do you agree?

No, says Miliband. There is a public interest that politicians can represent.
When Alistair Darling was in government, he had to take decisions about BSkyB
and ITV. It is "incredible" that Jeremy Hunt has not resigned.

Q: Labour also did favours for the Murdochs. The public won't be satisfied until
there is complete separation.

Miliband says Labour got too close to the Murdochs. But there is a world of
difference between that, and the pattern of behaviour exposed at Leveson.

Politicians have to make decisions about all kinds of issues. They should stand
up to vested interest. That is what Labour is doing under his leadership,
Miliband says.

Why is Hunt still in his job, Miliband asks. Because David Cameron has questions
to answer.

This matters, because politicians should govern in the national interest.

8.00am: Rupert Murdoch is back at the Leveson inquiry this morning. There's some
excellent coverage of his appearance yesterday in the Guardian, but do start
with this piece by Harold Evans.

Rupert Murdoch has apparently lost a great deal of his power of memory, but
nature has compensated by endowing him with a vivid imagination. He can surely
deploy his new gift in the service of Fox movies. There is the great scene he
pitched to Lord Justice Leveson on Wednesday morning where the editor of the
Times enters left, closes the door behind him and begs: "Look, tell me what you
want to say, what do you want me to say, and it need not leave this room and
I'll say it." And our hero proprietor, so famously fastidious about such
matters, has to tell Uriah Heep: "That is not my job."

And thus, children, was how Mr KR Murdoch honoured the promises of editorial
independence that enabled him to avoid the Monopolies and Mergers Commission
over his bid for Times Newspapers in 1981. As the editor in question, I am not
able to compete with Murdoch in fabrication - he has had a lifetime of
experience - but I do happen to have retained my memory of the year editing the
Times, made notes, kept documents and even had the effrontery to write a whole
bestselling book about it in 1983, called Good Times, Bad Times.

We'll be covering today's hearing on a separate live blog, but I'll pick up some
of the political reaction here.

First, though, we've got Ed Miliband being interviewed on the Today programme at
8.10am. After that, here's the agenda for the day.

8.30am: David Cameron speaks at an international clean energy conference.10am:
Rupert Murdoch resumes giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry.

10am: Bakers are marching to Downing Street to protest about the "pasty tax".

10.15am: Jonathan Stephens, permanent secretary at the Department for Culture,
gives evidence to public accounts committee. Labour MPs want to ask him about
Jeremy Hunt and News Corporation.10.15am: Nigel Farage launches Ukip's campaign
for the local elections.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary before 12.30pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 5:12 PM GMT

Now the EU's charging its victims (that's us, folks) even more

BYLINE: SIMON RICHARDS

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 477 words


As it's confirmed that the UK is officially back in recession, isn't it good to
know that, while we're all having to cut back to make ends meet, at least one
group of people is laughing all the way to the bank, having got its hands on
hundreds of millions of pounds of British taxpayers' money.

The bad news is that the people on the receiving end of this massive windfall
aren't long suffering British pensioners or inadequately paid members of what's
left of our armed forces. No, the lucky recipients are our fat-cat overlords in
Brussels - the unelected Eurocrats who make over 70% of our laws and who can
overrule our own elected politicians in the emasculated local council chamber in
the Palace of Westminster which now occupies our once proud mother of
parliaments.

Is it any wonder that George Osborne's laughable claim that "we're all in this
together" is treated with such derision? Yet he's right in one respect, because
he, the Prime Minister and the leaders of the other two main political parties
have rubber-stamped a succession of outrageous money-grabs by the EU, so we're
all forced to pay to keep the bloated Brussels bureaucrats in the foie gras they
so enjoy thrusting down their necks.

If you've ever visited Brussels - or Strasbourg or Luxembourg, because, of
course, one capital isn't good enough for the EU - you'll know that it's
littered with hideous palaces of bureaucracy filled with marble staircases. If
you haven't, then you should - after all, you're paying for it!

Now this would be obscenely indefensible at the best of times, but, of course,
these aren't the best of times - because hundreds of millions of people are
already suffering because of the folly of the swivel-eyed fanaticism of the very
Brussels fat cats who are now stealing even more of our hard earned cash.

In Spain, youth unemployment has gone above 50%. Greece faces decades of ruin
and misery to pay back the French and German banks which were foolish enough to
lend it money because the fatally flawed Euro made lending dirt cheap. A whole
continent is spinning into a vicious circle of debt, decline and despair because
of the arrogance of its leaders who, even now, refuse to acknowledge the error
of their ways.

No wonder so many voters in France backed Marine Le Pen - and no wonder so many
in this country are now turning to the much more moderate UK Independence Party,
which alone appears to offer a way out of this costly catastrophe.

This latest EU theft of British taxpayers' money is yet another example of why
we'd be Better Off Out of the European Union. Until our own political leaders
learn this, they'll continue to be held in contempt by the public they have let
down so badly.

It's time the people of the United Kingdom were given the referendum they really
want - and that they were offered the chance to end this costly racket once and
for all.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 9:58 AM GMT

Brussels demands 7% budget increase: PM anger at move that would cost us an
extra £1bn

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 783 words



     ·    Proposal would boost Britain's contribution to £114bn
     ·    Downing Street and Treasury vow to fight demands


EU demands for an inflation-busting 7 per cent budget increase have been met
with outrage by politicians.

Britain would have to shell out an extra £1billion under the European
Commission's proposals for a massive spending boost.

Downing Street and the Treasury vowed to fight the demands, saying they were
unrealistic.

The Commission's proposal would increase the EU's budget by 6.8 per cent to
nearly £114billion. Britain's share, at around 12.5 per cent, would be
£16.6billion - a rise of more than £1billion.

EU officials argued that the extra money was needed to pay bills for projects
already signed off by member states.

Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso said the budget rise was not 'money for
Brussels' but would be ploughed back for the 'benefit' of EU citizens, including
Britons.

EU budget commissioner Janusz Lewandowski described it as an 'anti-crisis
package'.

He said: 'We will not restore growth by cuts only; Europe needs to invest wisely
for its own future, starting today.

That is what the EU budget is for, that is what our draft budget for 2013 is
about.'

The Commission's proposals come at a time when member states across the bloc are
trying to save their faltering single currency by imposing swingeing cuts.

David Cameron made clear he would not entertain backing such a huge spending
rise.

His official spokesman said: 'Clearly that kind of increase, an increase that is
in excess of inflation, is unacceptable when governments across Europe are
having to make very difficult decisions on public spending

'We will be talking to other countries and pushing for a much more realistic
budget that recognises the economic situation in Europe.

Last year, we worked with other countries to bring down the proposals for a
large increase in the budget and we will be doing the same this year.

Financial secretary to the Treasury Mark Hoban said: 'It is unacceptable for the
Commission to propose an inflation-busting budget increase when governments
across Europe are making difficult decisions on public spending.'

DUTCH QUEEN PUTS OFF NATIONAL ELECTIONS

The Dutch queen has called for national elections on September 12, leaving the
country with only a caretaker government for more than four months as it
struggles to bring its budget deficit within EU-mandated limits.

Prime Minister Mark Rutte and his 18-month old government resigned on Monday
after failing to agree on billions of euros in cuts to rein in government
spending.

Caretaker Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager was reportedly meeting with leaders
of all political parties yesterday in a bid to find common ground on cuts ahead
of a debate today on the AAA-rated government's finances.

The government, along with all other EU nations, has until the end of the month
to submit a draft 2013 budget and plan of economic reforms to Brussels as part
of the EU's fiscal surveillance of member states.

Rutte had been one of the most vocal critics of countries not sticking to EU
budget rules and is now facing a near impossible task of getting the Dutch
deficit down to 3 per cent of GDP in 2013.

A Treasury source added: 'The Commission has wilfully ignored repeated calls for
budgetary restraint.

This is despite failing to get its own house in order by cutting administrative
costs or curb chronic high spending.'

UK government departments are on average facing budget cuts of 19 per cent.

Director of the Open Europe think-tank, Mats Persson, said: 'Taxpayers around
Europe will rightly wonder how in the world the same Commission that orders
countries to cut hard and deep in public spending, has the nerve to propose a
near 7 per cent increase for itself.

'The fact that this comes in a week when we have seen a national government
(Holland) collapse under the weight of EU-mandated austerity targets is just
surreal.'

Marta Andreasen, a former EU chief accountant and now a UKIP MEP, urged the UK
government to cut contributions to the EU. She said the EU demands were
'selfish, unrealistic and insulting to taxpayers already under the cosh'.

'This demand is cloud-cuckoo land stuff. Have the European Commission finally
completely lost their grip on reality?'

Richard Ashworth, leader of the UK's Conservative MEPs, said the proposed
increase was 'outlandish'.

Talks on next year's budget are likely to take until December and will run
alongside even more robust battles over the EU's next long-term budget, for
2014-2020.

The commission has proposed an allocation of almost 1 trillion euros for its
next seven-year budget.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU CANNOT BE SERIOUS;
Fury at bid for 6.8% spending rise

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 248 words


BRUSSELS sparked outrage yesterday by demanding a 6.8 per cent hike in the EU
budget.

PM David Cameron blasted the above-inflation increase as "unacceptable."

It means that, just as countries across Europe slash spending, the EU's budget
will rocket to £113.6billion - a £7.4billion rise.

Britain's contribution alone will soar by £925million to around £14.2billion.

Mr Cameron will now hold talks with other European leaders on how to fight the
plan. The PM's official spokesman signalled that Britain will not accept any
rise above inflation.

He said: "Clearly that kind of increase is unacceptable when governments across
Europe are having to make very difficult decisions on public spending.

"We will be talking to other countries and pushing for a much more realistic
budget, that recognises the economic situation and difficult decisions countries
are having to make."

Defiant European Commission right. shrugged off the criticism.

He said the extra cash will help create jobs and was not "money for Brussels".

EU budget commissioner Janusz Lewandowski even claimed the increase was needed
to help countries cope with cuts. But UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen
- the EU's former chief accountant - accused Brussels of "cloud-cuckoo land"
demands.

She said: "The rise demand is selfish, unrealistic and deeply insulting to
taxpayers."

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

£925M How much more EU want from Britain

£7.4BN How much more EU want to spend

Hands up if EU want more money

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defiant ... boss Barroso

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

FURY OVER EU 6.8% CASH BID

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 162 words


BRUSSELS sparked outrage yesterday by demanding a 6.8 per cent hike in the EU
budget.

David Cameron blasted the aboveinflation increase as "unacceptable." It means
that, just as countries across Europe slash spending, the EU's budget will
rocket to £113.6billion - a £7.4billion rise.

Britain's contribution will soar by £925million to around £14.2billion.

PM Mr Cameron will now hold talks with other European leaders on how to fight
the plan.

The PM's official spokesman signalled that Britain will not accept any rise
above inflation. He said: "Clearly that kind of increase is unacceptable when
governments across Europe are having to make very difficult decisions on public
spending. "We will be talking to other countries and pushing for a much more
realistic budget."

European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso claimed the extra cash will
help create jobs and was not "money for Brussels".

But UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen accused Brussels of "cloud-cuckoo land" demands.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EU CANNOT BE SERIOUS

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 231 words


BRUSSELS sparked outrage yesterday by demanding a 6.8 per cent hike in the EU
budget.

PM David Cameron blasted the above-inflation increase as "unacceptable."

It means that, just as countries across Europe slash spending, the EU's budget
will rocket to £113.6billion - a £7.4billion rise.

Britain's contribution alone will soar by £925million to around £14.2billion.

Mr Cameron will now hold talks with other European leaders on how to fight the
plan. The PM's official spokesman signalled that Britain will not accept any
rise above inflation.

He said: "Clearly that kind of increase is unacceptable when governments across
Europe are having to make very difficult decisions on public spending.

"We will be talking to other countries and pushing for a much more realistic
budget, that recognises the economic situation and difficult decisions countries
are having to make."

Defiant European Commission right. shrugged off the criticism.

He said the extra cash will help create jobs and was not "money for Brussels".

EU budget commissioner Janusz Lewandowski even claimed the increase was needed
to help countries cope with cuts. But UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen
- the EU's former chief accountant - accused Brussels of "cloud-cuckoo land"
demands.

She said: "The rise demand is selfish, unrealistic and deeply insulting to
taxpayers."

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defiant ... boss Barroso

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 11:41 PM GMT

Boris Johnson to be re-elected, but Brian Coleman, Richard Barnes and Kit
Malthouse at risk: new poll

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1183 words


We have a poll in tomorrow's paper from Survation, a member of the British
Polling Council. Like today's ComRes, it shows Boris Johnson in an eight-point
lead, 54-46, to retain the mayoralty.

That's the good news for Boris. The bad news is (a) the fieldwork was done
before the economy went into double-dip recession and (b) even so, some of his
key political allies - including Brian Coleman, his fire authority chair,
Richard Barnes, his statutory deputy mayor, Roger Evans, the Tory group leader,
and even Kit Malthouse, his policing man - are looking distinctly vulnerable in
their London Assembly seats.

It looks like the Tories could be caned on the Assembly, going down to just
eight seats out of 25 - which would mean that Boris wouldn't have an automatic
majority to pass his budget (it can be blocked with a two-thirds majority, 17
votes.) That raises the faint possibility, over the next four years, of the
Assembly being a body that actually matters.

Survation is the first company in this contest to poll using individual Assembly
constituency candidate names and is also using a new technique where voters are
presented (online) with exact facsimiles of the ballot papers they will see in
their polling stations. They give their responses by clicking the relevant box
on the ballot paper.

Damian Lyons Lowe, the chief executive, says that simulating the "election
experience" gives better overall results than the other firms and is fairer to
smaller candidates, who are not "prompted" by the other pollsters - that is,
their individual names are not given to respondents at first, only the option
"other."

Survation does show the minor parties doing better. They predict that UKIP and
the Greens will get two Assembly seats each, and 10 per cent of the
first-preference mayoral vote between them. The BNP is on 3.5% for the mayoralty
and 3.2% for the assembly (losing its seat) and Siobhan Benita is last with
3.3%.  The Lib Dems' Brian Paddick also enjoys his best poll numbers of the
campaign, 10.3 per cent. The Lib Dems will get three Assembly seats, Survation
say. Labour will end up with ten.

Boris is 11 per cent ahead of Ken on first preferences, compared with 9 per cent
in the ComRes poll; his lead drops back 3 points on second prefs, suggesting
that second prefs are breaking less favourably for him than last time. If the
race tightens - as it surely must - this could be important.

The pan-London sample is larger than normal - almost 1500 voters - but the
Assembly constituency samples are small, only about 100 each (14 of the 25
members are elected by constituencies under first-past-the-post and 11 on a
Londonwide list system). So there's a wider margin of error, 8.5 per cent, on
these results. That margin puts the seats of Coleman, Malthouse and Barnes in
play. Coleman is behind Labour, the other two ahead, but in each case within the
margin of error. Remember, too, that the news has got worse for the Tories in
the three days since this polling was done. And even if some or all of these men
hold on, the Tories will still lose seats in "compensation" on the list side.

The scalp of Brian Coleman, one of London's most colourful and combative
politicians, would please a lot of people on the Left (and one or two inside
Team Boris) no end. Like most journalists, however, I like him and would miss
him. He's also the fire authority chair, a post he could keep if he lost his
Assembly seat, I'm told, though Boris might decide to lose him. He might still
hang on - his seat, Barnet & Camden, has a big Jewish Tory vote.

Kit Malthouse, another at-risk big beast, is deputy mayor with responsibility
for the Metropolitan Police. Again, it's not clear whether he could survive in
that post without an Assembly seat. One of his predecessors, Toby Harris, had to
quit the chairmanship of the then Metropolitan Police Authority after losing his
seat in 2004 - but the MPA has now been abolished, and arrangements are
different. Boris would almost certainly want to keep Malthouse if he can.

If Labour can win Malthouse's seat, West Central, which consists of the Tory
heartlands of Westminster, Kensington & Chelsea and Hammersmith & Fulham, that
would be a huge coup. Malthouse's majority in 2008 was more than 30 per cent. A
Labour win is not, however, totally impossible. The party did well here at the
general election - holding the parliamentary seats of Hammersmith and
Westminster North, against expectations.

And the fact that this seat is even in play shows just how bad things are for
the Tories now - with the exception of Boris. His personal popularity is proving
incredibly resilient to the Government's sustained efforts to lose every vote it
possibly can. The question for his supporters is: will the anti-Tory tide get so
strong that even Boris cannot resist it?

Mayoral results (first preference vote)

Boris Johnson (Con)  42.2%

Ken Livingstone (Lab)  31%

Brian Paddick (LD)  10.3%

Lawrence Webb (Fresh Choice/UKIP)  5.3%

Jenny Jones (Green) 4.4%

Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) 3.5%

Siobhan Benita (Ind) 3.3%

After second preferences

Boris Johnson (Con) 54%

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 46%

London Assembly party standings (predicted)

Labour 10   Conservative 8  Lib Dem 3   UKIP 2  Green 2

London Assembly list vote

Labour 32.6%

Conservative 28.4%

Lib Dem 9.6%

Green  8.1%

UKIP 7%

English Democrats 3.6%

BNP 3.2%

Others 7.5%

London Assembly constituency vote

Labour 35.8%

Tories 28.8%

Lib Dems 13.2 %



Selected individual constituency results (margin of error +/- 8.5%)

Barnet & Camden

Andrew Dismore (Lab) 38.4%

Brian Coleman (Con) 36.6%

Audrey Poppy (Green) 11.9%

Christopher Richards (LD) 8.8%

Ealing & Hillingdon

Richard Barnes (Con) 35.5%

Onkar Sahota (Lab) 31.8%

Helen Knight (Fresh Choice/ UKIP) 12.5%

Michael Cox (LD) 7.8%

West Central

Kit Malthouse (Con) 40.1%

Todd Foreman (Lab) 35.1%

Susannah Rustin (Green) 9.9%

Elizabeth Jones (Fresh Choice/UKIP) 7.9%

Havering & Redbridge

Mandy Richards (Lab) 39.5%

Roger Evans (Con) 28.4%

Lawrence Webb (Fresh Choice/UKIP) 9.9%

Malvin Brown (Res) 9.6%

Merton & Wandsworth

Richard Tracey (Con) 34.3%

Leonie Cooper (Lab) 31.9%

Mazhar Manzoor (Fresh Choice/UKIP) 12.4%

As I say, a smalll-sample health warning on these results. The overall London
sample size (for Mayor and pan-Assembly numbers) was a healthy 1453. The survey
dates were 18-24 April. I'll post data tables as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 10:00 PM GMT

Boris Johnson will win election but lose aides and majority - poll;
Boris Johnson will be re-elected mayor next week but risks becoming a political
"cripple" without key aides or an effective majority in the London Assembly,
according to an opinion poll.

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 244 words


The poll, by Survation for The Daily Telegraph, gives Mr Johnson an eight-point
lead over his Labour rival, Ken Livingstone, after second-preference votes are
counted.

The poll, the second in two days to show this lead, will come as a relief to
Tory strategists after weeks of disasters for the Government and an earlier
survey showing the race effectively neck-and-neck.

But the Tories face a collapse in their vote for elections to the London
Assembly the same day. The poll says they will be reduced to just eight of the
assembly's 25 seats, one short of the one-third majority Mr Johnson needs to
pass his budget.

Brian Coleman, Mr Johnson's fire authority chairman, seems likely to lose his
assembly seat, the poll says. Mr Johnson's deputy mayor, Richard Barnes, is also
at risk. The most high-profile Tory casualty could be Mr Johnson's policing
chief, Kit Malthouse, whose lead over Labour in his assembly seat is within the
margin of error.

The poll, of 1,450 Londoners, is the first to measure specific voting intentions
by assembly constituency, though pollsters cautioned that small samples mean
there is a wider than normal margin of error.

Tony Travers, of the London School of Economics, said: "There is now the chance
of a classic American congress versus president-style gridlock."

The poll also says that the UK Independence Party and the Greens will do better
than expected, winning four assembly seats and 10 per cent of the mayoral vote
between them.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

Follow the money and you see that the euro is dying

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 844 words


.... .....

IN TIMES of economic turbulence it is foolish to take what politicians say about
currencies at face value. In 1967 James Callaghan, then chancellor of the
exchequer, repeatedly denied that there was a plan to devalue sterling,
including in a statement to the Commons. But of course there was such a plan and
the devaluation happened. Rather than resign in disgrace, Callaghan was
permitted to swap jobs with then home secretary Roy Jenkins.

In fact it is widely accepted within the trade of politics that a practitioner
is entitled to tell an outright lie to fend off financial speculators. As
William Waldegrave, a minister under John Major, admitted to the Commons
Treasury select committee in 1994: "In exceptional circumstances it is necessary
to say something that is untrue to the House of Commons. The House of Commons
understands that and accepts that." So the official line that no country will be
leaving the eurozone is merely that - a line Europe's political class has agreed
in order to discourage speculators from aggressively driving events. You should
not believe it for a moment.

Instead, as the whistleblower in the Watergate scandal put it: "Follow the
money." Don't listen to what politicians claim to be the truth, look at the
financial actions of the powerful. UKIP Euro MP Godfrey Bloom has been doing
that and has spotted something telling: the European Investment Bank is now
drawing up contracts allowing Greece to repay debts in drachma as well as in
euros.

SIMILAR steps are to be taken in respect of loans to Ireland and Portugal and
ultimately for all euro members. As Bloom says: "The EIB has to work in the
markets. Not to factor in Greek withdrawal would make their balance book look
dodgy."

A Conservative MP with good connections in the City of London yesterday told me
that expectation in the financial markets is hardening around the idea that
Greece will leave the eurozone as early as July.

This is the reality - it is all over for a eurozone of 17 nations and Greece
will not be the only country to leave. There is plenty of reason to think that
once it goes several others will follow.

As our well-placed Tory MP explains: "The first country out of the euro will do
best as there is a great store of money waiting for investment opportunities.
Once the drachma is back and quickly devalues there will be a flood of foreign
money into Greece to buy up cheap property and a surge in tourists going for
cheap holidays.

"The sight of Greece back in growth under the drachma will lead to massive
pressure to leave the euro in the other crisis-hit economies."

The man wearing Jim Callaghan's shoes at the moment is George Osborne and it is
therefore his role to maintain the fiction that Greece is not about to tumble
out of the euro. It does not sound like his heart is in it.

He claimed in the Commons on Monday: "The eurozone countries on the periphery
are being asked to walk an incredibly difficult path. That is a consequence of
being in a monetary union in which it is impossible to devalue. However, it is
clear that Ireland, which has had to take some very tough fiscal measures, is
becoming dramatically more competitive... so it is possible to walk that path."

In fact the Irish economy is barely growing. Unemployment is above 14 per cent
and mortgage arrears are still rising. As the Bank of Ireland's latest
assessment put it yesterday: "Domestic indicators remain weak, unemployment
remains elevated and residential property prices do not appear as yet to have
fully stabilised."

How will the Irish people react while they are still suffering for doing what
they were told was the right thing when the Greeks are gaining from default and
devaluation? As the man who helped write William Hague's prescient 1998 speech
in which he described the euro as a burning building with no exits Mr Osborne
well understands its design flaws. He must know Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain
and even Italy are unable to prosper in a currency union with Germany.

With their powerful international brands, excellent technical education system,
economies of scale, world-beating research and development facilities, deeply
ingrained work ethic, brilliant transport system and established international
trading relationships, the Germans will pull further and further ahead in the
productivity stakes.

UNLESS the peripheral countries leave the euro and devalue against Germany their
goods will become less and less competitive.

Germany will suck the economic lifeblood from them, increasing its vast balance
of trade surplus still further.

Greece will be the first country to leave principally because it should never
have been allowed to join. Its public finances and industrial relations were
never in a fit state to survive an exchange rate "lockin" with Germany.

Volatile Greece cannot be sustained as a democracy inside the euro. Don't expect
a governing politician anywhere in the EU to tell you Greece is going to get the
drachma back. But one day soon you will wake up to learn that it has.

'Politicians lie about currency devaluations'

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GREEK TRAGEDY: The volatile country should never have joined the euro
Picture: Thanassis Stavrakis/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

Donald Trump's appearance sparks near-riot outside Scottish parliament

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1084 words

ABSTRACT

After giving evidence before Holyrood committee on windfarms, US tycoon is met
by competing crowds of protesters

FULL TEXT

It started quite calmly but ended with a near riot, as supporters and critics
traded applause and insults. Donald Trump, ever the crowd-pleasing showman, the
brusque, blunt wheel-dealer, had his wish.

After a relatively understated appearance at the Scottish parliament to decry
Scotland's rush for windpower, where he in effect accused his one-time ally Alex
Salmond of deliberately deceiving him to ensure his £750m golf course
investment, Trump emerged on the streets of Edinburgh.

As he strolled out, smirking in pleasure and waving, anti-wind activists hailed
his support and his enemies hurled abuse. Police officers rushed into the crowd
and surrounded Trump in a protective cordon as the property baron tried to touch
hands with admirers crushed behind a crowd barrier.

Amid a bewildering array of competing placards, posters, flags and proclamatory
T-shirts, there were loud repetitive chants of "there's only one Donald Trump"
and "no more turbines" from a crowd dressed in Barbour jackets, ironic top hats
and bright yellow UK Independence party tabards.

But there were chants too from his opponents: one young man rushed at Trump to
denounce the tycoon's repeated efforts to force residents living on the edge of
his £750m golf resort to leave.

"You're ruining lives," he shouted, as a burly police officer pushed into him to
quell his abuse. "You're a liar. You destroy people's lives in Aberdeenshire."

Within minutes, Trump was bustled through photographers and television cameras
into a waiting Range Rover, with the black paintwork customary for Trump's
frequent visits to Scotland.

Trump had been due to give a speech to his admirers, all drawn from the various
local anti-windfarm campaign groups in the Scottish Borders, Dumfries and
Galloway, Shetland and Perthshire, where Salmond's dream of building the
thousands of turbines needed to hit his target of 100% renewable electricity by
2020 is being made real.

All members of the umbrella campaign Communities Against Turbines (CAT), they
are delighted the mogul has promised to put in up to £10m to finance their
campaign and legal battles.

This is perhaps Trump's boldest intervention into Scottish politics. He has
insisted he will spend as much as is needed to defeat a "monstrous" windfarm
just "one mile" offshore from his golf course north of Aberdeen and in direct
sight of his planned hotel, taking legal action to block it if necessary.

His critics insist this and many of his assertions to the committee are wrong.
The company building the experimental, 11-turbine windfarm, which is backed by
the European Union and the Scottish government, insisted on Wednesday that the
turbines would be three miles (4.9km) away from Trump's clubhouse and 2.4 miles
offshore from the southern boundary of his course.

At a press conference after Trump's 105 minutes of evidence alongside two CAT
spokesmen to Holyrood's energy and tourism committee, the Guardian asked him how
and when he would make good on his promise to block the windfarm.

Trump was unable to confirm that £10m was in offer, replying: "We're looking
into that. We will spend whatever is necessary, whatever we're allowed to spend.
We're looking into the laws of this country."

Trump had arrived at the hearing in committee room one with his customary
rolling, prizefighter's walk, with a serious look on his face. Flanked by his
often combative right-hand man, George Sorial, he began gently, thanking the
committee for the opportunity to appear.

But after his preamble it quickly became clear that the Scottish National party,
which Salmond leads, no longer regards him as a friend nor an ally. Successive
SNP MSPs, in a kindly but politely hostile fashion, questioned him about his
repeated claims about the "tens of millions of pounds" he had spent on his now
stalled resort, his assertions about energy policy, climate change and his
contested claims about public hatred for renewables.

The MSP Chick Brodie, who sports two-tone shirts and well-oiled hair, pointed to
a series of opinion polls on wind power commissioned deliberately to spike
Trump's guns which showed that up to 70% of Scots support onshore windfarms. So
too did the Irish, Brodie said, a nation cited by Trump earlier as "laughing" at
Scotland over its love affair with wind power.

Here came the first of Trump's characteristic boasts: he didn't need to produce
any proof that tourism to Scotland was being damaged by subsidy-draining,
inefficient and Chinese-built windfarms. He was evidence, personified. "I'm an
expert in tourism. I have won many, many awards ... if you dot your landscape
with these horrible, horrible structures, you will do tremendous damage."

Trump was later pressed hard by reporters, flanked by more than 20 television
cameras and photographers whose flashes pulsed every time Trump gestured, about
his detailed claims that Salmond had promised him in 2007 that there was no
prospect of the offshore windfarm being built.

Sorial reminded Trump, who appeared hazy about the dates, that they had met for
dinner in October 2007 - during Salmond's two-day trip to New York five months
after he won power as first minister. Trump confirmed he had no written proof
about Salmond's guarantees, but insisted no letters or witnesses were needed:
"I'm the evidence," he proclaimed.

He then linked Salmond's vehement denials that he had ever made such a guarantee
with both Salmond's apparent denials on Tuesday that he had lobbied UK
government ministers over News Corp's bid for BSkyB and the Scottish
government's controversial compassionate release of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, the
man convicted of the Lockerbie bombing, because of his terminal cancer.

"If Alex Salmond was smart, he would stop [building windfarms] right now because
what he's doing to Scotland is terrible. This is the same thing as al-Megrahi,
when they let him out of prison because he would die in two weeks. And guess
what, he was running around the park last week," Trump said.

In the end, however, it took the Scottish Green party leader and committee
member, Patrick Harvie, to express most succinctly the views of Trump's critics.
As Trump was leaving the committee room, Harvie asked the mogul how he did his
traditional victory sign, presenting Trump with two fingers pushed erect into
the air. But Harvie's victory sign was reversed: a widely recognised symbol of
something much less polite.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 695 words


&#10002;Some things we think we know. Take the record of Chilean strongman
Augusto Pinochet. Seems clear cut: he took power through a coup in 1973. Good
for him, but not for the 3,000 or more people who were killed or "disappeared".
On his death in 2006 the New York Times described him as "a notorious symbol of
human rights abuse and corruption". Still, Margaret Thatcher always liked him.
There must have been something to love.

And that's the sort of view being taken by Ukip and the Tories in the European
parliament, where yesterday two of Britain's finest - Conservative Nirj Deva and
our dear friend, the Ukipian Godfrey "eight pints" Bloom, invited fellow
parliamentarians to think again about the man who made others disappear. "The
seventeen-year Pinochet regime is often portrayed by European media as
totalitarian, and sometimes pure evil. But how does this fit with the fact that
later governments, all democratically elected, have continued the Pinochet line
and not strayed from his reforms which have dominated Chile ever since?" Yes,
think again: "The European media have often been biased against Pinochet and his
regime, but what does the regime have to say for itself? This presentation will
explore these questions via key persons from the regime." Some seemed open to
the idea, others not so - Labour's Richard Howitt among them. "The reality of
the Pinochet regime was years of oppression and bloodshed," he said. He didn't
go. Typical; another woolly liberal, stuck in the old ways.

&#10002;It's Murdoch week at the Leveson inquiry as the good lord probes the
relationship between the press and politicians. Simple, really. Rupert said
jump, they said "how high?" But it's not just Rupert. On Monday Aidan Barclay
talked at length about his links with Big Dave. They talk; indeed Dave was told
to ring the Telegraph editor every day during the election - he sends the PM
advisory texts. And interesting, isn't it, that Barclay told Leveson that just
recently he complained to George Osborne about the burden on UK business and
issues with visas for Chinese workers. Where is Damian Green, the immigration
minister, to be found this week? "Visiting China to discuss immigration," says
Downing Street. There, that's a good boy.

&#10002;High excitement at the release of the blockbuster Avengers Assemble,
with a stellar cast, high action - and gasps from the reviewers as they wonder
whether the censors of the film fell asleep on the job. The film is certificate
12A, as perhaps befits a spin-off from Marvel Comics distributed by Disney. But
what awkward family questions will be prompted by the scene in which the baddie
Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston, loudly insults Scarlett Johansson's Black Widow
by calling her a "mewling quim". Fan websites are already buzzing with
astonishment that the insult survived the cut. Loki speaks in elegant
faux-Elizabethan English. Perhaps that's how it got through. But then as now,
Britain was broken. The Elizabethans could be pretty filthy.

&#10002;Back to the 70s, courtesy of Dominic Sandbrook's new book Seasons in the
Sun: The Battle for Britain, 1974-1979. We like the text. But more than that we
like the index. The big beasts of the time are all there. "Heath, Edward: Leans
nonchalantly on an Italian deep-freeze, page 425"; "stacks books on his chairs
to stop Thatcher sitting down, 257"; "stares at Thatcher with undisguised
hatred, 258,324". Also "unconvincing attempt to look cuddly", on page 158.
There's "Wilson, Harold: Compares himself to a big fat spider, 452"; "complains
of the 'squitters', 38, 418" - poor Harold. And on page 39, Wilson "polishes off
five brandies", then "polishes off six brandies". Was that to cure the
squitters? Sandbrook doesn't say.

&#10002;Finally, he had a bad day; an awful day. A falling from the aeroplane,
chewing glass, swallowing your tongue sort of day. On Thursday, Jeremy Hunt, the
culture secretary - now singled out as Murdoch's little helper in government -
was due to be guest of honour at the Tower of London. After yesterday's Leveson
revelations, he may not want to go near the place. He may not have a choice.

diary@guardian.co.uk

twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

G2: The new radicals: Big politics is in crisis. The fresh ideas and strong
personalities are emerging from what were once regarded as irrelevant fringe
parties. Ahead of next week's local elections John Harris asks four rising stars
from outside the mainstream how they see the future

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 456 words


When George Galloway won last month's Bradford West byelection, two reactions
sounded an unlikely note of agreement. One was from Galloway: "This is a
rejection of the mainstream parties with their Tweedledee, Tweedledum,
Tweedledee-and-a-half approach. It was people saying they want political leaders
they can believe in, who say what they mean, do what they say and don't lie to
people." The other was voiced by that well-known leftwinger John Redwood MP:
"The old-fashioned virtues of beliefs, passion and consistency have powered Mr
Galloway to an amazing victory. He has shown all the established parties that
people can vote them out."

In the following days, there was a burst of excitement about yet

another sign of a crisis in mainstream politics and the growth of new parties.
The consensus was: yes, parts of the electorate are certainly volatile, and
capable of giving Westminster a shock. But those on the supposed fringes of
politics are likely to remain there.

Yet something is definitely happening. At the last general election, even faced
with a titanically unpopular government, the Tories couldn't win a majority.
Having entered the coalition, the Liberal Democrats have removed mainstream
politics' usual receptacle for protest votes, with consequences that have yet to
become clear. In a run of opinion polls leading up to next week's local and
mayoral elections, the UK Independence Party has been either neck-and-neck with
the Lib Dems, or in front of them. Labour is sufficiently rattled by the
Bradford West result to be considering barring its MPs from standing as mayors
or police commissioners, in case further byelections cause similar upsets.

Meanwhile, Scottish politics has been transformed by the dominance of the SNP -
set for yet more gains in the local elections on 3 May - and the prospect of the
referendum on independence. One trend is obvious: combined support for the
Tories and Labour peaked in the 1950s, and reached its lowest ever figure at the
last general election.

Particularly on the left, most truly radical, interesting voices are from
outside the usual circles - in new protest movements, or the Greens, or the UK's
two nationalist parties. The people responsible tend to have a lot in common:
dim views of the Labour party hardened when Tony Blair was in Downing Street,
watershed experiences at the time of the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq, a
keen sense that the fracturing of the UK has profound political consequences -
and a common understanding that the political legacy of the 2008 crash has only
just started to reveal itself.

Moreover, two questions increasingly spring to mind. Does it feel like the
Westminster way of doing things is working? And if not, who has any

better ideas?

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     April 25, 2012 Wednesday 10:54 AM GMT

EU inflation-busting budget criticised;


BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 579 words


The Government launched a new assault on euro-spending today as Brussels called
for an inflation-busting budget for next year.

The European Commission said a rise of nearly 7% for 2013 was needed to pay
bills for EU projects already signed off by member states.

One official said: "It's the difference between the commitments made on the EU
budget, and the payments needed to honour them.

"Member states have been using the credit card and have left the Commission to
pay the bill."

But a UK spokesman said: "The UK has been consistent that at a time when member
states are tightening their belts, the EU must show budgetary restraint."

The UK, Germany and France have led a months-long fightback to force Brussels to
apply national-style belt-tightening to the euro-budget.

Prime Minister David Cameron has been calling for an effective freeze on EU
spending during the economic crisis.

That means nothing more than inflation-linked annual rises in the amount of cash
the 27 EU counties between them provide to run the EU's financial programmes,
from farm subsidies and regional grants to development aid spending.

A similar battle last year saw the Commission's plans pegged back to an
inflation-only rise, but Brussels says it cannot act as budget paymaster if
member states do not provide enough cash this year to pay for spending
commitments already made and now due for payment.

The Commission's plans would increase the EU budget to about £130 billion next
year, of which the UK's share is nearly 12.5%.

In forthcoming haggling over the final budget figure, the Commission will argue
that the EU budget cannot be equated with national budgets.

Officials point out that euro-spending is fed back to governments to finance
major projects including road and rail networks across Europe, social
regeneration of poor areas and to tackle "pan-European societal challenges" such
as climate change, or the ageing society.

These are long-term issues for which financing by the Brussels purse replaces
cash lost at home through austerity measures.

A Commission statement said Brussels was "fully aware" of the current economic
situation, insisting the budget plan was "fully-geared to use its funding
potential for growth and jobs in line with the Europe 2020 strategy".

The euro-budget is equivalent to about 1% of combined EU member state national
wealth.

It said: "Though relatively small in size, it is an important tool in furthering
the goals of European integration. Directly or indirectly, all European citizens
benefit from some activity funded from the EU budget, be it in the form of safer
food on our plates, better roads, or the guaranteeing of our fundamental
rights."

Apart from anything else, says the Commission, failure to agree a rise of 6.8%
next year will leave Brussels about £160 billion short of meeting all the
financial commitments already made to recipients of EU funds next year.

But former EU chief accountant Marta Andreasen - now a UK Independence Party MEP
- said a 6.8% increase was "cloud-cuckoo land stuff".

She said: "Has the European Commission finally completely lost its grip on
reality?

"The Commission has the gall to ask EU citizens for more money, assuring them
that the new 2020 Agenda will lead them to the promised land."

She added: "The budget rise demand is selfish, unrealistic and deeply insulting
to taxpayers who have not seen a single return on their investment. Instead they
are subjected to huge waste, dodgy accounting and vanity projects."

PA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 25, 2012 Wednesday 5:04 PM GMT

Tory blasts 7% budget rise for Brussels as 'so outlandish that it can only
provoke anger'

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 792 words



     ·    Cash needed to pay for EU projects already signed off
     ·    Britain says the EU must show 'budgetary restraint'


The Government launched a new assault on euro-spending today as Brussels called
for an inflation-busting budget for next year.

The European Commission said a rise of nearly 7 per cent for 2013 was needed to
pay bills for EU projects already signed off by member states.

One official said: 'It's the difference between the commitments made on the EU
budget, and the payments needed to honour them.

'Member states have been using the credit card and have left the Commission to
pay the bill.'

But a UK spokesman said: 'The UK has been consistent that at a time when member
states are tightening their belts, the EU must show budgetary restraint.'

The UK, Germany and France have led a months-long fightback to force Brussels to
apply national-style belt-tightening to the euro-budget.

Prime Minister David Cameron has been calling for an effective freeze on EU
spending during the economic crisis.

That means nothing more than inflation-linked annual rises in the amount of cash
the 27 EU counties between them provide to run the EU's financial programmes,
from farm subsidies and regional grants to development aid spending.

A similar battle last year saw the Commission's plans pegged back to an
inflation-only rise, but Brussels says it cannot act as budget paymaster if
member states do not provide enough cash this year to pay for spending
commitments already made and now due for payment.

The Commission's plans would increase the EU budget to about £130 billion next
year, of which the UK's share is nearly 12.5 per cent.

In forthcoming haggling over the final budget figure, the Commission will argue
that the EU budget cannot be equated with national budgets.

Officials point out that euro-spending is fed back to governments to finance
major projects including road and rail networks across Europe, social
regeneration of poor areas and to tackle 'pan-European societal challenges' such
as climate change, or the ageing society.

DUTCH QUEEN PUTS OFF NATIONAL ELECTIONS

The Dutch queen has called for national elections on September 12, leaving the
country with only a caretaker government for more than four months as it
struggles to bring its budget deficit within EU-mandated limits.

Prime Minister Mark Rutte and his 18-month old government resigned on Monday
after failing to agree on billions of euros in cuts to rein in government
spending.

Caretaker Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager was reportedly meeting with leaders
of all political parties Wednesday in a bid to find common ground on cuts ahead
of a debate Thursday on the AAA-rated government's finances.

The government, along with all other EU nations, has until the end of the month
to submit a draft 2013 budget and plan of economic reforms to Brussels as part
of the EU's fiscal surveillance of member states.

Rutte had been one of the most vocal critics of countries not sticking to EU
budget rules and is now facing a near impossible task of getting the Dutch
deficit down to 3 per cent of GDP in 2013.

These are long-term issues for which financing by the Brussels purse replaces
cash lost at home through austerity measures.

A Commission statement said Brussels was 'fully aware' of the current economic
situation, insisting the budget plan was 'fully-geared to use its funding
potential for growth and jobs in line with the Europe 2020 strategy'.

The euro-budget is equivalent to about 1 per cent of combined EU member state
national wealth.

It said: 'Though relatively small in size, it is an important tool in furthering
the goals of European integration. Directly or indirectly, all European citizens
benefit from some activity funded from the EU budget, be it in the form of safer
food on our plates, better roads, or the guaranteeing of our fundamental
rights.'

Apart from anything else, says the Commission, failure to agree a rise of 6.8
per cent next year will leave Brussels about £160billion short of meeting all
the financial commitments already made to recipients of EU funds next year.

But former EU chief accountant Marta Andreasen - now a UK Independence Party MEP
- said a 6.8 per cent increase was 'cloud-cuckoo land stuff'.

She said: 'Has the European Commission finally completely lost its grip on
reality?

'The Commission has the gall to ask EU citizens for more money, assuring them
that the new 2020 Agenda will lead them to the promised land.'

She added: 'The budget rise demand is selfish, unrealistic and deeply insulting
to taxpayers who have not seen a single return on their investment. Instead they
are subjected to huge waste, dodgy accounting and vanity projects.'

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     April 25, 2012 Wednesday 11:08 AM GMT

Nadine Dorries has put her finger on the reason Brits no longer feel like part
of a great nation

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 993 words


The Governments of Europe are falling, the far-right (and far-left) are gaining
traction with the voters.  We are in desperate times.  Most western economies
have over-spent taxpayers money and now they are paying the price.  There is
deep dissatisfaction with our political leaders who, it is claimed, are out of
touch with the voters.  The euro is pulling down great nations - Italy, Spain,
Greece - France is threatened by the far-right which will split Sarkozy's vote
and allow the far-left to slip into power.  Sarkozy has only himself to blame
for not getting to grips with the working-classes of his country and their
concerns over the euro and uncontrolled immigration. This plays to both the
extreme right and the left in his country.

Here, Galloway's Bradford spring resonated with a small number of polarised
voters, allowing him to slip back into Parliament.

Dave's backbench MP Nadine Dorries has lambasted him and Osborne for being out
of touch posh boys. Nadine and I have met a couple of times, both of which were
in the presence of Margaret Thatcher.  I do not agree with her on some issues
but she is right about Dave and George being out of touch with ordinary people's
lives.

Former Conservative Prime Ministers understood.  Harold MacMillan may have been
a public school boy but he understood the working-classes.  Margaret Thatcher
absolutely understood their lives, coming from a lower middle-class family
herself and being educated at a grammar school. She intrinsically knew what they
wanted and they voted for her in droves.

Luckily, the British voters are more sensible have not succumbed to the vile BNP
who are these days a busted-flush and the Socialist Workers Party is reduced to
a few activists.

However, what they are doing is looking for an alternative.  It is no
coincidence that the man speaking up for the people of the left, right, centre,
working and business classes, is UKIP's Nigel Farage. His personal poll ratings
are the highest of all our political leaders. Pollsters Survation found that 24%
of those that voted Conservative in 2010 choose UKIP's Nigel Farage as the
leader they believe puts Britain's national interests first. It is not
surprising.

The Sun's Trevor Kavanagh wrote yesterday of why UKIP is seeing this surge in
the polls.  Farage has widened his party's offering with policies on crime,
immigration and education that resonate with the voters, where New Labour and
the so-called Conservatives have failed to get to grips with these tough issues.

Patrick O'Flynn in the Daily Express reported last week that Miliband is
seriously considering offering an In/Out referendum on our membership of the EU.
This would further cause the pro-EU cabinet a few problems. Most grassroots
Tories want a referendum and most of the MPs that I know do too.  I have been
saying for a long time that this would be the weapon in Labour's chest that
would knife the Tories' vote.

Dave should take heed of the words of the greatest leader of our times, Margaret
Thatcher.  On 10th October 1980 some very true words were spoken her:

"If our people feel that they are part of a great nation and they are prepared
to will the means to keep it great, a great nation we shall be, and shall
remain. So, what can stop us from achieving this? What then stands in our way?
The prospect of another winter of discontent? I suppose it might.

"But I prefer to believe that certain lessons have been learnt from experience,
that we are coming, slowly, painfully, to an autumn of understanding. And I hope
that it will be followed by a winter of common sense. If it is not, we shall not
be-diverted from our course.

"To those waiting with bated breath for that favourite media catchphrase, the
'U-turn', I have only one thing to say: "You turn if you want to. The lady's not
for turning." I say that not only to you but to our friends overseas and also to
those who are not our friends". Margaret Thatcher.

When I re-read these words for an article I was writing for a magazine on Tory
defectors, I thought about her and why I remained a Tory for so long.  She had
vision, leadership, determination, integrity and was respected at home and
abroad. I compared her words to where we are now and why the posh boys in
Downing Street are not resonating with the voters.

She refers to a winter of discontent. We still have the unions demanding higher
pay, bonuses for working normal hours, holding the country to ransom over fuel
and the public sector revolting over their fat-cheque pensions that the rest of
us pay for through our taxes.  Thatcher had the vision and back-bone to stand up
for this nation, its taxpayers and to tell the rest of the world that we were a
great and proud nation.

Do we feel part of a great nation?  We did back then so what has changed?  My
belief is that it is a succession of mediocre, party apparatchiks who are party
machine MPs who have never held down a proper job in their lives with the
country being run by droves of college kids which started with Tony Blair and
continues with Clegg, Cameron and co.

The debacle of the Budget with U-turns left, right and centre; the failure to
curb immigration and defend our borders against open-door immigration and a
failure to provide a vision, leadership and a prime minister that few identify
with and less respect.  We have had pastie-gate, the conservatory tax, the 50p
tax row, State funded childminders, green taxes, congestion charges in London -
essentially a war on the motorist, the jerry-can joke, and too many more to
list.

When Dave went to Brussels last autumn, wielding his veto with great aplomb, he
was applauded and lauded.  Then the veto was revealed to be as useless as a
chocolate fireguard.  The British public see through these PR stunts.  Margaret
Thatcher would never have sold us these thin lines of lies and subterfuge.

I wish Dave would do a U-turn and return to Conservative values.  Alas, he will
not as he is not a real Conservative.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

As the mood darkens the mad bats take wing;
Throughout Europe, the far Left and far Right target the same scapegoats. But
should we listen to their anger?

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1040 words


'Amad bat." This was the pithy judgment on the French far Right's presidential
candidate, Marine Le Pen, by the French far Left's presidential candidate,
Jean-Luc Mélenchon. My competence in French is typically English, so I have not
yet been able to establish what Ms Le Pen said back.

In the first round of voting on Sunday 18 per cent opted for the young bat and
another 11 per cent for the old Trot. Some greyer veterans of both movements no
doubt believe that their candidates represent polar opposites of each other.
There was Mr Mélenchon emoting to vast crowds about the need for revolution, and
there was Ms Le Pen making the appeal for fortress France. One was invoking 1789
and the Commune and the other the Vendée and Imperial France. The Red was for
100 per cent taxation on the rich, the Black wanted a crack down on foreigners.

Nearly 30 per cent is a lot of votes to have flying off centripetally to the
political rim. Even more so when you realise that, far from being ideological
opposites, in all that really matters Mr Mélenchon and Ms Le Pen represent
almost exactly the same world view. Both are opponents of what they see as a
globalised and neoliberal ideology, espoused by a political and financial
oligarchy at the expense of the French common man.

Both see the International Monetary Fund and the EU as dangerous supranational
arms of global capitalism. Both wish to leave Nato and want a loosening of close
ties with the US. They dislike privatisation, espouse protection of industry and
agriculture, desire to preserve institutions such as post offices and believe
that austerity programmes are unnecessary. They don't want France to participate
in bailouts in or out of the eurozone. In that mix Mr Mélenchon's tax policy or
Ms Le Pen's migration phobia are but local details. When Mr Mélenchon looks at
Ms Le Pen and sees chiropteric barminess, it would be interesting to know what
he sees in the morning mirror. It ought to be something that squeaks.

And if their policies match far more than their party stalwarts would like to
believe, their essential psychology is very similar too. In 2010 Mr Mélenchon
published a book called Qu'ils s'en Aillent Tous, or "Get Rid of the Lot of
Them". In other words, if you were to expel the rich, the financiers, the
plutocrats, the bourgeois politicians, the Yanks and the IMF from French life,
you'd be halfway back to the glory days. Aux armes, citoyens! Formez vos
bataillons!

With Ms Le Pen you might add a few hundred thousand Muslims and sundry other
immigrants to the exodus, but in essence the expulsive impulse is the same. You
make paradise by cutting yourself off from, and excluding, the things that you
blame for your predicament.

Right now the predicament seems bad and gets worse, not just for France but for
all of us. People who are weirdly certain assure us that austerity is necessary
because of the sovereign debt crisis, or that only two thirds of it is necessary
because we could spend a little more to get out of trouble. Every few months a
new iteration of the euro crisis seems to take hold, with bond markets or credit
agencies deciding that whatever measures were taken a few months ago are now no
longer sufficient to save us.

Until recently the response of Western electorates to all this has been
remarkably phlegmatic. Something may have been going on in Hungary, but apart
from that, centre parties (mostly of the centre Right) or temporary technocrats
have generally been allowed to come in and tinker around with the wiring.

It may be that such is the outcome too of the French presidential election and
the subsequent parliamentary elections; the outcome too of any elections that
may take place in the Netherlands now that the centre-right Government there has
fallen; or the outcome in Greece on May 6 as well. But all of a sudden the mood
feels different with lots of talking and writing about dark nights, storms,
abysses and sweepings away by angry electorates. According to much of this talk
the conventional parties must listen to, must take account of, must accommodate
the anger of the Mélenchonites and the Le Penians.

And us too, here in bloody freezing Britain? Arguably we are already seeing some
of the morbid manifestations of the new politics struggling to be born. Leave
aside Bradford West and think only about what has been happening on the Tory
Right. A critique of the Cameronian settlement has been coalescing for some time
now. It too is expulsive, though its scapegoats vary slightly from the French.
It doesn't want any more money spent on bailouts through the IMF, it blames
Europe for many of our ills, it loves not migration and it wants to stop the
world and step off. There is even the Douglas Carswell current on the back
benches that seems to believe that civil servants are - in the style of the
king's evil advisers - sabotaging the Government's innate radicalism.

Some of this came together in the spectacular condemnation by the Tory MP Nadine
Dorries of David Cameron and George Osborne for being two "rich boys" who gave
not a damn about the ordinary Joe. And before we consign this outburst to
oblivion and coin a new expression ("throwing a Dorries") we should look at some
fascinating work done by the pollster YouGov for Nottingham University and
released this week.

YouGov gave representative groups of voters a choice of brief biographies of two
male candidates to be their MP. Party affiliations weren't specified and the
pollsters varied one single detail from group to group: the income of one. The
results were amazing. The higher the earnings were said to be, the lower the
ratings for approachability, effectiveness and voter preference.

My suspicion is that, had this poll been taken in 2007, the antipathy towards
the rich candidate would have been less. Whether that is true or not, what is
suggested is that the populist critique of the political class may have more
traction than is comfortable. We are going to hear a lot more from the Tory
Right on the UKIP threat and the need to bond with the common man. And maybe
from the Labour Left too.

It's springtime for mad bats.

In France 18% voted for the young bat and 11% for the old Trot

There is much talk of storms, abysses and sweepings away

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday

WHEN OUR RULERS ARE SO OUT OF TOUCH, NO WONDER VOTERS FALL FOR EXTREMISTS'
SNAKE-OIL SOLUTIONS

BYLINE: BY IAN BIRRELL

LENGTH: 1298 words


However you cut it, Sunday's presidential election in France was a profoundly
depressing result: not just for the French, but for the rest of Europe.

By showing how extremist politicians can exploit widespread public disaffection
with the political class, it has exposed the huge scale of the challenge facing
our complacent democracies.

Yes, Nicolas Sarkozy, a poor president, failed to live up to his promises and
received a deserved drubbing.

But the result also showed that there is little enthusiasm for the old-fashioned
Socialism of his rival, Francois Hollande, who offers only the failed solutions
of the past with more public spending and hefty taxes looming for businesses and
the rich.

It now looks as if this party apparatchik who has never held ministerial office
and who presided over Correze, the most debt-ridden region of France, which had
to be bailed out from state coffers is poised to take over the world's
fifth-biggest economy at a time of immense global flux.

Despised

France, like other European countries, faces massive social and economic
problems.

But as we have seen again in this election, its political class is despised by
large swathes of an insecure electorate.

Bloodied but unbowed, Sarkozy was straight back on the election trail yesterday,
fighting for his political life after the ignominy of becoming the first sitting
president in French history to lose the first-round vote.

In typical fashion, this street-fighter of a politician was instantly trying to
seize the initiative by challenging Hollande to a series of debates over the
next fortnight and wooing those who turned out in such large numbers for the
far-right candidate Marine Le Pen.

Having spent the past few days of the election apologising for his brash
behaviour in office, Sarkozy was telling voters in the beautiful Loire Valley he
had heard their verdict.

He would be different next time, he promised, but only he could be trusted to
grapple with the vast challenges facing France. It would be foolish to write off
such a formidable campaigner, who relishes being the underdog especially when up
against the lacklustre Mr Hollande.

But while the result of Sunday's vote was closer than predicted, it seems likely
we are witnessing the final days in office of President Bling-Bling.

The electoral mathematics remain complex, the electorate uncertain and
unpredictable, but France is preparing to roll out the red carpet at the Elysee
Palace for the unassuming Left-winger nicknamed Monsieur Marshmallow, who will
be the first Socialist president of France elected in 24 years if he wins the
run-off on May 6.

For all Sarkozy's successes abroad, including rallying the coalition to
intervene in Libya and playing a significant role in saving Europe from economic
meltdown after the 2008 banking crisis, French voters are fed up with his flashy
lifestyle, his fondness for money and his friendships with the super-rich.

In truth, they never really warmed to this diminutive man who does not drink
wine, dislikes smelly cheeses, demeaned the presidential office and is married
to an unpopular Italian born-supermodel. They feel reassured by the more
familiar provincialism of the scooter-driving Mr Hollande.

The election is his to lose now as the pair fight for the votes of their eight
eliminated rivals, with polls predicting an eight-point victory.

Nearly all the votes of the far Left will fall into Mr Hollande's lap, so the
result depends on the six million disaffected voters lured by the anti-Europe,
anti-foreigner and anti-globalisation rhetoric of Le Pen.

But how shocking to see more than one in three voters in a seemingly
sophisticated nation such as France a permanent member of the United Nations
security council, remember seduced by the snake-oil solutions proffered by these
extremist candidates. It matters little whether they fell for the ranting of the
hard Left with their crazy demands for 100 per cent taxes on the rich, or for
the mendacious opportunism of the far Right under the skilful populism of Le
Pen. The fact is that French politicians dare not talk truth to their voters.

Instead, they all offer varying degrees of simplistic sloganising, protectionism
and anti-capitalist rhetoric.

We have to protect the French way of life,' said Sarkozy yesterday, even as he
admitted voters are fearful and anxious.

This is the conservatism suffocating France and being exploited by the
demagogues.

Here is a country, after all, that is spending so much more than it can afford
on its bloated and sclerotic state that it has already lost its precious
triple-A credit rating and faces far greater pain in the future.

The French state is far fatter than in countries such as Britain, Germany and
Italy; indeed, it is now even bigger than Scandinavian nations, with the number
of state employees rising nearly 20 per cent over the past decade and debt
soaring under Sarkozy.

On top of this, there is a self-defeating antagonism towards capitalism and
wealth creation fanned by politicians on all sides, despite the economy relying
heavily on nearly 200 highly successful globalised firms employing at least
5,000 people each.

Evil

They are seen as the personification of evil in France on both the Left and
Right,' Eudoxe Denis, from the Institute of Enterprise think-tank, told me.

They are our competitive advantage but politicians do not want to support them.'

Into such gaps step the likes of Le Pen. Her astonishing success garnering more
votes even than her father when he made it through to the second round run-off
in 2002 mirrors advances made across Europe by anti-establishment extremists
exploiting resentment over the debt crisis, unemployment, immigration and the
teetering euro project. And, of course, we are not immune to seeing such tactics
in Britain, where politicians are disliked and distrusted, MPs often seem
interchange-able and removed from the real world and political parties have
collapsed to such an extent that the Caravan Club now has more members than all
three of the main parties combined.

As in Europe, for all the sound and fury, there is a comfortable consensus in
Westminster on some of the biggest issues facing the country at odds with the
views of millions of voters.

Just think of issues such as withdrawing from the European Union, pulling out of
Afghanistan, restoring the death penalty, cutting foreign aid or even legalising
drugs.

Little wonder that in an age when deference is dead and technology is amplifying
opinions, the number of people saying they will vote for anyone other than one
of the three mainstream parties has doubled since the last General Election,
with UKIP leapfrogging the hapless Liberal Democrats in two polls last week.

Coup

Just as in Europe, insurgents are skilfully capitalising on this growing
anti-Westminster mood. Witness the way George Galloway stole the recent Bradford
by-election from under the nose of Labour, or the success of the opportunistic
Alex Salmond in Scotland.

Across Europe, leaders are looking incompetent or irrelevant and often both.

In Greece, which is being crucified on the cross of its adherence to the euro,
polls predict that a plethora of extremist parties will enter parliament in next
month's elections, leaving the shrunken two main parties unable to form a
majority government.

In Spain, where more than half the young are unemployed and austerity is
tightening its grip, people are even falling out of love with the monarchy, the
institution that saved democracy from an attempted coup in 1981 and unifies this
fragmented nation.

These are difficult days for Europe. Our politicians need to move fast to
re-engage with their voters if they are not to become dangerous days.

For as we have seen in France, the simple equation is that if there is a
political void, it will be filled.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

France's centre-Left is on the march, but so are darker forces;
Ed Miliband should not celebrate yet - Le Pen may well be mightier than Mr Milk
Pudding

BYLINE: MARY RIDDELL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1203 words


The job of French president is grim, but someone has to do it. Such was the view
of Charles de Gaulle. "My mission seemed clear and terrible," he once said. "At
this moment, the worst in her history, it was for me to assume the burden of
France." François Hollande, the first-round victor in the race for the
presidency, is more upbeat.

The Socialist leader, nicknamed "Monsieur Flanby", after a milk pudding, senses
triumph against Nicolas Sarkozy. Adieu, Mr Bling; enter the human blancmange.
"Change is afoot," Mr Hollande tweeted. "Nothing will stop it now." We shall
see. Mr Sarkozy, who will fight to the end to prove him wrong, may yet prevail.

If, however, France elects its first Socialist president since 1988, Mr Hollande
will shoulder not only internal problems but also the dreams of those leaders,
Ed Miliband included, who hope the centre-Right's grip on Europe is weakening.
Angela Merkel, who has campaigned for Mr Sarkozy, faces possible ejection in the
forthcoming German elections.

David Cameron, on a media charm offensive to shore up his floundering
government, may wish that he had been less dismissive of Mr Hollande, whom he
declined to meet either in Paris or in London. Mr Miliband, while not yet waving
a tricolore or sporting strings of onions, is cautiously delighted. Though he
and Mr Hollande had not met until a few weeks ago, the Labour leader has become
so close to his French counterpart that Lord [Stewart] Wood, a key Miliband
adviser, has been invited to spend election night at the Paris headquarters of
Mr Hollande, who recently attended a roast beef lunch with Team Miliband in
Westminster.

Guests were surprised by the monoglot nature of the event (Mr Miliband has
little French, and M Hollande talks nothing but). "Even Sarkozy used to speak a
few words of English to us," says one shadow cabinet member. "Mainly to complain
about British food." Despite the bonds that have been forged, Labour can afford
no exultation.

It would be rash to draw generalisations from France's potential drubbing of a
disliked president. Winston Churchill's view of Louis XIV as "a high-heeled,
periwigged dandy" roughly accords with French citizens' perceptions of their
vain and ineffective leader. If ever a president authored his own fate, it is Mr
Sarkozy, whose anti-Islamic stance and racist allusions gave legitimacy to the
public grievances amplified by Marine Le Pen, for whom one in five have voted.

But, despite a YouGov poll predicting a 54 per cent victory against 46 per cent
for Mr Sarkozy, Mr Hollande also has cause for worry. His first-round win was
due, in part, to the National Front's breakthrough. The slump in backing for the
far-Left means that he will need to win support not only from centrist voters
but also from the unemployed blue-collar workers who favour Le Pen but loathe
Sarkozy. Across northern Europe, the Left is vulnerable to the rage vote, as
George Galloway's rout of Labour in Bradford West has shown.

But although mavericks of all stripes threaten the established order, the rise
of Marine Le Pen fits an emerging pattern of hard-Right resurgence that should
chill all those who inhabit the tolerant centre ground. Le Pen is a
proto-fascist, peddling a glossy rebrand of hatred that has seduced some French
voters and disarmed observers on both sides of the Channel who have greeted her
achievement with something approaching respect. Yet its patina of politeness
makes designer fascism more insidious, and thus more poisonous, than cruder
antiimmigrant bile.

Those Sarkozy backers who would prefer a racially divisive provocateur than a
socialist for president should also be more careful what they wish for, as the
far-Right jubilation that taints France finds echoes throughout Europe. At one
end of the spectrum of extremism lies the acceptable face of xenophobic
politics. In Britain, Ukip's lead over the Lib Dems in some polls means that Mr
Cameron must decide whether he should succumb to backbench sirens and tack to
the Right. The likely spectacle of Mr Sarkozy doing just that in a last bid to
cling to power by unsavoury means should convince the PM of the folly of such a
course.

Meanwhile, on the eve of St George's Day, neo-Nazis of the English Defence
League brawled in Brighton. In Malmö, the setting for the new BBC4 crime series,
The Bridge, a spate of real-life killings on a poor estate has revealed a Sweden
riven by social and racial tensions. In a Norwegian courtroom, Anders Behring
Breivik epitomises the pomposity of evil as he flaunts his slaughter of teenage
activists who, had they lived, might have challenged his white supremacist
worldview.

Breivik, a puffy-faced computer game nerd, may be uniquely vile, but the small
resentments that metastasised into mass murder flicker in the souls of
law-abiding citizens across Europe. The link between economic blight and
far-Right extremism casts a long and darkening shadow over this continent, while
demographics set another force in play.

As the American immigration expert, Frank Sharry, explained at an event held by
the British Future think tank last week, the huge rise in the minority vote,
especially among the Hispanic population, is likely to secure Barack Obama's
second term. The only recent Republican to beguile minorities was George W Bush,
whose appeal makes insiders predict that his brother, Jeb, will run for
president next time round, should Mitt Romney fail.

For assorted reasons, not least poverty, a similar story is taking shape in
Britain, where Labour attracted 68 per cent of the ethnic minority vote in the
2010 election, against the Tories' 16 per cent. With minority voters increasing
as far-Right sentiment burgeons and economic misery deepens, Europe risks
electoral and social earthquakes that no party dares ignore.

At this pivotal moment, a French socialist with the charisma of cheese may yet
determine the future of his continent. Mr Hollande's economic prospectus, hazy
though it is, has been unfairly billed as rabidly Left-wing. Mr Normal's
deficitcutting agenda is not greatly different to the incumbent's. If elected,
he may, like Mitterrand before him, discard rasher campaign promises.

Even so, Mr Hollande would challenge the orthodoxy of austerity, champion growth
and promote, to Germany's anxiety, the more activist European Central Bank that
Ed Balls has demanded. Mr Miliband expects Mr Hollande, if elected, to become
the most hated man in Britain. But should the incomer stumble on the alchemy of
creating hope and jobs, then extremist resentment might wither and faith in
mainstream politics rise again. In that case, Mr Miliband would find himself,
along with his new best friend, on the right side of history.

Should Mr Hollande crash and burn, however, then the dreams of Europe's
centre-Left could combust with him. Neither scenario may ever come to pass if Mr
Sarkozy stages a resurrection, as he might. In the absence of such a turnaround,
the role of Atlas - the mythic supporter of the heavens - will fall on the
drooping shoulders of François Hollande, the most unlikely of all Titans in the
bleakest of all times. Even de Gaulle might have balked at such a burden.

Comment on Mary RIddell's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU prepares Greece for return of drachma

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 375 words


THE European Investment Bank was preparing for the break-up of the euro last
night by allowing Greek firms to repay loans in its former currency, the
drachma.

Greece's Public Power Corporation is the first to agree to the currency clause
in return for a £55million loan from the EIB.

The change in policy comes amid concerns that the struggling country may not be
able to remain in the single currency for much longer. The EIB will also include
a revised currency measure in new loans with Ireland and Portugal. And it is
planning to extend it gradually to all eurozone countries.

MEP Godfrey Bloom, UK Independence Party's economics spokesman, warned: "This
act by the EIB shows that at least one institution of the European Union has
raised its eyes above the parapet and seen what is going on in the real world.

"Of course, the EIB has to work in the markets. Not to factor in Greek
withdrawal would make their balance book look decidedly dodgy.

"That they are using English law to draw up the contracts also shows the EU,
despite its bluster and transparent desire to rip chunks out of the City,
recognises that London is still the place to do business." But the EIB denied
that the move indicated the bank was preparing for a Greek exit from the euro.

Spokeswoman Helen Kavvadia confirmed the clause was a new standard procedure
that would be applied to other countries.

But she claimed it merely allowed companies to repay loans in a different
currency from the one in which it was disbursed. She said: "The bank, certainly
in this crisis and volatile environment, is adjusting its security contracts in
many countries, not only Greece."

Around £200billion - in rescue loans from other euro countries and the
International Monetary Fund - has been granted to Greece to help pay debts.

Economists argue that despite the help, the Greek economy is too weak to recover
and that it will eventually have to return to the drachma. The Luxembourgbased
EIB gives low-interest loans to firms in and around the EU to boost growth in
underdeveloped regions.

Greece's beleaguered government agreed to push through deep spending cuts in
exchange for the vital bailout.

It was the 12th country to join the euro in 2001 despite warnings about its
economy.

oPinion: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

Life after the euro? It's not so unthinkable now

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 238 words


NFINAL ARTWORK o matter what our political masters in Brussels might tell us
about the euro, organisations who have to deal with the harsh realities of the
eurozone on a daily basis are already making alternative plans.

The European Investment Bank (EIB) is preparing to allow Greek companies to
repay big loans in the old currency. Greece's Public Power Corporation is the
first to agree to this in exchange for a £55million loan.

The EIB is also likely to allow the same facility to other countries such as
Ireland and Portugal and this is according to UKIP's Godfrey Bloom a sign that
"at least one institution of the European Union has raised its eyes above the
parapet and seen what is going on in the real world".

In other words, though there are firm denials from the EIB that their move is
anything other than standard procedure, it is clear that contemplating life
after the euro after successive bailouts failed to stabilise the Greek economy
is a prudent move.

For while those who are committed to creating the European superstate must talk
up the viability of the euro in the face of all evidence to the contrary, it is
more likely financial organisations approach this problem with the
clearsightedness of self interest. For them the euro and all it represents may
no longer be fit for purpose and will no longer receive unconditional support.

In the end it's the bottom line that counts far more than political posturing.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Qatada is still on legal aid despite May's 'crackdown'

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 467 words


TAXPAYERS are still funding terror suspect Abu Qatada's "sickening" legal fight
against deportation, it was claimed last night.

Over the past decade the radical Islamist has cost the country an estimated
£1.5million in legal aid and benefits while playing cat and mouse with the
authorities.

And his bill is likely to rise by tens of thousands more as he takes his battle
back to the European Court of Human Rights.

Yesterday Home Secretary Theresa May was accused of making "misleading" remarks
about his funding.

Unlimited When asked on Thursday if the Government was "providing unlimited
legal aid" to pay for his "interminable appeals", Mrs May told the Commons: "No,
we have been very clear about the issue of the availability of finance for Abu
Qatada."

But public cash was used to foot the legal costs for Qatada's appearances before
immigration judges, including last week's hearing where he was sent back to
Belmarsh high security jail.

Ian Davidson, the MP who put the question, said: "It would appear that what the
Home Secretary said was at the very least misleading. It seems crazy that we
have one arm of Government trying to boot this man out of the country but
another arm paying for his legal battle to stay here."

UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten called the situation
"insane". adding: "The Government is clearly ashamed of the fact this whole
idiotic farce is costing taxpayers thousands upon thousands. At least the Home
Secretary should have the courage to admit it." The Legal Services Commission,
which administers legal aid, will not reveal how much has been given to the
Islamist for his fight to stay in a country he despises.

But a spokesman insisted: "Legal aid for Special Immigration Appeals Commission
cases is only available if an applicant passes strict financial means and legal
merits tests. Costs are carefully controlled."

Robert Oxley, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Legal aid is there to ensure
that everyone has equal access to justice but it is particularly sickening to
see so much cash being spent on this vile hate preacher."

Dangerous A Labour source said: "Theresa May seems intent on giving misleading
responses not only on what advice she received and why she still went ahead but
also on how she is funding Qatada's appeal. She needs to come clean."

The fanatic left the Home Office redfaced when he lodged a last-minute appeal to
the ECHR hours after the Home Secretary told the Commons he had been arrested
and was ready to be sent back to Jordan to face trial on terrorism charges.

Qatada's deportation could now be on hold for months until European judges
decide if the appeal should go ahead.

The delay may mean he will have to be released from jail again. Police say he is
"a very dangerous man" who is "well connected" to Al Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Abu Qatada has cost taxpayers £1.5million

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday

London mayoral election live blog - police and crime Q&A

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4615 words

ABSTRACT

As Boris Johnson is criticised as having done 'virtually nothing' to tackle
rising youth violence, join guests Hackney heroine Pauline Pearce, Leon Fearon,
who took Johnson to task over the riots, Tim Newburn of the LSE and Matt
Cavanagh of the IPPR to debate policing in the capital

FULL TEXT

1.55pm:Pauline Pearce writes:

It's very important for people to know and understand about the mayor's role in
London as it affects travel, parking, tourism - but as far as policing goes, to
my knowledge, it is a known fact that policing is going to have to be cut by 20%
over the next five years and it's important that we know where these cuts are
going to be made, if they are going to affect local communities, or if the
mayor, Mr Boris, is going to cut some of his fancy policing and put the money
where it really matters - local communities and bridging gaps between the youths
and the police, building bridges. Does he know the meaning of the word bonding -
bonding with the people?

1.37pm: Pauline Pearce is now here and responding to questions below the line.
(Sorry for the delay.)

1.28pm:I asked:

Brian Paddick makes much of his own policing experience to argue that he should
be mayor, and therefore London's police and crime commissioner. But given that
he has had a fractious relationship with the leadership of the Met's leadership,
might this experience actually make things more difficult for him if he became
mayor?

Tim Newburn of the LSE responds:

A great question, but I think the answer's "no". There's no reason why things
should really be more difficult for Paddick, especially as the leadership of the
Met has changed so much. Equally, however, I'm not convinced that being an
ex-police officer gives Paddick much of an advantage over any other major
candidate. He argues that it will enable him to ask the right questions and so
on, but sometimes the more naive the question, the greater the difficulty it
places public officials faced with having to answer it.

1.25pm:Leon Fearon introduces himself and answers my question about whether the
underlying causes of the riots have been tackled:

Hello,

I am the young man who confronted Mayor Boris Johnson in Clapham Junction
regarding the riots in August 2011.

In response to Paul Owen's question, I do not believe either the mayor or the
government have fully understood the underlying causes of the riots for the
following reasons:

For the the crimes that took place such as theft, many were given jail sentences
which is something I strongly disagree with. When those individuals are put in
jail they are then mixed with far worse people who have committed larger
offences such as rape, murder etc.I believe the government/mayor should have
taken an upfront approach and set up a boot camp specifically for minor offences
which happen everyday and employee retired SAS troops to put some discipline
into those who committed that form of criminality.

Statistics showed the majority of those who were involved had been known to the
police or held criminal offences, which tells me whatever punishment issued for
those offences in their past did not prevent it from happening again!

Everyone will have their own opinion on the riots/rioters but one thing I can
confidently say is, the majority of us who either witnessed or suffered from the
riots want to be assured that they will never see such scenes again.As it stands
now not much has been done to show that!

1.19pm:Tim Newburn of the LSE is in the thread and introduces himself:

Hi, Tim Newburn here. I'm a criminologist from the LSE, and have been studying
crime and policing for ... probably far too long! I've been reading all the
policing/crime manifestos - a bit disappointing I thought - but I'm keen to hear
what you all think.

Matt Cavanagh of the Institute for Public Policy research introduces himself and
answers my question about Boris Johnson's comment that there would be no riots
this year because politicians had grasped the underlying causes:

Hi - this is Matt Cavanagh from the centre-left think tank IPPR.

In answer to Paul's question, I don't think most politicians have grasped the
underlying causes of the riots. The police have learned some of the lessons
after a shaky early performance. But the public debate seems stuck in a sterile
confrontation between right and left - forced into a false choice between
blaming the rioters or blaming "society". Of course people have to take
responsibility for their actions. But at the same time, alienation and lack of
opportunity are clearly a factor. The recent report of the riots panel was
worthy but tried to cover too much ground. We are still waiting for a
comprehensive response.

Boris will likely turn out to be right that it won't happen again this year, but
given his clear failure to grasp what was happening last August, and his failure
to come up with a serious plan since then, it is - as usual - empty bluster.

1.14pm: Tim Newburn of the LSE and Leon Fearon are here now and about to start
answering your questions. Pauline Pearce and Matt Cavanagh will be online
shortly - apologies for the delay.

12.23pm: Our guests Hackney heroine Pauline Pearce, Leon Fearon, who took Boris
Johnson to task over the riots, Tim Newburn of the London School of Economics,
and Matt Cavanagh of the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) will be
here from 1pm to answer your questions and debate policing and crime in the
capital.

Post your questions for the panel below.

A question for all four of our guests to get things started:

Boris Johnson recently said that there would be no riots this year because the
disturbances had served as a "huge wake-up call to deal with the underlying
causes".

[#xfffd] Have politicians correctly grasped the "underlying causes" of the
riots?

[#xfffd] And, if they have, have they done enough to address them to stop riots
breaking out again?

12.19pm:Ken Livingstone has announced that if he is elected he will head the
Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime, which has responsibility for the
priorities and performance of the Metropolitan police.

Boris Johnson delegates the job to Kit Malthouse, his deputy mayor for policing
and crime. Livingstone points out that Johnson had pledged to chair the
Metropolitan Police Authority, the forerunner body to the MOPC, before the 2008
election.

Brian Paddick has also said that he would personally head the MOPC.

Livingstone said:

I'll take full responsibility for the fight against crime by heading the Mayor's
Office for Policing and Crime and putting more police on the streets. Londoners
expect the mayor to take crime seriously and put their safety first.

11.31am: In other mayoral news today, Boris Johnson has been accused of using
dust particle suppressants around air quality monitors to bring down air quality
readings (we discussed this issue on this blog with Clean Air in London's Simon
Birkett a couple of weeks ago). Fiona Harvey writes:

A fresh political row has blown up over London's air pollution, with the
capital's 34 Labour MPs complaining that mayor Boris Johnson has been trying to
hide the pollution problem by gluing particles to the road. They accuse Johnson
of using pollution suppressants in front of official air quality monitors in
order to bring down their readings and present a rosier picture of the air
quality.

The letter has been carefully timed to cast a pall over the London mayoral
elections, taking place on 3 May, in which Labour's Ken Livingstone is facing a
tough battle in his bid to wrest the job back from Johnson.

Today Clean Air in London released its analysis of the main mayoral candidates,
concluding:

Vote for Jenny Jones (Green) or Brian Paddick (Liberal Democrat); and give your
second preference to Ken Livingstone (Labour). Boris Johnson offers no new
policies to reduce air pollution and has shown he does not understand the health
impacts.

Perhaps in a first for the leader of a world city, Boris Johnson has been caught
actively working to undermine the two measures most likely to protect the health
of Londoners and address the biggest public health risk after smoking. In
particular, he is actively suppressing public awareness of air pollution while
orchestrating a major campaign, behind the scenes with the Government, to weaken
UK and international air quality laws. With no new policies and these two
discoveries, Boris Johnson scores minus two and ranks last.

10.40am: There are quite a few London mayoral stories around today as the
election gets closer in both senses of the word.

My colleague Dave Hill has written a piece arguing that there are two Londons
and Boris Johnson is not the mayor the poorer parts of the capital need.

The Tory mayor, though a social liberal who speaks at times with feeling about
disaffection and want, is a facilitator of Tory flagship strategies in housing,
welfare, transport and crime that are worsening London's woes.

In another piece, Hill looks at whether the government's unpopularity since the
budget is now pulling Johnson down by shoring up the anti-Tory or pro-Labour
vote. He quotes Anthony Wells of YouGov as saying:

My guess ... is that the narrowing of the polls is Ken gaining from the rising
national tide of Labour support and the coalition government's troubles, rather
than any improvement in the public's perception of him personally.

H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland reports on the YouGov poll that show Johnson
just two points ahead of Livingstone with the other candidates stripped out.

She points out that Labour now has an impressive 19-point lead over the Tories
in party preference in London.

Support for the Conservative party in the capital is continuing to wane after a
difficult few weeks for the coalition government. The poll shows their support
has dropped by 2 percentage points to 31%, while backing for Labour remains at
50%.

Livingstone is attempting to tie Johnson more firmly to his party (as Patrick
Wintour has written, that blue rosette usually falls straight off him), saying:
"A vote for the Conservative candidate in such a vital election is, in the end,
a vote for what the Tories are doing to our country and our city."

Mulholland also points out that the YouGov poll showed Livingstone losing
support among female voters.

Here Sonia Purnell, author of Johnson biography Just Boris: A Tale of Blond
Ambition, who will be one of our guests for an online debate on the politics of
the campaign on Monday, looks at why more women tend to support Johnson.

Women have long formed the core of Boris's popularity, although support has
dipped when reminded of the pain caused by his marital indiscretions," she
writes. "Those women who have worked with him closely, however, often feel less
enamoured ... He relies far more heavily on women than men, notably two devoted
assistants ... But he certainly does not warm to high-flying women of a similar
professional level and City Hall has had few senior women under his regime.

Finally, H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland reports that the popularity of Ken
Livingstone's pledge to cut transport fares by 7% seems to have forced Johnson
into shifting his position on the issue - despite ongoing debates about whether
the policy is affordable (this letter from academics to the Guardian backed
Livingstone). Johnson now says he will look at whether he can lower fares from
2013.

9am:As Boris Johnson is criticised as having done "virtually nothing" to tackle
rising youth violence, we discuss policing and crime in the capital.

Since the office of elected mayor of London was established in 2000, the mayor's
powers have consistently grown. Following the passage of the Police Reform and
Social Responsibility Act 2011, the mayor was given direct responsibility for
the priorities and performance of the Metropolitan police as the police and
crime commissioner for the capital.

Operational responsibility for the police remains with the commissioner, Bernard
Hogan-Howe. (The rest of England and Wales will elect their police and crime
commissioners in November this year.)

Joining us to debate policing in the capital from 1pm to 2pm are:

[#xfffd] Pauline Pearce, the so-called "Hackney heroine" who berated rioters
last summer and is now a Lib Dem candidate for Hackney council.

[#xfffd] Leon Fearon, who memorably took Boris Johnson to task during the
post-riots clean-up operation for the government's cuts to public spending and
raising of tuition fees.

[#xfffd][#xfffd]Tim Newburn of the London School of Economics, who led his
university's side of the Guardian/LSE Reading the Riots project.

[#xfffd] Matt Cavanagh of the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR).

Post your questions for the four of them below.

Crime and policing

Policing has been one of the key issues of the campaign - unfortunately in the
form of a dispute over whether or not the number of police officers in London
has dropped since Boris Johnson took over from Ken Livingstone in 2000.

My colleague Polly Curtis looked at the Tory and Labour candidates' claims and
counter-claims on her Reality Check blog and concluded:

Johnson's campaign is correct in claiming that police officer numbers have risen
over his term, albeit only by 2.4% if you take the baseline to be March 2008,
closest to when he was elected in May. But Labour is right that since 2009, the
last year that Livingstone budgeted for, numbers have fallen overall by 1.17%.

Either way it seems only a slight rise or fall in a police force of over 30,000,
and it seems a shame to me that debate has revolved around this rather than,
say, why last year's riots took place and what could be done to stop them
happening again.

Briefly, each of the three main candidates promises new ways to boost
neighbourhood policing. Johnson and Livingstone both vow to tackle domestic
violence, while Brian Paddick has made the treatment of rape victims a major
priority. Johnson wants sobriety testing for offenders convicted of
alcohol-related crimes, and wants to take on oversight of schools to stop last
year's riots happening again. Livingstone wants a police officer in every school
that requests one, and advocates a street level, multi-agency approach to
territorial "postcode" feuds. He and Paddick back reform to stop and search.

The latest poll from YouGov/the London Evening Standard showed Livingstone
closing the gap on Johnson, with the Labour candidate on 49% and the Tory on 51%
in a second-round head-to-head.

Boris Johnson (Conservative)

Boris Johnson has had a rocky relationship with the leadership of the
Metropolitan police since becoming mayor. In 2008 he forced the resignation of
the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, who had been seriously
damaged by the mistaken killing of Jean Charles De Menezes at Stockwell station
after the 7/7 attacks. Johnson's move was criticised as marking a new level of
political interference in the running of the police, and in [#xfffd]2008 he was
criticised for political interference again [#xfffd]when he told acting Met
police commissioner Paul Stephenson he disapproved of the arrest of Tory
frontbencher Damian Green and telephoned Green after he was bailed.

Two of the points in his "nine-point plan for London" relate to policing and
crime. (Some of these points are pledges for the future, some are reminders of
what he has done so far.) These points are:

[#xfffd] Making a further [#xfffd]1.5bn in cuts to "waste" in the bodies he
controls, including the policing and crime office.

[#xfffd] Making the point that he has cut crime by 10.8% (Livingstone says the
rate of decline has fallen to 1%) and "put 1,000 more police on the beat" (also
disputed - see above) and promising to "maintain" these police numbers.

He pledges to add 2,000 police to local "Safer Neighbourhood Teams", double the
number of special constables (voluntary part-time officers) to 10,000 and give
them a 50% rebate on the mayor's share of council tax, establish a Safer
Neighbourhood board in every borough to establish local policing priorities,
establish a new sentencing unit for London to monitor and influence sentencing
with a focus on violence, especially knife crime, and oversee "a renewed focus
on street policing".

He proposes a new London-wide domestic violence service to maintain the number
of Independent Domestic Violence Advocates, and says he will "make more
significant progress towards a force that looks more like London" (three years
ago figures showed that one in 11 officers were of an ethnic minority, while
according to the Office for National Statistics 30.3% of Londoners are
non-white).

He also[#xfffd]wants to pilot sobriety testing for offenders convicted of
alcohol-related crimes. As mayor one of his first policies was to ban drinking
on public transport; protest parties on the Underground[#xfffd]took place on the
last day alcohol was allowed, but the ban now seems widely observed.

Dealing with the riots of last summer did not seem to suit Johnson's persona; he
underestimated their scale and initially refused to come home from a holiday in
Canada, then found himself booed and heckled on walkabouts meeting victims.
[#xfffd]"It is time that people who are engaged in looting and violence stopped
hearing economic and sociological justifications for what they are doing," he
said.

His view of the riots has become more complex as time has passed. He told the
Guardian recently:

There were people who joined in out of a sheer sense of collective
intoxification - a kind of madness that gripped a lot of people. But there were
people who feel that there is not enough in society for them and were just
shockingly nihilistic. We need to know what is going on in these people's lives
and why they can feel such a sense of exclusion.

There are too many people who feel there is no future for them in this city. I
want to try to deal with these kids at an earlier age and trying to crack
illiteracy - that is at the heart of this. It is crucial that we invest in
literacy.

He now[#xfffd]wants to take on strategic oversight of schools if re-elected,
claiming only a systemic fight against educational underachievement can tackle
the social exclusion that he believes lay behind the riots.

He also proposes 25 "leadership clubs" in secondary schools and the continuation
of a programme to stop young people reoffending and a mentoring programme for
young black boys.

There would be no riots this year, he told a recent Mumsnet [#xfffd]Q&A, because
the disturbances served as a "huge wake-up call to deal with the underlying
causes".

Yesterday he was criticised as having done "virtually nothing" to tackle rising
youth violence, by Ron Belgrave, the former senior London government officer who
drew up Johnson's initial proposals for addressing the issue.

Here is Johnson's "crime manifesto" in full.

Ken Livingstone (Labour)

Ken Livingstone's greatest test regarding crime in the capital was the 7/7
attack on the transport system in 2005, which killed 52 people. Livingstone was
praised for his handling of the bombings' aftermath.

He has criticised Johnson for "getting through three commissioners in four
years", which he calls "a disaster for morale", and says he expects he would
work well with Hogan-Howe.

This year Livingstone - who is meeting police officers in Lambeth this morning
along with shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper - pledges to get police numbers
back up to 33,260 (see dispute with Johnson above), says he will increase the
number of officers on Safer Neighbourhood Teams from six to nine, and have them
on duty from 9am to 9pm, backs community punishments and wants to encourage the
Met to open police stations in vacant high street buildings.

He pledges to provide funding for 20 pilot schemes to allow residents to develop
anti-crime schemes in their local areas, and promises to ensure that all
programmes targeted at gangs focus on women and girls as well as men and boys.
He wants a police officer in every school that requests one.

Like Johnson, he pledges to create a Met police that "looks more like London",
and welcomes the current review into stop and search. The Guardian and LSE's
Reading the Riots research found that a one of a key factor in the August riots
was discontent with the police - with stop and search one of the most hated
aspects. He also calls for a review of deaths in custody.

Livingstone says he will introduce a "programme of cross-agency co-operation" on
domestic violence, and on being re-elected will immediately call a summit with
the Met police and sexual violence experts to improve detection rates for rape.
He wants to examine whether more victims of sexual crimes can report to a
specialist agency rather than directly to the police.

He wants to create an intelligence-led unit within the Met to identify repeat
offenders and services to support them. He [#xfffd]also wants the police to
focus on racist hate crimes. He vows that there will be no privatisation of the
police while he is mayor.

Read his manifesto in full here.

Brian Paddick (Lib Dem)

Brian Paddick's campaign has had a major focus on policing - understandably and
probably sensibly playing to his strengths as a well-known former senior
officer. He stresses the fact that the mayor will now be the police and crime
commissioner, and promises to "personally lead a new era of tough and responsive
policing in London".

He told the Guardian recently:

Unlike the previous two mayors who clearly have not held the police to account I
know exactly when senior officers are trying to pull the wool over politicians'
eyes and I know exactly what questions to ask. I have been more critical of the
police since I left the Met after 30 years than any previous mayor because I
believe as mayor of London I should be standing up for Londoners, not the Met
police.

Policy-wise, Paddick makes a forthright case for community punishments - which
he calls "payback sentences" - arguing that they make criminals do something
useful, help prepare them for getting a job, and - slightly audaciously - that
they are actually dreaded more than jail by criminals themselves.

And he promises to take a hard line against rape and misconceptions about rape,
and improve the police's attitude towards rape victims.

In a recent video interview with the Guardian, Paddick explained why he thought
the police continued to find it so difficult to treat rape victims properly:

I think it's a cultural issue. We've seen the issues highlighted by the Guardian
around racism in the police; there are issues around sexism as well. And there
is I think in that male-dominated, macho culture ... a tendency to believe
people accused of rape rather than people who are survivors of rape. And that
needs to change ... When a survivor of rape comes forward the presumption has to
be that they believe the victim, as opposed to what appears to happen in some
parts of London where too many allegations of rape are written off as not
holding water.

He is calling for retraining of the police in this area.

Paddick promises to maintain police numbers at 33,500 and put more police on the
streets in communities suffering from gun and knife crime, wants to give each
neighbourhood its own policing plan, and wants residents and community groups to
take to the streets wearing fluorescent jackets and carrying torches in "Paddick
Patrols" as the eyes and ears of the police.

He wants to reform stop and search, saying: "Stopping people just because they
are from minority ethnic communities destroys trust and wastes time that could
be better spent targeting real criminals." He would publish more statistics on
who has been stopped and why, and pledges to take away the power to stop and
search from any officers who misuse it.

In a recent interview with the Guardian Paddick also warned that last year's
riots would be repeated if the police did not improve their relationship with
Britain's black communities. He has pledged to appoint an independent
commissioner for standards to help tackle "endemic" racism within the
Metropolitan police.

If elected, he would appoint Duwayne Brooks as his deputy mayor for youth and
communities in the belief that Brooks, now a Liberal Democrat councillor in
Lewisham who was the best friend of teenager Stephen Lawrence and witnessed his
murder in 1993, is ideally placed to work with him on improving police-community
relations in light of his experiences as a victim of crime who also experienced
difficulties with the police.

He wants to increase the visibility of uniformed officers at stations at night
and to provide three police stations minimum in each borough, with at least one
open 24/7. He wants police to deal with hate crimes linked to the victim's
sexuality, race or disability.

He is scornful of Livingstone's plan to put police in schools if they want them,
saying: "If you offer schools a police officer dedicated to knife crime, most
schools won't take one. It has proved almost impossible to get people in to
school to talk about knife crime as head teachers see it as an admission they
have a problem."

And he says of Johnson's plan to increase the number of special constables: "The
Met has been trying to recruit more special constables for years so to double
the number is clearly unrealistic."

Read his manifesto here.

Jenny Jones (Green)

Jenny Jones is [#xfffd]a member of the London police and crime committee (and
was also a member of the now-disbanded Metropolitan Police Authority). She
promises [#xfffd]to put more officers on the beat focused on "important areas
such as road safety, not unnecessary surveillance". She wants to rebuild trust
in the police, especially among the young, and [#xfffd]says "officer numbers are
a bad way to measure whether the police have the resources to keep London safe".
She wants to prevent cuts to the police budget until after the Olympics and
inquiries into last year's riots, to use special constables, community support
officers and other staff to do some work currently carried out by officers,
freeing officers up to get out on the streets, and to cut waste, using the money
for preventative work based on the outcome of the riots inquiries.

Jones wants to train people as "reserve PCOs' to provide a "well-trained,
constant presence on the streets" to help the police respond to events such as
the riots. She also wants police out of cars and patrolling on foot or by
bicycle, and more of a focus on restorative justice.

She wants mentoring, training and job support for gang members and "firm
enforcement" against those who do not sign up, and would campaign for the
decriminalisation of all drugs and the legalisation of cannabis and other "less
harmful" drugs.

She wants the police to take action against hate crimes, a "one-stop shop" for
domestic violence services in every borough, and reform of stop and search,
which she calls "arbitrary" and "race-based". [#xfffd]She also wants to scrap
the Territorial Support Group, the Met's public order specialists, replacing
them with ordinary police officers trained to deal with public order issues, and
she wants to end kettling.

She wants CCTV in police vans and an independent inquiry into every death in
custody or police shooting.

Read her manifesto here.

Lawrence Webb (Ukip)

Webb calls for "zero tolerance" of gangs, knife crime and antisocial behaviour,
and very quick court appearances. He wants to make it easier for people to carry
out citizens' arrests for vagrancy, drunkenness, vandalism, and more serious
crimes.

Read his manifesto here.

Siobhan Benita (independent)

Benita wants a full, external, independent review of policing to deal with
questions of "racism, partiality and political interference", as well as
financial efficiency. She wants to set up "safe havens" for those under threat
of violence and abuse. [#xfffd]

Read her manifesto here.

Post your questions for Hackney heroine Pauline Pearce, Leon Fearon, Tim Newburn
of the London School of Economics, and Matt Cavanagh of the Institute for Public
Policy Research (IPPR) below.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 24, 2012
                                 First Edition

@i YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 558 words


Revived NF splits the vote

The only good thing about the resurgence of the National Front (report, 23
April) is that now rightwing votes will be split between the Front, BNP, UKIP,
the British Freedom Party (other expelled BNPers and English Defence League) ,
English Democrats and assorted racist independents.

This means that, electorally, they are no threat, particularly under our
"first-past-the-post system.

However, on the streets it is quite a different matter. This is why I, and
thousands of others, will be in Luton on 5 May to counter the planned march by
the EDL on that day.

MITCH MITCHELL MARCH, CAMBRIDGESHIRE

Lib Dems and stolen money

The Liberal Democrats may well have acted in good faith in accepting the £2.4m
donation from Michael Brown, but once they were informed it was stolen money,
surely they were breaking the law in retaining it.

I am sure that if you or I had received money which we later discovered was
stolen and failed to return it, we would have been rightly prosecuted.

MICHAEL STEED NETTLETON, LINCOLNSHIRE

The meaning of autism

After reading the interview with Louis Theroux (23 April) , I would like to say
how interesting I found last week's screening of Extreme Love.

I was moved by the stories being told and it certainly increased my
understanding of autism. The term "autistic" can be used so easily these days. I
sometimes hear children and adults that exhibit difficult or unusual behaviour
being referred to as "slightly autistic".

It is clear that there are many degrees of autism and the effects that the
condition can have, not only on the life of the child but those around, them can
be devastating. I was amazed by the wonderful support some are able to receive
and the patience and love that goes into giving these children as close to a
normal life as possible.

I feel the programme was sympathetically and respectfully handled and that those
featured were not degraded or humiliated.

The families in this documentary allowed Louis into their lives and in doing so
helped to raise awareness to some of the difficulties they face every single
day.

SHELLEY FALLOWS EAST GRINSTEAD, WEST SUSSEX

At war with cyclists

Hazel Day, in her letter about "suicidal cyclists", (23 April) felt it necessary
to use the words "when I have been a pedestrian". I wonder whether she is also a
car driver.

In the war (for that is what it is) between the motor vehicle and the cyclist
there is a natural ally for the latter, the pedestrian.

I have never owned a car (do I look stupid?). I once cycled and now I walk and
use public transport. The whole ethos of cycling is counter-culture (the culture
being power and status).

Attack an individual cyclist's actions, but please give cyclists the respect
they deserve. Ask yourself something: which would be better - the situation we
have now or one were private motor cars were limited in number, and motor
vehicle numbers were dominated by commercial and service vehicles alongside the
noble and glorious push bike.

DAVID McARTHUR

No need for red tape

Derek Stephen (letter, 23 April) is right to highlight the over-zealous use of
excess bureaucracy in dealing with mistakes, but surely he is wrong to suggest
this is a public demand. What we do crave is accountability and accepting
responsibility - both sadly absent, and not only from the public sector.

STEVE PARKER STROUD, GLOUCESTERSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sarky poll malarky will leave Dave narky;
TOUGH FRENCH LESSONS FOR BRITAIN

BYLINE: TREVOR KAVANAGH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 509 words


THERE will be little sympathy in Downing Street for Nicolas Sarkozy's drubbing
in the French presidential election.

David Cameron is not a spiteful man, but he is entitled to a twinge of
satisfaction after Sarky's brutal snub at a recent Brussels summit.

But after rubbing his hands over the "Tin Pot Napoleon's" first-round flop, the
PM will ask what lessons this has for him. Sarkozy was punished by voters who
chose him in 2007 to shake up France's rigid economy and its bloated welfare
state.

Today they think he is too concerned with family and friends and has used his
presidency to help the rich rather than the hardworking poor. Fairly or
unfairly, similar charges have been levelled recently at Mr Cameron.

Sarkozy, unlike the PM, is also a bumptious and unpleasant politician whose
snide insults justify his "Sarky" nickname. It was the French President who
publicly told Mr Cameron, below, he had "lost a good opportunity to shut up".

And it was Sarky who tried to shut London as a global finance hub and trapped Mr
Cameron into an EU veto he never wanted.

But the crisis haunting the French President dogs every leader in Europe,
including Mr Cameron.

Voters fear for their jobs, pensions and savings. They blame migrants for
snatching their children's jobs.

In Britain, youth unemployment is soaring, while immigration is growing faster
than official estimates. The UK population will leap from 60m to 70m by 2025 -
just 13 years off. London's will soon be a record NINE MILLION, and rising.
Similar forecasts in France helped Marine Le Pen's far right Front National win
one in five votes - enough to block a Sarkozy lead.

UKIP will be looking for lessons here. Mr Cameron has also learned he cannot
write off Labour rival Ed Miliband, however dull and uninspiring he might be.

Socialist candidate Francois Hollande is famously bland and indecisive.

But voters chose him over firebrand Sarkozy after he promised huge tax rises for
the rich and retirement at 60 for all.

Put into practice, those policies would be the final nail in France's economic
credibility. The run-off between the two will be on May 6, but the world is
meanwhile paying the price for uncertainty.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel faces elections the same day, with voters
furious at the way she has saddled them with EU debt. Bankrupt Greece also votes
on May 6, amid signs it is about to be cut adrift from the euro and left to sink
or swim with the drachma.

Spain is tipped as the next Greece - and France as the next Spain.

Stock markets across Europe are in freefall and last night Holland - bastion of
pro-euro discipline - was in meltdown as crisis budget talks collapsed and the
Dutch government fell.

Fears of a total euro collapse yesterday forced Chancellor George Osborne to
order a savage new five per cent cut in state spending.

The world is battening down the hatches against a euro tsunami.

David Cameron yesterday repeated the Coalition has but one purpose - to save the
economy.

That promise is in peril as Europe plays its last cards in this reckless
currency gamble.

Furious

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 4:33 PM GMT

Forget Ukip, Mr Cameron and tell us what you're up to;
In politics, as in life, purpose is all, says Matthew d'Ancona

LENGTH: 1016 words


AT LAST Wednesday's political Cabinet, the Coalition's most senior ministers
were told by No 10 officials that the relationship between politicians and
public is defined not only by results but by perceived motive. It is not enough
for the voters to support your policies. They must trust your reason for taking
action.

If, to take an obvious example, the punters can be persuaded that the top rate
of tax is being cut from 50p to 45p to increase revenues (penal rates drive down
the tax take) and to encourage growth, all will be well. But if they think that
a Tory Chancellor is slashing top taxes just to help the party's rich pals...
well, not so much. Since George Osborne delivered his statement to the Commons
last month, the Government has been overwhelmed by controversy - some of it
real, some of it contrived, but all conspiring to reinforce the sorry impression
of an administration whose screen has frozen.

In such circumstances, turning the machine off and rebooting is not enough. On
Monday, the Prime Minister embarked on a round of media appearances in an effort
to reassure the public that the Coalition remains committed to a coherent
strategy of deficit reduction, radical public service reform and the
transformation of the welfare system. Cameron's task is to convince voters that
the Coalition has a powerful operating system and software package, that its
actions are part of a well-conceived project for government.

He and his advisers note that it is some while since we heard noisy calls from
outside Tory ranks for a "Plan B". Yet it is precisely at such times that
governing parties are liable to flirt with strategic error - or, more
accurately, backbenchers, activists and sections of the media grow impatient and
demand the wrong kind of change.

Mistakes have been made, morale is at a low ebb, the polls are depressing. And
look: the UK Independence Party has pulled ahead of the Lib Dems in an opinion
poll or two! A couple of unnamed Tory MPs are reported to be considering
defection to Ukip! To some Conservative eyes, it seems as though the party's
colourful leader, Nigel Farage, has the Big Mo as the local elections on May 3
draw close.

From all this, the big non sequitur is to conclude that the Conservative Party's
error was to lurch to the centre ground and vacate the terrain now cheerfully
occupied by Mr Farage. Let us first recall that the Tories fought the 2001
election on a platform of muddled skinhead conservatism and "Keep the Pound"
Eurosceptic rhetoric, and campaigned in 2005 by blowing the dog whistle to
signal private sympathy for the disgruntled Right. In both cases, the party was
trounced.

Only since embracing the centre ground have the Tories come within striking
distance of an overall majority. Many Conservatives hate this and get furious
when reminded of it. But it's the truth. Of course Cameron should seek to win
back Ukip voters - but not by jeopardising the gains he has made in
non-traditional Tory seats.

Again, it is a psephological fact that the Conservatives will not win next time
unless they make inroads into Labour terrain. At the last election, Ukip secured
fewer than one million votes, compared to Gordon Brown's 8.6 million and Nick
Clegg's 6.8 million. As a party of Right-wing protest, Mr Farage's gang does
well in local and European elections. But it is no accident that they have yet
to win a single seat at Westminster. The electorate understands the difference
between an opinion poll response and the composition of Parliament.

What about Ukip votes in marginal seats? The best political scientist in
Britain, Professor Tim Bale of Sussex University, wrote recently on The
Spectator's Coffee House blog that "the impact is vastly exaggerated. At best
we're talking about no more than a handful of seats - certainly nowhere near
enough to mean the difference between the Tories being the biggest party and a
comfortable overall majority". Persuaded? You should be.

In April 2006, Cameron called Ukip's members "closet racists". I doubt the PM
would go so far today, not least because Mr Farage has worked hard to purge some
of the nastier elements from his party's ranks. None the less, the Tory leader
is right not to heed those in his party who see the Ukip surge as a warning of
electoral disaster ahead. It is no such thing.

The Coalition's greatest defect at present is not the threat from the
Eurosceptic Right (still marginal), or dissent between the two governing parties
(intrinsic and unavoidable), but the disconnect between action and explanation.
In its first months, the Cameron-Clegg Government was superbly effective in its
communication of a difficult message - first, that painful action was required
to deal with the deficit and second, that it was all Labour's fault.

Since then, the Coalition has embarked upon a programme for government the
radicalism of which is matched only by a collective aphasia about that
programme's necessity and the fundamental objectives underpinning it. The gap
between deed and word has grown dangerously wide.

And to some extent, that is deliberate. "We don't trumpet everything we do," one
Cabinet minister said to me recently, "because we don't want people to think
it's all part of some scary ideological crusade." That would indeed be a
dangerous impression for the public to form. But there is an even greater danger
in silence - or, more accurately, mumbling - that allows voters and the
Coalition's opponents to fill in the gaps as luridly as they please.

In politics, as in life, purpose is all. A government stands or falls on its
capacity to explain that purpose, especially when it pursues austerity and makes
painful demands of those it serves.

The last month is not a warning to Cameron to shift trajectory. It is a warning
to him that he must better explain the trajectory he is already embarked upon.
The brush strokes are there but the frame is barely visible. Too many voters now
look at this Coalition, so focused in its early days, and ask: why? What are
they up to? What should be worrying the Prime Minister is not Ukip. It is the
rest of us.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 4:33 PM GMT

Forget Ukip, Mr Cameron and tell us what you're up to;
In politics, as in life, purpose is all, says Matthew d'Ancona

LENGTH: 1016 words


AT LAST Wednesday's political Cabinet, the Coalition's most senior ministers
were told by No 10 officials that the relationship between politicians and
public is defined not only by results but by perceived motive. It is not enough
for the voters to support your policies. They must trust your reason for taking
action.

If, to take an obvious example, the punters can be persuaded that the top rate
of tax is being cut from 50p to 45p to increase revenues (penal rates drive down
the tax take) and to encourage growth, all will be well. But if they think that
a Tory Chancellor is slashing top taxes just to help the party's rich pals...
well, not so much. Since George Osborne delivered his statement to the Commons
last month, the Government has been overwhelmed by controversy - some of it
real, some of it contrived, but all conspiring to reinforce the sorry impression
of an administration whose screen has frozen.

In such circumstances, turning the machine off and rebooting is not enough. On
Monday, the Prime Minister embarked on a round of media appearances in an effort
to reassure the public that the Coalition remains committed to a coherent
strategy of deficit reduction, radical public service reform and the
transformation of the welfare system. Cameron's task is to convince voters that
the Coalition has a powerful operating system and software package, that its
actions are part of a well-conceived project for government.

He and his advisers note that it is some while since we heard noisy calls from
outside Tory ranks for a "Plan B". Yet it is precisely at such times that
governing parties are liable to flirt with strategic error - or, more
accurately, backbenchers, activists and sections of the media grow impatient and
demand the wrong kind of change.

Mistakes have been made, morale is at a low ebb, the polls are depressing. And
look: the UK Independence Party has pulled ahead of the Lib Dems in an opinion
poll or two! A couple of unnamed Tory MPs are reported to be considering
defection to Ukip! To some Conservative eyes, it seems as though the party's
colourful leader, Nigel Farage, has the Big Mo as the local elections on May 3
draw close.

From all this, the big non sequitur is to conclude that the Conservative Party's
error was to lurch to the centre ground and vacate the terrain now cheerfully
occupied by Mr Farage. Let us first recall that the Tories fought the 2001
election on a platform of muddled skinhead conservatism and "Keep the Pound"
Eurosceptic rhetoric, and campaigned in 2005 by blowing the dog whistle to
signal private sympathy for the disgruntled Right. In both cases, the party was
trounced.

Only since embracing the centre ground have the Tories come within striking
distance of an overall majority. Many Conservatives hate this and get furious
when reminded of it. But it's the truth. Of course Cameron should seek to win
back Ukip voters - but not by jeopardising the gains he has made in
non-traditional Tory seats.

Again, it is a psephological fact that the Conservatives will not win next time
unless they make inroads into Labour terrain. At the last election, Ukip secured
fewer than one million votes, compared to Gordon Brown's 8.6 million and Nick
Clegg's 6.8 million. As a party of Right-wing protest, Mr Farage's gang does
well in local and European elections. But it is no accident that they have yet
to win a single seat at Westminster. The electorate understands the difference
between an opinion poll response and the composition of Parliament.

What about Ukip votes in marginal seats? The best political scientist in
Britain, Professor Tim Bale of Sussex University, wrote recently on The
Spectator's Coffee House blog that "the impact is vastly exaggerated. At best
we're talking about no more than a handful of seats - certainly nowhere near
enough to mean the difference between the Tories being the biggest party and a
comfortable overall majority". Persuaded? You should be.

In April 2006, Cameron called Ukip's members "closet racists". I doubt the PM
would go so far today, not least because Mr Farage has worked hard to purge some
of the nastier elements from his party's ranks. None the less, the Tory leader
is right not to heed those in his party who see the Ukip surge as a warning of
electoral disaster ahead. It is no such thing.

The Coalition's greatest defect at present is not the threat from the
Eurosceptic Right (still marginal), or dissent between the two governing parties
(intrinsic and unavoidable), but the disconnect between action and explanation.
In its first months, the Cameron-Clegg Government was superbly effective in its
communication of a difficult message - first, that painful action was required
to deal with the deficit and second, that it was all Labour's fault.

Since then, the Coalition has embarked upon a programme for government the
radicalism of which is matched only by a collective aphasia about that
programme's necessity and the fundamental objectives underpinning it. The gap
between deed and word has grown dangerously wide.

And to some extent, that is deliberate. "We don't trumpet everything we do," one
Cabinet minister said to me recently, "because we don't want people to think
it's all part of some scary ideological crusade." That would indeed be a
dangerous impression for the public to form. But there is an even greater danger
in silence - or, more accurately, mumbling - that allows voters and the
Coalition's opponents to fill in the gaps as luridly as they please.

In politics, as in life, purpose is all. A government stands or falls on its
capacity to explain that purpose, especially when it pursues austerity and makes
painful demands of those it serves.

The last month is not a warning to Cameron to shift trajectory. It is a warning
to him that he must better explain the trajectory he is already embarked upon.
The brush strokes are there but the frame is barely visible. Too many voters now
look at this Coalition, so focused in its early days, and ask: why? What are
they up to? What should be worrying the Prime Minister is not Ukip. It is the
rest of us.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 2:06 PM GMT

In praise of political grass roots: why we need our local electioneers

BYLINE: By Graeme Archer

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 724 words


Damian Thompson wrote a cautionary column on Saturday; cautioning, that is,
Tories against Ukip. The latter's lack of a grass roots make them particularly
prone to entryism and ultimately a political force without potency, Damian
warned.

Which made me think of the coming elections (I was "grass rooting" on Sunday,
delivering Boris leaflets). What sort of person becomes a grass root? And what
specific sub-pathology takes a grass root the extra step, to seek election as a
borough councillor?

After all, it's an Austenesque statement of the bleeding obvious to label such
people as "weird". To join a political party makes you statistically bizarre, a
political obsessive, by definition more "extreme" than "normal" voters. Dan
Hodges wrote a typically excellent blog recently, making just that point to his
forlorn - I was going to write "comrades", but that's me doing what I'm
criticising; that is, lazily labelling - making the point to his friends in the
Labour Party, that political activism sets you apart from the voters you're
seeking to influence.

Well, maybe. As it happens, I know I'm weird. The fact that for twenty-odd years
I've given up some of my spare time to deliver leaflets, usually in seats no
Tory will ever win, is the least of it.

But what about my friend Ben? We met through a mutual interest in writing and
Hackney - not politics. And Ben is the opposite of weird. Married with children,
self-employed, quiet and self-effacing. He was never a Young Conservative; he's
not even a vegetarian. What made Ben put his name forward to be the Tory
candidate in Colchester's Mile End ward next week, to give up his own time and
money, to try to defeat the sitting Liberal Democrat?

Many might suggest: to seek election, you're either a victim of your ego
(politics is showbusiness for the ugly, after all, isn't it?) or greedy (none of
them can wait to get their snouts in the trough!).

Well, Ben isn't greedy. A self-employed businessman can only hope to lose money
by spending months knocking on doors and producing election leaflets. (I'm going
to be nice to Labour in a bit, so I'll make a partisan point here: the
socialists, awash with union funding and activists, have a built-in advantage at
the street level compared to the Tories' private army.) And with apologies to
Mrs Ben for even having noticed this much (sorry Anne!), neither is my friend
ugly.

He's doing it for two reasons. He's concerned about overdevelopment, and he's
fed up with the name-calling literature from the sitting councillors, which
assumes its readers are fools. As Ben puts it: "I thought I'd run a campaign as
an adult, talking to other reasonable adults. So I'm not saying anything
unpleasant about anyone, or trying to pretend that everything my opponents have
done is awful." (Even the opponent who's missed most of the meetings about
development).

Now, Ben and I are both Tories. So of course I'd say his voluntary activism is
exemplary, and not weird, wouldn't I? OK, but I was once a councillor in Harlow.
Jean Clarke sat on the Labour benches (I'm glad to see that she still does). We
agreed about practically nothing: Jean isn't from the non-ideological wing of
her party. But it would take a fool - someone really weird - not to notice how
much Jean cares about Harlow, and how many years she's given to working for it.

Councillors are the little platoon commanders, and you don't get councillors
without political candidates. I'm tired of the lazy smearing of those willing to
give up a tangible quantity of money, time and privacy, in order to put
themselves forward for election, as though Groucho Marx's funny line about clubs
and membership has the force of a philosophic principle.

At least at the local council level, in my experience, candidates aren't usually
vain, or greedy, or deluded. They have strong views about how to run their
towns, and are willing to test, through the public vote, how many other people
share their vision. Anyone can slag politicians off, anonymously, from the
safety of a computer; "everyone" could run their town perfectly, if only
"everyone else" would listen. It takes a different quality to step forward into
the daylight, and ask your neighbours for their vote. That quality is not
"weirdness"; it is a quality which is not, in fact, independent of courage.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 2:06 PM GMT

In praise of political grass roots: why we need our local electioneers

BYLINE: By Graeme Archer

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 724 words


Damian Thompson wrote a cautionary column on Saturday; cautioning, that is,
Tories against Ukip. The latter's lack of a grass roots make them particularly
prone to entryism and ultimately a political force without potency, Damian
warned.

Which made me think of the coming elections (I was "grass rooting" on Sunday,
delivering Boris leaflets). What sort of person becomes a grass root? And what
specific sub-pathology takes a grass root the extra step, to seek election as a
borough councillor?

After all, it's an Austenesque statement of the bleeding obvious to label such
people as "weird". To join a political party makes you statistically bizarre, a
political obsessive, by definition more "extreme" than "normal" voters. Dan
Hodges wrote a typically excellent blog recently, making just that point to his
forlorn - I was going to write "comrades", but that's me doing what I'm
criticising; that is, lazily labelling - making the point to his friends in the
Labour Party, that political activism sets you apart from the voters you're
seeking to influence.

Well, maybe. As it happens, I know I'm weird. The fact that for twenty-odd years
I've given up some of my spare time to deliver leaflets, usually in seats no
Tory will ever win, is the least of it.

But what about my friend Ben? We met through a mutual interest in writing and
Hackney - not politics. And Ben is the opposite of weird. Married with children,
self-employed, quiet and self-effacing. He was never a Young Conservative; he's
not even a vegetarian. What made Ben put his name forward to be the Tory
candidate in Colchester's Mile End ward next week, to give up his own time and
money, to try to defeat the sitting Liberal Democrat?

Many might suggest: to seek election, you're either a victim of your ego
(politics is showbusiness for the ugly, after all, isn't it?) or greedy (none of
them can wait to get their snouts in the trough!).

Well, Ben isn't greedy. A self-employed businessman can only hope to lose money
by spending months knocking on doors and producing election leaflets. (I'm going
to be nice to Labour in a bit, so I'll make a partisan point here: the
socialists, awash with union funding and activists, have a built-in advantage at
the street level compared to the Tories' private army.) And with apologies to
Mrs Ben for even having noticed this much (sorry Anne!), neither is my friend
ugly.

He's doing it for two reasons. He's concerned about overdevelopment, and he's
fed up with the name-calling literature from the sitting councillors, which
assumes its readers are fools. As Ben puts it: "I thought I'd run a campaign as
an adult, talking to other reasonable adults. So I'm not saying anything
unpleasant about anyone, or trying to pretend that everything my opponents have
done is awful." (Even the opponent who's missed most of the meetings about
development).

Now, Ben and I are both Tories. So of course I'd say his voluntary activism is
exemplary, and not weird, wouldn't I? OK, but I was once a councillor in Harlow.
Jean Clarke sat on the Labour benches (I'm glad to see that she still does). We
agreed about practically nothing: Jean isn't from the non-ideological wing of
her party. But it would take a fool - someone really weird - not to notice how
much Jean cares about Harlow, and how many years she's given to working for it.

Councillors are the little platoon commanders, and you don't get councillors
without political candidates. I'm tired of the lazy smearing of those willing to
give up a tangible quantity of money, time and privacy, in order to put
themselves forward for election, as though Groucho Marx's funny line about clubs
and membership has the force of a philosophic principle.

At least at the local council level, in my experience, candidates aren't usually
vain, or greedy, or deluded. They have strong views about how to run their
towns, and are willing to test, through the public vote, how many other people
share their vision. Anyone can slag politicians off, anonymously, from the
safety of a computer; "everyone" could run their town perfectly, if only
"everyone else" would listen. It takes a different quality to step forward into
the daylight, and ask your neighbours for their vote. That quality is not
"weirdness"; it is a quality which is not, in fact, independent of courage.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 2:06 PM GMT

In praise of political grass roots: why we need our local electioneers

BYLINE: By Graeme Archer

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 724 words


Damian Thompson wrote a cautionary column on Saturday; cautioning, that is,
Tories against Ukip. The latter's lack of a grass roots make them particularly
prone to entryism and ultimately a political force without potency, Damian
warned.

Which made me think of the coming elections (I was "grass rooting" on Sunday,
delivering Boris leaflets). What sort of person becomes a grass root? And what
specific sub-pathology takes a grass root the extra step, to seek election as a
borough councillor?

After all, it's an Austenesque statement of the bleeding obvious to label such
people as "weird". To join a political party makes you statistically bizarre, a
political obsessive, by definition more "extreme" than "normal" voters. Dan
Hodges wrote a typically excellent blog recently, making just that point to his
forlorn - I was going to write "comrades", but that's me doing what I'm
criticising; that is, lazily labelling - making the point to his friends in the
Labour Party, that political activism sets you apart from the voters you're
seeking to influence.

Well, maybe. As it happens, I know I'm weird. The fact that for twenty-odd years
I've given up some of my spare time to deliver leaflets, usually in seats no
Tory will ever win, is the least of it.

But what about my friend Ben? We met through a mutual interest in writing and
Hackney - not politics. And Ben is the opposite of weird. Married with children,
self-employed, quiet and self-effacing. He was never a Young Conservative; he's
not even a vegetarian. What made Ben put his name forward to be the Tory
candidate in Colchester's Mile End ward next week, to give up his own time and
money, to try to defeat the sitting Liberal Democrat?

Many might suggest: to seek election, you're either a victim of your ego
(politics is showbusiness for the ugly, after all, isn't it?) or greedy (none of
them can wait to get their snouts in the trough!).

Well, Ben isn't greedy. A self-employed businessman can only hope to lose money
by spending months knocking on doors and producing election leaflets. (I'm going
to be nice to Labour in a bit, so I'll make a partisan point here: the
socialists, awash with union funding and activists, have a built-in advantage at
the street level compared to the Tories' private army.) And with apologies to
Mrs Ben for even having noticed this much (sorry Anne!), neither is my friend
ugly.

He's doing it for two reasons. He's concerned about overdevelopment, and he's
fed up with the name-calling literature from the sitting councillors, which
assumes its readers are fools. As Ben puts it: "I thought I'd run a campaign as
an adult, talking to other reasonable adults. So I'm not saying anything
unpleasant about anyone, or trying to pretend that everything my opponents have
done is awful." (Even the opponent who's missed most of the meetings about
development).

Now, Ben and I are both Tories. So of course I'd say his voluntary activism is
exemplary, and not weird, wouldn't I? OK, but I was once a councillor in Harlow.
Jean Clarke sat on the Labour benches (I'm glad to see that she still does). We
agreed about practically nothing: Jean isn't from the non-ideological wing of
her party. But it would take a fool - someone really weird - not to notice how
much Jean cares about Harlow, and how many years she's given to working for it.

Councillors are the little platoon commanders, and you don't get councillors
without political candidates. I'm tired of the lazy smearing of those willing to
give up a tangible quantity of money, time and privacy, in order to put
themselves forward for election, as though Groucho Marx's funny line about clubs
and membership has the force of a philosophic principle.

At least at the local council level, in my experience, candidates aren't usually
vain, or greedy, or deluded. They have strong views about how to run their
towns, and are willing to test, through the public vote, how many other people
share their vision. Anyone can slag politicians off, anonymously, from the
safety of a computer; "everyone" could run their town perfectly, if only
"everyone else" would listen. It takes a different quality to step forward into
the daylight, and ask your neighbours for their vote. That quality is not
"weirdness"; it is a quality which is not, in fact, independent of courage.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Independent loses plea for place on BBC debate;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 118 words


The only independent candidate in the London mayoral election has accused the
BBC of "depriving the electorate of a proper choice" after she lost her appeal
to be allowed to take part in a televised debate.

Siobhan Benita appealed to the BBC Trust, claiming that had a right to take her
place alongside other candidates. But the appeal was thrown out just hours
before last night's discussion took place.

Mrs Benita had to settle for a place in the audience, watching the Conservative
candidate Boris Johnson, Labour's Ken Livingstone, the Lib Dems' Brian Paddick,
and Jenny Jones for the Green Party.

The UK Independence Party candidate, Lawrence Webb, and the BNP candidate,
Carlos Cortiglia, were not invited.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Voters have lost patience with the culture of spin and fakery;
The politics of message manipulation that served Clinton and Blair so well will
not rescue Cameron

BYLINE: IAIN MARTIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1208 words


In 1992, Bill Clinton agreed to allow a leading documentary-maker inside his
campaign as the primaries season got under way. A pioneer of fly-on-thewall
cinema, D A Pennebaker had been part of the team that made Primary, the classic
1960 account of John F Kennedy and Hubert Humphrey's battle in Wisconsin. His
most important subsequent films had been about the fame and reinvention of rock
stars such as David Bowie and Bob Dylan.

How appropriate that when the Sixties generation made its first proper run at
the US presidency, it should be Pennebaker who was there to record it. There was
a symmetry. The candidate was young enough to have shaken JFK's hand as a
teenager, dodged the Vietnam draft, smoked pot (although not inhaled) and
appreciated Bob Dylan's Blonde on Blonde.

The resulting documentary, The War Room, proved to be an immensely influential
piece of work. It was devoured by trainee spin doctors on both sides of the
Atlantic, looking for tips on how to manipulate a message and the media. As a
result, it set the tone for two decades of political combat.

In the film, Clinton was presented as a rock star, appearing in close-up only a
few times. Instead, the cameras focused mainly on the charismatic duo of
strategist James Carville and communications director George Stephanopoulos as
they battled with journalists and fired up their young workers at campaign
headquarters.

Their analysis was that the Democrats had become too sentimental and too weak.
Out would go what they thought of as self-indulgence and in would come
all-controlling "message discipline": constant spin, better use of focus groups
and polling, relentless probing at an opponent's weaknesses and an exclusive
concentration on middle-ground voters. Despite their candidate's bimbo-related
weaknesses, it worked.

There was marketing, bullying and chicanery long before Clinton. But The War
Room refracted and glamorised those activities to such an extent that they
became standard electoral technique. A hungry New Labour learnt the script - and
the Cameroons, obsessed with image, were keen to follow Tony Blair's lead.

Watching The War Room again, it is not hard to see why it had such a dramatic
impact on Labour. Here was a training film for frustrated progressives. So when
John Smith died suddenly in 1994, the modernisers took their chance. Principle
was not being dumped entirely, they said - it was just being updated, with
historic weaknesses ironed out and potential negatives abandoned. Best, surely,
to work out what voters wanted to hear and to let them hear it. For the 1997
election, Labour built a state-of-the-art campaign headquarters and called it
the War Room, consciously invoking the spirit of Clinton's victories.

This did not just transform the conduct of campaigns. Even more importantly, it
changed the way in which leaders thought, and for the worse. In the Clinton
campaign, we saw the early efforts at what became known as "triangulation", in
which a leader tries to transcend the terminology of Left and Right to sit above
ideology or even ideas. This means saying whatever it takes to win.

New Labour, therefore, borrowed the economic rhetoric of its opponents, claiming
it too would be prudent. When spending soared, Labour was unwilling to be honest
about the scale of tax rises required to cover the bill, so deficits were run at
the height of an unsustainable, credit-driven boom. The gap between rhetoric and
reality widened to the point that the bond of trust with the electorate that
"prudent" New Labour had been designed to re-establish was destroyed.

Still, that took a long time to happen. Partly, this was due to the nervous
breakdown that the Conservative family decided to have in response to the rise
of New Labour. The young band of Tory modernisers who eventually took control of
their traumatised party argued that it would have to replicate, rather than
renounce, the Blair model. They aimed to avoid mentioning anything that reminded
floating voters of the party's past views.

In the end, what the Cameroons produced wasn't even a convincing approximation
of the Blair playbook. They had their election war room and drilled their
candidates to be ultra-loyal in the name of victory. But it wasn't clear to them
- or the country - what they were trying to sell, other than the idea that it
was their turn to be in power. It was as though they were working from a
facsimile reprinted so many times that it was only a garbled copy of the
original. They supposed that a young leader and a "time for a change" mantra
would deliver victory. But it didn't. Without realising it, the Cameroons were
using a script that was already out of date.

In the crisis of 2008, finance and the banks went bankrupt. Now, politics - or
rather, the post-1992 approach to politics - has followed suit. This is not just
a Conservative problem. All the mainstream parties are in trouble, unsure how to
respond to deep unpopularity and the erosion of traditional loyalties. This is
reflected in the rise of other parties. In the Bradford West by-election, George
Galloway won by more than 10,000 votes - an extraordinary victory over Labour
that not a single journalist saw coming. In Scotland, it is Alex Salmond's
separatist Scottish National Party that is dominant. Then there is Ukip,
feasting on Tory discontent.

In the wake of the financial crisis, there is a palpable mistrust of alleged
experts in general - economists, bankers, journalists - and politicians in
particular. This is not what the early disciples of The War Room envisaged.
Surely, politicians' greater responsiveness to the public mood would please the
voters? Yet steadily, it came to have the opposite effect, because it looked so
inauthentic and calculating. Voters can see the wiring and diagnose the fakery.

The pragmatic David Cameron clearly plans to ride out the current discontent,
hoping that if the economy recovers sufficiently, it will be enough to deliver
an election victory in 2015. But the situation is worse than he - or much of the
political class - currently thinks. There is a raging hunger for authenticity.
Cameron, for all his radical education and welfare reforms, seems too hedged in
by the compromises of the Coalition and a reliance on Blairstyle
photo-opportunities and spin to respond to the challenge.

Conservatives should not fool themselves into presuming that their party will
find the answer to what comes next. Perhaps a new leader from the Left -
channelling populist anger - will emerge later in the decade to fill the vacuum.
Many in Cameron's own party know that something is up, and have started to think
about what happens when he goes, probably midway through the next Parliament.
They certainly won't be looking for the next "heir to Blair", or a "slave to
Dave".

The danger for Cameron is that he looks as though he is living in an era - the
age of Clinton, Blair and the War Room - that is already history. "You were the
future once," he said to Blair across the Commons chamber. It was a good line at
the time. But how long before a rival says the same of him?

A longer version of this article appears in the May edition of 'Standpoint',
which goes on sale on Thursday

Comment on Iain Martin's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Marine Le Pen wins over the doubters

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


MARINE Le Pen's strong third place finish shows that she overcame the stigma of
being "daddy's girl" and vindicated her attempt to tone down the party her
father founded, stealing support from the mainstream centre-Right party.

But despite winning a bigger percentage of votes than her father Jean Marie, she
failed to emulate him by reaching the second round.

A tall striking blonde who wears sharp suits and high-heels, the 43 year-old's
approach has been designed to rejuvenate and "de-demonise" the National Front
(NF) she took over last year.

Adopting a more measured tone than her father, she initially campaigned on an
anti-euro, protectionist economic programme aimed at the young and disillusioned
workers. She peppered speeches with quasi-Leftist rhetoric, railing against the
"system", saying she would return the retirement age to 60 and increase the
minimum wage.

When it appeared that she was losing momentum, she returned to the party
"fundamentals" of immigration and security, especially following a shooting
spree by a home-grown Islamist militant last month.

Her father, who handed the reins of the party to his Miss Le Pen last year, last
night denied that he had been "eclipsed" by his daughter but said: "I passed her
the baton, she runs faster than me, then so much better."

Miss Le Pen insists the NF is not racist but simply a "patriotic" party similar
to Britain's UK Independence Party and its "opposition to the totalitarian
character of the EU and its desire to remove people's sovereignty".

Nicolas Sarkozy addressed all of the issues on her agenda and took a tough line
on immigration in his campaign, as part of an attempt to woo NF voters whose
support is crucial if he is to beat François Hollande, but the ploy appears to
have failed. Miss Le Pen has in turn warned her supporters not to vote for a man
"who's already history".

Le crunch fortnight

After finishing first and second in round one, François Hollande and Nicolas
Sarkozy now have two weeks to convince the French they deserve their vote ahead
of a run-off on Sunday, May 6.

Campaigning and opinion polls, which were suspended over the weekend, start
again in earnest today.

Although both have rallies planned as soon as this week, "le crunch" will be
when they clash in a head-to-head televised debate on May 3.

The victor of the run-off vote takes up office in a lavish inauguration ceremony
held at the Elysée Palace on May 16.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicolas Sarkozy and his wife Carla appear relaxed as they leave the
voting booth before casting their ballots in Paris
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Coalition's confusing and ill thought-out policies are alienating voters;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 492 words


SIR - Your report (April 20) details how Abu Qatada could walk free in days
after Theresa May, the Home Secretary, got the appeal date wrong. Every
Conservative muddle and malfunction increases the likelihood that Ed Miliband,
along with those all-too familiar names, will form the next government and
continue the work of the last dysfunctional Labour administration.

The daily confusion that is damaging the Conservatives and the country comes
from inconsistencies that can arise in such a political marriage of convenience.
It is a Coalition that is beginning to resemble a pantomime horse, with policy
and strategy formed not in the cerebral cortex.

John Barker Prestbury, Cheshire

SIR - Greg Barker, the Energy Minister and chairman of the influential 2020
group of modernising Conservative MPs, believes that the Tories should rise
above the "swivel-eyed rhetoric" of the Eurosceptic UK Independence Party
(report, April 14). This attitude exemplifies why the Conservatives are losing
core supporters.

Mr Barker is keen to retain the centre ground but appears not to understand that
to govern effectively is to move the centre ground. This is done through clear
thinking, clear belief and clear argument. When she came to office, Margaret
Thatcher rejected the 1979 centre ground of state ownership, interventionism and
managed decline. Over 12 years, she shifted it towards the private sector,
individual enterprise and growth.

As catastrophe engulfs the eurozone, Mr Barker has no proposal to limit
collateral damage to Britain. He suggests that David Cameron has spelt out a
robust and clear position on Europe, when in fact he was ambushed and
reluctantly forced into his recent veto through poor statesmanship. Mr Cameron
has been rowing back on his robust and clear position ever since.

The country needs to feel the grip of firm government, yet all we get are empty
platitudes and a preoccupation with electoral politics. It is a measure of the
Conservative Party's failures that many of its core supporters are drawn to
Ukip. Gregory Shenkman London W8

SIR - Professor Alan Sked (Letters, April 21) underestimates David Cameron's
conservative convictions, political courage and negotiating skills.

As Prime Minister of Britain's first peacetime Coalition since 1931, Mr Cameron
has successfully persuaded the Left-wing Liberal Democrats to support deep cuts
in public spending, radical education, health and welfare reforms and a
reduction in the top rate of tax.

This in exchange for a referendum on the Alternative Vote which the Lib Dems
lost, and tax cuts for the low paid, which the Conservatives supported anyway.
Philip Duly Haslemere, Surrey

SIR - The antics of this Government remind me of a children's party game, Family
Coach. Things go wrong and bits fall off until one ends with a complete wreck. I
had such high hopes for the journey, too.

No amount of good legislation will make up for the appearance of incompetence.
Alec Ellis Liverpool

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU wants to open UK job floodgates

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words


MEDDLING Brussels bureaucrats are demanding the UK open its depressed jobs
market to millions of Romanian and Bulgarian workers.

Just days after figures confirm millions of Britons are still on the dole,
unelected EU commissioner Lazslo Andor called for a relaxation on work
restrictions for Eastern Europeans.

He wants Britain to act more than 18 months before the official deadline to drop
the ban comes into force.

Mr Andor claimed the need for work permits should be removed because of "the
overall positive impact" migrant workers have had on other countries.

Poverty

The Hungarian-born economist made his outrageous comments in the same week that
official figures for the past year showed 166,000 British workers no longer had
jobs - matching the number of foreigners getting jobs in UK.

The statistic is the starkest illustration yet of the direct link between record
mass immigration and the number of British workers ending up on the dole.

Caving in to Mr Andor's demands would see a flood of migrants escaping the
poverty and high unemployment of their home countries and coming to the UK in
search of better-paid jobs.

It would also give them free access to Britain's soft-touch welfare system.Last
night campaigners were up in arms at Mr Andor's request contained in his
employment strategy out last week.

Derek Clark, Euro MP and UK Independence Party employment spokesman, said: "Mr
Andor's argument that it has been beneficial for receiving countries is
debatable. It may be beneficial for the middle classes but it has not helped the
low-waged whose jobs are taken by the migrants."

Tory backbench MP, Peter Bone said: "The commissioner's demands fly in the face
of what the British public want. They want tougher controls."

Mr Andor used his 27-page document to hit out at the UK and eight other
countries that legitimately block Romanians and Bulgarian workers without
permits or who are not self-employed.

He wants a gradual relaxation of the restrictions, which must be removed by
December 31, 2013, ready for the "full application of EU law on free movement
for Bulgarian and Romanian workers".

The unemployment rate in Bulgaria is more than 12 per cent compared to Britain's
8.3 per cent. While Romania has a lower percentage of unemployed people, the
standard of living and welfare system is far below that of the UK.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should Britain stop giving jobs to migrants?

YES: 0901 792 5300

NO: 0901 792 5301

Yes text DXMONYES to 86611

No text DXMONNO to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrant workers chase jobs in Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 23, 2012 Monday

Conservatives turn three-point opinion poll lead into eight-point deficit

BYLINE: Tom Clarkguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 703 words

ABSTRACT

Latest Guardian/ICM poll sees the Tories slumping to 33%, after registering 39%
last month, with Labour rising from 36% to 41%See every Guardian/ICM poll since
1984 here

FULL TEXT

The sudden difficulties of the Conservative party are dramatically confirmed by
a new Guardian/ICM poll.

The three-point lead David Cameron was enjoying over Labour immediately before
George Osborne's budget has now given way to an eight-point deficit.

Tory support has plunged by six points in a single month, down from 39% to 33%.
Meanwhile, Labour has climbed five from 36% to 41%, to claim an eight-point
lead. The Liberal Democrats stand still on 15%, while the combined total of the
smaller parties has inched up two to stand at 12%.

The results include adjustments which ICM makes for the likelihood that
respondents will actually turn out to vote, and also for the historic reluctance
of Tory voters to identify themselves.

These refinements have improved ICM's accuracy over recent elections, but
without them the Labour lead would be even bigger - as it has been in some
recent surveys by other companies.

The Conservative slide is the biggest seen in the monthly Guardian/ICM series
since the autumn of 2008, when the onset of the credit crunch briefly produced
very volatile political conditions.

It leaves the Tories with their worst score since before the general election.
Labour, meanwhile, has exceeded the 40% threshold - often said to be the
benchmark for a clear election win - for the first time in many years. Indeed,
its 41% score is the party's strongest showing in the series since May 2003.

At that time, Iain Duncan Smith was heading the embattled Tory opposition to
Tony Blair's government, and Labour will be thrilled at the thought that the
fallout from the budget and other problems such as the petrol panic may now have
landed David Cameron's party in comparable difficulties.

But the detail of the poll does not suggest a sea change in public opinion. On
the crucial question of economic competence, in particular, the government
remains comfortably ahead - with Cameron and Osborne trusted to run the economy
properly by 44% of respondents, with 31% believing Labour leader Ed Miliband and
his shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, would provide more effective financial
management.

This continuing 13-point margin will be a great comfort to the Conservatives,
although the trend is now running against them here too.

At the end of last year, Cameron and Osborne led Miliband and Balls by 21 points
on economic management, a gap which narrowed to 18 in January and 17 just before
the budget, before narrowing by another four points this month.

Ratings for individual politicians suggest that the headline Labour lead is
driven more by disillusion with the coalition than by any positive view of the
opposition.

By wide margins, voters reject the idea that any of the three party leader
"understand people like me", and also the suggestion that any of them are "good
in a crisis".

On both scores, Miliband's standing is somewhat worse than his already negative
scores in December.

The big difference, however, concerns Cameron's perceived competence. At the
turn of the year, by 50% to 40% voters trusted him to do well in a crisis. But
that 10-point advantage has now turned into a 13 point deficit, with voters now
rejecting the idea that he is good in a crisis by a 50% to 37% margin.

The poll asks about voting intentions for Westminster as opposed to the upcoming
council elections, where there has been speculation that fringe parties may do
well.

Some recent polls have shown a surge in support for the UK Independence Party
(Ukip), suggesting it could even push the Lib Dems into fourth place. But ICM
puts it on just 3%, up two points from 1% a month ago.

The UK scores for other smaller parties are: 4% for the Scottish Nationalists,
1% for Plaid Cymru, 2% for the Greens, 1% for the British National Party and 1%
for other minority groupings.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,000 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 16-22 April 2012. Interviews were conducted across the UK and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 23, 2012 Monday

Comment: The metropolitan milieu's disdain poisons our politics: A roped-off
ruling elite sneers at large swaths of the country, but the case for a local
government revival is unanswerable

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 885 words


Not that the current pantomimic phase of the government's progress makes it much
of a surprise, but its familiar mixture of arrogance, free-market ideology and
apparent stupidity has struck again. We now learn that thanks to Andrew Lansley,
the English NHS is poised to fall in with George Osborne's plan for
"market-facing" regional public sector pay, so that future nurses, orderlies and
paramedics may well be faced with a simple enough choice: to be paid
half-decently in England's wealthier parts, or earn a relative pittance anywhere
else.

By way of taking this plan to widen the north/south divide deep into the realm
of the indefensible, it looks like there will be one exception: "high-calibre
leaders and staff responsible for transforming delivery", which is
official-speak for some of the NHS's most handsomely paid staff, involved in
implementing Lansley's ill-starred reforms. Should they have to work in
Sunderland or Selby, it seems, their standard pay levels - along, perhaps, with
the option of a pied-a-terre closer to London - will remain in place.

And so to a couple of very big questions that have jumped into the media over
the last 10 days, partly thanks to a cover story in the Spectator titled Planet
London and focused on "the great divide between the capital and the country".
How much longer can Britain go on with our economy, politics and culture - and
now, if we're not careful, our public services - in such an unbalanced state?
And if what passes for public life increasingly seems to amount to a collection
of cloistered elites loathed by the population at large, might all this have
something to do with it?

The phenomenon has not been analysed nearly enough, but one of the most
poisonous legacies of the Blair years is the syndrome whereby the three parties'
big figures have tended to come from a roped-off metropolitan milieu. They talk
endlessly about "modernisation" and pride themselves on an arrogant disdain not
just for their parties' traditions and grassroots but, by implication, large
swaths of the country. The Blairites pretty much invented all this, and the idea
that Gordon Brown was any different was surely smashed by the infamous Gillian
Duffy incident. The Cameron project - whatever that is - is based on very
similar instincts: quietly sneering at the Thatcherite heartlands, from a couple
of London postcodes. And if Nick Clegg actually has any coherent politics, where
would you imagine they originate: in his party's regional redoubts, or the same
charmed London circles as his Tory colleagues?

The tendency has been to see a thread that runs between all three main parties
in terms of the left-right axis and such elevated ideas as "triangulation", but
it also embodies the politics of place. This, in short, is what happens when
London groupthink settles on an immovable mixture of economic and social
liberalism, and maligns everywhere else as being hopelessly behind the times.

Such is the key source of the current golden period of Scottish nationalism. If
power and wealth were more equitably distributed within England, and London was
not quite so full of itself, would the SNP's claims of Scotland still being in
thrall to a distant, unaccountable elite ring as true?

Note also the voices of a very underrated English revolt. Not that anyone in
London seems to have much noticed, but in recent opinion polls, the UK
Independence party has been doing rather well, either overtaking the Lib Dems or
drawing level with them, and scoring as high as 11%. Nigel Farage is a brilliant
frontman for his party's politics: swashbuckling, bluff and, like Alex Salmond,
aware enough of his own theatricality to give his public face an appealingly
knowing aspect. He is also the embodiment of an almost absurdly
anti-metropolitan standpoint, leading a party of British Poujadistes. Europe is
what ostensibly gets them out of bed, but their politics of refusal is focused
just as much on the London-based political class.

Last week, one-time New Labour stalwart Andrew Adonis revived a suggestion he
first made in 2007: moving the House of Lords out of the capital, so as to make
a modest start of chipping away at London's monolithic dominance. "London is New
York, Washington and LA rolled into one," he said, "which is unhealthy for our
national politics." He's right, but we should be thinking much bigger. The case
for properly reviving local government (Adonis's beloved elected mayors are a
London-conceived distraction) is now unanswerable. Moreover, the national state
should shift anything and everything it can well beyond the capital, and reverse
the logic of the Lansley/Osborne manoeuvre - incentivising moving out of London,
rather than penalising it.

Increasingly, I like the idea of a federal UK, with the devolved government of
England based in Manchester or Birmingham, and London secure in the fact that as
well as the residual institutions of the British nation state, the City,
tourism, most of the media and the so-called "creative industries" would ensure
that it carried on doing fine. And the chances? As usual, all this is largely in
the hands of people who seem to think civilisation stops at the M25 - so even
when it comes to the most tentative move in the right direction, we can
presumably whistle for it.

john.harris@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Leading article: An unwelcome Seventies revival;


SECTION: LEADING ARTICLES

LENGTH: 367 words


Recent years have seen a great revival of interest in the Seventies, the decade
that brought us, among other things, male perms, flared trousers, the Winter of
Discontent and Abigail's Party. But it's not all so innocent. Another Seventies
phenomenon that most people will recall with less nostalgia was the National
Front, which, as we report today, is also attempting a revival of sorts,
fielding 35 mayoral and local election candidates in May, the largest number it
has put up for election since 1983.

Most people will probably be surprised to find out that the Front still exists.
After a brief, violent sortie on to the political stage in that decade of
political and industrial strife, it fizzled out, overwhelmed by its internal
divisions and the passionate hostility it had aroused in the wider community.
What remained of the far right metamorphosed into the British National Party,
which, after briefly scoring some significant successes in the European
elections of 2009, gaining two MEPs, then also fell apart, wracked by leadership
battles, financial muddles and defections. Only a few years on, the BNP is a
shadow of its former self, which is why the ghost of the National Front has
returned.

It is something of a mystery why the far right in Britain is so unable to get
its act together. The NF hopefuls can only look on with envy at the
extraordinary success of similar parties in France, Holland, Belgium, Austria,
Italy and Hungary, all countries where the far right is shaking the political
establishment and regularly taking between 10 and 20 per cent of the vote.
Partly this may be down to the Conservative Party's traditional success in
luring most people on the right of the political spectrum into its big tent. The
other factor appears to be the peculiarly fissiparous nature of far-right
politics in Britain, as a result of which a fairly small number of voters is
spread over a whole range of parties, from Ukip and the BNP to the English
Democrats and now the NF as well.

Long may this remain the case. At a time when the economics of austerity are
opening up fresh divisions in society, the last thing Britain needs is a return
to the politics of intolerance and extremism.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Matthew Norman on Monday: A Ukip alliance? Murdoch may have news for Leveson...;



BYLINE: Matthew Norman

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 733 words


Here's one to file under the header of Idiotic Predictions Not Worth a Second
Thought, assuming it merits a first thought, but is Rupert Murdoch preparing to
put The Sun's electoral weight behind Ukip? On the eve of his Leveson appearance
(please, God, let the Ernest Saunders Memorial Dementia take a holiday this
time), we find him encircling an ailing Government and tweeting pecks at its
flesh like an impatient vulture. On Saturday, he described the Chancellor's
£10bn IMF loan as "mad" ... a nuanced analysis multiply repeated, by eeriest
happenstance, in yesterday's Sun.

It now seems inconceivable that he will back David Cameron in a general
election, and given that he has warmed to neither Ed Miliband nor the Lib Dems,
this leaves two options. He must either order The Sun to abstain or come out for
Nigel Farage, who best reflects his feelings on Europe, in a brazen effort to
avenge himself on the entire political establishment and shift those tectonic
plates. The Sun's coverage of the local elections will make an intriguingly
ominous read.

Joyce's shot at being TV's Hardest Man ...

Concern grows that Ross Kemp (Ross Wade as was) will face a challenger for the
coveted constitutional title of TV's Hardest Man, which he has retained since
summoning police to protect him from then missus Rebekah during the domestic of
2005. "At that point, I saw red," the disgraced MP Eric Joyce tells The Mail on
Sunday of his retaliation on being asked to hush by Tory drinkers. "I thumped
them with my fist and my head - not with massive viciousness, but enough to
sting." Deploying the Glasgow Kiss as a mild warning ... now that really is
hard. The sooner an enterprising Channel 4 executive sends him to Afghanistan to
bother our troops, the better for us all. Except Ross.

... but Galloway lands the knock-out blow

Hopes that Labour outcast Eric Joyce might be snapped up by Respect sadly fade.
"None whatsoever," George Galloway tells parliamentary journal The House when
asked if he has any sympathy for his fellow Scot. "He's another victim of the
curse of Galloway. So many ... enemies of mine, from Eric Joyce to Hosni
Mubarak, have ended up in trouble." George is waging his own battle for an
office befitting his stature and, if denied one, threatens to occupy the Central
Lobby. "I'll set up an office with a trestle table there. So I hope they receive
this message and sort it out." They would be wise to do so. As the whipless
member for Falkirk, the ousted dictator of Egypt and others have learned, it
seldom pays to pick a fight with George.

Read Reid's lips: we're all innocents abroad

Another who could confirm this, if he ever relocates his larynx, is John Reid,
whose lights boyhood boxer George reveals he'd have put out during a 1991 fist
fight over the Gulf War, but for an intervention by Diane Abbott. With the
scandal of the Blair government's complicity in torture gathering strength, Jack
Straw has at least placed his "no comment" on the record (he'd love a natter,
honest, if only he wasn't being privately prosecuted by Abdel Belhaj over his
rendition to Tripoli). Yet Reidy, Home Secretary while Mr Tony and the gang were
apparently helping Gaddafi round up dissidents, cannot even return reporters'
calls.

Has he forgotten the inspiring message of Wind Beneath My Wings, the Bette
Midler ballad with which he used to serenade dinner guests to his own piano
accompaniment? "Did you ever know that my hero?/ You're everything I wish I
could be/ I could fly higher than an eagle/ For you are the wind beneath my
wings." Come on, everyone, sing up and help the good "doctor" to reclaim his
voice.

Warning: shadow Chancellor in tights

Ed Balls was on sprightly form on Radio 5 Live before yesterday's London
Marathon. "I've never done an interview in Lycra tights before," confessed the
shadow Chancellor. "I've not exposed myself yet, I'll do that in half an hour."
A delicious image. "They say it's a marathon, not a sprint," added Ed, "and
that's right." If only he could lavish that gift for demystifying on
macroecomics.

Cameron falls short in US

Gratifying to note the Prime Minister reaping instant reward from his triumphant
trip to the US. In Time's list of the world's 100 most influential people, there
among an elite corps of leaders, including Nigeria's Goodluck Jonathan, proudly
sits David Cam ... What's that, he doesn't? Nowhere? Betterluck David, for next
year.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                 First Edition

An unwelcome Seventies revival;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 367 words


Recent years have seen a great revival of interest in the Seventies, the decade
that brought us, among other things, male perms, flared trousers, the Winter of
Discontent and Abigail's Party. But it's not all so innocent. Another Seventies
phenomenon that most people will recall with less nostalgia was the National
Front, which, as we report today, is also attempting a revival of sorts,
fielding 35 mayoral and local election candidates in May, the largest number it
has put up for election since 1983.

Most people will probably be surprised to find out that the Front still exists.
After a brief, violent sortie on to the political stage in that decade of
political and industrial strife, it fizzled out, overwhelmed by its internal
divisions and the passionate hostility it had aroused in the wider community.
What remained of the far right metamorphosed into the British National Party,
which, after briefly scoring some significant successes in the European
elections of 2009, gaining two MEPs, then also fell apart, wracked by leadership
battles, financial muddles and defections. Only a few years on, the BNP is a
shadow of its former self, which is why the ghost of the National Front has
returned.

It is something of a mystery why the far right in Britain is so unable to get
its act together. The NF hopefuls can only look on with envy at the
extraordinary success of similar parties in France, Holland, Belgium, Austria,
Italy and Hungary, all countries where the far right is shaking the political
establishment and regularly taking between 10 and 20 per cent of the vote.
Partly this may be down to the Conservative Party's traditional success in
luring most people on the right of the political spectrum into its big tent. The
other factor appears to be the peculiarly fissiparous nature of far-right
politics in Britain, as a result of which a fairly small number of voters is
spread over a whole range of parties, from Ukip and the BNP to the English
Democrats and now the NF as well.

Long may this remain the case. At a time when the economics of austerity are
opening up fresh divisions in society, the last thing Britain needs is a return
to the politics of intolerance and extremism.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 4:13 PM GMT

We've a government who think they are playing a game of toy soldiers

BYLINE: ANNABELLE FULLER

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 963 words


If these weeks have done anything, they've shown what an absolute disaster this
coalition has been over defence. Yes, pasties, grannies and caravans may have
hit the headlines but in the murky world of defence procurement and the Armed
Forces, there has been serious criticism of a MoD considered by many not to be
fit for purpose.

First of all we had the news that the Boeing Sentry surveillance planes were
grounded because a fault was discovered on a routine check. Now there's news
that we've wasted months and a possible contract with the Indian government over
Cameron's short lived love-in with the French over fast jets and aircraft
carriers.

It was a decision of the Cameron government that instead of the Short Take Off
and Vertical Landing (STOVL) version of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF)
being ordered from Lockheed Martin which would operate from the original design
of the Queen Elizabeth class Aircraft Carrier, we were instead to cancel that
order and buy the CV version which would require a 'cat and trap' to be fitted
to the carriers, adding an extra £1.8bn to the bill and leaving the country
without a fixed wing strike capability for years longer.

The single-engine, single-seat F-35 will be manufactured in three versions: a
conventional-takeoff-and-landing (CTOL) variant for the U.S. Air Force, an
aircraft-carrier version (CV) for the U.S. Navy, and a short-takeoff/vertical
landing (STOVL) version for the U.S. Marine Corps, the U.K. Royal Air Force and
Royal Navy.

Whilst the STOVL version had been held up with problems, there was no real
reason to change our existing order and add time and billions to our defence
bill during a time of massive cuts and low morale in the military. All the
changes really meant was that we would be able to let the French use our
Aircraft Carriers and we would be able to land our planes on their
'cat-and-trap' fitted carriers.

But surely Cameron wasn't going to spend vast amounts of money we can ill afford
just to share equipment with the French?

There were already other cheaper options which would also have boosted the
British economy which were never taken up. Lord Hesketh, former Tory Party
Treasurer and Chief Whip in the House of Lords who defected to UKIP last year
and has become their defence spokesman, put forward an argument for a marinized
Typhoon to be developed instead of the JSF. Not only would this have removed the
problems of the technology restrictions which have held back the JSF project
(the U.S. will not share software access codes with us) but it would maintain
jobs in Lancashire where the UK Typhoon is built.

Certainly now that the JSF has been beleaguered with problems, a naval version
of the Typhoon is looking a more attractive proposition by the day.

In February the Indian government decided on the French Raphale as their
aircraft of choice in a contract worth $20bn, primarily because the version of
Joint Strike Fighter which they required for their carriers was not developed
yet.  Since the technology for a marinized Typhoon has already been developed,
it was a missed opportunity for British business and British jobs which could
have benefited from the billion pound deal in a part of the country where the
recession is still hurting.

Not only that, but such a project has the benefit of no outside restrictions on
the export of the aircraft as we would have control of the intellectual property
on both the systems and weapons.

'Much of the work to make the Typhoons fit for carrier operations has already
been undertaken' writes Lord Hesketh. 'And there's the added bonus that it would
preserve and create British jobs.'

But it's not just in fast jets that the Strategic Defence and Security Review
has made fundamental errors. The grounding of the Sentry surveillance planes
begs the question of what have we in back up for these situations where we need
surveillance to be undertaken.

Last year I wrote to the MoD to ask why they were scrapping Nimrod and asked
what they were replacing it with. As the review made clear, it is not with the
Sentinel, a truly excellent aircraft for surveillance and intelligence work.

These planes take on the sort of missions in Afghanistan and the Swat Valley
which affect the whole of OP HERRICK and the lives of our troops. It's telling
that the MoD are keeping the planes in Afghanistan to fulfil that need: there is
no decent replacement. So why are we getting rid of it?

The Sentinel is only of real value when it is fully kitted up with software and
technology which, as a country, we are unable to sell with the aircraft frames
in order to protect national security. Financially, therefore, it makes no sense
to sell them.

The decision to sell the Sentinel and replace it with Rivet Joints and The
Reaper is nothing less than reckless and the reason for doing so remains as
clear as mud. The savings would be tiny and would not compensate for the the
lack of quality of the Reaper compared to the Sentinel.  All the latter aircraft
will do is bring us into line with what the rest of the EU are doing.

So is that what this has all been about? Was the EU seen as a 'quick fix' to the
defence black hole with the sharing of planes and carriers with the French and
surveillance equipment with one of 26 other countries? If so, what do the latest
changes mean for ISTAR (Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition and
Reconnaissance) who are losing their best planes?

I never received a clear answer from the MoD about what would undertake the role
of Nimrod. If the E3D was part of that capability and is now grounded  then once
again the true uselessness of the SDSR has been shown up. It's no wonder troops
are quitting the Armed Forces in their hundreds: we've a government who thinks
they're playing a game of toy soldiers.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 1:10 PM GMT

Will Dave's media blitz blow away the Omnishambles? Not unless he is prepared to
make some big changes

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 673 words


The media are likely to brand it a relaunch. After the 'omnishambles' of the
past few weeks, David Cameron will take to the airwaves this morning, including
Radio 4's flagship Today programme, in a bid to get his floundering
administration back on track.

The stakes are high and getting higher. With the latest opinion polls giving
Labour its biggest lead since the general election two years ago, the
Conservatives are heading for a drubbing in the May 3 local elections.

Ed Miliband is poised to pick up hundreds of seats. UKIP, increasingly the home
of disaffected Tories, may not win many seats, but it will pull down the
Conservative vote, boosting the Labour surge.

The betting is firmly that Boris will see off blubbing and bumbling Ken
("hypocrite") Livingstone, thereby doing his greatest political rival (Dave) an
enormous favour. Defeat for Boris on May 3 in the London mayoral election would
be a disaster for Cameron, triggering waves of mutiny and recrimination. But in
the elections to the Greater London Assembly, the Tories are braced for another
pasting.

As Dave enters the bull-ring of the Today programme studio for the prized

8.10 am slot, he is not short of advice.

From the Left of his party comes the cry for him to stick to the centre ground
policies (no referendum on Europe, no confrontation with foreign courts, no
significant tax cuts, no really painful spending cuts, no crackdown on
immigration or crime, more money for foreign aid and the Eurozone bailouts) that
failed to lift the Tory vote above 36 per cent in 2010.

The Right, meanwhile, is increasingly restive. Nick Clegg latest vote-losing
idea, shaking up the House of Lords, is under fire from a string of Cabinet
ministers and Tory MPs, all of whom are warning that to the electorate it will
look like a self-indulgent distraction from the main tasks facing the
Government.

It is likely to go the same way as the Lib Dem leader's first attempt at
constitutional tinkering (AV or the alternative vote) crushed in a referendum a
year ago - but not before fueling the impression that the Coalition's priorities
are a million miles from those of most voters.

Tory MPs and Ministers are increasingly fed up with the faulty wiring of the
Coalition. In particular, Ministers are complaining that No 10 lacks a political
brain. The country wants decisive action to get the economy moving and curb the
deficit. What it gets from the PM are piffling speeches on, for instance, how to
be a good nurse or fringe-politics measures such as the Lords nonsense, gay
marriage and nannying crackdowns on smokers.

For his relaunch to do any good, Dave must focus on the big picture: measures to
create growth and jobs, to balance the nation's books, to reassert Britain's
right to govern itself, and deal with terrorists and criminals without foreign
interference, to curb immigration, to reform welfare and education.

Most of all, he has to persuade the country that he knows how to ease the
squeeze on Middle Britain's family budgets and show them the way to the
combination of prosperity and opportunity that marked the Tory heyday under
Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s.

He still has time. No matter how grim the May 3 elections prove, Dave still has
2-3 years to demonstrate he is not a one-hit wonder.

But for that, he needs to get more political, not less. He needs to pick some
fights with the Labour Left and win them.

He needs to capitalise on the sense of crisis surrounding the economy to push
through radical ideas (such as far sharper deregulation of employment laws) to
encourage entrepreneurs and business expansion.

And he needs to hire some political streetfighters in No 10, not hand the whole
show over to Sir Humphrey.

One of the most alarming rumours doing the rounds at Westminster is that Matthew
Elliott, the Taxpayer's Alliance boss who led the campaign to destroy Clegg's AV
dream, has been blackballed for a Downing Street job by his Lib Dem enemies.

Right now, no one is holding their breath that Dave's media blitz tomorrow will
make a scrap of difference.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'To kill UKIP threat stone [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 19 words


'To kill UKIP threat stone dead all PM needs is IN-OUT referendum on Britain's
EU membership'

TREVOR KAVANAGH

SEE PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

TREVOR KAVANAGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 17 words


'To kill UKIP threat stone dead all PM needs is IN-OUT referendum on Britain's
EU membership'

SEE PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

6 To kill UKIP threat [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 20 words


6 To kill UKIP threat stone dead all PM needs is IN-OUT referendum on Britain's
EU membership7 TREVOR KAVANAGH SEE PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron must not risk kipping on EU

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 749 words


DOWNING Street is shrugging off the collapse in Coalition poll ratings as
inevitable "mid-term blues".

But as the ruling parties face sweeping local election losses on May 3, there is
evidence that this is more than a temporary blip.

An exclusive survey for The Sun suggested almost half of all Britons are
"seriously considering" moving overseas.

Another gives the Europhobic UK Independence Party 11 per cent of the vote,
thrashing the Lib Dems as Britain's third favourite party.

Indeed, given a choice, a Guardian straw poll suggests voters would split 70-30
in UKIP's favour.

These snapshots reveal a simmering anti-Government mood towards Brussels as much
as Westminster.

Voters are dismayed that soaring prices and ever-rising taxes have stripped such
huge lumps out of family incomes.

But they were prepared to do their bit to slash the burden of debt left by
Labour.

Now they see all their pain and sacrifice threatened by EU incompetence and the
looming collapse of the euro.

Worse, as Brussels burns, George Osborne is throwing another £10BILLION of their
money on to the flames.

A new poll shows seven in ten of us want an end to further bail-outs - and a
vote to quit Europe all together.

Such anger is stoked by arrogant Strasbourg judges who seem to be protecting
terror scumbags including Abu Qatada from deportation.

Meanwhile, families worried about their unemployed kids are incensed to see
migrants snapping up every job going.

In London, where the population is rocketing to a record NINE MILLION, mayoral
candidate Boris Johnson is bellowing for a curb.

UKIP has successfully picked up on both issues.

This has seen it branded as EU-obsessed with unsavoury BNP tendencies - or as
David Cameron says, "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

So leader Nigel Farage has widened its appeal with policies on crime, jobs and
education which attract unhappy Tory voters.

A poll by Survation found that almost one in four of those who voted
Conservative in 2010 chose Farage as the party leader who best defends British
interests.

Indeed, two Tory MPs are reportedly ready to jump ship to UKIP. Mid Beds MP
Nadine Dorries denies rumours she is one of them. Mr Farage would happily find
her a berth.

"There is a wing of the Conservative Party who agree with us on a whole host of
issues," he says. "If UKIP is seen to be a good bet, that obviously increases
the chance of them coming over."

The surge in support has sparked consternation at the BBC, chaired by
Euro-fanatic Chris Patten. The state broadcaster ignores UKIP because its
anti-EU views do not fit its world view.

Had the Green Party overtaken the Lib Dems instead, its views would have been
heard on every bulletin, from Today until Newsnight.

Yet UKIP now dwarfs the briefly flowering Greens, who risk losing their sole MP,
Caroline Lucas.

Tories hope the rally will fade at election time as supporters return to base.

But, like Labour, they know complacency can be costly.

Both parties once held power bases in Scotland.

The Tories were buried by Labour, who were routed in turn by the SNP - also
dismissed as just another protest party. George Galloway's victory in Bradford
West is portrayed by Labour as a blip that will be reversed next time. Don't bet
on it.

UKIP will do well in the 2014 European poll, but it would be bizarre if David
Cameron allows it to pinch Tory votes in the General Election.

The PM could kill the threat stone dead.

All he needs is an IN-OUT referendum on Britain's EU membership to be held at
the same time as the General Election.

After all, both Nick Clegg and Labour's Ed Miliband have already promised
referendums of their own if they win power.

The risk is substantial. Voters resist change even when they dislike the way
things are and might choose to stay in.

The Tories are terrified of Europe, having been badly burned in three election
defeats.

But if the polls are right, millions of Tory votes are up for grabs.

With Europe imploding, Mr Cameron can stand up for Eurosceptics in ALL parties.

Or he can risk letting UKIP deprive him of a last chance to lead a Conservative
government in its own right.

'PRINCE CHARLES rightly condemns wind turbines as a "horrendous blot on the
landscape". for His dad, Prince Philip, goes further and denounces them as
"absolutely useless, completely reliant on subsidies and an absolute disgrace".
Now energy firms have won the go-ahead for 45 new windmills on Crown land. What
is it about the £1million-a-year subsidy that persuaded them to change their
tune?

Appeal

Terrified

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 11:00 AM GMT

Archbishop Sentamu's real offence in the eyes of his nasty critics is that he
sticks firmly to his faith

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1304 words


The public debate about the succession to the post of Archbishop of Canterbury
brought to my mind an incident some years ago in the days of the NuLab
government, when I derived some constructive amusement from my work on the
Opposition back benches.

As I walked up the stairs from the Members' entrance to the House, one of the
more light-heated of the bishops fell into step with me, and we exchanged
greetings before he cheerily asked me: "What mischief are you up to today, Lord
Tebbit?"

"That," I replied with a grin, "is not a very charitable nor Christian remark."
But in a stroke of inspiration, perhaps even divine inspiration, I continued:
"As a matter of fact I am going to put down my private members' bill. It is to
give legal force to the Ten Commandments. I want to see which way you Bishops
would vote, clause by clause."

"Oh my God," cried the bishop. "You are being very mischievous."

It seems to me that of all the bishops I have known, the two most unlikely to
have had many problems with my imaginary bill would have been John Sentamu, the
Archbishop of York, and Michael Nazir-Ali, the former Bishop of Rochester, and I
think it is that rather than racism within the Church of England, which has been
mainly responsible for the nastiness of some of the attacks on Sentamu. After
all, it cannot be a very racist organisation which promotes to its second
highest office a man of Ugandan origins, or gave preferment to one from
Pakistan.

Nor indeed does it strike me as racist to observe that Sentamu brings with him
something of Africa. I bring with me something of my origins, too.

I suppose I should come clean here and say that I am not a confirmed member of
the Church of England, but merely a fellow traveller. That may well invite the
riposte that I should not comment on its internal affairs. However, just as I
think that the leader of a political party should uphold and believe in its core
philosophy, so I think it highly desirable that the Archbishop of Canterbury
should uphold and in believe in the philosophy, the doctrines and teaching of
the Protestant Christian religion. It seems to me that the offence of Sentamu,
like that of  Nazir-Ali - both of who I greatly admire - in the eyes of their
critics is that they do uphold those beliefs.

They have offended the Guardinista BBC establishment, which would normally have
been crying out that it was time that someone from the black and minority ethnic
communities should be made Archbishop of Canterbury, by being traditional
conviction Christians. That establishment would have preferred it to have been a
black woman but an agnostic man would have been an acceptable second best for
them. Indeed, it is all rather reminiscent of  the venom and hatred of the
feminist harridans which spilled over against Margaret Thatcher, when she, a
conviction Conservative rather than a champagne socialist, became our first
woman Prime Minister.

How sad that it is those who condemn racial and sexual stereotyping who are the
most prone to practise it. But then, as I wrote recently, how sad that the
feminist lobby has been unable to condemn the killing of unborn girl babies
because to do so would conflict with "a woman's right to choose" and the
politically correct doctrine of multiculturalism. It must be a tough life, being
a politically correct anti-Christian multiculturalist.

...

As I completed the formidable task of reading over 1,300 posts on last week's
blog post, I remembered the words of one of my weary colleagues in the Lords as
we awaited the end of a long, long debate. "Everything has been said ... but
everything has not yet been said by everybody."

It might be best if I tried to clear the confusion in the minds of Amos47 and
matt before anything else. The former said that I differentiated between the
middle gound and the centre ground.  I do not think that is right. I explained
that the middle or centre ground is bound to move away from a party which moves
towards it and thereby accepts in some degree the position of its opponent, and
suggested that it is the common ground of key issues across party divides which
is important. Nor did I say, as matt claims, that the next election will not be
fought on the centre ground. I expect that so far as the major parties are
concerned it will be. That is why many electors will defect to minor parties or
simply stay at home.

There were two or three major themes in your contributions, of which there was
no doubt that the main one was the anger and disappointment of many natural
Conservative supporters with the leadership, policy and style of the
Conservative Party of today.

Then there was a real and understandable concern from many of you at the effects
of the massive importation of immigrants unwilling to integrate or accept the
norms of the society of the country to which they have come. That shaded over
into the frenzy of those who would have thrown out Disraeli on the grounds that
his supposedly inferior genes precluded him from being British. I will not
bother to repeat what I said on that matter last week, but I should express my
regrets that rajkish was subject to some contemptible abuse on this site.

Amongst those angry or disappointed with the performance of the Coalition, the
Conservative Party and the Prime Minister in particular, a large majority
declared their intention of voting UKIP in 2015, either because they would like
to see a UKIP government, or in order to give the Tories a big enough shaking up

 to change their ways. Of course that might result in a Labour government, but
many said would not make much difference, as all three parties are just the
same.

That was robustly disputed by david in rome, but his fellow ex-pat
Andrewmcneilis, in an office in the Middle East, took a different view, as did
most of you.

Passions of that kind about the Conservative Party and David Cameron were no
less apparent in considerations of UKIP and Neil Farage. As usual there were
attempts to smear UKIP as being no more than an upmarket BNP (how, I wonder,
could anything be downmarket of the BNP?) despite UKIP setting a broadly
Right-wing agenda, with others declaring that it had no policies except escape
from the EU.

As usual had many invitations to join UKIP. I respect its supporters. I have few
disagreements with its policies. However I am still unwilling to be ousted from
the party I joined in 1946 by a bunch of Europhile Social Democrat refugees from
the old Micheal Foot Labour party. Nor indeed has UKIP yet persuaded me that Mr
Farage is a potential prime minister. However, I can assure RCNWLondon that the
UK could negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU if we left, because not
only would we have the support of the WTO, but it is written into the Lisbon
Constitution and would be in the interests of the four million or so EU
nationals whose jobs depend on trading with us. Not only that, I think UKIP is
right to propose a flat tax scheme and spending more on our defences and less on
those of countries such as India.

I hope that Max Semenko will be so kind tell me about the "safe job, guaranteed
income and privileges" which I would lose if I left  the Conservative Party as I
don't have them yet and I did not know about them.

On a different topic, I did wonder how Adrian could be quite so certain that
most terrorist attacks on the mainland are by MI6, Mossad and the CIA.

Lastly as usual I apologise for not taking up all your comments, but my thanks
are due to grumpyoldben, pogleswoodsman, tayles and doggywoggy for some well
reasoned detailed posts and to david-in-rome and JanglyGuitarPart for defending
me against low-grade abuse. I am glad to back in darkseid's good books, sorry
that I had misinterpreted some of cartimandua's posts, and I thank all of you
who posted supportive and indeed some rather nice personal remarks.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 11:00 AM GMT

Archbishop Sentamu's real offence in the eyes of his nasty critics is that he
sticks firmly to his faith

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1304 words


The public debate about the succession to the post of Archbishop of Canterbury
brought to my mind an incident some years ago in the days of the NuLab
government, when I derived some constructive amusement from my work on the
Opposition back benches.

As I walked up the stairs from the Members' entrance to the House, one of the
more light-heated of the bishops fell into step with me, and we exchanged
greetings before he cheerily asked me: "What mischief are you up to today, Lord
Tebbit?"

"That," I replied with a grin, "is not a very charitable nor Christian remark."
But in a stroke of inspiration, perhaps even divine inspiration, I continued:
"As a matter of fact I am going to put down my private members' bill. It is to
give legal force to the Ten Commandments. I want to see which way you Bishops
would vote, clause by clause."

"Oh my God," cried the bishop. "You are being very mischievous."

It seems to me that of all the bishops I have known, the two most unlikely to
have had many problems with my imaginary bill would have been John Sentamu, the
Archbishop of York, and Michael Nazir-Ali, the former Bishop of Rochester, and I
think it is that rather than racism within the Church of England, which has been
mainly responsible for the nastiness of some of the attacks on Sentamu. After
all, it cannot be a very racist organisation which promotes to its second
highest office a man of Ugandan origins, or gave preferment to one from
Pakistan.

Nor indeed does it strike me as racist to observe that Sentamu brings with him
something of Africa. I bring with me something of my origins, too.

I suppose I should come clean here and say that I am not a confirmed member of
the Church of England, but merely a fellow traveller. That may well invite the
riposte that I should not comment on its internal affairs. However, just as I
think that the leader of a political party should uphold and believe in its core
philosophy, so I think it highly desirable that the Archbishop of Canterbury
should uphold and in believe in the philosophy, the doctrines and teaching of
the Protestant Christian religion. It seems to me that the offence of Sentamu,
like that of  Nazir-Ali - both of who I greatly admire - in the eyes of their
critics is that they do uphold those beliefs.

They have offended the Guardinista BBC establishment, which would normally have
been crying out that it was time that someone from the black and minority ethnic
communities should be made Archbishop of Canterbury, by being traditional
conviction Christians. That establishment would have preferred it to have been a
black woman but an agnostic man would have been an acceptable second best for
them. Indeed, it is all rather reminiscent of  the venom and hatred of the
feminist harridans which spilled over against Margaret Thatcher, when she, a
conviction Conservative rather than a champagne socialist, became our first
woman Prime Minister.

How sad that it is those who condemn racial and sexual stereotyping who are the
most prone to practise it. But then, as I wrote recently, how sad that the
feminist lobby has been unable to condemn the killing of unborn girl babies
because to do so would conflict with "a woman's right to choose" and the
politically correct doctrine of multiculturalism. It must be a tough life, being
a politically correct anti-Christian multiculturalist.

...

As I completed the formidable task of reading over 1,300 posts on last week's
blog post, I remembered the words of one of my weary colleagues in the Lords as
we awaited the end of a long, long debate. "Everything has been said ... but
everything has not yet been said by everybody."

It might be best if I tried to clear the confusion in the minds of Amos47 and
matt before anything else. The former said that I differentiated between the
middle gound and the centre ground.  I do not think that is right. I explained
that the middle or centre ground is bound to move away from a party which moves
towards it and thereby accepts in some degree the position of its opponent, and
suggested that it is the common ground of key issues across party divides which
is important. Nor did I say, as matt claims, that the next election will not be
fought on the centre ground. I expect that so far as the major parties are
concerned it will be. That is why many electors will defect to minor parties or
simply stay at home.

There were two or three major themes in your contributions, of which there was
no doubt that the main one was the anger and disappointment of many natural
Conservative supporters with the leadership, policy and style of the
Conservative Party of today.

Then there was a real and understandable concern from many of you at the effects
of the massive importation of immigrants unwilling to integrate or accept the
norms of the society of the country to which they have come. That shaded over
into the frenzy of those who would have thrown out Disraeli on the grounds that
his supposedly inferior genes precluded him from being British. I will not
bother to repeat what I said on that matter last week, but I should express my
regrets that rajkish was subject to some contemptible abuse on this site.

Amongst those angry or disappointed with the performance of the Coalition, the
Conservative Party and the Prime Minister in particular, a large majority
declared their intention of voting UKIP in 2015, either because they would like
to see a UKIP government, or in order to give the Tories a big enough shaking up

 to change their ways. Of course that might result in a Labour government, but
many said would not make much difference, as all three parties are just the
same.

That was robustly disputed by david in rome, but his fellow ex-pat
Andrewmcneilis, in an office in the Middle East, took a different view, as did
most of you.

Passions of that kind about the Conservative Party and David Cameron were no
less apparent in considerations of UKIP and Neil Farage. As usual there were
attempts to smear UKIP as being no more than an upmarket BNP (how, I wonder,
could anything be downmarket of the BNP?) despite UKIP setting a broadly
Right-wing agenda, with others declaring that it had no policies except escape
from the EU.

As usual had many invitations to join UKIP. I respect its supporters. I have few
disagreements with its policies. However I am still unwilling to be ousted from
the party I joined in 1946 by a bunch of Europhile Social Democrat refugees from
the old Micheal Foot Labour party. Nor indeed has UKIP yet persuaded me that Mr
Farage is a potential prime minister. However, I can assure RCNWLondon that the
UK could negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU if we left, because not
only would we have the support of the WTO, but it is written into the Lisbon
Constitution and would be in the interests of the four million or so EU
nationals whose jobs depend on trading with us. Not only that, I think UKIP is
right to propose a flat tax scheme and spending more on our defences and less on
those of countries such as India.

I hope that Max Semenko will be so kind tell me about the "safe job, guaranteed
income and privileges" which I would lose if I left  the Conservative Party as I
don't have them yet and I did not know about them.

On a different topic, I did wonder how Adrian could be quite so certain that
most terrorist attacks on the mainland are by MI6, Mossad and the CIA.

Lastly as usual I apologise for not taking up all your comments, but my thanks
are due to grumpyoldben, pogleswoodsman, tayles and doggywoggy for some well
reasoned detailed posts and to david-in-rome and JanglyGuitarPart for defending
me against low-grade abuse. I am glad to back in darkseid's good books, sorry
that I had misinterpreted some of cartimandua's posts, and I thank all of you
who posted supportive and indeed some rather nice personal remarks.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 11:00 AM GMT

Archbishop Sentamu's real offence in the eyes of his nasty critics is that he
sticks firmly to his faith

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1293 words


The public debate about the succession to the post of Archbishop of Canterbury
brought to my mind an incident some years ago in the days of the NuLab
government, when I derived some constructive amusement from my work on the
Opposition back benches.

As I walked up the stairs from the Members' entrance to the House, one of the
more light-heated of the bishops fell into step with me, and we exchanged
greetings before he cheerily asked me:"What mischief are you up to today, Lord
Tebbit?"

"That," I replied with a grin,"is not a very charitable nor Christian remark."
But in a stroke of inspiration, perhaps even divine inspiration, Icontinued: "As
a matter of fact I am going to put down my private members' bill.It is to give
legal force to the Ten Commandments. I want to see which way you Bishops would
vote, clause by clause."

"Oh my God,"cried the bishop. "You are being very mischievous."

It seems to me that of all the bishops I have known, the two most unlikely to
have had many problems with my imaginary bill would have been John Sentamu, the
Archbishop of York, and MichaelNazir-Ali, the former Bishop of Rochester, and I
think itis that rather than racism within the Church of England, which has been
mainly responsible for the nastiness of some of the attacks on Sentamu.After
all, it cannot be a very racist organisation which promotes to its second
highest office a man of Ugandan origins, or gavepreferment to one from Pakistan.

Nor indeed does it strike me as racist to observe that Sentamu brings with him
something of Africa.I bring with me something of my origins, too.

I suppose I should come clean here and say that I am not a confirmed member of
the Church of England, but merely a fellow traveller.That may well invite the
riposte that I should not comment on its internal affairs.However, just as I
think that the leader of a political party should uphold and believe inits core
philosophy, so I think it highly desirable that the Archbishop of Canterbury
should uphold and in believe in the philosophy, the doctrines and teaching of
the Protestant Christian religion.It seems to me thatthe offence of Sentamu,
like that of Nazir-Ali - both of who I greatly admire - in the eyes of their
critics is that they do uphold those beliefs.

They have offended the Guardinista BBC establishment, which would normally have
been crying out that it was time that someone from the black and minority ethnic
communities should be made Archbishop of Canterbury, by being traditional
conviction Christians.That establishment would have preferred it to have been a
blackwoman but an agnostic man would have been an acceptable second best for
them.Indeed,it is all rather reminiscent of the venom and hatred of the feminist
harridanswhich spilled over against Margaret Thatcher, when she,a conviction
Conservative rather than a champagne socialist,became ourfirst woman Prime
Minister.

How sad that it is those who condemn racial and sexual stereotyping who are the
most prone to practise it.But then, as I wrote recently, how sad that the
feminist lobby has been unable to condemn the killing of unborn girl babies
because to do so would conflict with "a woman's right to choose" and the
politically correct doctrine of multiculturalism.It must be a tough life, being
a politically correct anti-Christian multiculturalist.

...

As I completed the formidable task of reading over 1,300 posts on last week's
blog post, I remembered the words of one of my weary colleagues in the Lords as
we awaited the end of a long, long debate."Everything has been said ... but
everything has not yet beensaid by everybody."

It might be best if I tried to clear the confusion in the minds of Amos47and
matt before anything else.The former said that I differentiated between the
middle gound and the centre ground. I do not think that is right.I explained
that the middle or centre ground is bound to move away from a party which moves
towards it and thereby accepts in some degreethe position of itsopponent, and
suggested that it is the common ground of key issues across party divides which
is important.Nor did I say, as matt claims, that the next election will not be
fought on the centre ground. I expect that so far as the major parties are
concerned it will be.That is why many electors will defect to minor parties or
simply stay at home.

There were two or three major themes in your contributions, of which there was
no doubt that the main one was the anger and disappointment of many natural
Conservative supporterswith the leadership, policy and style of the Conservative
Party of today.

Then there was a real and understandable concern from many of youat the effects
of the massive importation of immigrants unwilling to integrate or accept the
norms of the society of the country to which they have come.That shaded over
intothe frenzy of those who would have thrown out Disraeli on the grounds that
his supposedly inferior genes precluded him from being British.I will not bother
to repeat what I said on that matter last week, but I shouldexpress my regrets
that rajkish was subject to some contemptible abuse on this site.

Amongst those angry or disappointed with the performance of the Coalition, the
Conservative Party and the PrimeMinister in particular, a large majority
declared their intention of voting UKIP in 2015, either because they would like
to see a UKIP government, or in order to give the Tories a big enough shaking
upto change their ways.Of course that might result in a Labour government, but
manysaid would not make much difference, as all three parties are just the same.

That wasrobustly disputed bydavid in rome, but his fellow ex-pat Andrewmcneilis,
in an office in the Middle East, took a different view, as did most of you.

Passions of that kindabout the Conservative Party and David Cameron were no less
apparent in considerations ofUKIP and Neil Farage.As usual there were attempts
to smear UKIP as being no more than an upmarket BNP(how, I wonder, could
anything be downmarket of the BNP?) despite UKIPsetting a broadly Right-wing
agenda, with others declaringthat it had no policies except escape from the EU.

As usual had many invitations to join UKIP.I respect its supporters.I have few
disagreements with its policies. However I am stillunwilling to be ousted
fromthe party I joined in 1946 by a bunch of EurophileSocial Democrat refugees
from the old Micheal FootLabour party.Nor indeed has UKIP yet persuaded me that
Mr Farage is a potential prime minister. However, I can assure RCNWLondon that
the UK could negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU if we left, because
not only would we have the support of the WTO, but it is written into the Lisbon
Constitution and would be in the interests of the four million or so EU
nationals whose jobs depend on trading with us. Not only that, I think UKIP is
right to propose a flat tax scheme and spending more on our defences and less on
those of countries such as India.

I hope that Max Semenko will be so kindtell me about the "safe job, guaranteed
income and privileges" which I would lose if I left the Conservative Party as I
don't havethem yet and I did not know about them.

On a different topic, I did wonder how Adrian could be quite so certain that
most terrorist attacks on the mainland are by MI6, Mossad and the CIA.

Lastly as usual I apologise for not taking up all your comments, but my thanks
are due to grumpyoldben, pogleswoodsman, tayles and doggywoggy for some well
reasoned detailed posts andto david-in-rome and JanglyGuitarPart for defending
me against low-grade abuse.I am glad to back in darkseid's good books, sorry
that I had misinterpreted some of cartimandua's posts, and I thank all of you
who posted supportive and indeed some rather nice personal remarks.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

The Coalition's confusing and ill thought-out policies are alienating voters;
Increasing Labour's electoral chances

LENGTH: 1236 words


SIR - Your report (April 20) details how Abu Qatada could walk free in days
after Theresa May, the Home Secretary, got the appeal date wrong. Every
Conservative muddle and malfunction increases the likelihood that Ed Miliband,
along with those all-too familiar names, will form the next government and
continue the work of the last dysfunctional Labour administration.

The daily confusion that is damaging the Conservatives and the country comes
from inconsistencies that can arise in such a political marriage of convenience.
It is a Coalition that is beginning to resemble a pantomime horse, with policy
and strategy formed not in the cerebral cortex.

John Barker                     Prestbury, Cheshire

SIR - Greg Barker, the Energy Minister and chairman of the influential 2020
group of modernising Conservative MPs, believes that the Tories should rise
above the "swivel-eyed rhetoric" of the eurosceptic UK Independence Party
(report, April 14). This attitude exemplifies why the Conservatives are losing
core supporters.

Mr Barker is keen to retain the centre ground but appears not to understand that
to govern effectively is to move the centre ground. This is done through clear
thinking, clear belief and clear argument. When she came to office, Margaret
Thatcher rejected the 1979 centre ground of state ownership, interventionism and
managed decline. Over 12 years, she shifted it towards the private sector,
individual enterprise and growth.

As catastrophe engulfs the eurozone, Mr Barker has no proposal to limit
collateral damage to Britain. He suggests that David Cameron has spelt out a
robust and clear position on Europe, when in fact he was ambushed and
reluctantly forced into his recent veto through poor statesmanship. Mr Cameron
has been rowing back on his robust and clear position ever since.

The country needs to feel the grip of firm government, yet all we get are empty
platitudes and a preoccupation with electoral politics. It is a measure of the
Conservative party's failures that many of its core supporters are drawn to
Ukip.

Gregory Shenkman                      London W8

SIR - Professor Alan Sked (Letters, April 21) underestimates David Cameron's
conservative convictions, political courage and negotiating skills.

As Prime Minister of Britain's first peacetime Coalition since 1931, Mr Cameron
has successfully persuaded the Left-wing Liberal Democrats to support deep cuts
in public spending, radical education, health and welfare reforms and a
reduction in the top rate of tax.

This in exchange for a referendum on the Alternative Vote which the Lib Dems
lost, and tax cuts for the low paid, which the Conservatives supported anyway.

Philip Duly Haslemere, Surrey

SIR - The antics of this Government remind me of the children's party game,
Family Coach. Things go wrong and bits fall off until one ends with a complete
wreck. I had such high hopes for the journey, too.

No amount of good legislation will make up for the appearance of incompetence.

Alec Ellis                     Liverpool

Musical moths

SIR - Sarah Rainey (Features, April 18) warns that the warm spring has led to
increased moth activity in our wardrobes.

My piano restorer reports an increase in the number of pianos needing the felts
replaced due to moth infestation. The solution is to put lavender bags,
mothballs or a strip of moth paper inside the piano.

Linda Ebrey Friston, East Sussex

Rucksack etiquette

SIR - I frequent a country public house, close to a footpath. Walkers come in
with rucksacks, of all shapes and sizes, which seem to be permanently attached
to their backs (Letters, April 21). In the process of walking around the pub,
their rucksacks hit customers and spill drinks.

The same walkers carefully remove their muddy footwear or encase them in plastic
bags before entering the premises.

Chris ToddPetersfield, Hampshire

SIR - I carry a rucksack during walks. It contains my wife's and my son's
bottles of water, their coats and jumpers, the contents of my wife's handbag, my
son's wallet and video camera and my wife's hiking sticks.

I carry my camera and wear my coat.

Richard VassGloucester

Billions to bail out euro

SIR - When this Government came into office there was overwhelming criticism
from George Osborne, the Chancellor, of his predecessor Alistair Darling's
decision to commit billions of pounds to bail out Europe (report, April 21). Now
Mr Osborne is doing the same via the International Monetary Fund. He should
follow America and Canada, who have refused to contribute extra funding.

Where is this money coming from, when Government expenditure exceeds tax
revenue? Parliament should be allowed to vote on this scale of expenditure. This
would rein in ministers who irresponsibly give away billions of taxpayers'
money.

Phil WilliamsAylesbury, Buckinghamshire

SIR - As our Government runs a deficit, it must need to borrow the £10 billion
to lend to the International Monetary Fund. The IMF should borrow the money from
our lenders and cut out the middleman.

Steve Siddall Holt, Wiltshire

Falklands' colonisation

SIR - Alicia Castro, the Argentine ambassador to the United Kingdom, declares
that the Falkland Islanders' right to self-determination is of no consequence,
"because Britain expelled the Argentine authorities and population from the
islands" and "implanted its own population" (Comment, April 20).

Given that this is what Spanish-speakers did during the colonisation of
Argentina itself, I can think of no better statement which illustrates both the
hypocrisy and the absurdity of her government's claims.

Geraint HughesSwindon, Wiltshire

SIR - Alicia Castro wrongly claims that Britain expelled the Argentine
authorities and population from the Falkland Islands.

The islands were uninhabited before being settled by English and Scottish
farmers in the 1820s, during which time the islands became a British colony. At
that time, Argentina was a colony of Spain. Spain granted Argentina its
independence in 1832. Documents did not refer to the Falklands, or Malvinas, in
the transaction. Thus Argentina's claim has no legal basis.

The islands are not even in close proximity, being some 400 miles out in the
South Atlantic.

George Birch Tiverton, Devon

Forgiveness goes hand in hand with repentance

SIR - Claudia Connell (Features, April 19), whose father was killed by a drunk
driver, is right to question the notion of forgiving those who do not seek
forgiveness for wrongdoing. There cannot be forgiveness without repentance.

If someone who has injured you admits guilt and seeks forgiveness, you may grant
it, even though it is a very hard thing to do.

If the sinner does not seek forgiveness, then you are under no obligation to
take the matter further. To claim that you forgive in the absence of repentance
is simply to advertise your own moral worth.

Alan RichardsonPenrith, Cumbria

SIR - Forgiveness does not equate with forgetting; what it does is make
remembering less painful.

Patricia WilkinsUpminster, Essex

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 22, 2012
                                 First Edition

THE FERAL BEAST;
Playful, but with sharp claws

BYLINE: Matthew Bell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1114 words


Norfolk too flat for Assange


Philanderer, hacktivist, narcissist - Julian Assange has been called many
things. Now he can add "castle-creeper" to the list, for I can reveal that the
WikiLeaks founder has abandoned the Norfolk grandeur of Ellingham Hall for a
3,000-acre estate in East Sussex. He has taken up residence in a lodge on Lord
Abergavenny's Eridge Park estate, near Tunbridge Wells, rented by divorcee cook
Sarah Saunders. She put up £20,000 of Assange's bail money in 2010, having met
him through her stepfather, Gavin MacFadyen, the director of the Centre for
Investigative Journalism. Assange remains on bail, and has given police his new
address.

Vaughan Smith, with whom he had been living, says they parted "without animosity
or acrimony", because Smith's wife has just had a baby. "Oddly, I miss him,"
Smith says. "In a way." Saunders, who runs a catering company, says she will
have Assange "as long as I can", and that he has taken a shine to her Jack
Russell, Whizz, and takes him for long walks. "I'm a cook, so hopefully he eats
well," she tells me. "I hate the thought of him having to eat prison food,
because he has a very sensitive palate." But she insists their relationship is
not romantic. "He has many, many young suitors," she laughs. "I'm far too old to
go out with Julian. He doesn't want to go out with someone old."

The curse of Titanic

Lawks! Julian Fellowes (right) has been struck down with pneumonia. The Downton
Abbey creator is tucked up in bed at his Dorset mini-Downton, beneath a battery
of antibiotics. He had to cancel his London engagements last week, which
included giving a speech at Annie Tempest's exhibition of sculpture at the
O'Shea Gallery. Tempest is best known as the creator of Tottering-by-Gently, the
toff-teasing cartoon strip in Country Life; she turned to sculpture after the
death of her 18-year-old son Freddy, from a heroin overdose. Julian's wife, Emma
Kitchener-Fellowes, gave the speech instead. "Julian's in bed, but he's still
working on the next series of Downton," she tells me. Did his illness come from
spending too much time on the set of Titanic? "No! Though we have just got back
from seeing the marvellous new Titanic building in Belfast." Get well soon!

Ukip if you want to ...

Simon Heffer's column in the Daily Mail leaves little doubt as to his views on
Europe. But readers of Right Minds, the section of the Mail website that he
controls, are wondering if he's turning it into a vehicle for promoting Ukip. He
has recruited several prominent Ukip figures to write blogs, causing some
eyebrow-raising higher up the Northcliffe hierarchy. First, there's Janice
Atkinson-Small, a Ukip member who runs a centre-right think tank, Women On. Then
there's the improbably named Alexander Boot, who, in a blog, calls Ukip "the
only party that reflects the consensus of our population" on Europe. And, most
bizarrely, there's Annabelle Fuller, a close friend of Nigel Farage and ex-Ukip
press officer, whose PR company helped him to become leader. I'm told their
bloggings haven't escaped the notice of senior execs, and there's "one hell of
an inquiry" under way.

Banana drama

Part of the fun of reading Tom Bower's new biography of Simon Cowell comes from
the thought of a heavyweight investigative journalist acquainting himself with
the trashier recesses of pop culture. One photo caption describes Cowell posing
"with a banana alongside Sinitta, Zeta Graff and Kelly Bergantz". Er, who? But
I'm happy to report that Bower has maintained impeccably high standards when it
comes to his own entertainment: he was spotted enjoying one of three Bruckner
symphonies conducted by Daniel Barenboim at the Royal Festival Hall last week.
Bower was there for the elephantine 80-minute Eighth symphony, known as The
Apocalyptic.

Petsy gets her own back

When Petronella Wyatt wrote in defence of single, childless woman last month,
she made the error of taking on Mumsnet. "Mumsnet is an excuse for inane females
with nothing better to do to chatter about matters so simpering that you want to
knock their teeth out," she declared. "Sorry, but it makes me want to barf."
Sure enough, her piece got picked up by the Islingtonian sisterhood, who had a
good old laugh at Petsy and made lots of rude comments, all anonymous, of
course. But some good may have come of it. Having asked, "Why is there no
equivalent for childless women?", a Mumsnetter has challenged her to set up her
own network. So she has: Not Mumsnet will launch very soon. Let battle commence.

First Wright of the Proms

Violas are traditionally the butt of classical music jokes. (My favourite:
what's the difference between a trampoline and a viola? You take your shoes off
before jumping on a trampoline.) But Radio 3 director Roger Wright has revealed
his own bête noire - the guitar. Unveiling this year's Proms at a glitzy press
launch - head-turners included violinists Nicola Benedetti (left), Tasmin Little
and, inexplicably, Kate Adie - Wright suggested creating a radio programme that
reversed the Desert Island Discs formula so you name records you'd like to see
washed away. He nominated anything by guitar composers Tarrega or Castelnuovo-
Tedesco. So we look forward to seeing him at Prom 58, which includes Rodrigo's
Concierto de Aranjuez - for guitar.

Je ne sais quoi

A new game for listeners of BBC news: spot the presenter who can't pronounce
François Hollande. So far, we've clocked Martha Kearney and Sarah Montagu refer
to the presidential hopeful as "Françoise", a girl's name. The last we heard,
Hollande is a man: he hasn't had breasts since his diet last year.

Kitchen diary

As the actress who plays Hayley in Coronation Street, Julie Hesmondhalgh is
Britain's first transsexual soap character. She has been praised in Parliament
for highlighting the issue. Now, she has revealed a more intimate Westminster
connection: she once shared a flat with Yvette Cooper. Though she won't divulge
any more details, she admits to "not having done her share of the dishes".
Married to career-hungry Ed Balls, Yvette's probably used to that by now.

Fairy-tale wedding

He has explored the role of an artist; now Gavin Turk is exploring marriage. The
not-so-Young British Artist ties the knot next Saturday with his partner of 24
years, Deborah Curtis. "It's a kind of experiment," he tells me. "But maybe
every marriage is a bit of an experiment." What promises to be a dream wedding
takes place at The House of Fairy Tales, Turk's latest installation, at Hall
Place, Bexley, a Grade I-listed manor. "Several hundred" friends, some YBAs
among them, are invited - and all the manor's visitors. With three children, why
now? "We're quite slow at doing things."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 22, 2012

The midterm elections are now crucial thanks to omnishambles: The outcome of
these contests will make a huge difference to the morale and momentum of the
rival parties

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1520 words


Omnishambles. It is a great word to encapsulate the government's serial
misjudgments and misadventures, from granny taxes and petrol panics to the
boomeranging budget and Theresa May's lost day. So I am not surprised that Ed
Miliband chucked it at David Cameron in the hope that it will lodge in the
public mind as the definitive, damning description of the coalition. The word
does not, though, help us all that much with the large, long-term question
raised by the most torrid period for the coalition since its inception. Does
this mark a significant turning point or is it merely a passing blip?

It doesn't look like a blip - certainly not a fleeting one. The government has
been in a state of omnishambolism since the budget more than a month ago. Until
then, the most striking and consistent feature of the opinion polls was the
resilience of the Conservative number. During the first phase of the coalition,
the Lib Dems rapidly shed support to Labour, but a very steady proportion of
voters stuck with the Tories. That is what has been changed by the budget and
everything that has followed. Now it is Conservative popularity that is tumbling
to the quiet relish of some Lib Dem MPs. Says one: "Now they know what it is
like." This equalisation of misery between the coalition parties may make Lib
Dems feel a bit better, but it won't enhance their own electoral fortunes. Nick
Clegg has warned colleagues: "When they go down, we go down with them."

The beneficiaries of the turn against the Tories have been Labour and, on the
Conservatives' right flank, Ukip. The latest YouGov survey awards Labour a
13-point lead, its largest advantage over the Tories registered by that polling
company or any other since the general election.

So more than a blip, but the start of a trend of enduring benefit to Labour?
About this, everyone is divided and no one is sure. The sanguine brigade among
the Tories thinks it no more than a run of particularly bad form, typical of
many governments at midterm, from which they can make a recovery so long as the
prime minister and chancellor get their act together. The panicky tendency fears
that something more serious has happened and to depend on the prime minister and
chancellor to fix it is to rely on the two men who landed them in the mire in
the first place.

As for Labour, I find members of the shadow cabinet nervously poised between the
hope that they have at last been presented with an opportunity to re-engage the
attention of the British people and the fear that they will blow their chance.
One very senior Labour figure describes this past month as the period when the
coalition "lost the benefit of the doubt" with the voters, a fairly cautious
assessment that seems to me about right.

The immediate challenge for the government is to restore at least a semblance of
unity. The continuing recriminations about who was most to blame for all the
botches in the budget - the Tories accusing leaky Lib Dems, the Lib Dems turning
on the chancellor and prime minister - have led to some long and pretty heavy
private conversations between David Cameron and Nick Clegg. I am told that the
two men have agreed that they need to "cool it" and "dial down" the extent to
which the two parties pick public fights with each other before the coalition
becomes fatally fractured and factionalised.

They certainly have an interest in trying to reinvest their enterprise with the
sense of joint mission that served them well in their early period in office.
For David Cameron, the omnishambles makes him look like a weak prime minister
presiding over a riven and rudderless administration lacking, as his party
chairman so helpfully put it last week, "a coherent narrative". For Nick Clegg,
it is no less imperative to restore some vestiges of shared purpose.

If the mass of voters come to a settled verdict that this administration is a
divided, incompetent, querulous mess, it is only one more step for them to
conclude that this is the inevitable result of coalition government, a
conclusion that will be disastrous for the Lib Dems' long-term ambition to make
coalition a norm rather than an exception in British politics. So it is in the
interests of both leaders to try to steady the boat. The mooter question is
whether it is in their power. The latest eruption of angry Tory backbench
dissent, this time over Mr Clegg's plans for reform of the House of Lords, does
not suggest that it will be at all easy.

Labour is presented with its best chance since the general election to regain an
audience with the voters. That opportunity will not turn into something more
solid unless Ed Miliband can translate swelling discontent with the coalition
into some enthusiasm for his party as an alternative, a task at which Labour
spectacularly failed in the recent Bradford West byelection. The imminent local
elections will be an important test of whether the Labour lead in the polls can
be turned into real votes in ballot boxes.

It is usually rash to read too much into midterm elections, but the outcome of
these contests will nevertheless matter hugely to the national picture because
of their impact on the morale and standing of the parties. As one of the prime
minister's senior aides puts it: "They will set the weather from now until the
party conference season." Convincing gains for Labour will give the opposition
confidence-building momentum and open more space for Ed Miliband to act boldly.
A better than expected performance by the coalition parties will conversely make
it easier for them to draw a line under this miserable period for the government
and turn the pressure back on the Labour leader. Which means that, even before a
single vote has been counted, both sides are trying to shape how these elections
are judged by the media and viewed by the public. For they know that it is not
just the result that matters, it is how the result is interpreted.

The Conservatives want us to see Glasgow and London as the key battlegrounds and
have the outcomes in the two cities regarded as the benchmarks of success and
failure. The Tories pick on the capital for the very obvious reason that the
polls currently favour Boris Johnson. It has often been a mistake to write off
Ken Livingstone, one of the great political comeback artists of all time, but my
conversations with senior Labour figures leave me with the strong impression
that they are close to giving up on Mr Livingstone's chances of winning back the
mayoralty and are seeking consolation in the expectation that Labour will do
much better in the elections for the London Assembly. By contrast, Tories sound
increasingly cocky that their man is going to win himself a second term as mayor
of London.

On the face of it, Glasgow is a contest that it seems strange the Conservatives
should highlight. Such is the continuing hostility towards the Tories north of
the border, they will be lucky if they end up with two councillors in Scotland's
biggest city and are most likely to finish with just one. The reason they point
to Glasgow is that Labour will almost certainly lose its majority there.
Scotland now elects its councillors by proportional representation, which makes
winning majorities much more challenging than under first past the post. Had the
Scottish Nationalists put up a full slate of candidates the last time that
Glasgow was contested, Labour would probably have lost its majority then.

As for London, the process that stitched up the Labour candidacy for Ken
Livingstone was already in place before Ed Miliband became leader, so he cannot
justly be blamed for the party's decision to put up a candidate whose capacity
to charm the capital's voters has faded. Making London and Glasgow the sole
tests of success or failure at these elections is therefore not exactly fair to
Labour; that is why the Tories choose to try and make them the test. On the
morning after the elections, David Cameron wants the media to be asking: if
Labour can't win in London and Glasgow, how will Ed Miliband be able to win the
next general election? It will be a useful diversion from the hammering the
coalition parties are likely to suffer elsewhere. To win the battle of
interpretation, Ed Miliband will have to persuade the media that what matters
most is Labour's overall share of the vote across the country. If opinion poll
ratings are roughly translated into real votes, that ought to be its best
showing at local elections for many years.

Whether the omnishambles represents a lasting turning point in political
fortunes will at least in part be determined by how the parties react to it. If
these elections are seen as a disappointment for Labour, then the coalition will
breathe a bit easier because Ed Miliband will face renewed doubts about whether
he is a convincing candidate for prime minister. If these elections are seen as
confirming that the coalition is in deep trouble, then the heat on them will
intensify and with it the risk that the government will go into a self-consuming
downward spiral. The night of 3 May will be a long one for all the party
leaders. What you might call an omnisweat.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 22, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Forget Ukip, Mr Cameron, and explain what you're up to;
In its first months, the Cameron-Clegg Government was superbly effective in its
communication

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1207 words


At Wednesday's political Cabinet, the Coalition's most senior ministers were
told by No 10 officials that the relationship between politicians and public is
defined not only by results but by perceived motive. It is not enough for the
voters to support your policies. They must trust your values, your purpose, your
reason for taking action.

If, to take an obvious example, the punters can be persuaded that the top rate
of tax is being cut from 50p to 45p to increase revenues (penal rates drive down
the tax take) and to encourage growth, all will be well. But if they think that
a Tory Chancellor is slashing top taxes just to help the party's rich pals...
well, not so much. Tomorrow, the Prime Minister will embark on a round of media
appearances in an effort to make sense of the past month and to reassure the
public that the Coalition remains committed to a coherent strategy of deficit
reduction, radical public service reform and the transformation of the welfare
system. "He'll rise above the headlines we've had since the Budget,'' according
to one source, "and restore a sense of the big narrative."

Not before time, one might add. Since George Osborne delivered his statement to
the Commons a month and a day ago, the Government has been overwhelmed by
controversy - some of it real, some of it contrived, but all conspiring to
reinforce the sorry impression of an administration whose screen has frozen. In
such circumstances, turning the machine off and rebooting is not enough.
Cameron's task tomorrow is to convince voters that the Coalition has a powerful
operating system and software package, that its actions are part of a
well-conceived project for government.

He and his advisers note that it is some while since we heard noisy calls from
outside Tory ranks for a "Plan B". Yet it is precisely at such times that
governing parties are liable to flirt with strategic error - or, more
accurately, backbenchers, activists and sections of the media grow impatient and
demand the wrong kind of change.

Mistakes have been made, morale is at a low ebb, the polls are depressing. And
look: the UK Independence Party has pulled ahead of the Lib Dems in an opinion
poll or two! A couple of unnamed Tory MPs are reported to be considering
defection to Ukip! To some Conservative eyes, it seems as though the party's
colourful leader, Nigel Farage (interviewed on page 11), has the Big Mo as the
local elections on May 3 draw close.

From all this, the big non sequitur is to conclude that the Conservative Party's
historic error was to lurch to the centre ground and vacate the terrain now
cheerfully occupied by Mr Farage. Let us first recall that the Tories fought the
2001 election on a platform of muddled skinhead conservatism and "Keep the
Pound" Eurosceptic rhetoric, and campaigned in 2005 by blowing the dog whistle
to signal private sympathy for the disgruntled Right. In both cases, the party
was trounced.

Only since embracing the centre ground have the Tories come within striking
distance of an overall majority. Many Conservatives hate this and get furious
when reminded of it. But it's the truth: anyone who thinks that the party will
achieve an outright majority by fighting a campaign dominated by Europe,
immigration and aggressive small-state conservatism hasn't paid much attention
to recent political history. Or to anything else.

Of course Cameron should seek to win back Ukip voters - but not by jeopardising
the gains he has made in non-traditional Tory seats. Again, it is a
psephological fact that the Conservatives will not win next time unless they
make inroads into Labour terrain. At the last election, Ukip secured fewer than
one million votes, compared to Gordon Brown's 8.6 million and Nick Clegg's 6.8
million. As a party of Right-wing protest, Mr Farage's gang does well in local
and European elections. But it is no accident that they have yet to win a single
seat at Westminster. The electorate understands the difference between an
opinion poll response and the composition of Parliament.

What about Ukip votes in marginal seats? On this, I defer to the best political
scientist in Britain, Professor Tim Bale of Sussex University, who wrote
recently on The Spectator's Coffee House blog that "the impact is vastly
exaggerated. At best we're talking about no more than a handful of seats -
certainly nowhere near enough to mean the difference between the Tories being
the biggest party and a comfortable overall majority". Persuaded? You should be.

In April 2006, Cameron called Ukip's members "closet racists". I doubt the PM
would go so far today, not least because Mr Farage has worked hard to purge some
of the nastier elements from his party's ranks. None the less, the Tory leader
is right not to heed those in his party - predominantly at its grassroots - who
see the Ukip surge as a terrible warning of electoral disaster ahead. It is no
such thing.

The Coalition's greatest defect at present is not the threat from the
Eurosceptic Right (still marginal), or dissent between the two governing parties
(intrinsic and unavoidable), but the disconnect between action and explanation.
In its first months, the Cameron-Clegg Government was superbly effective in its
communication of a difficult message - first, that painful action was required
to deal with the deficit and second, that it was all Labour's fault.

Since then, the Coalition has embarked upon a programme for government the
radicalism of which is matched only by a collective aphasia about that
programme's necessity and the fundamental objectives underpinning it. The gap
between deed and word has grown dangerously wide.

And to some extent, that is deliberate.

"We don't trumpet everything we do," one Cabinet minister said to me recently,
"because we don't want people to think it's all part of some scary ideological
crusade." That would indeed be a dangerous impression for the public to form.
But there is an even greater danger in silence - or, more accurately, mumbling -
that allows voters and the Coalition's opponents to fill in the gaps as luridly
as they please.

In politics, as in life, purpose is all. Nobody understood that better than the
late Labour strategist Philip Gould, whose extraordinarily moving book, When I
Die: Lessons from the Death Zone, has just been published posthumously. Gould
grasped that everything - even death itself - should be approached
strategically. The book is inspiring in its discussion of mortality; but, like
everything Gould wrote, it is also a manual for those undertaking any task,
political or otherwise, and trying to make sense of it to themselves and to
others.

A government stands or falls on its capacity to explain that purpose, especially
when it pursues austerity and makes painful demands of those it serves. The last
month is not a warning to Cameron to shift trajectory. It is a warning to him
that he must better explain the trajectory he is already embarked upon. The
brush strokes are there but the frame is barely visible.

Too many voters now look at this Coalition, so focused in its early days, and
ask: why? What are they up to? What should be worrying the Prime Minister is not
Ukip. It is the rest of us.

Comment on Matthew d'Ancona's view at

telegraph.co.uk/ matthewdancona

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 22, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can Farage be the next party leader to break into Commons?;
May's elections could be Ukip's George Galloway moment, finds Robert Watts

BYLINE: Robert Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 993 words


NIGEL FARAGE may have plenty to be anxious about, but as he gulped down coffee
in Aylesbury's market square on Friday he was busily cooking up Abu Qatada
wisecracks for an impending speech at a rugby club lunch.

Next month's local elections are big for the UK Independence Party and its
chipper leader.

The eurozone debt crisis, the ailing UK economy and growing criticism of the
European Court of Human Rights for its handling of Qatada have created a perfect
anti-European Union storm.

Ukip seems just as well placed to tap into the growing disenchantment with the
three main political parties as George Galloway, the Respect MP who won the
Bradford West by-election last month.

But will Mr Farage secure a breakthrough election for Ukip or will the party
remain on the political sidelines, still attacked as a petty pressure group and
a haven for eccentrics and racists?

"I think we will do better in our strongholds and we'll do respectably in the
new places where we're standing," he says, insisting that voters will see Europe
in a different light this time. "Before, Europe was about treaties, laws and our
sovereign right to govern ourselves. Now, it's about everyday lives.

"It's about mass immigration at a time when 21 per cent of young people can't
find work. It's about giving £50million a day to the EU when the public finances
are under great strain.

"It's about businesses nervous about taking on school-leavers because of a mass
of red tape. It's about health and safety regulations and green fines."

The May 3 elections will see Ukip field candidates in twice as many seats as
before.

Membership has grown by about 20 per cent in the past four years and last year
the party attracted more than £1million of donations for the first time in a
single year.

The latest YouGov opinion poll gave Ukip 7 per cent of the vote - up from 4 per
cent two years ago. Nevertheless, serious doubts remain about the party's
credibility.

To many voters it remains a single-issue pressure group rather than a political
party.

Britons may be increasingly Eurosceptic, but Ukip has failed to win a single
seat in Westminster after 20 years of trying. Even Mr Farage is not predicting a
landslide of new Ukip councillors next month.

But he is in typically bullish mood. "We have developed Ukip into a party that
is about a lot more than Europe," he insists. "We're no longer just saying who
should be running for Britain - we're now saying how Britain should be
governed." A broader manifesto now includes policies such as returning to more
selective schools, deeper cuts to the foreign aid budget, and a far-reaching
efficiency drive for the NHS.

But the party has yet to win a single seat in the Commons - something the Greens
and Respect have now done. Why not? "We are the biggest losers of the
first-past-thepost system," Mr Farage says. "We have strong and growing support
across the country, but not quite enough yet to give us that breakthrough in
Westminster."

Who are Ukip's supporters? The Tories may have once been called "the nasty
party", but at times Ukip attracted a reputation as "the nastier party", stocked
with little Englanders, xenophobes and crackpots. "Yes, there was a problem with
those people - and they didn't like me," Mr Farage admits. "Most of them have
gone. There is still a group of people who want to have treason trials when we
finally do leave the EU." Mr Farage says the make-up of Ukip is changing. He
points to accountants, lawyers and other young professionals joining the party.
However, the latest recruit, Peter Stringfellow, the self-styled lord of the
lapdance, may raise eyebrows among the party's older members. Ukip may be
changing, but the increasingly Eurosceptic tone of Westminster MPs threatens to
steal back the party's new-found supporters.

"There is only one form of Euroscepticism that matters to me and that is UK
independence - the rest is a waste of space," Mr Farage says. His most trenchant
criticism is reserved for David Cameron and George Osborne, the Chancellor.

"He is not a Conservative, he is a social democrat," he says of the Prime
Minister. "He's completely committed to the EU. He's completely committed to
green taxes. Why is the Government so committed to pouring more of our money
away on European rescue packages - £12billion already, and now an extra
£10billion via the IMF?"

The answer is that propping up the eurozone is felt to be safer than a break-up
of the single currency. Mr Farage disagrees. "If we were real friends of Greece,
and other struggling European economies, we would be helping them return to
their former currencies. Throwing more money at this is just good money after
bad."

For all his tough words for the Prime Minister, Mr Farage knows that his only
conceivable opportunity to enter Government would be in some Ukip/Conservative
coalition, which seems a very distant possibility.

And if he's not in Government what can Ukip achieve? "There are two types of
people in politics," he says. "Those who want to be something and those who want
to do something. Where we end up as a party is not what this is about. I am not
here seeking rank or position. We want to change the political debate and I
think we've had a fair degree of success at that.

"And if we continue to grow in support we may be able to browbeat Westminster
into giving us a referendum on EU membership."

There are clear parallels between Mr Farage and Mr Galloway - although both may
grimace at a comparison.

Both are powerful orators, now benefiting from disenchantment with the big three
parties. Does the Ukip leader see any other similarities between him and the new
MP for Bradford West? "There's certainly only one thing I could never agree with
George Galloway on. He's a teetotaller and wants to close all the bars in the
Commons. That is just not on."

Forget UKIP, Mr Cameron, and explain what you are up to: MATTHEW D'ANCONA PAGE
24

There is still a group who want to have treason trials when we do leave the EU

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage admits he has had a problem with xenophobes, but claims
that the make-up of his party is changing. 'I think we'll do better in our
strongholds,' he says of next month's local elections
WARREN ALLOTT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 22, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Post-Budget blues may set back Tory success

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 924 words


EACH OF Britain's three main parties is approaching next month's local elections
in a state of trepidation.

The Conservatives are reeling from a series of political setbacks, many of which
have their origins in last month's Budget, while the Liberal Democrats are
expected once again to pay a high price for Coalition unpopularity.

Labour should be taking full advantage of the Government's mid-term blues, but
despite healthy opinion poll leads, Ken Livingstone looks likely to lose to
Boris Johnson in London's mayoral election - while the party is also under
threat from Scottish nationalists north of the border.

As well as two other mayoral votes (in Liverpool and Salford), 10 cities will be
staging referendums on whether to have mayors. Some 5,000 seats in more than 180
councils will be up for grabs on May 3. Here is The Sunday Telegraph's analysis
of how each main party is likely to fare on Black Thursday.

CONSERVATIVE

David Cameron's hopes rest mainly with the larger-thanlife figure with whom he
has an uneasy relationship - Mr Johnson. He is expected to retain the London
mayoralty in his second straight victory over Mr Livingstone, according to the
latest polls.

The "Boris effect" may also spread into the elections for London Assembly seats.

The Prime Minister needs a handsome Johnson win for two main reasons. First, the
last time that most of Britain's council seats up for grabs on May 3 were
contested, in 2008, the Conservatives had a great night. They gained more than
250 seats, mostly from Labour, with a swing of 12 per cent.

Secondly, a series of post-Budget crises have hit Tory morale and sent the
party's poll rating falling.

A senior Tory source said the party was expecting "a very difficult night -
mainly for historical reasons". He failed to mention the "granny tax" - the
unpopular freezing of pensioners' allowances.

This time last year, in local elections that accompanied the referendum on
changing the voting system in general elections, the Conservatives confounded
expectations, making gains and winning control of some councils.

This year, polling experts expect the Tories to lose up to 400 councillors. As
well as in London, there is hope for the party in contests where they are pitted
against the Lib Dems - mainly in the South.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Last year's local elections represented a low point for Nick Clegg's party since
it helped form the Coalition two years ago. The Lib Dems lost 748 councillors,
with their share of the vote falling to 15 per cent.

Fewer seats are up for grabs this time - but there is little reason to believe
the overall picture will be any different.

The biggest fear for Lib Dem strategists is that they will suffer a two-party
"squeeze" as they did last year - losing seats to the Tories in the South and to
Labour in the North.

Mr Clegg will be watching for results from Portsmouth, where his party controls
the council, but could lose out with a small swing to the Conservatives. In
Liverpool he will fear a further seeping away of votes in a city that his party
controlled from 1998 to 2010.

The Lib Dems hold Cheltenham, while they lead Colchester council in coalition
with a small Labour group. A Tory win in either town will be evidence of a bad
night for Mr Clegg. The national backdrop offers little ground for optimism.
Polls last week put the Lib Dems as low as 8 per cent, falling behind the level
achieved by the UK Independence Party. Experts predict Lib Dem losses on May 3
could be as high as 300 councillors.

LABOUR

Labour's national opinion poll lead over the Tories has been as high as 13 per
cent this week - the perfect platform, you might think, for success in local
elections. But you would be mistaken.

Ed Miliband's party is highly likely to be on the wrong end of two of the
night's big headlines - with Mr Livingstone predicted to lose out in London,
while Alex Salmond's Scottish National Party could win Glasgow city council - a
Labour stronghold for decades until earlier this year, when the defection of a
series of Labour councillors left no single party in overall control.

Mr Miliband will be hoping that voters in Birmingham follow predictions and hand
his party overall control in what would be a much-needed win. There could also
be good news for Labour in Liverpool, Rochdale and Walsall.

Labour's record in parliamentary by-elections since losing power in 2010 was
very good - with the party winning all five seats it defended - until it lost
Bradford West to George Galloway and his Respect party last month.

Party sources are attempting to play down expectations that Labour will make
gains of 700 seats or more because of the unpopularity of the Coalition and the
economic gloom. One insider claimed 350 gains was a more realistic figure.

RESPECT

George Galloway has spent some of his time since his return to Parliament making
interventions on behalf of other Left-wing candidates.

He said he would be "openly campaigning" for Mr Livingstone in the mayoral race.
The party is trying to capitalise on the success of the "Bradford Spring" by
fielding a slate of 12 council candidates in the Yorkshire city.

But its candidates elsewhere are spread very thinly. It is thought that the
greatest number of councillors that Respect held at any one time is 18 - in
2007.

DECISION DAY

131 councils in England, all 32 in Scotland and 21 in Wales are holding
elections on May 3

CON currently control 52 councils and have 2,599 councillors

LAB currently control 37 councils and have 2,436 councillors

LIB DEMS currently control 7 councils and have 1,162 councillors

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 22, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How lickspittle cowards allowed piece of dirt to live here spouting his hatred
of us

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 864 words


YOU HAVE probably never heard of Sir Nicolas Bratza. Nevertheless he holds a
huge amount of sway over your way of life. It was he who voted against deporting
jihadist hate preacher Abu Qatada and voted for giving British prisoners the
vote.

The son of a Serbian pianist who fled to Britain after the First World War, Sir
Nicolas is the British-born President of the European Court of Human Rights
(ECHR).

He has never held a senior judicial position in Britain but thinks the judicial
balance between British courts and the ECHR in Strasbourg is about right. He
must be the only Briton who thinks so!

The ECHR was created by the Council of Europe as a noble response to the horrors
and human degradation of the Second World War. The court would enforce the
European Convention on Human Rights, an international treaty safeguarding
individual dignity, safety and freedom.

Sixty years on and what has that lofty ambition given us? an unelected,
jumped-up bunch of academics defying common sense and British justice as they
lay down the law from Strasbourg. These are the nonentities who outrage natural
and national justice by promoting criminals' rights over victims, by backing
terrorists over governments and by meddling in just about every level of
society. A court that should have stood as the ultimate arbiter in cases where
major violations of human rights had taken place is now bogged down in petty
disputes and consumer rights' challenges.

It is a system so consumed by its own meddling it thinks nothing of spending
days deliberating over whether a man is entitled to e90 compensation for an
"uncomfortable" bus journey from Romania to Spain.

The court has a backlog of 150,000 cases with 5,000 more being pushed through
its door every month.

So no one can blame Justice Secretary Ken Clarke for wanting to take a giant
pair of judicial gardening shears to this hideously overgrown creature.

Seizing on the chance presented by Britain's six-month presidency of the Council
of Europe Mr Clarke drafted a bold package of reform to cut back Strasbourg's
ridiculous workload and curb its overweening power over national courts.

A long-overdue and carefully thought out reform proposal was put before the 46
other members of the Council of Europe at a conference in Brighton last week. So
what happened? Britain's measures were castrated by the council. Plans to stop
Strasbourg acting like a glorified small claims court and to screen out
low-level hearings were ditched while proposals for the restoration of more
power to national courts were watered down.

Sir Nicolas Bratza then lectured the council about its audacity in seeking to
"dictate to the court how its case law should evolve". This from the man who in
January helped to block the deportation of hideous Abu Qatada to Jordan despite
a ruling from our Supreme Court.

If the Council of Europe flop was a quiet tragedy the Qatada appeal fiasco was a
screaming disaster. On Tuesday Home Secretary Theresa May boasted to MPs that
Qatada's appeal deadline against deportation had passed: he would be out of the
country soon.

The next day Qatada's lawyers, who had different ideas about when the deadline
was up, lodged their appeal and Mrs May was dragged back to Westminster to face
some astonishingly hypocritical crowing from Labour.

This latest Home Office debacle could set Qatada's deportation back a year. The
aftershock of this galactic cock-up impacts not only on Mrs May's career but our
Prime Minister David Cameron's reluctance to accept our growing unhappiness with
the Strasbourg status quo. Cameron has set up a Commission on a British Bill of
Rights chaired by Sir Leigh Lewis but everyone knows this has been stuffed full
of ECHR enthusiasts and is little more than a stalling strategy. The
inconvenient truth for Mr Cameron and his Lib Dem Strasbourg cheerleaders is its
power is little more than a con.

The Metric Martyrs ruling established that Parliament is sovereign. The British
people never voted for Strasbourg to overrule our laws and no British government
has signed away our judicial supremacy in a treaty.

IN TRUTH Cameron could simply shove Qatada on the next Jordanbound plane and
take his chances. You can be damn sure Nicolas Sarkozy would ignore an
injunction from Strasbourg and deport a dangerous foreign national if he thought
it necessary even if he was not on the losing end of a presidential election
campaign.

The sadly inevitable failure of reform in Brighton combined with the high farce
of the Qatada fiasco make a compelling case for total withdrawal from the ECHR.

With Qatada still in Britain and the row over British prisoners' voting rights
primed to reignite, Cameron will not be able to dodge this issue for much
longer. UKIP's popularity is on the rise and the 2014 European elections are
looming.

Does Cameron continue to tie Britain to an unaccountable and remote court or
does he have the courage to declare that our Supreme Court is just that? When a
terrorist is making an ass of us just one question remains: is it time to
consider withdrawal from the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights?
If Cameron's answer is no then we are entitled to ask him: if not now, when?

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

CAMIKAZE;
NEW POLL BLOW FOR PM AS THE TORIES SELF-DESTRUCT

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words


LABOUR has doubled its lead over David Cameron's crisis-hit Tories, our poll
reveals today.

The Sunday Mirror/ComRes survey puts Labour on 40 per cent - six points ahead of
the Tories, who slump three points to 34 per cent.

The Lib Dems are up one point on 11 per cent since our last poll on March 18.

The findings come as the PM struggles with a mounting "crisis list" and a series
of Tory rebellions ahead of local elections on May 3. After protests about the
Budget and chaos over moves to deport hate preacher Abu Qatada, Mr Cameron's
rating as PM has also fallen.

Just 29 per cent reckon he is a good PM - down from 34 per cent in January. Only
one in four now trust him and Chancellor George Osborne to make the right
decisions about the economy. Just 35 per cent believe this Government is more
competent than the last Labour regime.

There was more good news for Labour leader Ed Miliband about the unpopularity of
Tory policies like the NHS shake-up and welfare reforms. Just one in five
believes the Tories have changed things for the better. Almost half (47 per
cent) believe the Government has changed Britain for the worse. The findings
come ahead of a new Labour campaign to highlight how the PM's vow to change
Britain for the better with his cherished "Big Society" is doomed.

More than half agreed "city mayors create an unnecessary and expensive layer of
local government".

Our poll also showed support for UKIP now stands at six per cent - just five
points behind the Lib Dems.

COMMENT: Page 14

Do you trust Cameron & Osborne to make right decisions on the economy?

How would you vote if a General Election were called tomorrow?

Do you think the Tories have changed Britain for the better?

CAM'S TOP 10 CRISIS LIST

1. LORDS Tory MPs revolt over Nick Clegg's plan for elected House of Lords.

2. ECONOMY Growth figures out this week to show economy still flatlining.

3. QATADA Chaos at the Home Office over bid to deport hate preacher Abu Qatada.

4. EURO HANDOUT Tory MPs fury at another pounds 10bn bailout to help save the
euro.

5. CHARITIES Charities in uproar over plans to cap tax relief on donations.

6. GRANNY TAX George Osborne picks on pensioners with freeze on personal tax
allowances.

7. EURO COURT Tory MPs demand PM ditches European human rights laws.

8. PASTY TAX Nationwide protests at move to slap 20% VAT on pasties & hot
snacks.

9. 50P TAX CUT Budget backfires after George Osborne slashes tax top rate for
the rich to 45p.

10. CATHEDRAL TAX Bishops on the warpath over bid to slap VAT on church roof
repairs.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2012 Sunday 11:22 PM GMT

Independent London mayor candidate loses her appeal to take part in debate;
The only independent candidate in the London mayoral election has accused the
BBC of "depriving the electorate of a proper choice" after she lost her appeal
to be allowed to take part in a televised debate.

BYLINE: By Richard Alleyne

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 234 words


Siobhan Benita, former civil servant in the Cabinet Office and Department of
Health, was angered at her exclusion from a key debate being held tonight.

She appealed to the BBC Trust claiming she had a right to take her place
alongside other candidates.

But the appeal was thrown out just hours before the discussion took place.

On the platform will be the Conservatives' Boris Johnson, Labour's Ken
Livingstone, the Liberal Democrat candidate, Brian Paddick, and Jenny Jones for
the Green party.

Mrs Benita has to settle for a place in the audience, watching her rivals on
stage.

The Ukip candidate, Lawrence Webb, and the BNP candidate, Carlos Cortiglia, are
also not invited.

"This ruling shows the BBC is stuck in the past," she said.

"It refuses to consider the present. This is damaging the future and damaging
our democracy. I have wide-ranging, credible and distinctive policies to create
jobs, bring down the cost of living and reconnect this city with its young
people, and Londoners aren't being allowed to hear what I have to say.

"The public has the right to make an informed choice on who is the best
candidate to vote for in the election.. This BBC ruling is depriving the
electorate of a proper choice."

The BBC has argued that there is not enough time of space on the platform to
include all candidates and that it makes a decision on past performance and
profile.

Th election takes place on May 3.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2012 Sunday 8:44 PM GMT

Marine Le Pen third place finish vindicates decision to tone down far-Right
party;
Marine Le Pen said she would consider it a "step backwards" not to surpass the
17 per cent her father Jean-Marie won in 2002 to reach the presidential run-off
against Jacques Chirac - the biggest electoral shock in modern French history.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 312 words


On Sunday her 19.7 per cent surprised even some of her supporters by surpassing
that.

Her strong third place finish shows that she overcome the stigma of being
"daddy's girl" and vindicated her bid to tone down the far-Right party her
father founded, stealing support from the mainstream centre-Right party.

The irony is that she won a bigger percentage of votes than her father but did
not reach the second round, as he did.

A tall striking blonde who wears sharp suits and high-heels, the 43-year-old's
approach has been designed to rejuvenate and "de-demonise" the party she took
over last year.

Adopting a more measured tone than her father, she initially campaigned on an
anti-euro, protectionist economic programme aimed at the young and disillusioned
workers. She peppered speeches with quasi-leftist rhetoric railing against the
"system", saying she would return the retirement age to 60 and increase the
minimum wage.

When it appeared she was losing momentum, she returned to the party
"fundamentals" of immigration and security, especially in the wake of a shooting
spree by a home-grown Islamist militant last month.

Her father, who handed the reins of the party to his daughter last year, last
night denied he had been "eclipsed" by his daughter but said: "I passed her the
baton, she runs faster than me, then so much better."

Miss Le Pen insists the FN is not racist but simply a "patriotic" party similar
to Britain's Ukip and its "opposition to the totalitarian character of the EU
and its desire to remove people's sovereignty".

Nicolas Sarkozy addressed all of the issues on her agenda and took a tough line
on immigration in his campaign, as part of a bid to woo FN voters whose support
is crucial if he is to beat François Hollande, but the ploy appears to have
failed.

Miss Le Pen has in turn warned her supporters not to vote for a man "who's
already history".

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2012 Sunday 9:00 AM GMT

Local elections 2012: Three main parties braced for setbacks;
Each of Britain's three main parties is approaching the May 3 local elections in
a state of trepidation.

BYLINE: By Patrick Hennessy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1216 words


The Conservatives are reeling from a series of political setbacks, many of which
have their origins in last month's controversial Budget, while their coalition
partners, the Liberal Democrats, are expected once again to pay a high price for
coalition unpopularity.

Labour should be taking full advantage of the Government's mid-term blues, but
despite healthy opinion poll leads, Ken Livingstone looks set to lose to Boris
Johnston in London's mayoral poll - while the party is also under threat from
the Scottish nationalists north of the border.

As well as two other mayoral votes (in Liverpool and Salford), 10 cities will be
staging referendums on whether to have mayors. Some 5,000 council seats in 180
councils will also be up for grabs on 3 May.

Here is The Sunday Telegraph's analysis of how each main party is likely to fare
on Black Thursday - with losers certain to be more easily identifiable than
winners.

CONSERVATIVE

David Cameron's hopes of good news in May's elections rest mainly with the
larger-than-life figure with whom he has an uneasy relationship - Boris Johnson.

Mr Johnson is expected comfortably to retain the London mayoralty in his
second-straight victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, according to the latest
polls. The "Boris effect" may also spread into the elections for seats on the
London Assembly, despite Labour's relative strength in the capital.

The Prime Minister needs a handsome Johnson win in London for two main reason.
First, the last time most of the council seats across Britain up for grabs on 3
May were last contested, in 2008, the Conservatives had a great night. In what
was their best showing for 30 years they gained more than 250 seats, mostly from
Labour, with a swing of 12 per cent. So they are defending a high-water mark.

Secondly, a series of post-Budget crises have hit Tory morale and sent the
party's poll rating falling: hardly the ideal preparation for a nationwide
popularity contest at a time when the economy still appears to be flatlining.

A senior Tory source said the party was expecting "a very difficult night -
mainly for historical reasons". He failed to mention the "granny tax" - the
Budget freezing of some pensioners' allowances which is unpopular with a key
section of Conservative support.

This time last year, in local elections which accompanied the referendum on
changing the voting system in general elections, the Conservatives confounded
expectations, making some gains and winning control of some councils.

This year, polling experts expect the Tories to lose up to 400 councillors. As
well as in London, however, there is hope for the party in contests where they
are pitted directly against the Liberal Democrats - mainly in the south of
England.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Last year's local elections represented a low-point for Nick Clegg's party since
it helped form the coalition government two years ago. The Lib Dems lost 748
councillors with its share of the vote falling to 15 per cent.

Fewer seats are up for grabs this time round - but there is little reason to
believe the overall picture will be any different for the coalition's junior
partners.

Lib Dem strategists' biggest fear is that they will suffer a classic two-party
"squeeze" as they did last year - losing seats to the Conservatives in the south
of England and to Labour in the north.

Mr Clegg will be nervously watching out for results from Portsmouth, where his
party controls the council but could lose out with just a small swing to the
Tories. In Liverpool, meanwhile, he will fear a further seeping away of votes in
a city which his party controlled from 1998 to 2010.

The Lib Dems hold Cheltenham, while they lead Colchester council in coalition
with a small Labour group. A Tory win in either town will be evidence of a bad
night for Mr Clegg. In areas such as these with relatively large numbers of
older people voting, moreover, the Lib Dems cannot pin the blame on the
Conservatives for unpopular Government policies like the "granny tax" - such are
the drawbacks of being in coalition.

The national backdrop offers little ground for optimism. Polls last week put the
Lib Dems as low as 8 per cent, falling behind the level achieved by the United
Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP).

Experts predict Lib Dem losses on 3 May could be as high as 300 councillors. The
party's London mayoral candidate, Brian Paddick, has no hope of coming any
higher than third place.

LABOUR

Labour national opinion poll lead over the Tories has been as high as 13 per
cent this week - the perfect platform , you might think, for success in local
elections. But you would be mistaken.

Ed Miliband's party is highly likely to be on the wrong end of two of the
night's big headlines - with Ken Livingstone predicted to lose out to Boris
Johnson in the battle to be London mayor while Alex Salmond's Scottish National
Party (SNP) could win control of Glasgow city council - a Labour stronghold for
decades up until earlier this year, when the defection of a series of Labour
councillors left no single party in overall control.

Mr Miliband will be hoping voters in Birmingham follow predictions and hand his
party full overall control in what would be a much-needed win. There could also
be good news for Labour in Liverpool, Rochdale and Walsall.

Labour's record in parliamentary by-elections since losing power in 2010 was
very good - with the party winning all five seats it defended - until the
seismic shock of losing to George Galloway and his Respect party in Bradford
West last month, which led to renewed internal grumblings about Mr Miliband's
leadership.

For Labour, the numbers game this time round is vital. Party sources are
attempting to play down expectations that they will make gains of 700 seats or
more because of the unpopularity of the coalition parties and continuing
economic gloom. One insider claimed 350 gains was a more realistic figure.

"The challenge is whether we can win in the south of England and whether people
will switch from Tory to Labour. I think you'll start to see that happen again
on 3 May."

Nevertheless, Mr Miliband remains the leader likeliest to come under pressure
from his own party over the summer months unless he achieves a spectacular set
of results.

RESPECT

George Galloway has spent some of his time since his landmark return to
parliament last month making interventions on behalf of other left-wing
candidates.

In the London Mayoral contest the Bradford West by-election victor said he would
be "openly campaigning" for Labour's Ken Livingstone, while he used the Respect
party website to urge French voters in both Britain and France to back Jean-Luc
Melenchon and the Front de Gauche in the first round of the French presidential
election tomorrow (SUN).

The party is trying to capitalise on the success of the so-called "Bradford
Spring" by fielding a slate of 12 council candidates in the Yorkshire city. It
is also backing a 'yes' vote in a referendum on whether Bradford should have an
elected mayor - opening up the possibility that Mr Galloway's troops could
eventually run a large city.

While Bradford will provide one of the night's headlines on 3 May, the party's
candidates elsewhere are spread very thinly indeed. It is thought that the
greatest number of councillors Respect held at any one time is 18 - in 2007.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories must resist the siren voices;
Damian Thompson ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Damian Thompson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 588 words


The United Kingdom Independence Party is so obsessed with race, immigration and
Islam that it might as well merge with the BNP. That's the opinion of a
professor at the London School of Economics.

No surprise there, you're probably thinking. The LSE, like the rest of London
University, is crawling with Left-wing dons who suck up to radical Muslims. Of
course they hate Ukip, which this week edged into third place in the opinion
polls.

But hang on a moment. The LSE professor I'm quoting actually founded Ukip. Alan
Sked is an expert on the 19th-century Habsburg empire; in 1991 he set up a new
party, then called the Anti- Federalist League, as a Eurosceptic alternative to
the muddled Tories. It fielded candidates in the 1992 general election and as a
result may have cost Chris Patten his seat, a historic achievement by any
standards.

To cut a long story short, Sked fell out with Ukip after the 1997 election,
saying that he'd created a Right-wing monster. He's stuck to that line ever
since. The stuff about Ukip merging with the BNP ("which it increasingly
resembles") comes from a letter to The Times in 2010.

I'm not quoting it because I agree with Sked. Founders of parties who have left
after a blazing row are not always the most objective of commentators. We're in
People's Front of Judea territory here - and that's my point. This weekend, many
Tories will be mulling over the polls and wondering if they should change
allegiance. They should think twice.

Ukip hasn't managed to free itself from the sectarian subculture that afflicts
all small parties and religious groups. And there's no evidence that it will
ever do so.

Yes, it's fun for professional Lib Dem haters to see Ukip pulling ahead of the
Conservatives' ghastly coalition partners, but don't kid yourself: the
combination of lack of grassroots and lack of proportional representation will
prove as deadly as ever come the general election.

Breakaway groups that move away from the centre of gravity have a weakness in
their DNA: they attract fanatics. Ukip is well aware of this. It hasn't become
"the BNP in blazers" - but only thanks to constant vigilance. Ukip has the same
problem that breakaway Catholic traditionalists do: keeping racists away is hard
work.

And what about all the conspiracy theorists who target conveniently naive
gatherings of enthusiasts? Last week I was rung by an American complaining that
the only British interest shown in a book raising doubts about Barack Obama's
birth certificate had come from Ukip.

Ah, say my Ukip-supporting friends, but you could never accuse the quirky and
engaging Nigel Farage of extremist views. Perhaps not: even so, the YouTube clip
of him haranguing Herman Van Rompuy in the European Parliament is a display of
debating-society rudeness, not remotely in the same class as Dan Hannan's
evisceration of Gordon Brown.

Farage looked as if he was showing off for the benefit of his membership. But,
to reiterate, he doesn't have any grassroots. He has people who were part of the
Tory grassroots; now they've left, bringing with them precious few rank-and-file
Conservatives but lots of righteous anger.

Righteous and useless. David Cameron would like nothing better than to see
proper Eurosceptics such as the magnificent Lord Tebbit leave his party for Ukip
. Which is, of course, precisely why they shouldn't. After all, it wasn't the
Tory grassroots who infiltrated the party of Margaret Thatcher: it was the
former head of public relations for Carlton TV and his curious assortment of
friends. So stay.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On second thoughts, perhaps not

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IS POLITICS ON THE VERGE OF A BREAKDOWN?;
With the three main parties increasingly seen as interchangeable, political
outsiders are becoming more attractive to voters. Peter Oborne asks if the rise
of the 'insurgent politician' could possibly lead to radical and lasting change

BYLINE: Peter Oborne

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1395 words


This is the week when the wheels well and truly came off the Coalition bus. But
it's not just David Cameron and Nick Clegg who are in trouble. Despite the
golden opportunity this turmoil presented to the Labour leader, Ed Miliband, he
failed to connect with a British public who are, at best, largely apathetic to
his charms. There could be no clearer illustration of this indifference than
George Galloway's spectacular arrival in the House of Commons on Monday, having
overturned a Labour majority of 5,000 in Bradford West.

The British party system as it has existed for more than a century is in
collapse. Tory Party membership, which stood at around three million after the
Second World War, is now less than 200,000 and falling. Labour has suffered as
dramatic a fall. It used to be the case that 80 per cent or more would regularly
vote at general elections. That figure, too, is starting to shrink sharply, as
inertia infects swathes of the British population. Only insurgent figures who
challenge the complacency of the political class can arouse voters' enthusiasm.

With just 12 days to go until this spring's local and mayoral elections, it is
time to pose a most urgent question: can British politics be about to undergo a
seismic shift? Could one of our three largest parties even disappear?

The elections for London Mayor demonstrate the power of insurgent politics. The
odds on the wholly unknown independent Siobhan Benita have dropped from 500-1 to
20-1 in recent weeks as her campaign has taken off, receiving a fillip from
Galloway's victory. A former civil servant, allied to no party, she benefited
from being an unfancied outsider. The continued success of Boris Johnson,
meanwhile, can partly be put down to his status as a sometimes angry rebel
against David Cameron's government. Suddenly, it's the outsiders who are
starting to shape the future of British politics.

To discuss this fascinating political phenomenon, I brought together the leading
figures from Britain's three insurgent minority parties to discuss the matter
for the BBC's Week in Westminster: Caroline Lucas of the Green Party, George
Galloway of Respect and Ukip's Nigel Farage. To put the political predicament in
its historical context, I also invited the YouGov pollster Peter Kellner. He
identified one profound change: "'When I was growing up in the Fifties,
something like 97-98 per cent of all voters in general elections voted Labour or
Conservative. A great many of them felt passionately that there was a strong
partisanship on one side or the other. British politics was very much a
two-party system.'

That situation, added Kellner, has been smashed by the rise of the smaller
parties. In Scotland, the Scottish National Party has already seized control of
national government and is slowly destroying Labour north of the border. This
demoralisation of the mainstream parties is now spreading south of the border.
"'In the last European elections three years ago, if you added up the Tory plus
Labour plus Liberal Democrat vote across Britain, it was less than half the
total vote. The majority of people voted for a nonmainstream party,'' says
Kellner.

I asked George Galloway, fresh from his "'Bradford Spring'' triumph, to explain
how support for the two main parties had halved in 60 years. "'I think the
half-inch of space between them all is one of the factors. People see no real
difference from what I've described as three cheeks of the same backside, and
they don't particularly like the look of the backside - and they want to give it
a kicking. At elections where a candidate can credibly defeat [the mainstream
party] they will go for that candidate, but when [there is no alternative] they
will simply stay away from the polls, which is surely one of the explanations
for the historically low level of turnouts in British general elections.''

Caroline Lucas agrees: "In many respects, the kind of cosy consensus at
Westminster doesn't reflect where most people actually would like to put their
votes. If you take a look at issues like the withdrawal from Afghanistan, the
majority of people would like our troops withdrawn from Afghanistan as soon as
possible. None of the main three parties at Westminster are calling for that.''

Nigel Farage, too, sees the party system as being in crisis: "We are run by a
bunch of college kids. None of them have ever had a job, never worked in the
real world, they look the same, they sound the same, they are virtually
interchangeable. They agree on all the big issues, whether it's Europe or
immigration or green taxes. The differences between them are so small that you
frankly can't put a cigarette paper between them. And so you've now got
different parties with different philosophies that are beginning to pick up
support.''

Galloway believes that the decline of the big three parties has been mirrored by
changes in the mainstream British media: "Nobody covered my by-election. Our
media was social media, was Twitter, was text, was Facebook, was YouTube - and
that's more and more a feature.'' He added: "At the touch of a button, I can
speak to hundreds of thousands of people via Twitter and Facebook. I have
150,000 followers on both. Our election campaign was built entirely outside of
the Westminster bubble.''

I put it to Galloway, Lucas and Farage that while minority parties can record
spectacular results in between national elections, in the end, the British
people will always create a government drawn from Labour, Tory or Lib Dem.
Farage disputed this, citing the example of the insurgent SNP: "We've seen the
SNP go from nothing to being the biggest party in Scotland. We've seen Ian
Paisley's party go from the backstreets to being the biggest party in Northern
Ireland. So it's happened across the United Kingdom, and I think it can happen
in England, but the key is this: are people just going to vote for [Ukip, the
Greens and Respect] as a protest, or are they going to see voting for different
parties as voting for radical policy solutions?'

There's some debate over whether the sectarian issues which led the SNP and the
Democratic Unionist Party to power could possibly be replicated in England.
Indeed, Peter Kellner believes that for as long as the first-past-the-post
system persists in Britain it would take a "national nervous breakdown to break
the party duopoly''. He said: "The real question is, are we predicting such a
big national breakdown? I don't see it.''

Peter Kellner is an experienced political observer, and his views have to be
taken seriously. And it is certainly true that surges by the Greens and Respect
have come and gone in the past. But Kellner may also be articulating the
complacency of a Westminster establishment which is losing public support by the
day. And even Kellner acknowledges that the British political elite has ceased
to address the concerns of ordinary people.

Galloway puts it more strongly: "I think that the level of discontent touches
upon hatred, and I discovered that everywhere I went in Bradford. Hatred of the
mainstream leaders, particularly Cameron and Clegg, but I'm bound to say, and
I'm sorry to say, Ed Miliband too. People think that [mainstream politicians]
are of no use at all. If that feeling is replicated in many parts of the
country, then there will be this collective political nervous breakdown and the
system could crack open.

"This critical mass I believe is developing, and you know what happens when you
get a critical mass - you get a very big explosion.'

It is much too soon to judge if George Galloway's prediction will come true. But
it cannot be denied that if the trends continue, at some point, something must
break. And there is considerable truth in Galloway's derisive comment that
LibDem, Tory and Labour are like "three cheeks from the same backside'', and in
Nigel Farage's comment that the policies of the big parties are
"interchangeable'' on the big issues. The emergence of parties such as Ukip,
Respect and the Greens, and the many other independent politicians, is a sign
that traditional British politics no longer works. And if a solution is not
found, then at some stage there is every reason to predict that Britain's
traditional political architecture will smash, and we will indeed be on the edge
of a national political breakdown.

Peter Oborne presents 'Week in Westminster' at 11am today on Radio 4

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Independent's day: the odds on the London mayoral candidate Siobhan
Benita, allied to no political party, have dropped from 500-1 to 20-1
GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AFTER a week of more [...]

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 75 words


AFTER a week of more spectacular polls for UKIP here is another. The Eurosceptic
Bruges Group commissioned a poll to find out which leaders voters felt would
best defend Britain's interests. The poll by Survation placed David Cameron top
on 37 per cent and Ed Miliband second on 30 per cent. But most interestingly,
UKIP leader Nigel Farage was third on 22 per cent - streets ahead of Lib Dem
Nick Clegg on just 10 per cent. The times they are a-changing.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

it looks like labour will pledge an eu referendum

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 343 words


EXCITING news from the Westminster frontline for all of you who passionately
wish for a referendum on Britain's European Union membership - Labour leader Ed
Miliband is actively considering promising one in his manifesto.

Last June I revealed the existence of a letter from Miliband's office to a
supporter of the People's Pledge group that said: "Mr Miliband does not believe
that a referendum on UK membership of the EU is appropriate at this time."

But this week a Shadow Cabinet source told me that everything is now up for
grabs. Mr Miliband is being advised by close allies that he should be the first
major party leader to pledge a referendum in order to allow Labour to go into
the next general election urging UKIP supporters: "Lend us your votes."

"A referendum is going to happen anyway because it is impossible to see how
anyone can be elected the next Conservative leader without promising it. So we
might as well pledge it first," says my source.

Miliband's senior strategy adviser Stewart Wood is said to be the leading
advocate of a plan which would see Miliband admit that a severe "democratic
deficit" has built up around Britain's EU membership and urge supporters of the
EU to stop running away from public opinion and instead to make their case at a
referendum.

Another advantage, Miliband's advisers are telling him, is that such a move
would "stuff" David Cameron. "The Tory grassroots would be in uproar and would
immediately demand that Cameron matched our offer. But if he did then first he
would be accused of only giving way under pressure and next he would face the
nightmare of having to lead the campaign for a yes vote against the 80 per cent
of his own party who would be involved with the no campaign."

The only stumbling block is that Miliband is so cravenly pro-Brussels that he
has not yet decided he is definitely willing to risk the British people voting
to leave the EU. "The internal debate is moving towards backing a referendum.
But Ed is putting off the decision until the end of 2013," says my source. Watch
this space.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ENERGY minister and "Friend of [...]

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 79 words


ENERGY minister and "Friend of Dave" Greg Barker has described supporters of
UKIP's drive to get Britain out of the EU as "swivel-eyed". With most grassroots
Tories also wanting to leave the EU that remark went down like a lead balloon in
Conservative associations across the country. It seems Barker does not think his
other main preoccupation - putting up our energy bills in the name of fighting
climate change - is enough of a turn-off for voters. He's wrong about that too.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday

National: Ukip repays £37,000 of EU money diverted to party workers

BYLINE: Rajeev Syal, Daniel Foggo

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 463 words


MEPs from the United Kingdom Independence party, whose organisation has
criticised the European Union's "gravy train", have been found to have misused
taxpayer-funded allowances, following a crackdown by Europe's anti-fraud
watchdog.

Two of the party's senior members have repaid more than £37,000 meant for office
staff after diverting it to party workers based in Britain. One MEP told the
Guardian that he was asked to divert the funds by a senior adviser to the party.

The findings follow an inquiry by Olaf, the EU's investigative unit, and will
raise further questions about the way Ukip has sought to profit from the
European parliament's expenses and staffing regime. The party argues the EU
wastes money, and calls for Britain's withdrawal.

It comes days after a YouGov poll gave the party a major boost, showing Ukip in
third place behind Labour and the Conservatives on 9%, with the Liberal
Democrats at 8%.

Documents released by Olaf show that Derek Clark, Ukip's MEP for the East
Midlands, had successfully applied for money to pay for two assistants in 2004
and 2005. Instead of working for Clark, the inquiry found they worked almost
exclusively for Ukip from Britain.

EU rules say staff paid with this allowance must work predominantly for the
European parliament. "The provided allowances are only eligible when spent on
activities and objects which are directly linked to the office of a member of
the European parliament," EU documents state.

One of those paid by Clark was Niall Warry, Ukip's former office manager in its
Birmingham headquarters, who received about £10,000 for six months' work.

He told the Guardian that the decision was approved by senior people within the
party. "Ukip MEPs, sanctioned by the top of the party, have been paying for
salaried party officials with public money. I knew I was being paid by Clark,
but I was not aware then that it was against the rules," said Warry, who has
since left the party.

Clark said he began paying political workers with EU money only after being
asked to do so by an adviser to the party, whom he refused to name. He has
repaid about £31,800.

"We were using legitimate ways to use this money to try and alert people on the
problems of the EU. We believed that we were doing it for Britain," he said. "It
was an honest mistake."

Olaf's inquiry concluded that there was a breach of rules. "The discussed
payments could be considered illegal indirect party funding," it said.

Graham Booth, the late Ukip MEP for south-west England, was asked to pay back
£5,555 after Olaf found he had diverted money to fund a party official. It is
understood Booth, who died in December, paid the money back in full.

9%

Ukip's showing in a recent YouGov poll, which put it in third place nationally,
ahead of the Liberal Democrats on 8%

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 21, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

The Saturday Quiz answers;


BYLINE: Simon O'Hagan

SECTION: PUZZLES AND GAMES

LENGTH: 31 words


1. The Perfect Storm

2. Homes of Sigmund Freud

3. Ukip

4. The Aga

5. Aintree

6. Flora

7. Green

8. The latest James Bond movie

9. The Black Power salute on the podium at the Olympic Games

10. Wood

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 21, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

Blair aide among 46 new Murdoch hacking claims;
Latest batch of phone-hacking cases puts The Times in the frame

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo, Martin Hickman

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 1071 words


A key Labour aide who worked for Tony Blair and David Blunkett had his messages
intercepted while employed at the highest levels of government, according to
papers filed yesterday against Rupert Murdoch's News International - one of 46
new claimants involved in a second tranche of phone-hacking lawsuits against the
company. Matthew Doyle, who became Mr Blair's deputy director of communications
in Downing Street and continued to work for the former prime minister until this
year, joined the England and Manchester United footballer Wayne Rooney, actor
James Nesbitt and Sir John Major's former daughter-in-law, Emma Noble, in filing
damages claims.

The latest salvo of cases also involves the first lawsuit related to allegations
of illegal newsgathering against Times Newspapers, publisher of The Times and
Sunday Times. It was revealed yesterday that phone hacking litigation has so far
cost Mr Murdoch's News International £10m in legal fees for victims. Mr Doyle is
the latest member of New Labour's innermost circle to bring a hacking claim
against the News of the World and his proximity to two of the party's biggest
beasts while in government will raise further questions about the Murdoch
empire's efforts to snoop on the private lives of those running the country. Mr
Murdoch and his son, James, will next week give evidence to the Leveson Inquiry.
Mr Blair's wife, Cherie, has also brought a damages claim against the NOTW in
the latest round of litigation while a cast of senior Cabinet ministers and
Labour lieutenants, including Mr Blunkett, Lord Prescott, Tessa Jowell and
Alastair Campbell have already received apologies and substantial damages
payments for the interception of their voicemails.

Mr Doyle, who worked for Mr Blair in No 10 and beyond for more than six years,
told The Independent: "I can confirm that I have brought a damages claim but I
have no further comment."

It is understood that the claim is likely to relate to the period prior to 2005
when Mr Doyle was working as a special adviser to Mr Blunkett while he was work
and pensions secretary.

It emerged last year that the former Home Secretary was one of the recipients of
a £300,000 damages settlement from NOTW for phone hacking between 2004 and 2005
at a time when Mr Blunkett was the subject of stories about his relationship
with Kimberley Quinn, the then publisher of The Spectator.

Mr Doyle moved to Downing Street later in 2005 when he was appointed as a
communications adviser to Mr Blair, becoming one of his key aides. Any evidence
that the alleged targeting of Mr Doyle, who is also suing the NOTW's hacker
Glenn Mulcaire, continued while he was working in No 10 would be acutely
embarrassing for Mr Murdoch, who was courted assiduously by Mr Blair in the
1990s and built close links with the former PM. Mr Doyle served in Downing
Street during the turbulent final months of Mr Blair's premiership when No 10
was rocked by constant claims of a campaign to unseat him by supporters of his
successor, Gordon Brown. The aide continued to work for Mr Blair after he left
government in June 2007, becoming his policy director as the former PM began to
gather a significant fortune from speaking engagements and contracts to advise
foreign governments, including the autocratic Kazakh regime. Mr Mulcaire was
arrested in August 2006 and later imprisoned.

The revelation of the high-profile claim came as it emerged that the number of
"likely" victims of phone hacking by Mr Mulcaire and the NOTW has exceded 1,000.
Hugh Tomlinson QC, the barrister representing many of the second wave of
claimants, told the High Court the Metropolitan Police had revised the number of
individuals targeted upwards from 829 to 1,174, of whom all but 162 had been
notified by detectives. The figures mean that NI, whose parent company News Corp
has spent $195m dealing with the scandal, could yet face dozens more
compensation claims and a further swingeing legal bill.

A decision will be made in October on whether a number of test cases will be
selected from the current crop of litigants for a formal trial due early next
year. The latest lawsuits include a claim against The Sunday Times by Jane
Winter, a human rights activist in Northern Ireland who has complained about an
article published by the paper in 2006.

Ms Winter had previously complained to the Leveson Inquiry that emails sent by
her to former British Army intelligence officer Ian Hurst were hacked by the
NOTW.

A spokeswoman for NI said the claim against the Sunday Times would be
"vigorously defended".

From Beckhams to butlers: The new hacking claimants

* Cherie Blair, lawyer and wife of former prime minister

* Matthew Doyle, former political director to Tony Blair

* Ryan Giggs, footballer

* Wayne Rooney, England footballer

* Michelle Bayford, ex-girlfriend of the victim of 2006 so-called "elephant man"
drug trial case, Ryan Wilson. Also Steve Bayford, Steve Bayford Jnr and Jill
Burchnall

* Ted Beckham, father of David

* Dave Cook, former Scotland Yard murder detective, and Jacqui Hames, former
Crimewatch presenter, ex-wife

* James Blunt, pop singer

* Andy Gilchrist, former leader of Fire Brigades Union

* Anne Colvin, a witness in the Tommy Sheridan perjury trial

* Colin Stagg, falsely accused of murder of Rachel Nickell

* Paul Burrell, butler to Princess Diana

* Peter Crouch, England striker, and Abigail Clancy, his wife

* Chris Eubank, former boxing champion, and Karron Stephen-Martin, ex-wife

* Nigel Farage, leader of UK Independence Party

* Kieron Dyer, footballer

* Eimear Cook, ex-wife of golfer Colin Montgomerie

* Jamie Theakston, radio presenter

* Jeff Brazier, reality TV contestant

* Alex Best, above, ex-wife of George Best

* Joyce Matheson, assistant to John Prescott

* Patricia Bernal, mother of Mexican actor/director Gael García Bernal

* Bobby Davro and wife Trudi Nankeville

* Jane Winter, human rights activist

* Lord Blencathra, former Tory whip

* Matt Dawson, former rugby player

* James Nesbitt, actor

* Emma Noble, former daughter-in-law of John Major

* Kevin Moran, sports agent

* Edward Blum, film director

* Paul Stretford, agent to Rooney

* Jermaine Jenas, footballer

* Nicola Philips, former assistant to publicist Max Clifford

* Mary Ellen-Field, former business for model Elle Macpherson

Also: Duncan Foster, Gemma Louise Abbey, Ian Richard Johnson, Jeffrey Alan
Jones, Benedict Grant Noakes, Lucy Jane Taggart, Robert Ashworth, Georgina
James, Barry James Patrick Culhane

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 21, 2012 Saturday 11:26 PM GMT

Is Ukip's Farage poised for an election breakthrough?;
Nigel Farage may have plenty to be anxious about, but as he gulped down coffee
in Aylesbury's market square on Friday morning he was busily cooking up Abu
Qatada wise cracks for an impending speech at a rugby club lunch.

BYLINE: By Robert Watts Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1197 words


Next month's local elections are big for the UK Independence Party and their
chipper leader.

The Eurozone debt crisis, the ailing UK economy and growing criticism of the
European Court of Human Rights for its handling of Qatada and other
terror-related cases have presented a perfect anti-EU storm.

Ukip seems just as well placed to tap into the growing disenchantment with the
three main political parties as George Galloway, the Respect MP who won the
Bradford West by election last month.

But will Mr Farage secure a breakthrough election for Ukip or will the party
remain on the political sidelines, still attacked as a petty pressure group and
a haven for eccentrics and racists?

"Look, I think we will do better in our strongholds and we'll do respectably in
the new places where we're standing," he says, insisting that voters will see
Europe in a different light this time.

"Before, Europe was about treaties, laws and our sovereign right to govern
ourselves. Now, it's about everyday lives.

"It's about mass immigration at a time when 21% of young people can't find work.
It's about giving £50million a day to the EU when the public finances are under
great strain.

"It's about businesses nervous about taking on school leavers because of a mass
of red tape. It's about health and safety regulations and green fines."

The May 3 elections will see UKIP field candidates in twice as many seats as
before.

Membership has grown by around 20% in the past four years and in 2011 Ukip
attracted more than £1million of donations for the first time in a single year.

The latest YouGov opinion poll gave UKIP 7% of the vote - up from 4% two years
ago.

Nevertheless, serious doubts remain about the party's credibility.

To many voters the party remains a single-issue pressure group rather than a
genuine political party.

The British people may be increasingly Eurosceptic, but Ukip has failed to win a
single seat in Westminster after 20 years of trying.

Even Farage is not predicting a landslide of new Ukip councillors next month.

Nevertheless, Ukip's leader is in typically bullish mood. "We have developed
UKip into a party that is about a lot more than Europe," he insists. "We're no
longer just saying who should be running for Britain - we're now saying how
Britain should be governed."

A broader manifesto now includes policies such as returning to more selective
schools, deeper cuts to the foreign aid budget, and a far-reaching efficiency
drive for the NHS. Any project such as HS2 should only go ahead once given
approval by a local referendum.

Nevertheless, despite the broadening of Ukip, the party has yet to win a single
seat in the House of Commons - something the Greens and Respect have now done.

Why not? "We are the biggest losers of the first past the post system," Mr
Farage says. "We have strong and growing support across the country, but not
quite enough yet to give us that breakthrough in Westminster.

"The Green's are strong in Brighton, Norwich and Oxford and oh dear I've run out
of places. We have much broader, thinner support."

But who are Ukips supporters? The Tories may have once been called "the nasty
party", but at times Ukip attracted a reputation as "the nastier party", stocked
with little Englanders, xenophobes and crackpots.

Mr Farage admits this was a "constant problem" in his first term as leader.

"Yes, there was a problem with those people - and they didn't like me," he
admits. "Most of them have gone. There is still a group of people who want to
have treason trials when we finally do leave the EU. "

Mr Farage says the make-up of Ukip is changing. He point to accountants, lawyers
and others young professionals joining the party, who are creating a more
professional tone. However, the latest recruit, Peter Stringfellow, the
self-styled lord of the lapdance, may raise eyebrows amongst the party's older
members.

Ukip may be changing but the increasingly Eurosceptic tone of Westminster MPs -
in particular the new Conservative intake - threatens to steal back the party's
new found supporters.

Mr Farage insists that such MPs are not real eurosceptics. "There is only one
form of euro-scepticism that matters to me and that is UK independence - the
rest is a waste of space," he says.

"Amongst that new intake there are some people I've got a lot of time for, but
they are still members of three social democratic parties that agree on
everything. You can't put a cigarette paper between them on policy."

His most trenchant criticism is reserved for David Cameron and George Osborne,
however.

"He is not a Conservative, he is a social democrat," he says of the Prime
Minister. "He's completely committed to the European Union. He's completely
committed to green taxes.

"Why is the British Government so committed to pouring more of our money away on
European rescue packages. £12bn already, and now an extra £10bn via the backdoor
of the IMF?"

The answer is that propping up the Eurozone is felt to be safer than a
disorderly break-up of the single currency. The IMF, HSBC and many other
economic forecasters suggest such a scenario could plunge the world into a
global depression.

Mr Farage disagrees, with gusto. "If we were real friends of Greece we would be
helping them return to their former currencies. Throwing more money at this is
just throwing good money after bad - and talk to the British people and that's
what they say."

For all his tough words for the Prime Minister, Mr Farage knows that his only
conceivable opportunity to enter Government would be in some Ukip / Conservative
coalition, which seems a very distant possibility.

And if he's not in Government what can Ukip achieve? Surely a vote for Ukip
remains a protest vote?

"There are two types of people in politics," he says. "Those who want to be
something and those who want to do something. Where we end up as a party is not
what this is about.

"I am not here seeking rank or position. We want to change the political debate
in this country and I think we've had a fair degree of success at that.

"Ten years ago if you talked about immigration you were told that was for the
BNP.

"Similarly all debate was closed about our membership of the EU. Now, both those
issues are part of the mainstream debate."

"And if we continue to grow in support we may be able to browbeat Westminster
into giving us a referendum on EU membership."

What should that question be? "Of course, that's absolutely crucial. How about
something like 'do you wish to be a free country or do you want to carry on
living in penal servitude?'," he jokes, before adding that it should actually
be: "Do you wish to remain members of the EU?"

There are clear parallels between Mr Farage and Bradford West's new MP -
although both men may grimace to hear the comparison. Both are powerful orators,
now benefitting from the current disenchantment with the big three parties.

Does the tipple loving Ukip leader see any other similarities between him and
the devout Muslim MP known as "gorgeous George"? "We both smoke.

"But there's certainly only one thing I could never agree with George Galloway
on. He's a teetotaller and wants to close all the bars in the House of Commons.
That is just not on."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Make the mayoral elections independents' day;
As more cities opt for directly elected leaders we must make sure candidates of
real character are heard above the din

BYLINE: Janice Turner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1062 words


Imagine the ignominy. You hold an important office, swan around being big and
masterful for five golden years, but when the election comes around again, not
only do impudent people stand against you, they have a right to kick your
backside live on TV.

Nicolas Sarkozy n'est pas content with French election rules that permit each of
his nine presidential opponents equal airtime. He feels ganged up on, his
stature diminished. "I appear in broadcasts between people who I do not know,"
he complains, "who pop up every five years like some sort of Cannes Festival
which closes and does not reopen. What a strange way to express democracy."

No stranger than the London Mayoral hustings. Watching the Sky News debate this
week was the dreariest dose of déjà vu. Ken and Boris and Brian (Paddick, in
case you don't know). The exact same bunch of suits who stood four years ago.
Their desperate promises and "better deal for Londoners" platitudes leavened
only by a ludicrous scrap about their tax returns. Who is richer? Who has the
best accountant? Oh, just slap your selfassessment forms on the table, boys.

In London seven candidates are standing, but only three are allowed to take part
in the debates. The KenBoBri political complex is no doubt delighted that it
won't be arguing with the Greens, BNP, UKIP or the Left-leaning independent
Siobhan Benita. Yes, maybe the capital would be deluged with a plague of frogs
if the views of a far-Right group were expressed on air. And how would that
living Cicero Boris Johnson react if forced to parlay with Ms Benita, an uppity
civil servant from an outer London borough? Minor candidates are trapped in an
electoral Catch-22. To participate in TV hustings, they must demonstrate support
either in prior elections or in polls. The BBC, for example, applies the
principle of "due weight" - deciding what coverage a candidate merits according
to their popularity as judged by individual programme editors.

The trouble is, until a candidate is granted a platform on which to shine they
will not achieve that poll fillip. Nor can an independent first-timer
demonstrate any electoral track record. The broadcasters conjure up an image of
an unwieldy TV rostrum crowded with fascists, vegans or candidates proclaiming
the Thames Barrier as Satan's portal ... I'm sure we'll cope.

Besides London, there are already 13 directly elected mayors, with Liverpool and
Salford also choosing their first ones this May. A further ten cities will be
holding a referendum on whether to join them.

Mayors are supposed to cut through entrenched local party interests. They are
figureheads for their cities, lobbying for extra government funds, called upon
to express our collective joy or grief. Character counts. A mayor with
integrity, warmth and quiet dignity can make a city proud. But I've seen these
traits as often in a primary school head, a surgeon or a local magistrate as in
politicians.

Vote independent in a general election and at best you return a charismatic
maverick at sea in a party-riven House; at worst you waste your vote. But in a
mayoral election you might just throw up a leader who can transcend the old
battle lines and, given the supplementary voting system, you can always make a
party candidate your second choice.

This week I attended Siobhan Benita's manifesto launch. I was all ready to sneer
at an unknown who's never even stood as a local councillor, yet thinks she could
handle a £14 billion budget. I left thinking, actually this person - smart,
self-made, likeable, principled, modern, normal - is just who I'd like to
represent my city. Someone who having worked in the Cabinet Office can turn
political wheezes into reality, whose tiny team is formed of friends who gave up
jobs to campaign for her unpaid and, I'd wager, would make no greater hash of
the mayoralty than KenBoBri.

Was it because she is a woman? In part. But then people vote for Boris because
he is funny on HIGNFY. And will London ever have a female mayor otherwise? Ken
Livingstone ruthlessly carved Oona King out of the selection process for the
Labour nomination, which is partly why he now trails by 16 points among female
voters. In three elections, the three main parties have put up just one woman -
the Lib Dem Susan Kramer - between them.

Is this because, at heart, a mayoralty is seen as a macho job for a swaggering
ego in large municipal trousers? In Liverpool, where all 12 candidates are men,
Flo Clucas, a former deputy council leader, remarked: "Mayor elections are
dominated by men wherever they happen in the world." She may be right. It turns
out that New York has never had a woman mayor and Chicago has had only one.

The sniping against Siobhan Benita from male political commentators could be
summed up thus: how very dare she? They seem comically unable to square the
notion of an attractive, able woman with an executive office. "If, say, a major
and successful entrepreneur - a British Michael Bloomberg - entered the race,
they'd be taken seriously," wrote one. If Eddie Izzard, Richard Branson, Lord
Sugar or Greg Dyke stood as a candidate, that would presumably be fine too.
Anyone from any field, then - as long as they are a man.

With so many cities expected to opt for elected mayors, and with the first raft
of police commissioner elections due to be held in the autumn, broadcasters will
have to review their hustings guidelines. Ofcom needs to get a grip on an
evolving political sphere. The BBC is likely to look at the position of
independents in the light of a complaint from Ms Benita to the BBC Trust.

But what should independent candidates do in the meantime? They need a campaign
that circumvents the media roadblocks to grab voters' attention. May be you
don't need an army of leafleters or expensive bus ads. A funny internet meme and
a clever YouTube viral - like the anti-NHS reforms Andrew Lansley rap - could,
if promoted by individuals with a high following on Twitter, enable a candidate
to build up "due weight" and a ticket to the hustings.

Whereupon we can expect Sarkozy-like outrage from the KenBoBri about having to
debate with people they don't even know.

Comment Central Sign up for our e-mail bulletin for a daily dose of
award-winning opinion thetimes.co.uk/commentcentral

How would Boris react if forced to parlay with Siobhan Benita?

In three elections the main parties have put up only one woman

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Make the mayoral elections independents' day;
As more cities opt for directly elected leaders we must make sure candidates of
real character are heard above the din

BYLINE: Janice Turner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1062 words


Imagine the ignominy. You hold an important office, swan around being big and
masterful for five golden years, but when the election comes around again, not
only do impudent people stand against you, they have a right to kick your
backside live on TV.

Nicolas Sarkozy n'est pas content with French election rules that permit each of
his nine presidential opponents equal airtime. He feels ganged up on, his
stature diminished. "I appear in broadcasts between people who I do not know,"
he complains, "who pop up every five years like some sort of Cannes Festival
which closes and does not reopen. What a strange way to express democracy."

No stranger than the London Mayoral hustings. Watching the Sky News debate this
week was the dreariest dose of déjà vu. Ken and Boris and Brian (Paddick, in
case you don't know). The exact same bunch of suits who stood four years ago.
Their desperate promises and "better deal for Londoners" platitudes leavened
only by a ludicrous scrap about their tax returns. Who is richer? Who has the
best accountant? Oh, just slap your selfassessment forms on the table, boys.

In London seven candidates are standing, but only three are allowed to take part
in the debates. The KenBoBri political complex is no doubt delighted that it
won't be arguing with the Greens, BNP, UKIP or the Left-leaning independent
Siobhan Benita. Yes, maybe the capital would be deluged with a plague of frogs
if the views of a far-Right group were expressed on air. And how would that
living Cicero Boris Johnson react if forced to parlay with Ms Benita, an uppity
civil servant from an outer London borough?

Minor candidates are trapped in an electoral Catch-22. To participate in TV
hustings, they must demonstrate support either in prior elections or in polls.
The BBC, for example, applies the principle of "due weight" - deciding what
coverage a candidate merits according to their popularity as judged by
individual programme editors.

The trouble is, until a candidate is granted a platform on which to shine they
will not achieve that poll fillip. Nor can an independent first-timer
demonstrate any electoral track record. The broadcasters conjure up an image of
an unwieldy TV rostrum crowded with fascists, vegans or candidates proclaiming
the Thames Barrier as Satan's portal ... I'm sure we'll cope.

Besides London, there are already 13 directly elected mayors, with Liverpool and
Salford also choosing their first ones this May. A further ten cities will be
holding a referendum on whether to join them.

Mayors are supposed to cut through entrenched local party interests. They are
figureheads for their cities, lobbying for extra government funds, called upon
to express our collective joy or grief. Character counts. A mayor with
integrity, warmth and quiet dignity can make a city proud. But I've seen these
traits as often in a primary school head, a surgeon or a local magistrate as in
politicians.

Vote independent in a general election and at best you return a charismatic
maverick at sea in a party-riven House; at worst you waste your vote. But in a
mayoral election you might just throw up a leader who can transcend the old
battle lines and, given the supplementary voting system, you can always make a
party candidate your second choice.

This week I attended Siobhan Benita's manifesto launch. I was all ready to sneer
at an unknown who's never even stood as a local councillor, yet thinks she could
handle a £14 billion budget. I left thinking, actually this person - smart,
self-made, likeable, principled, modern, normal - is just who I'd like to
represent my city. Someone who having worked in the Cabinet Office can turn
political wheezes into reality, whose tiny team is formed of friends who gave up
jobs to campaign for her unpaid and, I'd wager, would make no greater hash of
the mayoralty than KenBoBri.

Was it because she is a woman? In part. But then people vote for Boris because
he is funny on HIGNFY. And will London ever have a female mayor otherwise? Ken
Livingstone ruthlessly carved Oona King out of the selection process for the
Labour nomination, which is partly why he now trails by 16 points among female
voters. In three elections, the three main parties have put up just one woman -
the Lib Dem Susan Kramer - between them.

Is this because, at heart, a mayoralty is seen as a macho job for a swaggering
ego in large municipal trousers? In Liverpool, where all 12 candidates are men,
Flo Clucas, a former deputy council leader, remarked: "Mayor elections are
dominated by men wherever they happen in the world." She may be right. It turns
out that New York has never had a woman mayor and Chicago has had only one.

The sniping against Siobhan Benita from male political commentators could be
summed up thus: how very dare she? They seem comically unable to square the
notion of an attractive, able woman with an executive office. "If, say, a major
and successful entrepreneur - a British Michael Bloomberg - entered the race,
they'd be taken seriously," wrote one. If Eddie Izzard, Richard Branson, Lord
Sugar or Greg Dyke stood as a candidate, that would presumably be fine too.
Anyone from any field, then - as long as they are a man.

With so many cities expected to opt for elected mayors, and with the first raft
of police commissioner elections due to be held in the autumn, broadcasters will
have to review their hustings guidelines. Ofcom needs to get a grip on an
evolving political sphere. The BBC is likely to look at the position of
independents in the light of a complaint from Ms Benita to the BBC Trust.

But what should independent candidates do in the meantime? They need a campaign
that circumvents the media roadblocks to grab voters' attention. May be you
don't need an army of leafleters or expensive bus ads. A funny internet meme and
a clever YouTube viral - like the anti-NHS reforms Andrew Lansley rap - could,
if promoted by individuals with a high following on Twitter, enable a candidate
to build up "due weight" and a ticket to the hustings.

Whereupon we can expect Sarkozy-like outrage from the KenBoBri about having to
debate with people they don't even know.

Comment Central

Sign up for our e-mail bulletin for a daily dose of award-winning opinion

thetimes.co.uk/commentcentral

How would Boris react if forced to parlay with Siobhan Benita?

In three elections the main parties have put up only one woman

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ashcroft tells Tories to pull Together;
Get a grip

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 118 words


The Conservative Party "is heading in the wrong direction" and does not know
where it is going, says party donor Lord Ashcroft.

The Tory peer said the Government had experienced its "most difficult month so
far, and the voters have noticed".

In an article on the Conservative Home website, Lord Ashcroft said the problem
was that people were "not sure" which direction the party was heading and that
if the drift was allowed to continue the Tories could lose voters to rival
parties, such as UKIP and even Labour, at the next general election.

He said Conservative voters would only stay with the party "if they see a
competent government with a grip on events" that can show " it is delivering on
its promises".

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ministers' aides threaten to quit over Lords reform

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


FOUR Conservative ministerial aides have threatened to quit the Government if
David Cameron presses ahead with plans to reform the House of Lords.

The Prime Minister has been warned to expect "off the scale" rebellions if he
pushes ahead with controversial plans to replace the House of Lords with an
elected senate.

The warnings - made at a private meeting of Tory MPs last night - come ahead of
the publication on Monday of an official report from a major Lords committee
which has considered the proposals.

The Daily Telegraph has learnt that at least three parliamentary private
secretaries (PPS) are likely to vote against the plans if they go ahead.

This would force Mr Cameron to sack them and mark the biggest challenge to his
authority since the Coalition was formed.

One PPS who confirmed that he would vote against the Government told The Daily
Telegraph last night that Downing Street "would be very wise to back off" on
Lords reform.

Two PPSs resigned and decided to vote in favour of a referendum over Britain's
continued membership of the European Union in a Commons vote in 2010.

The warnings emerged from a stormy meeting of the 1922 Committee of backbench
Conservative MPs.

Forty out of 70 MPs spoke against plans to reform the Lords during the meeting
in the House of Commons.

Jesse Norman, MP for Hereford and South Herefordshire, gave what was described
as a "powerful" denunciation of the plans.

Nadhim Zahawi, MP for Stratford-on-Avon and a former executive at pollster
YouGov, presented private polling which showed that just six per cent of people
thought Lords reform was a priority.

The Daily Telegraph spoke to half a dozen Conservative MPs at the meeting, all
of whom commented on condition of anonymity. One MP said: "It was stormy - and
it was not from the usual suspects. People who were very loyal - including two
PPSs - said they would consider their position."

Some were angry about a proposal which they said was "pandering" to the Liberal
Democrats, who are driving the need for reform in the Coalition. Others feared
an elected second chamber would start to impose its will on the Commons.

A second MP warned of widespread rebellions in the Commons if the plans went
ahead. He said: "If the Government presses ahead with this you will see
rebellions off the scale with what we have seen so far."

A third MP warned that if the plans went ahead it could lead to the break up of
the Conservative Party. He said: "Whatever you think about the elected Lords,
this has the potential to destroy the party. We stand for integrity and unity."

A No10 source said: "House of Lords reform is in the Conservative manifesto 2010
and in the Coalition Agreement." A Downing Street spokesman said: "The
Government is committed to House of Lords reform."

Get a grip Ashcroft tells Tories to pull together

The Conservative Party "is heading in the wrong direction" and does not know
where it is going, says party donor Lord Ashcroft.

The Tory peer said the Government had experienced its "most difficult month so
far, and the voters have noticed".

In an article on the Conservative Home website, Lord Ashcroft said the problem
was that people were "not sure" which direction the party was heading and that
if the drift was allowed to continue the Tories could lose voters to rival
parties, such as UKIP and even Labour, at the next general election.

He said Conservative voters would only stay with the party "if they see a
competent government with a grip on events" that can show " it is delivering on
its promises".

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;

Clarke's bid in tatters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 217 words


A DRIVE to overhaul the European Court of Human Rights was in tatters last night
after being rubbished by the body's top judge.

Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke earlier unveiled a declaration to curb meddling
by the Strasbourg-based court in domestic legal decisions.

It was backed by ministers from the 47 nations signed up to the court at a
special conference of the Council of Europe in Brighton.

But Sir Nicolas Bratza, the British president of the ECHR, said the "Brighton
declaration" would have no effect. He said: "We are, I have to say,
uncomfortable with the idea that governments can in some way dictate to the
court how its case law should lanc evolve or how it should carry out the
judicial functions conferred on it."

His remarks were being seen as a humiliating rebuff to Mr Clarke.

Critics of the court last night called on the UK to quit its jurisdiction.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "The Brighton declaration is simply a piece of
paper. It will not scrap the criminal rights charter and it will not stop
unelected European judges from messing up our country."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It is obvious
that whatever the Government says the court will continue to act in a way that
is against British interests. The only option is to withdraw from it."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 20, 2012 Friday

Ukip MEPs misused EU allowances to fund party's UK work

BYLINE: Rajeev Syalguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 618 words

ABSTRACT

Two senior Ukip MEPs have repaid more than £37,000 they say they were asked to
divert by a senior adviser to the party

FULL TEXT

MEPs from the United Kingdom Independence party, whose organisation has railed
against the European Union's "gravy train", have been found to have misused
taxpayer-funded allowances following a crackdown by Europe's anti-fraud
watchdog.

Two of the party's senior members have repaid more than £37,000 meant for office
staff after diverting it to party workers based in the UK. One MEP told the
Guardian that he was asked to divert the funds by a senior adviser to the party.

The findings follow an inquiry by Olaf, the EU's investigative unit, and will
raise further questions about the way that Ukip has sought to profit from the
European parliament's generous expenses and staffing regime. The party argues
the EU is a waste of money and calls for Britain's withdrawal.

It comes days after a YouGov poll gave the party a major boost, showing Ukip in
third place behind Labour and the Conservatives on 9%, with the Liberal
Democrats at 8%.

Documents released by Olaf show that Derek Clark, Ukip's MEP for the East
Midlands, had successfully applied for money from the EU to pay for two
assistants in 2004 and 2005.

But instead of working for Clark, the inquiry found they worked almost
exclusively for Ukip from Britain.

EU rules state that staff paid with this allowance must work predominantly for
the European parliament. "The provided allowances are only eligible when spent
on activities and objects which are directly linked to the office of a member of
the European parliament," EU documents state.

One of those paid by Clark was Niall Warry, Ukip's former office manager in its
Birmingham headquarters, who received around £10,000 for six months' work.

He told the Guardian that the decision was approved by senior people within the
party. "Ukip MEPs, sanctioned by the top of the party, have been paying for
salaried party officials with public money. I knew I was being paid by Clark,
but I was not aware then that it was against the rules," said Warry, who has
since left the party.

Clark said he began paying political workers with EU money only after being
asked to do so by an adviser to the party, whom he refused to name. He has
repaid around £31,800.

"We were using legitimate ways to use this money to try and alert people on the
problems of the EU. We believed that we were doing it for Britain," he said. "It
was an honest mistake."

Olaf's inquiry concluded that there was a breach of rules. "The discussed
payments could be considered illegal indirect party funding," it said.

Graham Booth, the late Ukip MEP for south west England, was asked to pay back
£5,555 after Olaf found he had also diverted money to fund a party official. It
is understood that Booth, who died in December, paid the money back in full.

Another Ukip MEP, Mike Nattrass, was subject to an Olaf inquiry but was not
forced to pay money back.

Other Ukip sources have claimed there was a "systematic" attempt to pay party
officials using EU money.

In 2009, a former Ukip MEP was jailed for diverting £39,000 meant for a member
of staff into a bank account he secretly controlled. Tom Wise, who represented
East of England, spent some of the money on fine wine and a car.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, admitted he also might have been investigated by
Olaf for diverting money from the EU to political campaigns, but said he had
done nothing wrong. He insisted there was not a systematic attempt to defraud
the EU by his party.

"There is a hell of a difference between that and seeking personal gain from
public money. In the case of poor old Derek Clark it has cost him out of his own
pocket," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 10:28 AM GMT

Labour hold off BNP in Barking and Dagenham by-election;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 438 words


Labour easily held off a BNP come-back challenge at Barking and Dagenham, East
London in the latest council by-elections.

At Chichester District, West Sussex, Tories avoided a shock defeat by Liberal
Democrats by only 47 votes.

The Barking and Dagenham contest at Goresbrook came in the borough where the far
right's once large group was wiped off the council in the last main polls in May
2010.

These were on the same day as the general election when Labour former minister
Margaret Hodge inflicted a crushing defeat on BNP leader Nick Griffin at Barking
.

In another east London contest this week, Labour narrowly failed to recover a
Spitalfields and Banglatown seat at Tower Hamlets, lost earlier through a
defection.

This by-election, in which borough mayor Lutfur Rahman backed independent Gulam
Robbani in his former ward against the Labour nominee, echoed an earlier bitter
row which also involved London mayoral candidate Ken Livingstone.

Despite a decision by the party's national executive committee to block Mr
Rahman from running under its banner in the 2010 borough mayoral poll, Mr
Livingstone campaigned with him when he stood as an independent and went on to
win.

The Spitalfields poll was sparked by the departure of a former Labour councillor
who had quit the party to back Mr Rahman.

This week's two London by-elections are the latest in a run of poor results for
Tories in the capital with just two weeks until the mayoral and assembly polls.

Last week at East Finchley, there was a 16.6% swing to Labour in Barnet.

The Plaistow poll at Chichester was the fourth by-election in the ward in three
years.

RESULTS

Barking and Dagenham London Borough - Goresbrookl: Lab 1113, BNP 593, Ukip 91, C
81, Lib Dem 48. (May 2010 - Three seats Lab 2142, 1963, 1872, BNP 1340, 1146,
1128, C 644, 533, Lib Dem 457, 347, Ind 335. July 8 2010 by-election: Lab 881,
BNP 642, Lib Dem 136, C 108, Ind 63, Ukip 50, Ind 11). Lab hold. Swing 4.8% BNP
to Lab.

Chichester District - Plaistow: C 455, Lib Dem 408. (May 2011 - Two seats C
1090, 1015, Lib Dem 477, 462, Ukip 221). C hold. Swing 14.0% C to Lib Dem.

Oxfordshire County - Watlington: C 865, Lib Dem 259, Lab 157, Ukip 110. (June
2009 - C 1720, Lib Dem 374, Green 292, Lab 114). C hold. Swing 5.1% C to Lib
Dem.

Tower Hamlets London Borough - Spitalfields: Ind 1030, Lab 987, C 140, Green 99,
Lib Dem 39. (May 2010 - Three seats Lab 1660, 1545, 1500, Respect 1068, Lib Dem
839, 673, C 571, 561, Lib Dem 532, C 492, Green 483, Respect 441, 437, Green
265, Ind 141. December 12 2010 by-election: Respect 666, Lab 553, C 135, Green
52, Lib Dem 33, Ind 28). Ind hold. Swing 5.4% C to Lab.

PA

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 5:36 PM GMT

The EU must stop trying to make climate change a feminist issue

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 535 words


Calling all women - and men, because I wouldn't want to discriminate: The EU
thinks climate change is a feminist issue. Do you?

Members of the European Parliament will vote today on a report by Nicole
Kiil-Niielsen, a French Green party MEP who claims global warming 'is not gender
neutral'. Women, claims Kiil-Nielsen, 'consume more sustainably than men and
show greater willingness to act to preserve the environment' as they tend to
organise household consumption and childcare'.

Women are targeted and bombarded with advertisements in magazines, online and on
TV as they are the main shoppers in the household and some middle-class women
may choose expensive 'eco' washing-up and washing powder brands over the cheaper
or high-end brands. That is a luxury that many cannot afford.

Childcare is still in the main dominated by women because more women work
part-time - but that is changing. Research has shown that the main factor for
choosing who looks after the children is economic and not based on gender.

The EU's brand of bonkers feminism implies that the climate change wheeze is an
all-female concern, as if there is a male conspiracy to warm up the climate,
cause typhoons, tsunamis, famine and pestilence. This sounds more like the Old
Testament or a Disney version of Zeus than 21st century politics.

As usual, the Women and Climate Change group is calling for a 40 per cent female
quota on all EU delegations in climate negotiations, and on the committees that
allocate climate aid from member states. This is not democracy, it is toxic
feminism. How dare they 'demand' female quotas? Surely if their brand of
politics is so palatable to women and if women are so affected by their claims,
then they will come forward in their droves to be elected Green MEPs?

But they are not. In the London elections, the more the public see of the Green
Assembly Mayoral candidate, Jenny Jones, the more they are turned off. She
didn't appear in the most recent mayoral debate and, on a national scale, recent
polls put the Greens in fifth place, with UKIP polling third and the Lib Dems
fourth.

The more Ms Jones talks about the assault on motorists by proposing a £40
Congestion Charge, the more commuters and small business users are driven away
from her. The more she talks about current taxation 'dropping to unacceptably
low levels', the more hard-pressed taxpayers walk away. The more she publicises
her lack of support for businesses by proposing an increase in the main rate of
Corporation Tax from 28 percent back to 30 percent, and reducing the small
firms' rate back to 20 percent, the more business - the backbone of the economy
- vows to take its vote elsewhere.

And she doesn't stop there. Ms Jones supports an increase in the aid budget from
£3bn to £4.5bn.

Green party support for mandatory quotas is well-documented, and no wonder -
that is the only way they can force their unsustainable policies through.

Unfortunately, this climate change lunacy will probably be passed. When MEPs
vote on the proposal today, those with a vested interest will stay on and vote
while the rest fly home. It's time to leave the EU and stand up for the UK
taxpayer against this nonsense and undemocratic gender bias.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour's poll high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


LABOUR has soared to a record opinion poll lead over the Tories, it emerged last
night.

A YouGov poll for The Sun put the party 13 points ahead - in another huge blow
for PM David Cameron.

Labour are on 45 per cent, four points up on earlier in the week. The
Conservatives are unchanged on 32 per cent, the Lib Dems are down two on eight
per cent and UKIP are on seven.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lucky 13 ... Miliband

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Labour's poll high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 85 words


LABOUR has soared to a record opinion poll lead over the Tories, it emerged last
night.

A YouGov poll for The Sun put the party 13 points ahead - in another huge blow
for PM David Cameron.

Labour are on 45 per cent, four points up on earlier in the week. The
Conservatives are unchanged on 32 per cent, the Lib Dems are down two on eight
per cent and UKIP are on seven.

TEETOTAL MP George Galloway wants every House of Commons bar closed - to stop
MPs passing laws while they are "blind drunk" on subsidised booze.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Labour's poll high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


LABOUR has soared to a record opinion poll lead over the Tories, it emerged last
night.

A YouGov poll for The Sun put the party THIRTEEN points ahead, in another huge
blow for Prime Minister David Cameron.

Labour are on 45 per cent, four points up on earlier in the week.

The Conservatives are un- changed on 32 per cent, the Lib Dems are down two on
eight per cent and UKIP are on seven per cent.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lucky 13 ... Miliband

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 9:03 PM GMT

UKIP doesn't have a grassroots and has to fight to keep the loonies out.
Wavering Tories should be careful

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1162 words


From Saturday's Daily Telegraph

The United Kingdom Independence Party is so obsessed with race, immigration and
Islam that it might as well merge with the BNP. That's the opinion of a
professor at the London School of Economics.

No surprise there, you're probably thinking. The LSE, like the rest of London
University, is crawling with Left-wing dons who suck up to radical Muslims. Of
course they hate Ukip, which this week edged into third place in the opinion
polls.

But hang on a moment. The LSE professor I'm quoting actually founded Ukip. Alan
Sked is an expert on the 19th-century Habsburg empire; in 1991 he set up a new
party, then called the Anti-Federalist League, as a Eurosceptic alternative to
the muddled Tories. It fielded candidates in the 1992 general election and as a
result may have cost Chris Patten his seat, a historic achievement by any
standards.

To cut a long story short, Sked fell out with Ukip after the 1997 election,
saying that he'd created a Right-wing monster. He's stuck to that line ever
since. The stuff about Ukip merging with the BNP ("which it increasingly
resembles") comes from a letter to The Times in 2010.

I'm not quoting it because I agree with Sked. Founders of parties who have left
after a blazing row are not always the most objective of commentators. We're in
People's Front of Judea territory here - and that's my point. This weekend, many
Tories will be mulling over the polls and wondering if they should change
allegiance. They should think twice.

Ukip hasn't managed to free itself from the sectarian subculture that afflicts
all small parties and religious groups. And there's no evidence that it will
ever do so.

Yes, it's fun for professional Lib Dem haters to see Ukip pulling ahead of the
Conservatives' ghastly coalition partners, but don't kid yourself: the
combination of lack of grassroots and lack of proportional representation will
prove as deadly as ever come the general election.

Breakaway groups that move away from the centre of gravity have a weakness in
their DNA: they attract fanatics. Ukip is well aware of this. It hasn't become
"the BNP in blazers" - but only thanks to constant vigilance. Ukip has the same
problem that breakaway Catholic traditionalists do: keeping racists away is hard
work.

And what about all the conspiracy theorists who target conveniently naive
gatherings of enthusiasts? Last week I was rung by an American complaining that
the only British interest shown in a book raising doubts about Barack Obama's
birth certificate had come from Ukip.

Ah, say my Ukip-supporting friends, but you could never accuse the quirky and
engaging Nigel Farage of extremist views. Perhaps not: even so, the YouTube clip
of him haranguing Herman Van Rompuy in the European Parliament is a display of
debating-society rudeness, not remotely in the same class as Dan Hannan's
evisceration of Gordon Brown.

Farage looked as if he was showing off for the benefit of his membership. But,
to reiterate, he doesn't have any grassroots. He has people who were part of the
Tory grassroots; now they've left, bringing with them precious few rank-and-file
Conservatives but lots of righteous anger.

Righteous and useless. David Cameron would like nothing better than to see
proper Eurosceptics such as the magnificent Lord Tebbit leave his party for Ukip
. Which is, of course, precisely why they shouldn't. After all, it wasn't the
Tory grassroots who infiltrated the party of Margaret Thatcher: it was the
former head of public relations for Carlton TV and his curious assortment of
friends. So stay.

Get off your bike and into a cab

I've only myself to blame, but last year I succumbed to delusions of grandeur
and opened an account with Addison Lee, the sleek minicab firm. Never again. The
ads said I could save a third of the cost of taxi journeys. Sure - if I was in
the habit of hailing a passing Space Shuttle.

Still, I enjoyed the rant by John Griffin, Addison Lee's chairman, who reckons
cyclists are making the roads more dangerous. I agree, but that's only one of
their crimes. Many's the dinner party ruined by the arrival of the last guest: a
helmet-clad cyclist stinking of sweat and self-righteousness - and a Liberal
Democrat to boot.

Berlin's loss is London's gain

What a joy this week to hear Daniel Barenboim conduct Bruckner's Seventh and
Eighth Symphonies with the Berlin Staatskapelle as part of the Southbank's Shell
Classic International series. Where other conductors explore the spirituality of
Bruckner's work, Barenboim guided us through its construction - the dovetailing
of the violin line into a brass chorale, the leaping and twisting of melodies to
create a symmetry worthy of Bach. Nice to see full houses, too, given that until
a few years ago British audiences regarded Bruckner as an Austrian village
idiot. Good old Barenboim: pushing 70, but still bounding on to the stage with
teenage energy. I hate to sound unpatriotic, but I'm not sure the Berlin Phil
made the right decision when it chose Simon Rattle over the Israeli maestro.

Finally, I see the point of Polly

I'm not sure what to make of Chris Grayling's attack on members of "the Polly
Toynbee Left". No doubt the employment minister is right to say that their
opinions display massive ignorance of the modern labour market (though they do
tend to know the going rate for domestic help). But would we really want to be
without the great lady herself?

A few years ago I was sitting on a plane a few seats away from Miss Toynbee. I
was a nervous flier at the time, and as we hit turbulence I thought... well, I
won't spell it out, but it was something to do with every cloud having a silver
lining.

Which was silly as well as wicked of me. Without Polly Toynbee, we might be
taken in by the mwah-mwah kisses that BBC and public sector grandees shower on
progressive Tories at drinks parties. She reminds us, in her Stalinist
imperturbability, that deep down these people are still fighting the 1979
general election. Rumour has it that Polly hasn't smiled since. Isn't she
splendid?

The PM's Delightful love affair

The publication of Seasons in the Sun, Dominic Sandbrook's history of the
mid-Seventies, has reawakened interest in that glamorous era. The other day a
younger colleague quizzed me about Angel Delight. I loved the stuff, though I
haven't eaten it for years. But my source in the Downing Street kitchens tells
me that the Prime Minister is still loyal to his favourite childhood pud. "When
he's feeling peckish at Cabinet meetings, he'll pretend to go to the loo and nip
in for a quick bowl," she says. What flavour? "Well, we call it butterscotch
plus." I can guess what's coming. "A drizzle of cream makes his eyes light up.
As they said in the Seventies, it makes simple things super. But don't tell Mrs
Cameron!"

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 9:03 PM GMT

UKIP doesn't have a grassroots and has to fight to keep the loonies out.
Wavering Tories should be careful

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1162 words


From Saturday's Daily Telegraph

The United Kingdom Independence Party is so obsessed with race, immigration and
Islam that it might as well merge with the BNP. That's the opinion of a
professor at the London School of Economics.

No surprise there, you're probably thinking. The LSE, like the rest of London
University, is crawling with Left-wing dons who suck up to radical Muslims. Of
course they hate Ukip, which this week edged into third place in the opinion
polls.

But hang on a moment. The LSE professor I'm quoting actually founded Ukip. Alan
Sked is an expert on the 19th-century Habsburg empire; in 1991 he set up a new
party, then called the Anti-Federalist League, as a Eurosceptic alternative to
the muddled Tories. It fielded candidates in the 1992 general election and as a
result may have cost Chris Patten his seat, a historic achievement by any
standards.

To cut a long story short, Sked fell out with Ukip after the 1997 election,
saying that he'd created a Right-wing monster. He's stuck to that line ever
since. The stuff about Ukip merging with the BNP ("which it increasingly
resembles") comes from a letter to The Times in 2010.

I'm not quoting it because I agree with Sked. Founders of parties who have left
after a blazing row are not always the most objective of commentators. We're in
People's Front of Judea territory here - and that's my point. This weekend, many
Tories will be mulling over the polls and wondering if they should change
allegiance. They should think twice.

Ukip hasn't managed to free itself from the sectarian subculture that afflicts
all small parties and religious groups. And there's no evidence that it will
ever do so.

Yes, it's fun for professional Lib Dem haters to see Ukip pulling ahead of the
Conservatives' ghastly coalition partners, but don't kid yourself: the
combination of lack of grassroots and lack of proportional representation will
prove as deadly as ever come the general election.

Breakaway groups that move away from the centre of gravity have a weakness in
their DNA: they attract fanatics. Ukip is well aware of this. It hasn't become
"the BNP in blazers" - but only thanks to constant vigilance. Ukip has the same
problem that breakaway Catholic traditionalists do: keeping racists away is hard
work.

And what about all the conspiracy theorists who target conveniently naive
gatherings of enthusiasts? Last week I was rung by an American complaining that
the only British interest shown in a book raising doubts about Barack Obama's
birth certificate had come from Ukip.

Ah, say my Ukip-supporting friends, but you could never accuse the quirky and
engaging Nigel Farage of extremist views. Perhaps not: even so, the YouTube clip
of him haranguing Herman Van Rompuy in the European Parliament is a display of
debating-society rudeness, not remotely in the same class as Dan Hannan's
evisceration of Gordon Brown.

Farage looked as if he was showing off for the benefit of his membership. But,
to reiterate, he doesn't have any grassroots. He has people who were part of the
Tory grassroots; now they've left, bringing with them precious few rank-and-file
Conservatives but lots of righteous anger.

Righteous and useless. David Cameron would like nothing better than to see
proper Eurosceptics such as the magnificent Lord Tebbit leave his party for Ukip
. Which is, of course, precisely why they shouldn't. After all, it wasn't the
Tory grassroots who infiltrated the party of Margaret Thatcher: it was the
former head of public relations for Carlton TV and his curious assortment of
friends. So stay.

Get off your bike and into a cab

I've only myself to blame, but last year I succumbed to delusions of grandeur
and opened an account with Addison Lee, the sleek minicab firm. Never again. The
ads said I could save a third of the cost of taxi journeys. Sure - if I was in
the habit of hailing a passing Space Shuttle.

Still, I enjoyed the rant by John Griffin, Addison Lee's chairman, who reckons
cyclists are making the roads more dangerous. I agree, but that's only one of
their crimes. Many's the dinner party ruined by the arrival of the last guest: a
helmet-clad cyclist stinking of sweat and self-righteousness - and a Liberal
Democrat to boot.

Berlin's loss is London's gain

What a joy this week to hear Daniel Barenboim conduct Bruckner's Seventh and
Eighth Symphonies with the Berlin Staatskapelle as part of the Southbank's Shell
Classic International series. Where other conductors explore the spirituality of
Bruckner's work, Barenboim guided us through its construction - the dovetailing
of the violin line into a brass chorale, the leaping and twisting of melodies to
create a symmetry worthy of Bach. Nice to see full houses, too, given that until
a few years ago British audiences regarded Bruckner as an Austrian village
idiot. Good old Barenboim: pushing 70, but still bounding on to the stage with
teenage energy. I hate to sound unpatriotic, but I'm not sure the Berlin Phil
made the right decision when it chose Simon Rattle over the Israeli maestro.

Finally, I see the point of Polly

I'm not sure what to make of Chris Grayling's attack on members of "the Polly
Toynbee Left". No doubt the employment minister is right to say that their
opinions display massive ignorance of the modern labour market (though they do
tend to know the going rate for domestic help). But would we really want to be
without the great lady herself?

A few years ago I was sitting on a plane a few seats away from Miss Toynbee. I
was a nervous flier at the time, and as we hit turbulence I thought... well, I
won't spell it out, but it was something to do with every cloud having a silver
lining.

Which was silly as well as wicked of me. Without Polly Toynbee, we might be
taken in by the mwah-mwah kisses that BBC and public sector grandees shower on
progressive Tories at drinks parties. She reminds us, in her Stalinist
imperturbability, that deep down these people are still fighting the 1979
general election. Rumour has it that Polly hasn't smiled since. Isn't she
splendid?

The PM's Delightful love affair

The publication of Seasons in the Sun, Dominic Sandbrook's history of the
mid-Seventies, has reawakened interest in that glamorous era. The other day a
younger colleague quizzed me about Angel Delight. I loved the stuff, though I
haven't eaten it for years. But my source in the Downing Street kitchens tells
me that the Prime Minister is still loyal to his favourite childhood pud. "When
he's feeling peckish at Cabinet meetings, he'll pretend to go to the loo and nip
in for a quick bowl," she says. What flavour? "Well, we call it butterscotch
plus." I can guess what's coming. "A drizzle of cream makes his eyes light up.
As they said in the Seventies, it makes simple things super. But don't tell Mrs
Cameron!"

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 9:03 PM GMT

UKIP doesn't have a grassroots and has to fight to keep the loonies out.
Wavering Tories should be careful

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1162 words


From Saturday's Daily Telegraph

The United Kingdom Independence Party is so obsessed with race, immigration and
Islam that it might as well merge with the BNP. That's the opinion of a
professor at the London School of Economics.

No surprise there, you're probably thinking. The LSE, like the rest of London
University, is crawling with Left-wing dons who suck up to radical Muslims. Of
course they hate Ukip, which this week edged into third place in the opinion
polls.

But hang on a moment. The LSE professor I'm quoting actually founded Ukip. Alan
Sked is an expert on the19th-century Habsburg empire; in 1991 he set up a new
party, then called the Anti-Federalist League, as a Eurosceptic alternative to
the muddled Tories. It fielded candidates in the 1992 general election and as a
result may have cost Chris Patten his seat, a historic achievement by any
standards.

To cut a long story short, Sked fell out with Ukip after the 1997 election,
saying that he'd created a Right-wing monster. He's stuck to that line ever
since. The stuff about Ukip merging with the BNP ("which it increasingly
resembles") comes from a letter to The Times in 2010.

I'm not quoting it because I agree with Sked. Founders of parties who have left
after a blazing row are not always the most objective of commentators. We're in
People's Front of Judea territory here - and that's my point. This weekend, many
Tories will be mulling over the polls and wondering if they should change
allegiance. They should think twice.

Ukip hasn't managed to free itself from the sectarian subculture that afflicts
all small parties and religious groups. And there's no evidence that it will
ever do so.

Yes, it's fun for professional Lib Dem haters to see Ukip pulling ahead of the
Conservatives' ghastly coalition partners, but don't kid yourself: the
combination of lack of grassroots and lack of proportional representation will
prove as deadly as ever come the general election.

Breakaway groups that move away from the centre of gravity have a weakness in
their DNA: they attract fanatics. Ukip is well aware of this. It hasn't become
"the BNP in blazers" - but only thanks to constant vigilance. Ukip has the same
problem that breakaway Catholic traditionalists do: keeping racists away is hard
work.

And what about all the conspiracy theorists who target conveniently naive
gatherings of enthusiasts? Last week I was rung by an American complaining that
the only British interest shown in a book raising doubts about Barack Obama's
birth certificate had come from Ukip.

Ah, say my Ukip-supporting friends, but you could never accuse the quirky and
engaging Nigel Farage of extremist views. Perhaps not: even so, the YouTube clip
of him haranguing Herman Van Rompuy in the European Parliament is a display of
debating-society rudeness, not remotely in the same class as Dan Hannan's
evisceration of Gordon Brown.

Farage looked as if he was showing off for the benefit of his membership. But,
to reiterate, he doesn't have any grassroots. He has people who were part of the
Tory grassroots; now they've left, bringing with them precious few rank-and-file
Conservatives but lots of righteous anger.

Righteous and useless. David Cameron would like nothing better than to see
proper Eurosceptics such as the magnificent Lord Tebbit leave his party for Ukip
. Which is, of course, precisely why they shouldn't. After all, it wasn't the
Tory grassroots who infiltrated the party of Margaret Thatcher: it was the
former head of public relations for Carlton TV and his curious assortment of
friends. So stay.

Get off your bike and into a cab

I've only myself to blame, but last year I succumbed to delusions of grandeur
and opened an account with Addison Lee, the sleek minicab firm. Never again. The
ads said I could save a third of the cost of taxi journeys. Sure - if I was in
the habit of hailing a passing Space Shuttle.

Still, I enjoyed the rant by John Griffin, Addison Lee's chairman, who reckons
cyclists are making the roads more dangerous. I agree, but that's only one of
their crimes. Many's the dinner party ruined by the arrival of the last guest: a
helmet-clad cyclist stinking of sweat and self-righteousness - and a Liberal
Democrat to boot.

Berlin's loss is London's gain

What a joy this week to hear Daniel Barenboim conduct Bruckner's Seventh and
Eighth Symphonies with the Berlin Staatskapelle as part of the Southbank's Shell
Classic International series. Where other conductors explore the spirituality of
Bruckner's work, Barenboim guided us through its construction - the dovetailing
of the violin line into a brass chorale, the leaping and twisting of melodies to
create a symmetry worthy of Bach. Nice to see full houses, too, given that until
a few years ago British audiences regarded Bruckner as an Austrian village
idiot. Good old Barenboim: pushing 70, but still bounding on to the stage with
teenage energy. I hate to sound unpatriotic, but I'm not sure the Berlin Phil
made the right decision when it chose Simon Rattle over the Israeli maestro.

Finally, I see the point of Polly

I'm not sure what to make of Chris Grayling's attack on members of "the Polly
Toynbee Left". No doubt the employment minister is right to say that their
opinions display massive ignorance of the modern labour market (though they do
tend to know the going rate for domestic help). But would we really want to be
without the great lady herself?

A few years ago I was sitting on a plane a few seats away from Miss Toynbee. I
was a nervous flier at the time, and as we hit turbulence I thought... well, I
won't spell it out, but it was something to do with every cloud having a silver
lining.

Which was silly as well as wicked of me. Without Polly Toynbee, we might be
taken in by the mwah-mwah kisses that BBC and public sector grandees shower on
progressive Tories at drinks parties. She reminds us, in her Stalinist
imperturbability, that deep down these people are still fighting the 1979
general election. Rumour has it that Polly hasn't smiled since. Isn't she
splendid?

The PM's Delightful love affair

The publication of Seasons in the Sun, Dominic Sandbrook's history of the
mid-Seventies, has reawakened interest in that glamorous era. The other day a
younger colleague quizzed me about Angel Delight. I loved the stuff, though I
haven't eaten it for years. But my source in the Downing Street kitchens tells
me that the Prime Minister is still loyal to his favourite childhood pud. "When
he's feeling peckish at Cabinet meetings, he'll pretend to go to the loo and nip
in for a quick bowl," she says. What flavour? "Well, we call it butterscotch
plus." I can guess what's coming. "A drizzle of cream makes his eyes light up.
As they said in the Seventies, it makes simple things super. But don't tell Mrs
Cameron!"

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 8:54 PM GMT

Is politics on the verge of a breakdown?;
With the three main parties increasingly seen as interchangeable, political
outsiders are becoming more attractive to voters. Could the rise of the
'insurgent politician' lead to radical and lasting change ?

BYLINE: By Peter Oborne

LENGTH: 1403 words


This is the week when the wheels well and truly came off the Coalition bus. But
it's not just David Cameron and Nick Clegg who are in trouble. Despite the
golden opportunity this turmoil presented to the Labour leader, Ed Miliband, he
failed to connect with a British public who are, at best, largely apathetic to
his charms. There could be no clearer illustration of this indifference than
George Galloway's spectacular arrival in the House of Commons on Monday, having
overturned a Labour majority of 5,000 in Bradford West.

The British party system as it has existed for more than a century is in
collapse. Tory Party membership, which stood at around three million after the
Second World War, is now less than 200,000 and falling. Labour has suffered as
dramatic a fall. It used to be the case that 80 per cent or more would regularly
vote at general elections. That figure, too, is starting to shrink sharply, as
inertia infects swathes of the British population. Only insurgent figures who
challenge the complacency of the political class can arouse voters' enthusiasm.

With just 12 days to go until this spring's local and mayoral elections, it is
time to pose a most urgent question: can British politics be about to undergo a
seismic shift? Could one of our three largest parties even disappear?

The elections for London Mayor demonstrate the power of insurgent politics. The
odds on the wholly unknown independent Siobhan Benita have dropped from 500-1 to
20-1 in recent weeks as her campaign has taken off, receiving a fillip from
Galloway's victory. A former civil servant, allied to no party, she benefited
from being an unfancied outsider. The continued success of Boris Johnson,
meanwhile, can partly be put down to his status as a sometimes angry rebel
against David Cameron's government. Suddenly, it's the outsiders who are
starting to shape the future of British politics.

To discuss this fascinating political phenomenon, I brought together the leading
figures from Britain's three insurgent minority parties to discuss the matter
for the BBC's Week in Westminster: Caroline Lucas of the Green Party, George
Galloway of Respect and Ukip's Nigel Farage. To put the political predicament in
its historical context, I also invited the YouGov pollster Peter Kellner. He
identified one profound change: "'When I was growing up in the Fifties,
something like 97-98 per cent of all voters in general elections voted Labour or
Conservative. A great many of them felt passionately that there was a strong
partisanship on one side or the other. British politics was very much a
two-party system.'

That situation, added Kellner, has been smashed by the rise of the smaller
parties. In Scotland, the Scottish National Party has already seized control of
national government and is slowly destroying Labour north of the border. This
demoralisation of the mainstream parties is now spreading south of the border.
"'In the last European elections three years ago, if you added up the Tory plus
Labour plus Liberal Democrat vote across Britain, it was less than half the
total vote. The majority of people voted for a non-mainstream party,'' says
Kellner.

I asked George Galloway, fresh from his "'Bradford Spring'' triumph, to explain
how support for the two main parties had halved in 60 years. "'I think the
half-inch of space between them all is one of the factors. People see no real
difference from what I've described as three cheeks of the same backside, and
they don't particularly like the look of the backside - and they want to give it
a kicking. At elections where a candidate can credibly defeat [the mainstream
party] they will go for that candidate, but when [there is no alternative] they
will simply stay away from the polls, which is surely one of the explanations
for the historically low level of turn-outs in British general elections.''

Caroline Lucas agrees: "In many respects, the kind of cosy consensus at
Westminster doesn't reflect where most people actually would like to put their
votes. If you take a look at issues like the withdrawal from Afghanistan, the
majority of people would like our troops withdrawn from Afghanistan as soon as
possible. None of the main three parties at Westminster are calling for that.''

Nigel Farage, too, sees the party system as being in crisis: "We are run by a
bunch of college kids. None of them have ever had a job, never worked in the
real world, they look the same, they sound the same, they are virtually
interchangeable. They agree on all the big issues, whether it's Europe or
immigration or green taxes. The differences between them are so small that you
frankly can't put a cigarette paper between them. And so you've now got
different parties with different philosophies that are beginning to pick up
support.''

Galloway believes that the decline of the big three parties has been mirrored by
changes in the mainstream British media: "Nobody covered my by-election. Our
media was social media, was Twitter, was text, was Facebook, was YouTube - and
that's more and more a feature.'' He added: "At the touch of a button, I can
speak to hundreds of thousands of people via Twitter and Facebook. I have
150,000 followers on both. Our election campaign was built entirely outside of
the Westminster bubble.''

I put it to Galloway, Lucas and Farage that while minority parties can record
spectacular results in between national elections, in the end, the British
people will always create a government drawn from Labour, Tory or Lib Dem.
Farage disputed this, citing the example of the insurgent SNP: "We've seen the
SNP go from nothing to being the biggest party in Scotland. We've seen Ian
Paisley's party go from the backstreets to being the biggest party in Northern
Ireland. So it's happened across the United Kingdom, and I think it can happen
in England, but the key is this: are people just going to vote for [Ukip, the
Greens and Respect] as a protest, or are they going to see voting for different
parties as voting for radical policy solutions?'

There's some debate over whether the sectarian issues which led the SNP and the
Democratic Unionist Party to power could possibly be replicated in England.
Indeed, Peter Kellner believes that for as long as the first-past-the-post
system persists in Britain it would take a "national nervous breakdown to break
the party duopoly''. He said: "The real question is, are we predicting such a
big national breakdown? I don't see it.''

Peter Kellner is an experienced political observer, and his views have to be
taken seriously. And it is certainly true that surges by the Greens and Respect
have come and gone in the past. But Kellner may also be articulating the
complacency of a Westminster establishment which is losing public support by the
day. And even Kellner acknowledges that the British political elite has ceased
to address the concerns of ordinary people.

Galloway puts it more strongly: "I think that the level of discontent touches
upon hatred, and I discovered that everywhere I went in Bradford. Hatred of the
mainstream leaders, particularly Cameron and Clegg, but I'm bound to say, and
I'm sorry to say, Ed Miliband too. People think that [mainstream politicians]
are of no use at all. If that feeling is replicated in many parts of the
country, then there will be this collective political nervous breakdown and the
system could crack open.

"This critical mass I believe is developing, and you know what happens when you
get a critical mass - you get a very big explosion.'

It is much too soon to judge if George Galloway's prediction will come true. But
it cannot be denied that if the trends continue, at some point, something must
break. And there is considerable truth in Galloway's derisive comment that
LibDem, Tory and Labour are like "three cheeks from the same backside'', and in
Nigel Farage's comment that the policies of the big parties are
"interchangeable'' on the big issues. The emergence of parties such as Ukip,
Respect and the Greens, and the many other independent politicians, is a sign
that traditional British politics no longer works. And if a solution is not
found, then at some stage there is every reason to predict that Britain's
traditional political architecture will smash, and we will indeed be on the edge
of a national political breakdown.

Peter Oborne presents 'Week in Westminster' at 11am today on Radio 4

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

DIARY

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1145 words


A DICKENS OF A ROYAL PARDON!

ACTRESS Keeley Hawes is feeling snubbed by the Queen after being left off the
invitations for the royal Charles Dickens bicentenary celebrations, unlike her
husband -- handsome Little Dorrit star Matthew Macfadyen.

Asked who she d most like to have a cup of tea with, Keeley -- who played Lizzie
Hexam in an acclaimed TV version of Our Mutual Friend -- says:  The Queen. My
husband went to Buckingham Palace recently. He was invited as part of the
Dickens anniversary celebrations, which I was a part of, too, so I don t know
what happened to my invite!

However, she adds diplomatically:  I m a huge fan of the Queen -- I ll forgive
her.

Keeley, who plays Lady Agnes Holland in Upstairs Downstairs, wanted to be a
ballet dancer  like a `ot of little girls , but opted for acting early on.

I went to stage school and did both there. Unfortunately, it soon becomes
obvious if someone has rhythm or not,  she says.

--

Money is changing hands on whether a sitting MP will quit the Conservatives and
join UKIP. Party treasurer millionaire businessman Stuart Wheeler tells me he
has put several hundred pounds on UKIP having a seat in the near future. The
77-year-old spread-betting tycoon and former Tory donor says he has a
three-figure bet  with Ladbrokes.  I have money at 2/1 on a sitting MP defecting
before the next election,  he says. Following a poll this week showing UKIP has
overtaken the Lib Dems, perhaps supporters are not  fruitcakes  after all, as
David Cameron described them.

--

QUEEN S GP AND PEER IN STATUE ROW

Nearly all the money has been raised, an eminent sculptor has been chosen and
Princess Alexandra has been pencilled in by Buckingham Palace to do the
unveiling.

But now, nine years after Labour peer Baron Soley started a campaign for the
first statue to pay tribute to a black woman in Britain, he is mystified that a
number of eminent folk are objecting -- including the Queen s former physician
Sir Richard Thompson.

Sir Richard, 72, the president of the Royal College of Physicians, has written
objecting to plans to put the 8ft bronze in the garden of St Thomas s Hospital
in London.

The statue is of Jamaican-born Mary Seacole who, like Florence Nightingale,
nursed British soldiers in the Crimean War.

But Lord Soley could not have foreseen that he was stepping into a quagmire of
sensitivities because St Thomas s also houses the Florence Nightingale Museum
and it was where she founded the Nightingale nursing school.

Objections have even come from across the Atlantic. Canadian sociologist Dr Lynn
McDonald says honouring Mary Seacole at St Thomas s would denigrate Florence
Nightingale.

Sir Richard, who was head of the Queen s medical household from 1993 to 2005,
says St Thomas s is not the right place, not least because the  enormous  statue
will dominate views of the public garden there and because Mary had no
connection with the hospital, unlike Florence, whose statue is much smaller.

A baffled Lord Soley, former Labour MP for Hammersmith, says:  I first got
interested when members of the Caribbean community approached me in the Eighties
asking for help to find Mary Seacole s grave in Kensal Rise cemetery, which I
did.

My answer to those who say the statue shouldn t be at St Thomas s is that nurses
from all over the world, including Jamaica, came to work at St Thomas s -- and
they are still coming to work there.

I don t want to denigrate Florence Nightingale, but I don t see why we should
not applaud what Mary Seacole did, too.

We ve been absolutely clear this is not about Mary Seacole vs Florence
Nightingale. Both were absolutely remarkable women.

--

He s been described as the  Action Man David Attenborough , but macho TV
presenter Monty Halls says he has no plans to marry his girlfriend -- despite
her presenting him with his first child five months ago.

I m much too busy to even think about marriage,  says Monty.  I mean I m 45 and
this is my first baby so I m already a late starter!  Former Marine Monty met
Tamsyn Smith, 32, who used to work for the BBC Wildlife Fund charity, when they
were both at the Underwater Channel three years ago.  We ve left London and got
a flat in Dartmouth and are very happy,  says Monty at a party for his book, The
Fisherman s Apprentice.

When I was a young man in the Marines, I travelled the world and lived the life
of a carefree bachelor, so my life has totally changed.

We are setting up our own wildlife tour firm, which is going to take a lot of
work so we re not even engaged yet,  he says, adding:  All in good time!

--

ps If Home Secretary Theresa May wanted someone to commiserate with about the
Abu Qatada fiasco, she had to look no further than Dragons  Den star Duncan
Bannatyne, who has had his own trials and tribulations with the legal system.
Mrs May met the irascible Bannatyne at the Victoria and Albert Museum, where
they were celebrating the 50th birthday party of showbiz agent Jonathan Shalit.
At one stage the minister and the Dragon were huddled in a group with unlikely
ladies  man the Earl of Strathclyde, Leader of the Lords. Their conversation?  A
secret,  I am told.

--

He cleared his busy schedule to watch his godson s school play, and now it looks
as if Prince Harry will have to find time in his diary for another engagement.

For Major Rupert Lewis, Harry s Blues and Royals squadron commander on his first
tour of Afghanistan in 2008, has become engaged to Daisy Whitehead, 36, whose
late grandfather Lord Inchyra was ambassador to Germany.

Daisy, who runs a London-based curtain design company, is likely to marry near
her parents  Wiltshire home this autumn.

We are all extremely pleased,  Daisy s mother Annabel, a former lady-in-waiting
to Princess Margaret, tells me.

--

FAWN REJECTS PORN KING FILM ROLE

Who better to play the beloved daughter of porn and property baron Paul Raymond
in forthcoming biopic the King Of Soho than his granddaughter Fawn James?

Dubbed the queen of Soho after inheriting half of Raymond s £650[0/00]million
empire, Fawn, 26, is pursuing an acting career and is perfectly placed to play
her own mother, Debbie, who died when Fawn was six of a heroin overdose.

However, Fawn tells me that she had no wish to star in the film, which is
directed by Michael Winterbottom with Steve Coogan as her grandfather.

Michael is amazing but I would definitely not be in the film,  she says.  That
would be weird and highly inappropriate.  Instead, the lovely Imogen Poots will
be playing Debbie.

Neither will Fawn, who I can reveal turned down an offer to advise on the film,
appear in a rival movie her uncle Howard is making.

Instead, she is leaving her flat in Soho, where she lives with her boyfriend of
four years, Nick Lawson, to study at the Lee Strasberg Institute of Film in LA
over the summer.

Fawn adds:  I am looking forward to seeing both films but I have decided it is
best not to be involved in either.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 491 words


FORMER Labour premier Gordon Brown has set up a Twitter account with his wife,
Sarah. No messages so far from the Kirkcaldy-based statesman.  My not-so-secret
plan is to get Gordon tweeting before too long,  sighs Sarah, whose own most
memorable Tweet was  Going into Boots¦

WHEN President John F Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, 49 years ago,
his successor, vice president Lyndon Baines Johnson, was anxious to retain the
support JFK had received from the White House press corps. Hal Wingo, of
now-defunct Life magazine, reveals that LBJ gathered reporters for a pep talk in
Texas.  Leaning forward in his chair, he put his hand on my knee and said oeOne
more thing, boys. You may see me coming in and out of women s bedrooms in the
White House, but just remember that it s none of your business. He made it clear
that he wanted the same cover the Press had given Kennedy.  Now presidents avoid
hanky-panky while their secret service guards cavort with prostitutes.

BRITNEY Spears, pictured, wears an Eternal Love sports bra for her new music
video. The exotic, £12,500 silk garment features 18-carat gold zips and is
covered in Swarovski crystals. Top togs for the treadmill!

THE coverage of Pippa Middleton s adventures with Eurotrash friends in Paris won
t have pleased her sister, the Duchess of Cambridge, who is trying to forge a
role for herself as a charity figurehead. With the family firm, Party Pieces,
knocking out diamond jubilee knick-knacks - and Pippa s £400,000 fee for a book
on entertaining - might there arise a public perception that the Middletons are
over-leveraging Kate s royal status for their own commercial ends?

HAVING secured the support of Peter Stringfellow, the twice-married 7th Earl of
Bradford - UKIP candidate for Hyde Park in the Westminster City Council
elections - has a joint press conference in Covent Garden on Monday with the
lap-dancing tsar. How boring. Surely they d get far better coverage if it was at

 Stringfellows  club, with near-naked lovelies on their knees.

WEIGHTWATCHERS and Slimming World vie for the support of our politicians in
Westminster. WW has Baroness Jay and former minister Tessa Jowell on their
books. They get free slimming sessions at Parliament to the tune of £235 a year.
SW s members include Tory Culture minister Ed Vaizey and Labour s immigration
spokesman Chris Bryant, who get free, £290-a-year memberships. We taxpayers pay
to fatten them up. But you d expect them to foot their slimming bills.

THE Liberal Democrats  candidate for London mayor, former senior policeman Brian
Paddick, accuses supporters of independent candidate, Siobhan Benita, of pushing
him out of number 3 place (after Boris and Ken) by placing heavy bets on her
winning. Ms Benita s now 50/1 at Ladbrokes while Paddick s 100/1. She says:  It
s a scurrilous accusation. Brian Paddick is clearly feeling the pressure.  As
well he might. Ms Benita, 40, is by far the most attractive candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

COMMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 375 words


DEREK CLARK

UKIP employment spokesman

ON a basic level, we must be cheered that the latest unemployment figures show a
slight 35,000 drop on the last quarter. But draw the Government's spin curtain
just a little and we have a different story. One which is compounded by
statements by Employment Minister Chris Grayling, who should know better.

The overall increase is almost entirely made up of people moving to part-time
jobs.

Hidden in the figures is a curious number: 166,000 jobs were created in the last
quarter for non-UK nationals. At the same time 166,000 jobs were lost by UK
nationals. What this appears to be is a straight switch between British jobs,
and jobs for non-Britons.

Of course, statistics make things look stranger than they are, and the
synchronised figures are a freak of those statistics. But what is clear is we
are seeing the negative result of years of denigration of British workers.

I have almost given up counting the times I have heard official Government
spokesmen, including the Employment Minister yesterday, talk about how British
workers are feckless, not interested in working and not conscientious.

Time after time we hear from those who want to justify massive inward migration
that "British workers are lazy compared to migrants who make an effort".

This makes it harder for young British people to find work. If they are told
they are useless, firstly they begin to believe it, then, more worryingly, so do
employers.

With this mood music from the Government, who would blame an employer for
choosing an immigrant over a British worker? After all, the employer is keen to
find somebody who will work hard, be a credit to their firm, and stick at it.

So one cheer for a drop in unemployment, but I reserve the other two for when I
see a concerted effort being made to encourage young people, to ensure
educational standards increase, to sing their praises.

Otherwise the powers that be will be responsible for driving more people into
welfare dependency. Forget "schemes" and "incentives" but give a boost to
employers to make employing young Britons an attractive option.

I have met hundreds of young people, unemployed but willing to work. It is their
life chances that are being undermined by this drip-drip propaganda.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Out-of-work queue at a Jobcentre yesterday as totals fall to 2.65m
Picture: SOLENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

Clegg aide quits

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 117 words


Richard Reeves, director of strategy for Nick Clegg and one his most influential
advisers, has resigned. He and his American-born wife, Erica, are to depart for
the US in the summer to give his two dual-nationality children a chance to be
educated in American schools. They are 13 and 10.

Reeves denied that he was deserting his boss due to disillusionment with the
party's prospects after the latest national poll showed the Lib Dems trailing
Ukip. He said: "It has been a huge honour and incredibly exciting to be part of
the first peacetime coalition for decades."

Reeves's departure will be a big loss to Clegg, who had come to rely on him for
strategic advice and the drafting of his major speeches.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 10:59 AM GMT

Queen's GP and peer in statue row

BYLINE: RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1220 words


Nearly all the money has been raised, an eminent sculptor has been chosen and
Princess Alexandra has been pencilled in by Buckingham Palace to do the
unveiling.

But now, nine years after Labour peer Baron Soley started a campaign for the
first statue to pay tribute to a black woman in Britain, he is mystified that a
number of eminent folk are objecting - including the Queen's former physician
Sir Richard Thompson.

Sir Richard, 72, the president of the Royal College of Physicians, has written
objecting to plans to put the 8ft bronze in the garden of St Thomas's Hospital
in London.

The statue is of Jamaican-born Mary Seacole who, like Florence Nightingale,
nursed British soldiers in the Crimean War.

But Lord Soley could not have foreseen that he was stepping into a quagmire of
sensitivities because St Thomas's also houses the Florence Nightingale Museum
and it was where she founded the Nightingale nursing school.

Objections have even come from across the Atlantic. Canadian sociologist Dr Lynn
McDonald says honouring Mary Seacole at St Thomas's would denigrate Florence
Nightingale.

Sir Richard, who was head of the Queen's medical household from 1993 to 2005,
says St Thomas's is not the right place, not least because the 'enormous' statue
will dominate views of the public garden there and because Mary had no
connection with the hospital, unlike Florence, whose statue is much smaller.

A baffled Lord Soley, former Labour MP for Hammersmith, says: 'I first got
interested when members of the Caribbean community approached me in the Eighties
asking for help to find Mary Seacole's grave in Kensal Rise cemetery, which I
did.

'My answer to those who say the statue shouldn't be at St Thomas's is that
nurses from all over the world, including Jamaica, came to work at St Thomas's -
and they are still coming to work there.

'I don't want to denigrate Florence Nightingale, but I don't see why we should
not applaud what Mary Seacole did, too.

'We've been absolutely clear this is not about Mary Seacole vs Florence
Nightingale. Both were absolutely remarkable women.'

Money on UKIP move

Money is changing hands on whether a sitting MP will quit the Conservatives and
join UKIP. Party treasurer millionaire businessman Stuart Wheeler tells me he
has put several hundred pounds on UKIP having a seat in the near future.

The 77-year-old spread-betting tycoon and former Tory donor says he has a
'three-figure bet' with Ladbrokes. 'I have money at 2/1 on a sitting MP
defecting before the next election,' he says. Following a poll this week showing
UKIP has overtaken the Lib Dems, perhaps supporters are not 'fruitcakes' after
all, as David Cameron described them.

Fawn rejects porn king film role

Who better to play the beloved daughter of porn and property baron Paul Raymond
in forthcoming biopic the King Of Soho than his granddaughter Fawn James?

Dubbed the queen of Soho after inheriting half of Raymond's £650 million empire,
Fawn, 26, is pursuing an acting career and is perfectly placed to play her own
mother, Debbie, who died when Fawn was six of a heroin overdose.

However, Fawn tells me that she had no wish to star in the film, which is
directed by Michael Winterbottom with Steve Coogan as her grandfather.

'Michael is amazing but I would definitely not be in the film,' she says. 'That
would be weird and highly inappropriate.' Instead, the lovely Imogen Poots will
be playing Debbie.

Neither will Fawn, who I can reveal turned down an offer to advise on the film,
appear in a rival movie her uncle Howard is making.

Instead, she is leaving her flat in Soho, where she lives with her boyfriend of
four years, Nick Lawson, to study  at the Lee Strasberg Institute of Film in LA
over the summer.

Fawn adds: 'I am looking forward to seeing both films but I have decided it is
best not to be involved in either.'

Marine Monty too busy to marry

He's been described as the 'Action Man David Attenborough', but macho TV
presenter Monty Halls says he has no plans to marry his girlfriend - despite her
presenting him with his first child five months ago.

'I'm much too busy to even think about marriage,' says Monty. 'I mean I'm 45 and
this is my first baby so I'm already a late starter!' Former Marine Monty met
Tamsyn Smith, 32, who used to work for the BBC Wildlife Fund charity, when they
were both at the Underwater Channel three years ago. 'We've left London and got
a flat in Dartmouth and are very happy,' says Monty at a party for his book, The
Fisherman's Apprentice.

'When I was a young man in the Marines, I travelled the world and lived the life
of a carefree bachelor, so my life has totally changed. We are setting up our
own wildlife tour firm, which is going to take a lot of work so we're not even
engaged yet,' he says, adding: 'All in good time!'

A Dickens of a royal pardon!

Actress Keeley Hawes is feeling snubbed by the Queen after being left off the
invitations for the  royal Charles Dickens bicentenary celebrations, unlike her
husband - handsome Little Dorrit star Matthew Macfadyen.

Asked who she'd most like to have a cup of tea with, Keeley - who played Lizzie
Hexam in an acclaimed TV version of Our Mutual Friend - says: 'The Queen. My
husband went to Buckingham Palace recently. He was invited as part of the
Dickens anniversary celebrations, which I was a part of, too, so I don't know
what happened to my invite!'

However, she adds diplomatically: 'I'm a huge fan of the Queen - I'll forgive
her.'

Keeley, who plays Lady Agnes Holland in Upstairs Downstairs, wanted to be a
ballet dancer 'like a lot of little girls', but opted for acting early on.

'I went to stage school and did both there. Unfortunately, it soon becomes
obvious if someone has rhythm or not,' she says.

He cleared his busy schedule to watch his godson's school play, and now it looks
as if Prince Harry will have to find time in his diary for another engagement.
For Major Rupert Lewis, Harry's Blues and Royals squadron commander on his first
tour of Afghanistan in 2008, has become engaged to Daisy Whitehead, 36, whose
late grandfather Lord Inchyra was ambassador to Germany.

Daisy, who runs a London-based curtain design company, is likely to marry near
her parents' Wiltshire home this autumn. 'We are all extremely pleased,' Daisy's
mother Annabel, a former lady-in-waiting to Princess Margaret, tells me.

PS If Home Secretary Theresa May wanted someone to commiserate with about the
Abu Qatada fiasco, she had to look no further than Dragons' Den star Duncan
Bannatyne, who has had his own trials and tribulations with the legal system.
Mrs May met the irascible Bannatyne at the Victoria and Albert Museum, where
they were celebrating the 50th birthday party of showbiz agent Jonathan Shalit.
At one stage the minister and the Dragon were huddled in a group with unlikely
ladies' man the Earl of Strathclyde, Leader of the Lords. Their conversation? 'A
secret,' I am told.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 9:00 PM GMT

European Commission to increase EU budget by £7.4 billion;
The European Commission is to defy austerity by demanding an EU budget increase
of seven per cent meaning extra contributions from British taxpayers to Brussels
of £900 million next year.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 654 words


The Daily Telegraph has learnt that a draft Brussels budget for 2013 sets a
"substantial" spending increase of £7.4 billion, which is over four per cent
above the rate of EU inflation.

The demand, to be made next Wednesday, will trigger political protests from
Britain and other governments who are opposed to giving additional funding to
the EU at the same time they are implementing painful cuts to national budgets.

The increase would see the British bill for EU membership rise next year to £14
billion, a figure based on Britain's obligation to pay 12.4 per cent net share
of all Brussels expenditure.

The demand, amounting to £898 million in extra contributions, would mean new
cuts in national spending and additional reductions in expenditure on public
services in Britain.

If agreed at a Brussels summit in June, the Commission's budget would mean that
the annual tax burden for paying EU membership contributions would rise to £666
for every British household.

Douglas Carswell, the Conservative MP for Clacton, called on David Cameron to
refuse to pay any additional EU budget demands by freezing annual contributions.

"We should tell them, here's our frozen contribution, if you don't like it,
tough. In Britain the Treasury phones government departments and tells them what
money there is. We should extend the same principle to the EU budget," he said.

The budget demand will trigger a major political row across the EU, after
Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, two weeks ago, made a freeze on Brussels
contributions a central plank of his re-election campaign.

British officials are braced for a fierce political battle this spring after the
Commission tables its 2013 EU budget on 25 April. "At a time when member states
are tightening their belts, the EU must show budgetary restraint," said a
diplomat.

Even senior EU officials are horrified at the proposed increase at a time when
the Commission is imposing austerity measures, such as massive health care cuts
in Greece.

One director grade official in the European civil service revealed that EU
departments have been pressured to increase their budget forecasts in order to
"bump up" Brussels expenditure.

"There are people in the Commission who are like the Taliban, they are
fundamentalists who believe as an article of faith that the EU's expenditure
must increase every year even during a crisis," he said.

Mats Persson, the director of the Open Europe think-tank, said: "The double
standards here are extraordinary. The same Commission that is literally drawing
up blueprints for how member states should cut spending proposes a massive
increase to its own budget."

Commission officials have stressed that extra funding is needed to plug a
black-hole in spending on regional aid projects in the EU's poorest areas, as
bills fall due at the end of a seven year Brussels financing period, 2007 to
2013.

"There are no final figures yet, however there are inescapable truths," said a
Commission source.

"The last year of every financial period sees hundreds of EU funded projects
across Europe being completed and the Commission's role and duty is to pay those
bills sent in by member states just like even in times of austerity households
have to pay their electricity bills."

Richard Ashworth, leader of Conservative MEPs and a member of the European
parliament's budget committee, vowed to fight the increase.

"It is as though these people live on another planet where there is no
recession, no eurozone crisis, no bottom to taxpayers' pockets and no limit to
their own self-indulgence. They seem to have no concept of the abject disgust
which will greet this demand for evermore cash," he said.

Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of Ukip, said: "This outrageous demand is Cameron's
chance to wield a veto by refusing to pay any extra. If he doesn't voters will
be entitled to ask why their public services are being cut while the only way up
is for Brussels spending."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 6:53 PM GMT

Tories heading in the wrong direction, says Lord Ashcroft;
The Conservative party "is heading in the wrong direction" and does not know
where it is going, party donor Lord Ashcroft has said.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 338 words


The Tory peer said that the Government had so had its "most difficult month so
far, and the voters have noticed".

In an article on the  Conservativehome website, Lord Ashcroft suggested that
part of the problem was that the Government had lost its grip on events.

He said that if the drift was allowed to continue then the Tories would be
punished at the next general election, expected in 2015.

He said: "The main problem is not so much that people think the Conservative
Party is heading in the wrong direction, it is that they are not sure where it
is heading. And that includes me."

Lord Ashcroft added that Conservative voters would only "stay with the party -
and others will support us - if they see a competent government with a grip on
events, a plan for the economy, an understanding of public services, that knows
what it wants to achieve, and can show that it is delivering on its promises on
things like crime and immigration.

"If they cannot see such a Government, then yes, some will go to UKIP - and some
will go to Labour, or elsewhere, or stay at home".

He added that to deal with the threat from the UK Independence Party "David
Cameron needs to attract people who considered the Conservatives at the last
election but ultimately voted for someone else.

"At the same time, he has to hold on to those who did vote for the party in
2010. In that context, any leakage of the Tory vote is a cause for concern."

The news came amid reports that the Taxpayers' Alliance head Matthew Elliot
could be hired as a strategist in 10 Downing Street, following the departure of
the Prime Minister's long-standing aide, Steve Hilton.

One source familiar with No 10's thinking said that bungled messaging on the
Budget and the Big Society demanded the appointment of someone with Mr Elliott's
communications expertise.

Mr Elliott headed the successful 'No to AV' referendum campaign against
introducing the "alternative vote" for elections last year and founded the
TaxPayers' Alliance and another pressure group, Big Brother Watch.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT

Will Richard Reeves's departure hasten a Lib Lab deal?

BYLINE: By Mary Riddell

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 354 words


No one is indispensable, in life or in politics, but the loss of Richard Reeves
will be a serious blow for Nick Clegg.  Reeves, the Lib Dem leader's senior
strategist and speechwriter, is not jumping a sinking ship but going to the
United States for family reasons and so that his dual nationality children can
be brought up there.

None the less, it is hard to think of a bigger knock for Nick Clegg. Reeves, the
ultimate in tong-term strategists, had personally worked out the three-step
programme to see the leader through to 2015. First, the Lib Dems would hug the
Tories close. Then they would move into the "differentiation" phase. Finally,
they would set out their own agenda prior to a smooth disconnect at the
election.

While that scheme has had its setbacks - the current differentiation arguably
wrecked Coalition relationships and George Osborne's Budget - there is no other
game in prospect. Reeves' ambition for the next year, that voters would start
top give Clegg a "second look", has not yet materialised, with the Lib Dems
trailing Ukip.

Clegg will also feel the loss of a strategist who did not always agree with him.
Reeves, for example, is said to have wanted the Lib Dems to ditch Andrew
Lansley's NHS Bill at the outset, although he later accepted that the
legislation should go through.  The Lib Dems will miss his quick wit, his
writing skills and his eclectic background as a journalist, biographer and the
head of Demos.

Whether or not intellectual restlessness was a factor in his moving on, his
loyalty was not in question. Reeves placed his faith in the role of an
economically and socially liberal party whose key creed was social mobility.
Scrupulously centrist, he rejected any notion that the LibDems were
intrinsically closer to Labour than to the Tories. But given his dislike of Ed
Miliband's early attacks on Mr Clegg, it seems possible that his departure will
make a Lib Lab collaboration more likely in the short term.

For now, with Mr Clegg facing a rout in next month's council elections, the
departure of such an integral figure may add to the impression that doom beckons
for the LibDems.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT

Will Richard Reeves's departure hasten a Lib Lab deal?

BYLINE: By Mary Riddell

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 354 words


No one is indispensable, in life or in politics, but the loss of Richard Reeves
will be a serious blow for Nick Clegg.  Reeves, the Lib Dem leader's senior
strategist and speechwriter, is not jumping a sinking ship but going to the
United States for family reasons and so that his dual nationality children can
be brought up there.

None the less, it is hard to think of a bigger knock for Nick Clegg. Reeves, the
ultimate in tong-term strategists, had personally worked out the three-step
programme to see the leader through to 2015. First, the Lib Dems would hug the
Tories close. Then they would move into the "differentiation" phase. Finally,
they would set out their own agenda prior to a smooth disconnect at the
election.

While that scheme has had its setbacks - the current differentiation arguably
wrecked Coalition relationships and George Osborne's Budget - there is no other
game in prospect. Reeves' ambition for the next year, that voters would start
top give Clegg a "second look", has not yet materialised, with the Lib Dems
trailing Ukip.

Clegg will also feel the loss of a strategist who did not always agree with him.
Reeves, for example, is said to have wanted the Lib Dems to ditch Andrew
Lansley's NHS Bill at the outset, although he later accepted that the
legislation should go through.  The Lib Dems will miss his quick wit, his
writing skills and his eclectic background as a journalist, biographer and the
head of Demos.

Whether or not intellectual restlessness was a factor in his moving on, his
loyalty was not in question. Reeves placed his faith in the role of an
economically and socially liberal party whose key creed was social mobility.
Scrupulously centrist, he rejected any notion that the LibDems were
intrinsically closer to Labour than to the Tories. But given his dislike of Ed
Miliband's early attacks on Mr Clegg, it seems possible that his departure will
make a Lib Lab collaboration more likely in the short term.

For now, with Mr Clegg facing a rout in next month's council elections, the
departure of such an integral figure may add to the impression that doom beckons
for the LibDems.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT

Will Richard Reeves's departure hasten a Lib Lab deal?

BYLINE: By Mary Riddell

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 354 words


No one is indispensable, in life or in politics, but the loss of Richard Reeves
will be a serious blow for Nick Clegg.  Reeves, the Lib Dem leader's senior
strategist and speechwriter, is not jumping a sinking ship but going to the
United States for family reasons and so that his dual nationality children can
be brought up there.

None the less, it is hard to think of a bigger knock for Nick Clegg. Reeves, the
ultimate in tong-term strategists, had personally worked out the three-step
programme to see the leader through to 2015. First, the Lib Dems would hug the
Tories close. Then they would move into the "differentiation" phase. Finally,
they would set out their own agenda prior to a smooth disconnect at the
election.

While that scheme has had its setbacks - the current differentiation arguably
wrecked Coalition relationships and George Osborne's Budget - there is no other
game in prospect. Reeves' ambition for the next year, that voters would start
top give Clegg a "second look", has not yet materialised, with the Lib Dems
trailing Ukip.

Clegg will also feel the loss of a strategist who did not always agree with him.
Reeves, for example, is said to have wanted the Lib Dems to ditch Andrew
Lansley's NHS Bill at the outset, although he later accepted that the
legislation should go through.  The Lib Dems will miss his quick wit, his
writing skills and his eclectic background as a journalist, biographer and the
head of Demos.

Whether or not intellectual restlessness was a factor in his moving on, his
loyalty was not in question. Reeves placed his faith in the role of an
economically and socially liberal party whose key creed was social mobility.
Scrupulously centrist, he rejected any notion that the LibDems were
intrinsically closer to Labour than to the Tories. But given his dislike of Ed
Miliband's early attacks on Mr Clegg, it seems possible that his departure will
make a Lib Lab collaboration more likely in the short term.

For now, with Mr Clegg facing a rout in next month's council elections, the
departure of such an integral figure may add to the impression that doom beckons
for the LibDems.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 12:32 PM GMT

A modest proposal to fix British democracy

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 520 words


Much kerfuffle in the blogosphere over Alexandra Swann of Ukip, and her offhand
proposal that the unemployed should be denied the vote. Obviously, it's
abhorrently undemocratic, yet in an incredibly clumsy way, Swann does have a
point when she says that "allowing people to vote on how other people's money is
spent - if they don't contribute - is dangerous".

This is, in fact, the most convincing argument against the Lib Dems' (and now
Tories') cherished ambition to take the low-paid out of tax. If you're not
contributing (at least directly, rather than via VAT etc), you're more likely to
vote for free-ride policies based on spending the taxes that other people are
paying.

My colleague Ian Cowie got a bit of stick last year when he suggested that we
should solve this by linking taxation to eligibility to vote. Yet it solves a
host of problems. For example, there are constant complaints from the business
community that the political system is biased against growth and enterprise -
that public resentment of the rich is leading to a situation where it's not
politically possible to bring in the kind of radical reforms to tax, spending
and regulation that are needed if we're to compete with China et al. At the same
time, there's been a huge row over tax avoidance, tax dodging and tax reliefs.

What if there was a way to fix all these problems simultaneously? As it happens,
there is. In the good old days, there was no such thing as one man, one vote. To
be eligible to vote, you had to have a certain amount of property;
constituencies returned varying numbers of MPs, according to their size and
importance; and graduates from Oxford and Cambridge got their own special
elections.  In short, the amount of votes you got was weighted according to your
status in society.

Isn't this what Britain needs? A way to balance the demands of the
welfare-grabbing many with the wealth-creating few? Under my system, the
unemployed, feckless and Scottish (I'm sorry if that's tautologous) would get
one vote. Then, with every £10,000 you paid in tax, you'd get an extra vote. It
would be a spur to wealth creation, and encourage the super-rich to contribute
to the national coffers, rather than wasting their money on charitable
contributions (and give them enough sway via the ballot box that they wouldn't
need to fork out for kitchen supper at Downing Street).

The downside, of course, is that it would entrench the power of the rich and
elderly (did I mention votes would be retained at each election, to reflect past

 contributions?), and alienate younger voters. But there's a solution to that,
too. This system is already pretty close to the one used to pick contestants in
the Hunger Games - very on trend right now - so why not steal another aspect of
it, and offer young people more votes in exchange for performing voluntary work
for others? This project - I'm thinking of calling it "National Servitude" -
would also cut youth unemployment, and answer the (false) criticism from the
Left that young people don't get anything out of existing workfare schemes.

As far as I can see, it's win-win-win. Who's with me?

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 12:32 PM GMT

A modest proposal to fix British democracy

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 520 words


Much kerfuffle in the blogosphere over Alexandra Swann of Ukip, and her offhand
proposal that the unemployed should be denied the vote. Obviously, it's
abhorrently undemocratic, yet in an incredibly clumsy way, Swann does have a
point when she says that "allowing people to vote on how other people's money is
spent - if they don't contribute - is dangerous".

This is, in fact, the most convincing argument against the Lib Dems' (and now
Tories') cherished ambition to take the low-paid out of tax. If you're not
contributing (at least directly, rather than via VAT etc), you're more likely to
vote for free-ride policies based on spending the taxes that other people are
paying.

My colleague Ian Cowie got a bit of stick last year when he suggested that we
should solve this by linking taxation to eligibility to vote. Yet it solves a
host of problems. For example, there are constant complaints from the business
community that the political system is biased against growth and enterprise -
that public resentment of the rich is leading to a situation where it's not
politically possible to bring in the kind of radical reforms to tax, spending
and regulation that are needed if we're to compete with China et al. At the same
time, there's been a huge row over tax avoidance, tax dodging and tax reliefs.

What if there was a way to fix all these problems simultaneously? As it happens,
there is. In the good old days, there was no such thing as one man, one vote. To
be eligible to vote, you had to have a certain amount of property;
constituencies returned varying numbers of MPs, according to their size and
importance; and graduates from Oxford and Cambridge got their own special
elections.  In short, the amount of votes you got was weighted according to your
status in society.

Isn't this what Britain needs? A way to balance the demands of the
welfare-grabbing many with the wealth-creating few? Under my system, the
unemployed, feckless and Scottish (I'm sorry if that's tautologous) would get
one vote. Then, with every £10,000 you paid in tax, you'd get an extra vote. It
would be a spur to wealth creation, and encourage the super-rich to contribute
to the national coffers, rather than wasting their money on charitable
contributions (and give them enough sway via the ballot box that they wouldn't
need to fork out for kitchen supper at Downing Street).

The downside, of course, is that it would entrench the power of the rich and
elderly (did I mention votes would be retained at each election, to reflect past

 contributions?), and alienate younger voters. But there's a solution to that,
too. This system is already pretty close to the one used to pick contestants in
the Hunger Games - very on trend right now - so why not steal another aspect of
it, and offer young people more votes in exchange for performing voluntary work
for others? This project - I'm thinking of calling it "National Servitude" -
would also cut youth unemployment, and answer the (false) criticism from the
Left that young people don't get anything out of existing workfare schemes.

As far as I can see, it's win-win-win. Who's with me?

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 12:32 PM GMT

A modest proposal to fix British democracy

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 519 words


Much kerfuffle in the blogosphere over Alexandra Swann of Ukip, and her offhand
proposal that the unemployed should be denied the vote. Obviously, it's
abhorrently undemocratic, yet in an incredibly clumsy way, Swann does have a
point when she says that "allowing people to vote on how other people's money is
spent - if they don't contribute - is dangerous".

This is, in fact, the most convincing argument against the Lib Dems' (and now
Tories') cherished ambition to take the low-paid out of tax. If you're not
contributing (at least directly, rather than via VAT etc), you're more likely to
vote for free-ride policies based on spending the taxes that other people are
paying.

My colleague Ian Cowie got a bit of stick last year when he suggested that we
should solve this by linking taxation to eligibility to vote. Yet it solves a
host of problems. For example, there are constant complaints from the business
community that the political system is biased against growth and enterprise -
that public resentment of the rich is leading to a situation where it's not
politically possible to bring in the kind of radical reforms to tax, spending
and regulation that are needed if we're to compete with China et al. At the same
time, there's been a huge row over tax avoidance, tax dodging and tax reliefs.

What if there was a way to fix all these problems simultaneously? As it happens,
there is. In the good old days, there was no such thing as one man, one vote. To
be eligible to vote, you had to have a certain amount of property;
constituencies returned varying numbers of MPs, according to their size and
importance; and graduates from Oxford and Cambridge got their own special
elections. In short, the amount of votes you got was weighted according to your
status in society.

Isn't this what Britain needs? A way to balance the demands of the
welfare-grabbing many with the wealth-creating few? Under my system, the
unemployed, feckless and Scottish (I'm sorry if that's tautologous) would get
one vote. Then, with every 10,000 you paid in tax, you'd get an extra vote. It
would be a spur to wealth creation, and encourage the super-rich to contribute
to the national coffers, rather than wasting their money on charitable
contributions (and give them enough sway via the ballot box that they wouldn't
need to fork out for kitchen supper at Downing Street).

The downside, of course, is that it would entrench the power of the rich and
elderly (did Imention votes would be retained at each election, to reflect
pastcontributions?), and alienate younger voters. But there's a solution to
that, too. This system is already pretty close to the one used to pick
contestants in the Hunger Games - very on trend right now - so why not steal
another aspect of it, and offer young people more votes in exchange for
performing voluntary work for others? This project - I'm thinking of calling it
"National Servitude" - would also cut youth unemployment, and answer the (false)
criticism from the Left that young people don't get anything out of existing
workfare schemes.

As far as I can see, it's win-win-win. Who's with me?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday

DAILY MAIL COMMENTS

LENGTH: 571 words


Qatada and a last chance for justice

EVERYONE who values national security will rejoice that Osama Bin Laden's
right-hand man in Europe is back where he belongs, behind bars.

It is encouraging, too, that the Home Secretary believes she now has the
necessary assurances from Jordan that will allow her to deport Abu Qatada to
face trial there on terror charges.

But it is no more than encouraging. For Qatada could appeal yet again to the
European Court of Human Rights Ð seven years after Britain first sought to
deport him and nearly 20 since he arrived here on a forged passport.

Such an appeal could take months. And the court may still find in his favour.

Indeed, with the Strasbourg hurdle yet to be cleared, we have hardly progressed
since February 2009, when Britain's highest court agreed unanimously that Qatada
could be kicked out.

Could any case better illustrate the vital importance of this week's meeting of
the ECHR's ruling Council of Europe, at which ministers hope to rein in the
court's powers and streamline its procedures?

Since Britain's presidency of the council expires next month, this will be our
last chance of securing meaningful reform.

Yet, despite Ken Clarke's all-too predictable blandishments, there are worrying
signs that the Government's proposals are being watered down.

How can we remain a member of the ECHR, if it continues to mock our own courts,
parliament and people?

The Mail offers one cheer for Qatada's re-arrest, and will raise another on the
day he is marched to the plane.

The full three cheers must wait, however, until Strasbourg is brought to heel Ð
and British justice is restored to supremacy.

The forgotten Tories

TRUE, we should be wary of attaching too much significance to the latest
Westminster polls, which put Ukip ahead of the Lib Dems for the first time ever.

After all, rogue results are common in mid-term and it is less than a month
since a botched and unpopular Budget.

For David Cameron, however, this should be a moment for deep reflection, when he
sees the party he once dismissed as 'fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'
pushing his own Coalition partners into fourth place, while his own rating dips.

For clearly, Ukip is attracting support from natural Conservatives, exasperated
by the Coalition's abject submission to Europe and the ECHR and its enthusiasm
for such causes as green taxes, gay marriage, overseas aid and an oversized,
interfering state.

Indeed, Ukip would be near the bottom of the polls Ð if only Mr Cameron kept his
promises to repatriate powers from the EU, control mass immigration, stand up
for the family, slash red tape and light his famous bonfire of the quangos.

Yes, of course the Prime Minister is hampered by the need to keep the Lib Dems
on side. But this mustn't mean abandoning the 10million who voted for him in
2010

.

If he wants them to back him again, he had better start addressing their
concerns.

Talking our language

AS this paper has argued for years, it is a matter of life and death that
doctors should be able to understand their patients, and vice-versa.

So the Mail warmly welcomes the Health Secretary's promise that from next year,
European doctors will have to prove they can speak English before being allowed
to practise in Britain.

Just two questions. Why have we waited so long for this elementary precaution?
And after so many similar pledges from Andrew Lansley's predecessors, will
something actually happen this time?

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday

OSBORNE IS HAMMERED

LENGTH: 722 words


HIS OWN MPS OVER BUDGET

BY JAMES CHAPMAN, TIM SHIPMAN AND JASON GROVES

GEORGE Osborne's controversial Budget suffers another blow today as MPs warn
that his child benefit cuts will still unfairly penalise one-earner couples.

A report from the Tory-led Treasury select committee says a partial U-turn on
the removal of the payment to higher-rate taxpayers will add complexity to the
system.

It adds that while he has removed the 'cliff-edge' problem, which would have
seen someone getting a small wage rise suddenly lose all their child benefit,
the bias remains against single-earner households compared to those where both
parents work.

The MPs also raise questions over other contentious measures, including the
so-called 'granny tax', the 'charity tax' and the reduction in the top rate of
tax to 45p.

The report comes as a YouGov poll puts Labour 11 points ahead, on 43 per cent to
the Tories' 32 per cent. It also found that the UK Independence Party, with 9
per cent, had pushed the Liberal Democrats, on 8 per cent, into fourth place. An
Opinium survey put UKIP on 10 per cent to the Lib Dems' 9 per cent.

Government sources claimed Mr Osborne drew up the final version of the Budget in
unhealthy secrecy because of a series of leaks blamed on the Lib Dems. They
suggested that only the coalition 'quad' Ð Mr Cameron, Mr Osborne, Nick Clegg
and Danny Alexander Ð discussed the final details. 'People that should have seen
the Budget didn't see it, and the usual mine-sweeping didn't happen,' said one
source.

There is intense frustration in the Cabinet that the central measure of the
Budget Ð a record tax cut for 25million middle earners as the income tax
threshold is increased Ð has passed almost unnoticed after details leaked out in
the days ahead of the statement.

Today's Treasury committee report adds to the Chancellor's woes with criticism
of the latest version of cuts to child benefit. Tory MPs had threatened a revolt
over his original plan to remove child benefit Ð worth £20.30 a week for the
first child and £13.40 each for any more Ð from families where one parent is a
higher-rate taxpayer.

Critics said axing child benefit for couples where one parent earns just over
the higher-rate tax threshold, but not when both parents earn just under that
sum and have almost double the income, was unfair.

In a partial U-turn announced in the Budget, Mr Osborne said parents earning
£42,745 to £60,000 will be able to keep some or all of their child benefit. He
said anyone with an income of up to £50,000 would lose nothing, while those
earning £50,000 to £60,000 would have the benefit gradually withdrawn.

But MPs are now raising concerns that the tapered removal of the benefit will be
costly to administer, and complicate the tax affairs of families whose annual
net income is £50,000 to £60,000.

The committee said 'the Government's latest proposals for reform of child
benefit solve only one of the two main problems identified with its original
policy'. It added: 'They add further complexity.'

The MPs suggested that linking the payment of child benefit Ð made to women Ð to
their partners' incomes represented a 'step backwards for women's financial
emancipation'.

Doubt was cast on the Treasury's claim that reducing the top rate of income tax
from 50p to 45p would be just £100million a year, with MPs saying it was 'highly
uncertain'.

The report also queries the way Mr Osborne presented the 'granny tax' Ð the
removal of age-related income tax breaks as the basic rate threshold is raised
to £10,000 for all. 'Although described as a simplification, the phasing out of
age-related allowances also represents a revenue increase to the Government of
£360million in 2013-14, rising to £1,250million in 2016-17,' it said.

The committee warned that capping tax relief on donations appeared to be aimed
at tax avoidance but may have a 'detrimental impact' on 'charitable giving'.

In another controversy MPs vote today on whether to scrap the 'pasty tax' in an
amendment to the Finance Bill. The proposal could add 50p to a Cornish pasty.

Tory chairman Baroness Warsi has likened attacks by senior Lib Dems on the
Government to a 'bad episode' of the TV show Come Dine With Me. She said: 'I
don't think it's nice for people to come along, sit at your table, eat your food
and then slag you off in the cab home.'

Comment Ð Page 14

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Kicking for PM as he trails Labour by 11%

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 450 words


DAVID Cameron suffered a political "kicking" last night when two shock opinion
polls put the Conservatives 11 and nine percentage points behind Labour.

And the news for the Coalition as a whole was even worse with Nick Clegg being
hit by a humiliating blow as the UK Independence Party went ahead of his Liberal
Democrats in one survey.

Research by YouGov revealed 43 per cent of voters backed Labour while just 32
per cent supported the Tories.

The results will fuel fears in Downing Street that the traditional Conservative
voters are becoming disillusioned with the Government. The polls came ahead of
the town hall elections on May 3. One Government source admitted: "We are taking
a kicking at the moment, but we never expected to be popular at a time when
tough austerity measures are being implemented. We must hold our nerve."

Within Downing Street, officials have described the Government's recent
difficulties as an "omni-shambles".

Earlier this week, Mr Cameron urged Tories to launch a "flat-out, full-throttle
fight" for the local elections.

He told activists not to be downhearted by recent setbacks for the Government
and insisted the Conservatives were the only party standing up for "strivers and
battlers".

YouGov also had anti-European Union Ukip on nine per cent, ahead of the
floundering Lib Dems on just eight per cent. Among voters aged over 60, Ukip
support in the survey had risen to Ukip support in the survey had risen to a
significant 17 per cent.

If those support levels were repeated at a general election, then the vast
majority of Lib Dem MPs would lose their seats, including Deputy Prime Minister
Mr Clegg and Business Secretary Vince Cable. Ukip supporters were last night
delighted at the prospect of overtaking the Lib Dems as Britain's third most
popular political party.

Leader Nigel Farage said: "This is a significant breakthrough - and a wakeup
call to the Westminster village. The political establishment cannot continue to
ignore the aspirations of the people without suffering at the polls."

A separate poll by Populus yesterday showed Labour extending its lead over the
Tories to nine points.

Support for Labour had risen by four per cent to 42 per cent over the past
month, while that for the Tories had fallen one point to 33 per cent, according
the Populus survey.

18n02graphic The Lib Dems were unchanged on 11 per cent in the second survey.

But Populus found 61 per cent of voters felt the Coalition was doing "badly", up
from 51 per cent in September.

Some 24 per cent believed the Coalition was doing "very badly", up from 15 per
cent.

YouGov surveyed 1,783 British adults on April 15 and 16. Populus interviewed
1,003 people by telephone between April 13 and 15.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron urged 'flat out' fight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Finally it is the beginning of the end for the euro

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 291 words


FOR years the international political class has been in denial about the plight
of the euro. But yesterday the world's most prestigious financial organisation
finally confessed that it may collapse.

FINAL ARTWORK Far from being merely a statement of the obvious, this admission
by the IMF is profoundly important. It indicates that the global political elite
believes the risk of euro break-up is now so high that denying it is no longer
tenable.

..... ....... .........

Finally politicians and economic officials are coming to terms with the madness
they have perpetrated in the name of European federalism.

The truth is that at least five European economies need to regain control of
their own currencies and devalue to have any chance of economic recovery.
Greece, Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal cannot function in a financial
environment determined by the needs of the mighty German economy.

Yet the British Government still proposes to lend the IMF billions more to help
fund a doomed bid to keep the euro intact. No wonder in Britain there is a surge
in support for UKIP - the one party that has wholeheartedly opposed the euro
from the day it was conceived and every day since.

The euro crisis has now been in progress for nearly four years. It has brought
Greece to the point of social insurrection and led to half the young people of
Spain being unemployed.

It will end up being dismantled because democracies cannot forever sustain the
consent of their populations for deepening poverty and despair.

The most honourable thing the British Government could do is to tell other
European nations these inconvenient truths. The only possible happy ending to
this horror show is the ending of the euro itself. And the sooner it happens the
better.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kicking for PM as he trails Labour by 11%

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 468 words


DAVID Cameron suffered a political "kicking" last night when two shock opinion
polls put the Conservatives 11 and nine percentage points behind Labour.

And the news for the Coalition as a whole was even worse with Nick Clegg being
hit by a humiliating blow as the UK Independence Party went ahead of his Liberal
Democrats in one survey.

Research by YouGov revealed 43 per cent of voters backed Labour while just 32
per cent supported the Tories.

The results will fuel fears in Downing Street that the traditional Conservative
voters are becoming disillusioned with the Government. The polls came ahead of
the town hall elections on May 3.

One Government source admitted: "We are taking a kicking at the moment, but we
never expected to be popular at a time when tough austerity measures are being
implemented. We must hold our nerve."

Within Downing Street, officials have described the Government's recent
difficulties as an "omni-shambles".

Earlier this week, Mr Cameron urged Tories to launch a "flat-out, full-throttle
fight" for the local elections.

He told activists not to be downhearted by recent setbacks for the Government
and insisted the Conservatives were the only party standing up for "strivers and
battlers".

YouGov also had anti-European Union Ukip on nine per cent, ahead of the
floundering Lib Dems on just eight per cent. Among voters aged over 60, Ukip
support in the survey had risen to Ukip support in the survey had risen to a
significant 17 per cent.

If those support levels were repeated at a general election, then the vast
majority of Lib Dem MPs would lose their seats, including Deputy Prime Minister
Mr Clegg and Business Secretary Vince Cable.

Ukip supporters were last night delighted at the prospect of overtaking the Lib
Dems as Britain's third most popular political party.

Leader Nigel Farage said: "This is a significant breakthrough - and a wakeup
call to the Westminster village. The political establishment cannot continue to
ignore the aspirations of the people without suffering at the polls."

A separate poll by Populus yesterday showed Labour extending its lead over the
Tories to nine points.

Support for Labour had risen by four per cent to 42 per cent over the past
month, while that for the Tories had fallen one point to 33 per cent, according
the Populus survey.

18n02graphic The Lib Dems were unchanged on 11 per cent in the second survey.

But Populus found 61 per cent of voters felt the Coalition was doing "badly", up
from 51 per cent in September.

Some 24 per cent believed the Coalition was doing "very badly", up from 15 per
cent.

YouGov surveyed 1,783 British adults on April 15 and 16. Populus interviewed
1,003 people by telephone between April 13 and 15.

How UK would vote now Research by YouGov Research by YouGov 43% Labour 8% Lib
Dem 8% Other 9% UKIP 32% Tories

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron urged 'flat out' fight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday

Politics live blog + PMQs: Unemployment falls

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 7004 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all today's political developments,
including David Cameron and Ed Miliband at PMQs and Nick Clegg on the Today
programme

FULL TEXT

2.00pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Ed Miliband has branded the budget an "omnishambles" in a confident
performance at PMQs that saw David Cameron having to defend last month's budget
measures on multiple fronts. Miliband started by saying that the abolition of
the 50p top rate of tax would be worth "at least [#xfffd]40,000 a year to
Britain's millionaires". But then he broadened his attack out.

Over the last month we have seen the charity tax shambles, the churches tax
shambles, the caravan tax shambles and the pasty tax shambles. We are all keen
to hear the prime minister's view as to why, four weeks on from the Budget, even
people within Downing Street are calling it an omnishambles budget.

Cameron said the budget would cut taxes for 24m people. Earlier Nick Clegg made
the same point in an interview for the Today programmein which he also gave the
broadest hint yet that the coalition will rethink the level of a planned cap on
tax relief for charitable donations.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has implicitly criticised Northern Ireland's attorney
general for trying to prosecute Peter Hain for making derogatory comments about
a judge. Hain, the former Northern Ireland secretary, made the comment in his
recently published autobiography. John Larkin, the NI attorney, has been granted
leave to prosecute Hain and Biteback Publishing on the grounds that the book
"undermines the administration of justice".In the Commons David Blunkett, the
former Labour home secretary, raised the issued and complained that Hain was
being prosecuted under an "outdated law". Cameron replied.

Parliamentary privilege obviously quite rightly allows [MPs] to express their
views in parliament. In terms of what is said outside Parliament, let me just
say this: there are occasions we all know when judges make critical remarks
about politicians and there are occasionally [times] when politicians make
critical remarks about judges. To me, this is part of life in a modern democracy
and I think we should try to keep these things as far as possible out of the
courts.

[#xfffd] Cameron has urged George Galloway not to exploit the issue of
Afghanistan for political purposes. Galloway, who took his seat yesterday as the
new Respect MP for Bradford West, used a question at PMQs to urge Cameron to
withdraw from the "bloody maw" of the Afghan war. Cameron said British troops
were there "at the invitation of an Islamic government and under a United
Nations resolution".

You know the dangers in the past of walking away from Afghanistan and leaving
that country to become the terrorist-supporting haven it did under the Taliban.
We mustn't make that mistake again and I would urge you not play to the gallery
on this issue but to speak up for the work our forces are doing to make
Afghanistan a safer country.

[#xfffd] Cameron has defended the pasty tax. This is what he said when asked
about it at PMQs.

What I think is unfair is that products sold in a fish and chip shop which are
subject to VAT, those same products can be sold in supermarkets not subject to
VAT. I don't think that's fair and that's why it's right we redraw the
boundaries.

[#xfffd] Cameron has defended the "caravan tax".

I don't think it's fair that a mobile caravan pays VAT but a stationery caravan
does not. No one is talking about putting VAT on park homes that are permanent
homes, but this is about a fair drawing of the boundaries.

[#xfffd] Cameron has implied that Labour are voting to preserve child benefit
for high earners out of self interest. When a Labour MP raised the issue,
Cameron said that keeping child benefit for those earning more than
[#xfffd]60,000 would benefit Labour MPs.

We have to make difficult decisions and I think it's not defensible to ask
people who earn [#xfffd]20,000, [#xfffd]30,000 to pay their taxes so that people
sitting in this house can get child benefit. I know that member opposite will
walk through the lobby tomorrow for something they will financially benefit
from, but I think it's profoundly wrong.

[#xfffd] Cameron has defended the decision to impose VAT on repairs to listed
buildings. This is what he said when a Labour MP said the new tax would hit
churches.

Repairs to churches are already subject to VAT, alterations to listed buildings
are not, so that means that, whereas a repair to a church you pay VAT, if you
put a great big swimming pool in a Tudor house you don't pay VAT.

[#xfffd] Cameron has attacked Ken Livingstone for not paying his taxes in full.
He raised the topic repeatedly during PMQs.

I don't think that's good enough and we've got a Labour candidate for Mayor of
London who is paying less tax on his earnings than the person who cleans his
office. I think that's disgraceful.

Miliband defended Livingstone, although not over his tax arrangements. This is
what he told Cameron.

We've got a candidate for mayor of London who will cut Tube fares, who will make
rents fairer, who will bring back the education maintenance allowance. What have
you got? A candidate for mayor of London who is out of touch and was arguing for
the cut in the 50p tax rate.

[#xfffd] Unemployment has fallen for the first time in almost a year, raising
hopes of a spring bounce in the UK's fragile economy. Cameron welcomed this at
PMQs.[#xfffd] Chris Grayling, the employment minister, has said that firms
should offer jobs to "the surly young man in a hoodie" and not just to East
Europeans. He made the comment in a speech which he will deliver later this
afternoon but which he has circulated in advance.

It's easy to hire someone from Eastern Europe with five years' experience and
who has had the get-up-and-go to cross a continent in search for work.

But those who look closer to home find gems too. Very often the surly young man
in a hoodie who turns up looking unwilling to work can turn into an excited and
motivated employee.

It's all about the expectations that they have and the place they come from. And
employers who give them that chance find it enormously rewarding.

[#xfffd] George Osborne, a chancellor, has welcomed a move by HSBC to raise
money in London on the Chinese currency. It will be the first bank to issue
renminbi bonds outside China.

[#xfffd] Brendan Barber, the TUC general secretary, has announced that he will
retire at the end of the year.[#xfffd] Aung San Suu Kyi, the Burmese opposition
leader, has announced that she will visit Britain in June. At PMQs Cameron said
most other leading EU countries now supported Britain's call for sanctions
against Burma to be suspended.

[#xfffd]Boris Johnson, the London mayor, has said that he will cut the mayor's
share of council tax by 10% over four years if re-elected.

[#xfffd] A Conservative council in Essex has been running a so-called
"conservatory tax" for five years without complaint, the Guardian has learned.

Some of the quotes have come fromPoliticsHome.

12.47pm: PMQs Verdict: Ed Miliband hasn't had a wider open goal since he became
Labour leader and, to his credit, he slotted the balls into the back of the net
perfectly. For once, I think David Cameron has been shown up by Nick Clegg. When
Clegg was grilled about the budget on the Today programme, he tried to make an
argument about the big picture in the budget - the increase in the tax
allowance. Cameron's constant references to Ken Livingstone smacked of
desperation. He was more effective when he went on the offensive over child
benefit, attacking Labour MPs for voting to protect a benefit from which wealthy
people like MPs benefit. (The new [#xfffd]60,000 cut-off, at which point a high
earner will lose all child benefit, is only about [#xfffd]5,000 below the salary
for an MP.) But this came towards the end of PMQs, not during the exchanges with
Miliband.

That said, although the Livingstone comments did not help Cameron much during
PMQs, the session amounted to a 30-minute advert for the Boris Johnson campaign.
Miliband did defend Livingstone, but not on the tax issue, and it is hard to
avoid the conclusion that this controversy is clobbering Livingstone's chances
in the mayoral campaign.

One other point is worth mentioning. Tim Montgomerie, the editor of
ConservativeHome, thinks Cameron's most important answer was one to a
Conservative MP.

Most important moment of #PMQs was DC's putdown of @DouglasCarswell. No10 must
get out of bunker and build bridges with Tory MPs, not fences

- Tim Montgomerie (@TimMontgomerie) April 18, 2012

12.39pm: To mark the appearance of "omnishambles" at PMQs (see 12.10pm),which
means that the word is going to make it into Hansard, here's the clip from The
Thick of It where it first appeared.

The full quote is, of course, "fucking omnishambles", but Ed Miliband spared us
the f-word.

12.36pm: Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, rises to make a point of order. He
says Cameron was wrong to say the 50p rate did not raise any money. He invites
Cameron to correct the record before he leaves the chamber.

Cameron ignores him and walks out.

John Bercow suggests this is a contrived point of order.

12.33pm:George Galloway, the new Respect MP, says there's an "iron-clad
consensus" amongst the fronbenchers about the war in Afghanistan. In the wake of
the Bradford West byelection, will Cameron consider the "bloody maw" of
Afghanistan.

Cameron congratulates Galloway on his win. But he says he disagrees with him on
this. Britain is in Afghanistan enforcing a UN resolution. He says he would urge
Galloway "not to pay to the gallery.

12.33pm: Labour's Kate Green asks about the abolition of child benefit for the
higher rate taxpayers. Cameron says Labour will be voting to keep a benefit that
Labour MPs enjoy.

12.31pm: Cameron agrees to look at a report on how internet service providers
can be encourage to block pornography.

12.30pm: Labour's Anas Sarwar says Nick Clegg is Cameron's broken arrow: he does
not work, and he can't be fired.

Cameron says Sarwar did not ask about employment. Figures out today show the
work experience programme is 20 times as cost effective as the Future Jobs Fund.

12.29pm:James Clappison, a Conservative, asks if Cameron agrees that
universities should be free to select students on merit. Cameron says he does
agree.

12.28pm:Douglas Carswell, a Conservative, asks why Cameron said Yes Minister was
true to life on his trip to Malaysia last week when, in the past, he said the
opposite.

Cameron says sometimes Carswell needs a sense of humour.

12.27pm: Labour's Gordon Marsden asks about the decision to impose VAT on church
repairs. Cameron says the government will put money aside to help churches
affected by the change.

12.26pm: Cameron agrees to look into a missing child case raised by Caroline
Dinenage, a Conservative.

12.25pm: Labour's Kelvin Hopkins asks if George Osborne was right to portray the
freezing of age-related allowances as simplication. Cameron cites the positive
things the government is doing for pensioners.

12.24pm:Paul Uppal, a Conservative, asks the government to review postal voting.
He cites an article by Mary Ann Sieghart in the Independent highlighting the way
this is being abused.

Cameron says he will look into this.

12.23pm: Labour's Ian Murray asks how much the cabinet will gain collectively
from the abolition of the top rate of tax.

Cameron says Labour had 13 years to introduced a 50p top rate of years. They
introduced it a month before a general election they were going to lose. The 45p
rate is higher than Labour's top rate for 12 of their 13 years.

12.21pm: Labour's David Blunkett asks David Cameron to condemn the Northern
Ireland attorney general for using an "outdated law" to prosecute Peter Hain for
criticising a judge in his memoirs.

Cameron says he has a great deal of sympathy for this point. Judges sometimes
criticise politicians. And politicians sometimes criticise judges. These things
should, as far as possible, be kept out of the courtroom, he says.

12.20pm: Cameron is still banging on about Ken Livingstone. Why the deafening
silence from Labour, he asks.

12.15pm:PMQs Snap Verdict:  Miliband scored a wipeout - which was no less
impressive for being rather predicatable. More later ...

I'm afraid I'm having technical problems, but I think I'm okay now.

12.10pm: Miliband says Cameron cannot even defend his own budget. Livingstone
will cut fares. He lists various budget shambles. Why does Cameron think even
people in Downing Street are calling it an "omnishambles budget"?

Cameron says he has a mayoral candidate who pays his taxes. The budget will cut
taxes for 24m people. Miliband has lost the Bradford byelection in the last four
months. He has shown "complete weakness" over Unite. Miliband is "completely
useless".

Miliband says he is not going to take any lectures from a government that caused
fuel panic. Will Cameron apologise for that? This budget "comprehensively fails
the test of fairness and spectularly fails the test of competence".

Cameron says Miliband will not take lectures on the fuel strike "because he's in
the pockets of the people who called the fuel strike". Miliband is "not good
enough to run the opposition and not good enough to run the country".

12.06pm: Miliband says Cameron is talking "rubbish". And Cameron is trying to
"con" pensioners. Will Cameron confirm the IFS figures saying families with
children will lose more than [#xfffd]500 a year.

Cameron says if Miliband's amendment gets through, Britain will have a 40p top
rate of tax. Miliband cannot persuade his mayoral candidate to pay his taxes.
Will Milband condemn him?

Miliband says it's prime minister's questions. "I ask the questions, and he's
supposed to answer them." What about charities? Cameron's big idea was the big
society. Why is Cameron taking advice from "the part-time chancellor". The
government has insulted people who give to charities, and has insulted charities
themselves by implying they are bogus. Did Cameron know the budget would cost
charities [#xfffd]500m.

Cameron says Miliband has offered "no defence of Ken Livingstone". The
government's plan is about ensuring that people pay their taxes. Livingstone is
paying less tax than the person who cleans his office. Why won't Miliband
condemn it?

12.03pm:Ed Miliband also pays tribute to the dead soliders.

Then he asks Cameron to confirm that cutting the 50p top rate of tax will save
millionaires [#xfffd]40,000 each.

Cameron says he is surprised Miliband has not mentioned unemployment. Will
Mililband welcome the fall in unemployment.

Miliband says long-term unemployment is too high. He notes that Cameron did not
deny the [#xfffd]40,000 figures. He asks Cameron to confirm that freezing the
age-related allowance will cost 4.4m pensioners up to [#xfffd]320 a year.

Cameron says the pension has gone up. If Miliband is concerned about the 45p top
rate of tax, can he explain why Labour's amendment to the finance bill would get
rid of the 45p rate and leave a 40p rate. Miliband is "incompetent".

12.03pm: Cameron welcomes today's announcement about foreign doctors having to
speak good English.

12.01pm:Naomi Long, an Alliance MP from Northern Ireland, asks if Cameron will
bring the rules about party donations in Northern Ireland into line with the
rest of the UK.

Cameron says there were reasons for the different rules in Northern Ireland.

12.00pm:David Cameron starts with a tribute to the four soldiers killed in
Afghanistan, or as a result of injuries sustained there, since the last PMQs.

11.59am: Here's Sky's Jon Craig on Twitter.

George Osborne looks pale & chastened alongside Cameron ahead of PMQs. So he
should! Budget will get a battering. Theresa May looks smug!

11.51am: PMQs is coming up and my colleagues are in a betting mood.

Here's the BBC's Nick Robinson on Twitter.

Preparing for PMQ bingo. How many times will Labour MPs say out of touch,
unfair, incompetent? I can't watch live so please count for me!

- Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson) April 18, 2012

And here's PoliticsHome's Paul Waugh.

Q: How long into #PMQs will it take Cam to point out that Unite/PCS have strikes
due the day after Queens Speech?

- Paul Waugh (@paulwaugh) April 18, 2012

11.47am: Diane Abbott, the shadow health minister, has been using written
questions to find out how Department of Health has been spending its money. She
has put out a news release with lots of examples. Here's an extract.

[#xfffd] [#xfffd]29,331 has been spent on 'away days' in the last 12 months -
many to the Radisson Edwardian Vanderbilt Hotel in South Kensington, although
the department does not keep records of all of its away days.

[#xfffd] [#xfffd]18,128 has been spent on ministerial office refurbishments in
the last two years.

[#xfffd] [#xfffd]2,002.00 has been spent on plasma TVs in the last two years

[#xfffd] An eye-watering [#xfffd]109,017 has been spent on tea and biscuits in
just three months.

And here's what she' saying about it.

The overall picture is one of a totally dysfunctional department, and I think
Andrew Lansley has got to take responsibility for that. The department doesn't
seem to be living in the real world. What's emerging is a culture of waste,
murky lobbying links, and lavish gifts and receptions.

11.30am: When George Osborne gave evidence to the Commons Treasury committee
about the budget, he said that the existence of the coalition and the fact that
the figures had to be cleared in advance with the Office for Budget
Responsibility helped to explain why so much of it leaked in advance. In its
report today, the committee say "coalition government is not a justification for
budget leaks".

But, on his Daily Mail blog, James Chapman suggests that the problem with the
budget was that it was not discussed widely enough within government in
advance.He says government sources are saying this is why it has been such a
disaster.

As the post mortem on the Budget continues, Government sources suggest Mr
Osborne drew up the final version of the package in unhealthy secrecy because of
a series of leaks blamed on the Lib Dems. In the days ahead of the Chancellor's
statement, details of two of his key announcements that might have been expected
to be the main Budget day story (the 50p cut and the income tax allowance
increase) were briefed, meaning the 'granny tax' garnered all the headlines. Two
figures close to David Cameron suggest that as a result of the pre-Budget leaks,
an increasingly paranoid Treasury shut down cross-Whitehall talks. As a result
only the coalition 'quad' - Mr Cameron, Mr Osborne, Nick Clegg and Danny
Alexander - discussed the finer details.

Though much of the blame has been laid at the door of the Government's
communications team, I am told that no spin doctors in Number Ten actually saw
the complete Budget package in advance. 'It was all closed down to the quad
because so much of it was being leaked out. People that should have seen the
Budget didn't see it, and the usual mine-sweeping didn't happen,' said one
Government source. Another said: 'There is no problem between David Cameron and
George Osborne. But there is a recognition that a Budget can't ever be done in
this way again.'

11.15am: Here's some more reaction to the unemployment figures.

From Graeme Leach, chief economist at the Institute of Directors

In tough times the private sector is leading the economic recovery, despite high
taxes and costly regulation. Private sector employment is up 45,000 whilst
public sector employment is down 37,000 in the latest quarter. Surprisingly,
given the spending review, public sector pay continues to exceed that in the
private sector. Public sector pay, excluding financial companies, stands at
[#xfffd]467 per week compared with [#xfffd]459 per week in the private sector.
If average public sector pay can be reduced then fewer jobs will need to be lost
from the spending review.

From Graeme Cooke, associate director at the IPPR thinktank

There remain worrying trends underneath today's positive headlines. The fall in
the overall jobless count masks a continuing rise in female unemployment, now
higher than at any point since 1987.

Long term unemployment continues to rise, reaching its highest level since 1996.
There is a real risk that these people will struggle to take advantage of any
upturn in the economy.

From John Philpott, chief economic adviser at the Chartered Institute of
Personnel and Development

With the number of women in work at best flat-lining, and many men and women
unable to find full-time jobs, it would be unwise to get too excited by a
welcome fall in unemployment. A properly recovering jobs market is not
characterised by a growing army of underemployed part-timers and pay rises still
falling well short of price inflation.

From Philip Booth from the Institute of Economic Affairs

The fall in unemployment is good news. However, the government is still facing a
huge and intractable youth unemployment problem. Its policy of increasing labour
market regulation and imposing more burdens on employers is extremely unhelpful
- and is still continuing despite all the rhetoric from Downing Street. Just
this month, we have had the imposition of the EU agency workers directive, which
the government decided to implement immediately, and new pensions obligations
will be imposed on employers later in the year. These are poor policies to be
pursuing in the depths of a recession.

11.07am: Scotland Yard detectives investigating the phone hacking affair have
sent files relating to 11 suspects, including four journalists, to prosecutors,
it was revealed today.

The Press Assocation have filed this.

Eleven suspects have been referred to prosecutors by Scotland Yard's
phone-hacking squad.The cases of four journalists, one police officer and six
other individuals are being considered, director of public prosecutions Keir
Starmer QC said.Offences under consideration include misconduct in a public
office, data protection act breaches, perverting the course of justice, witness
intimidation and breaches of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act
(Ripa).Starmer refused to give a timescale for a charging decision but said: "We
are now entering a period where we are likely to make a decision one way or
another."

10.55am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere.And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, arehere.

As for the rest of the papers, here are three stories that are particularly
interesting.

[#xfffd] The Financial Times (subscription) says a Canadian has been informally
approached about taking over as governor of the Bank of England when Sir Mervyn
King retires.

Mark Carney, the governor of Canada's central bank, has been informally
approached as a potential candidate to replace Sir Mervyn King as head of the
Bank of England in June next year.

One of the world's most respected central bankers, Mr Carney, 47, now heads the
Financial Stability Board, which oversees global financial regulation. He was
approached recently by a member of the BoE's court, the largely non-executive
body that oversees its activities, according to three people involved in the
process.

[#xfffd] Jim Pickard and Andrew Bounds in the Financial Times (subscription)
says that most citities voting on whether to have an elected mayor next month
are expected to vote no.

Plans for elected mayors could be a damp squib, with as few as three cities
voting in favour in next month's referendums, Conservative strategists have
privately warned.

Greg Clark, cities minister, has predicted the votes will "usher in a new era of
people power", with elections set for November.

But ahead of the historic referendums across 10 of Britain's biggest cities on
May 3, ministers anticipate only three will say yes - Birmingham and maybe Leeds
and Bristol.

"At the start of the year we thought if we got one major city to say yes it
would be a success, anything beyond that is a bonus," said one minister.

[#xfffd] The Daily Mail says a report suggests minimum prices for alcohol could
save 1,000 lives a year.

Plans to introduce minimum alcohol pricing would save more than 1,000 lives each
year, a report claimed today.

The Government announced last month that it was planning to set a minimum price
of 40p per unit of alcohol for England and Wales.

An article published on bmj.com today said the proposal would have significant
impacts on alcohol-related deaths, hospital admissions and consumption.

The report's author, John Appleby, chief economist at the King's Fund, added
that a minimum price of 50p would more than double the effects.

10.34am: Here's some more reaction to the unemployment figures.

From Liam Byrne (pictured), the shadow work and pensions secretary

We've had two years of excuses and now we've got the evidence - this government
has utterly failed to tackle Britain's jobs emergency, and we are limping along
in crisis.

The number of people signing on is going up, we still have more than a million
young people out of work, more women unemployed than since 1987 and a benefits
bill that is spiralling by the day

Last month's budget should have taken big and bold action to get Britain back to
work. Instead we got a hand-out for millionaires, and a slap down for anyone on
tax credits.

From Brendan Barber, the TUC general secretary

This long-overdue fall in unemployment will bring relief to the 2.6m people
desperately looking for work. While any rise in the number of jobs is welcome,
the fact is that full-time employment is still falling and a record 1.4m are now
stuck in involuntary part-time work. There's also a sting in the tail for those
in work, with wages falling even faster than feared due to low pay growth and
stubbornly high inflation.

From Dave Prentis, the Unison general secretary

The government is digging itself and the country into a deeper hole with its
swingeing cuts to public services and jobs ... The government is failing to
tackle the growing problem of long-term unemployment which is bringing misery to
so many families. In addition, the record number of people forced into part-time
working is masking the sheer scale of unemployment, and women are again bearing
the brunt of job cuts.

From Andrew Sissons, a researcher at the Work Foundation

The slight drop in unemployment is an encouraging sign after many months of
turmoil in the labour market. However, these figures make it clear that the
improvement is being driven by an increasingly part-time recovery. The economy
actually shed full-time jobs over the last three months. There are now 1.4m
people in part-time work who would prefer a full-time job, which is the highest
level since records began.

There are some good signs about the underlying health of the labour market:
there has been a shift away from self-employment, and there has been a recovery
in hours worked, which suggests some workers may be finding more work and
greater job security. However, men have seen most of the benefits from job
creation, with women struggling in the last three months. The fall in youth
unemployment should offer little encouragement - employment amongst young people
has continued to fall, and the small fall in unemployment is down to a rise in
inactivity.

10.20am:Brendan Barber, the general secretary of the TUC, will retire at the end
of the year, the TUC has announced.

Barber has put out this statement.

I have decided that this is the right time to make a change in my life. I have
been enormously privileged to work at the TUC since 1975, and the end of the
year will mark the 10-year point since my election as general secretary.

The TUC has always been a powerful voice for the millions of ordinary people who
depend on trade unions to better their lives and there is so much of our work
over the years in which I take great pride. But I have every confidence that
under new leadership the TUC can go from strength to strength.

10.15am: The Department for Work and Pensions says today's unemployment figures
show "real signs of stabilisation" in the labour market. Here's an extract from
their news release.

New figures published by the Office for National Statistics today show another
rise in employment, up 53,000 to 29.172m (ILO measure). This is coupled with a
fall in unemployment of 35,000 on the quarter, to 2.65 million. This is despite
the fact there are more people in the labour market, with a fall in inactivity
of 25,000.

Today's figures also show a better picture on youth unemployment. The number of
16 to 24-year-olds who have left full-time education and are seeking work is
719,000, down 11,000 on the quarter, while the number of full-time students
looking for a job is 315,000.

Jobseeker's Allowance is up 3,600 this month to 1.61 million. However, as this
includes the effect of welfare reforms that are moving more people onto JSA from
other benefits, the underlying trend remains broadly flat.

And here's a comment from Chris Grayling (pictured), the employment minister.

Today's figures are a step in the right direction but we still have a long way
to go. We are pushing ahead with our strategy to promote investment and new jobs
in the private sector and support people currently without work to take up those
jobs. I am particularly encouraged that overall employment is now growing
despite reductions in the public sector.

10.10am:Aung San Suu Kyi is going to visit the UK in June, Reuters are
reporting.

10.05am: Here are the regional unemployment figures.

Region - unemployment from December to February - change from previous quarter -
unemployment rate

North East - 144,000 - minus 9,000 - 11.2%North West - 325,000 - plus 18,000 -
9.6%Yorkshire/Humber - 248,000 - minus 21,000 - 9.3%East Midlands - 189,000 -
minus 1,000 - 8.2%West Midlands - 239,000 - minus 3,000 - 9.0%East - 203,000 -
minus 17,000 - 6.6%London - 431,000 - plus 7,000 - 10.1%South East - 282,000 -
minus 2,000 - 6.3%South West - 179,000 - plus 4,000 - 6.7%Wales - 131,000 - plus
1,000 - 8.9%Scotland - 219,000 - minus 12,000 - 8.1%N Ireland - 58,000 - no
change - 6.8%

9.42am: And here's the top of the Press Assocation story on the unemployment
figures.

Unemployment has fallen for the first time in almost a year, leaving 2.65
million people out of work, new figures showed today.The total dipped by 35,000
in the quarter to February, giving a jobless rate of 8.3%.The number of people
claiming jobseeker's allowance increased for the 17th month in a row in March,
up by 3,600 to 1.61 million, the smallest monthly rise since last December.But
other figures from the Office for National Statistics revealed that the number
of unemployed women increased by 8,000 in the latest quarter to 1.14 million,
the highest figure for almost 25 years.The number of people out of work for over
a year jumped by 26,000 to 883,000, the worst total since 1996.The figures also
showed an 89,000 rise in the number of people working part-time because they
could not find full-time jobs, to a total of 1.4 million, the highest figure
since records began in 1992.There was a 53,000 increase in the number of people
in employment to 29 million, although the figure is 57,000 down on a year
ago.The fall in unemployment was the first since the quarter to May last year,
with the number of jobless men 43,000 down to 1.5 million.There were 1.03
million unemployed 16-to-24-year-olds, down by 9,000 from the three months to
November and the lowest total since last autumn.The number of people classed as
economically inactive, including those on long-term sick leave, students, those
looking after a relative or who have given up looking for work, fell by 25,000
to 9.27 million, a rate of 23%.Average earnings increased by 1.1% in the year to
February, down by 0.2 percentage points from the previous month to the lowest
since the summer of 2010.Average weekly pay in private firms is [#xfffd]459,
compared with [#xfffd]477 in the public sector.There were 1.4 million working
days lost through strikes in the year to February, the highest total since 2002,
largely as a result of last November's walkout by public sector workers in the
row over pensions.

9.39am: Here is more on the unemployment figures. These are extracts from the
ONS bulletin.

Unemployment rate

The unemployment rate for the three months to February 2012 was 8.3 per cent of
the economically active population, down 0.1 on the quarter. The total number of
unemployed people fell by 35,000 over the quarter to reach 2.65 million. These
are the first quarterly falls in the unemployment level and rate since March-May
2011. The number of unemployed men fell by 43,000 to reach 1.51 million but the
number of unemployed women increased by 8,000 to reach 1.14 million, the highest
figure since the three months to November 1987. The number of people unemployed
for up to twelve months fell by 61,000 on the quarter to reach 1.77 million, but
the number of people unemployed for over 12 months increased by 26,000 to reach
883,000, the highest figure since the three months to September 1996.

Claimaint count

There were 1.61 million people claiming Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA) in March
2012, up 3,600 on February. The number of people claiming JSA for up to six
months fell by 13,100 on the month to reach 893,800. This series has now fallen
for nine consecutive months and it has decreased by 81,600 since March 2011.

9.31am: Here are the headline unemployment figures.

[#xfffd] Unemployment fell by 35,000 between December and February to 2.65m.

[#xfffd] The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month
increased by 3,600 to 1.61m.

Here is the news release from the Office for National Statistics. And here is
the statistical bulletin, with the full details (pdf).

9.08am: For the record, here are the YouGov GB polling figures from last night.

Labour: 41% (down 2 points since Monday night)Conservatives: 32% (no change)
Ukip: 9% (no change)Lib Dems: 8% (no change)

Labour lead: 9 points

Government approval: -37

8.31am: Lib Dem poll ratings may be dismal, but that did not stop Nick Clegg
sounding on combative form in his Today interview.

Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Clegg appeared to concede that there would be concessions to charities
worried about the impact of the tax relief cap imposed in the budget. Ministers
have already said that there will be a consultation before the plans are
implemented, but Clegg hinted very strongly this would lead to changes.

Of course, as we said at the budget, we will look at this in detail. We have got
time to get the details right. We will look at this in the round and we will do
so with an open mind and very sympathetically, because we don't want to damage
charities. We don't want to inhibit philanthropy. But ... the principle of
saying that there should be some limit to what are taxpayer-funded allowances in
the tax system as a whole is something which is sensible.

He also said that the UK was almost unique among developed countries in allowing
people to claim unlimited tax relief of this kind (as they can until the cap
announced by George Osborne comes into force). Only Australia has unlimited tax
relief, he said. Nick Robinson reads this as a hint that the government will
impose a cap worth 50% of income, as applies in America,instead of 25%, as
proposed in the budget.[#xfffd] Clegg claimed that no future government would
try to reverse the increase in the basic tax allowance. The Lib Dems have made
raising the tax allowance to [#xfffd]10,000 their key coalition demand and in
the budget it was raised to [#xfffd]9,205. This would be the "legacy of this
budget", he said.

You have small changes in budgets which can be controversial or not. Then you
have big changes in budgets which, in my view, can be judged whether they are
significant or whether we believe that future governments are going to change
them or not. My feeling is that what we are doing on the allowance is one of the
biggest, boldest and most radical changes in the personal tax system for a very
long time.

[#xfffd] He said that he enjoyed being in government. Asked if he was enjoying
being in government, he replied: "Yes. It's a great privilege. Of course it's
tough but it's a great privilege. I feel genuinely lucky that I am playing a
role, as other people are, in making sure this country is strong, prosperous and
safe in the future."

[#xfffd] He cited the fact that the Lib Dems did not win the election as the
reason why they broke their promise not to vote for an increase in tuition fees.
When Jim Naughtie challenged him on this, he said that he had only 8% of the MPs
in the Commons. (On this, Clegg is actually missing the point. Breaking the
tuition fee promise has been toxic for the Lib because it was not a promise
about what they would do if they formed a government.It was a promise about how
they would act as MPs - regardless of whether they were in power or not.)

8.23am: That wasn't particularly revealing. Nick Clegg went further than any
minister has gone already, I think, in signalling that there will be concessions
to charities, and his last answer might cause him problems, because it could lay
him open to the charge that he enjoys being part of a government cutting
spending. (Politicians aren't supposed to say things like this, according to
certain daft media conventions, although of course we all know they enjoy
politics - that's why they do it.) I'll post a full summary in a moment.

8.17am: Still going on the budget.Q: You talked about fairness. But people are
saying what you are doing is not fair. Is that why you are lagging in the polls?

Clegg says the government is taking big, controversial decisions. The economy
suffered a heart attack. The aftershocks will last for years.

Lib Dem councils have all either frozen or cut council tax. Labour and the
Conservatives cannot say that. Lib Dem councils are also more likely to help
employees on low pay, he says.

Q: People remember you breaking a promise on tuition fees. People think that, if
they cannot believe you on that, they cannot believe you on anything.

Clegg says he did not win the election. He only has 8% of MPs in the Commons. He
has to deal with the world as it is. He would love to have a Lib Dem government.
But he doesn't.

The Lib Dems are delivering on all their four main promises, he says.

Also, as Liam Byrne said, "there is no money". Two years ago it would have been
easy to "retreat" to his tribal corner and throw bricks at the other parties.
But he decided to sort out the mess left by Labour. That requires resilience and
courage.Q: So you are enjoying it?

Yes, says Clegg. He is proud of the fact that the Lib Dems are playing a
courageous role in government.

8.14am: They are still on tax.

Q: Your answer shows how much the government has moved. You are saying you will
change what was in the budget. You are constantly on the defensive, aren't you?

Clegg says he is not in the slightest bit defensive about the fact that he has
launched the Youth Contract, increased pensions, raised the tax allowance and
increased the pupil premium.

He needs to "tell the other side of the story", he says.

There has been an a "massive expansion" in pre-school support for children.

The governmnent is doing necessary things to rescue the economy, and good things
that will last.

Q: But the budget appears to be incompetent: pasties, granny tax, charities.

Clegg says the "bigger picture" on the budget is that the government has stuck
to its deficit reduction programme. Other governments have had to re-invent
budgets. The government has made the economy safer. It has also introduced
reforms worth [#xfffd]3.5bn that will make the tax system fairer. That will be
"the legacy of this budget".

8.10am: Jim Naughtie is doing the interview. He is starting now.

Times are tough for the Lib Dems, Naughtie says.

Q: You have to defend coalition decisions. Are you going to claim credit for a
budget that you describe as fair?

Clegg says he attaches great importance to the lifting of the personal tax
allowance in the budget. It will take 2m people out of tax altogether. You can
have small changes in budgets, and you can have big changes. Clegg says this is
"one of the biggest, boldest and most radical changes in the personal tax system
for a very long time".Q: Budgets are packages. The stuff that is unravelling is
stuff that comes from the Lib Dems. Charities are "livid" about the changes
coming from your tycoon tax idea.

Clegg says everyone should pay their fair share of tax.

Q: Are you saying that people who contribute to charity are evading tax?

No, says Clegg. But it is normal in other countries to cap tax relief.

The government will look at this in detail. It will look at this "in the round"
with an open mind and "very sympathetically", he says.

8.00am: PMQs is back today and, in Ed Miliband's office this morning, they are
going to have a real problem: what budget disaster should they raise, given that
there have been quite so many? As the Guardian says today in its editorial,"the
budget is the gift that keeps giving - to the coalition's enemies." Even the
Daily Telegraph agrees. "Rarely has a budget speech spent quite so long
unravelling; rarely has the political impact been so negative," it says in its
editorial today.

But first we've got Nick Clegg, who is being interviewed on the Today programme
in 10 minutes. In the light of a poll this week showing that, on the basis of
their current performance, the Lib Dems could lose 50 of their 57 parliamentary
seats,it could be good.

Here's the agenda for the day.

9.30am: Unemployment figures are published.

10.30am: The Crown Prosecution Service publishes guidelines on how journalists
can use public interest as a defence against prosecution.12pm: David Cameron and
Ed Miliband clash at PMQs.,

1.15pm: Tory MPs Jesse Norman and Dominic Raab and Michael Pinto-Duschinsky, a
former member of the Commission on the Bill of Rights, speak at a Policy
Exchange conference on human rights reform.

2pm: Alistair Burt, the Foreign Office minister, gives evidence to the Commons
foreign affairs committee on the Arab Spring.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary after PMQs and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday

Nick Clegg senior aide resigns

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 395 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Reeves cites reason as moving to US and denies he is jumping ship after
Lib Dem popularity sinks below Ukip

FULL TEXT

Richard Reeves, director of strategy for Nick Clegg and one his most influential
advisers, has resigned.

He and his American-born wife, Erica, are to depart for the US in the summer to
give a chance for his two dual-nationality children to be raised in the US and
be educated in American schools. They are 13 and 10.

Reeves stressed he was not deserting his boss due to disillusionment with the
party's prospects after the latest national poll showed the Liberal Democrats
trailing Ukip. He regards judgments about the outcome of the next general
election as ridiculously premature.

He said: "It has been a huge honour and incredibly exciting to be part of the
first peacetime coalition for decades, and also, as a dyed-in-the-wool liberal,
to serve Liberal Democrat ministers."

Reeves's departure will be a huge loss to Clegg, who had come to rely on him for
strategic advice and the drafting of his major speeches. A former journalist and
thinktank director, Reeves shares Clegg's passion to improve social mobility in
the UK, the issue that Clegg says defines his politics more than any other.

Clegg is due to make a major intervention on the pupil premium on the
anniversary of the government's social mobility strategy next month, setting out
new indicators of progress.

Alan Milburn has also been appointed the acting chair of the commission on
social mobility and child poverty, making Reeves believe the dynamic of social
mobility is now ingrained in government.

His wife comes from the Baltimore area and she is expected to take a job there
in the field of sustainability. She has in the past worked with Steve Hilton,
David Cameron's own director of strategy, who is leaving Downing Street for at
least a year, partly in deference to his wife, who works for Google. He intends
to lecture and write on social mobility in Washington.

Reeves, the author of a biography of John Stuart Mill, has sought to redefine
modern liberalism for Clegg in a series of speeches about the open society,
youth unemployment and employee ownership over the new year.

He has always insisted the Liberal Democrats have a long-term electoral future
as a party of the centre and will reap a grudging reward at the next election
for the tough decisions it has taken.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 18, 2012
                                 First Edition

Our next Prime Minister?;
At this rate Ed Miliband will be in Number 10 by default

BYLINE: My View Matthew Norman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 894 words


Painful though it is to pose the question with your ironic disdain audible as I
type it, posed nonetheless must it be. Has the moment come seriously to consider
the prospect that Ed Miliband will be our next Prime Minister? I know, I know.
This question, which I along with everyone else have answered in the negative
before, strikes you as a makeshift application to be sectioned.

Had Edmund Blackadder asked it in lieu of sticking two pencils up his nose and
wearing his knickers as a hat, even General Melchett would have seen him cosily
ensconced in a psychiatric ward by the time Baldrick, Percy and Captain Darling
went over the top.

The received wisdom on the matter demands the briefest reiteration.

Forget the calamity in Bradford West, it contends. The younger of Labour's
fraternal droids is such a nerdy, drippy, Edenoidal no-hoper that he couldn't
lead the Free Mansions And Lamborghinis For All Party to victory in Soweto
against the Necklacing Alliance fronted by Eugene Terre'Blanche's ghost. And yet
behold, here we find the loser of losers sitting on a double-digit advantage in
one new poll, and up by 9 per cent in another. What can snapshots of voting
intentions taken years ahead of the vote possibly tell us, you may ask, about
Little Ed's ability to win a general election? Absolutely nothing. Michael Foot
and Neil Kinnock consistently had larger leads over Mrs Thatcher, and were
routed.

Yet that strikes me as the wrong question at this monumentally dismal and
apathetic political moment, the right one being this. What do these vignettes of
public mood tell us about his ability to lose a general election less
disastrously than the enemy? Could he become Prime Minister by default, much
like the incumbent, simply by being slightly less offputting a presence than his
rival? Might his optimal strategy be to accept his own presentational
difficulties and the fearsome lack of interest in national politics by keeping
his trap shut, and leaving the Government to continue its super slo-mo
implosion? After two years of giving the Coalition all the benefit of every
doubt, the punters appear finally to be exhausting their stores of indulgence.

Their tax-free charitable donations are running out, and if these polls could be
converted into one sound, it might be the thud of a gigantic penny dropping (in
this case, on to David Cameron's cunningly concealed bald spot). The sequence of
blunders over which the PM has latterly presided - most arising from the Budget,
but with the cobblers about electronic surveillance lending the incompetence
impressive range - has been startling, and the speed of his U-turns dizzying.
Even when a policy is broadly popular and correct - what gives anyone the right
to spend their taxes as they choose? - he is so scrambled by the cumulative
post-Budget contempt that he pirouettes in a flash.

The ritual disclaimer that Mr Cameron is too clever, versatile and polished to
be underestimated begins to look outmoded. Much of the smooth public relations
operative gloss remains. But enough has been stripped away to allow a peek
behind the veneer, and more and more there seems less and less to him than
originally met the eye. The football chant that perhaps captures the nascent
public feeling is the one reserved for the manager of a relegation-threatened
side after a particularly obtuse substitution: you don't know what you're doing.

If it is still too early to lampoon Mr Cameron as Steve McClaren, bemusedly
wandering up and down the Downing Street dugout beneath his brolly, there is no
sign whatever of the political and economic weather improving. The most alarming
polling figure published this week was not the broad one about voting
intentions, the Labour lead being as soft and biodegradable as the squidgiest
pasty. It wasn't even YouGov's finding that Ukip has more support than the
Liberal Democrats, though this represents a graver electoral threat to Mr
Cameron than to Nick Clegg. It is that Ed Balls is now as well trusted to run
the economy as George Osborne. God have mercy on the Tories if Mr Miliband's
most lethal liability is on his way to establishing a lead over a Chancellor
seen a few weeks ago as among Mr Cameron's greatest assets.

Making long-range psephological predictions is an imbecile's game, and the only
one worth risking today is that, with core supporters of all three main parties
as disaffected as they have ever been, turnout at the next election will be
heartbreakingly low. The only vaguely reliable guide to the outcome, as always,
is professional betting money, and the current favourite on Betfair is no
majority for anyone.

Amid all this opacity, one thing is increasingly clear even if the Poncetariat
of pundits to which I have the honour of belonging, not to mention his
colleagues, refuses to acknowledge it. For all the geeky looks and whininess of
tone, Ed Miliband is a cannier and more able Opposition leader than the lazy
caricature as feckless nebbish allows. Snort with derision by all means. But if
he keeps fairly shtum and invisible, and leaves this government to do his work
for him, in this political Bizarro World where victory means losing marginally
less horribly than the other guy, that might just about be enough.

i@independent.co.uk

The ritual claim that Mr Cameron is too clever, versatile and polished to be
underestimated looks outmoded

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 18, 2012 Wednesday 2:55 PM GMT

Matthew Norman: At this rate Ed Miliband will be in Number 10 by default;
The ritual disclaimer that Cameron is too clever to be underestimated begins to
look outmoded

SECTION: MATTHEW NORMAN

LENGTH: 874 words


Painful though it is to pose the question with your ironic disdain audible as I
type it, posed nonetheless must it be. Has the moment come seriously to consider
the prospect that Ed Miliband will be our next Prime Minister? I know, I know.
This question, which I along with everyone else have answered in the negative
before, strikes you as a makeshift application to be sectioned. Had Edmund
Blackadder asked it in lieu of sticking two pencils up his nose and wearing his
knickers as a hat, even General Melchett would have seen him cosily ensconced in
a psychiatric ward by the time Baldrick, Percy and Captain Darling went over the
top.

The received wisdom on the matter demands the briefest reiteration. Forget the
calamity in Bradford West, it contends. The younger of Labour's fraternal droids
is such a nerdy, drippy, Ed-enoidal no-hoper that he couldn't lead the Free
Mansions And Lamborghinis For All Party to victory in Soweto against the
Necklacing Alliance fronted by Eugene Terre'Blanche's ghost. And yet behold,
here we find the loser of losers sitting on a double-digit advantage in one new
poll, and up by 9 per cent in another. What can snapshots of voting intentions
taken years ahead of the vote possibly tell us, you may ask, about Little Ed's
ability to win a general election? Absolutely nothing. Michael Foot and Neil
Kinnock consistently had larger leads over Mrs Thatcher, and were routed.

Yet that strikes me as the wrong question at this monumentally dismal and
apathetic political moment, the right one being this. What do these vignettes of
public mood tell us about his ability to lose a general election less
disastrously than the enemy? Could he become Prime Minister by default, much
like the incumbent, simply by being slightly less off-putting a presence than
his rival? Might his optimal strategy be to accept his own presentational
difficulties and the fearsome lack of interest in national politics by keeping
his trap shut, and leaving the Government to continue its super slo-mo
implosion?

After two years of giving the Coalition all the benefit of every doubt, the
punters appear finally to be exhausting their stores of indulgence. Their
tax-free charitable donations are running out, and if these polls could be
converted into one sound, it might be the thud of a gigantic penny dropping (in
this case, on to David Cameron's cunningly concealed bald spot). The sequence of
blunders over which the PM has latterly presided - most arising from the Budget,
but with the cobblers about electronic surveillance lending the incompetence
impressive range - has been startling, and the speed of his U-turns dizzying.
Even when a policy is broadly popular and correct - what gives anyone the right
to spend their taxes as they choose? - he is so scrambled by the cumulative
post-Budget contempt that he pirouettes in a flash.

The ritual disclaimer that Mr Cameron is too clever, versatile and polished to
be underestimated begins to look outmoded. Much of the smooth public relations
operative gloss remains. But enough has been stripped away to allow a peek
behind the veneer, and more and more there seems less and less to him than
originally met the eye. The football chant that perhaps captures the nascent
public feeling is the one reserved for the manager of a relegation-threatened
side after a particularly obtuse substitution: you don't know what you're doing.

If it is still too early to lampoon Mr Cameron as Steve McClaren, bemusedly
wandering up and down the Downing Street dugout beneath his brolly, there is no
sign whatever of the political and economic weather improving. The most alarming
polling figure published this week was not the broad one about voting
intentions, the Labour lead being as soft and biodegradable as the squidgiest
pasty. It wasn't even YouGov's finding that Ukip has more support than the
Liberal Democrats, though this represents a graver electoral threat to Mr
Cameron than to Nick Clegg. It is that Ed Balls is now as well trusted to run
the economy as George Osborne. God have mercy on the Tories if Mr Miliband's
most lethal liability is on his way to establishing a lead over a Chancellor
seen a few weeks ago as among Mr Cameron's greatest assets.

Making long-range psephological predictions is an imbecile's game, and the only
one worth risking today is that, with core supporters of all three main parties
as disaffected as they have ever been, turnout at the next election will be
heartbreakingly low. The only vaguely reliable guide to the outcome, as always,
is professional betting money, and the current favourite on Betfair is no
majority for anyone.

Amid all this opacity, one thing is increasingly clear even if the Poncetariat
of pundits to which I have the honour of belonging, not to mention his
colleagues, refuses to acknowledge it. For all the geeky looks and whininess of
tone, Ed Miliband is a cannier and more able Opposition leader than the lazy
caricature as feckless nebbish allows. Snort with derision by all means. But if
he keeps fairly shtum and invisible, and leaves this government to do his work
for him, in this political Bizarro World where victory means losing marginally
less horribly than the other guy, that might just about be enough.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     April 18, 2012 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: Scrappy ruling that has angered the metal men;


BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 639 words


Phew. I almost thought the minister had told a fib. "All scrap metal dealers,
whether or not they are itinerant, will be prohibited from using cash," the Home
Office minister, James Brokenshire, asserted, not once but twice, in written
answer printed in Hansard. On the face of it, this is untrue, and in a way
people concerned about the destruction that metal thieves are causing to church
roofs, railway lines and elsewhere consider to be very important.

The Government is making a widely welcomed addition to the Legal Aid, Sentencing
and Punishment Bill now going through Parliament, which will compel scrap metal
merchants to keep a record their sources of supply and ban them from paying
cash. But they have said that the itinerant traders, or rag and bone men, will
be exempt.

They will be allowed to pay cash and will not have to keep records to say where
they came by their scrap metal. This has provoked protests from the larger
traders, who say it is discrimination, and from others who fear that it means
the metal thieves still have an outlet for their loot. Why, then, is the
minister claiming that "all scrap metal dealers" are to be covered by the change
in the law? Is it, I ask, a change of policy - a U-turn even? Oh no, I'm told,
the policy has not changed at all. What people have failed to understand is that
in the Government's terminology, rag and bone men are not "scrap metal dealers"
at all, they are "scrap metal collectors". If they were "dealers", the law would
apply to them too. I hope that clears that one up.

A woman for Manchester

Amazingly, Manchester has never had a woman Labour MP. That may be put right now
that Ed Miliband's aide, Lucy Powell, has been selected in Manchester Central to
succeed Tony Lloyd, who is running for the newly created job of elected Police
Commissioner. He is sitting on 10,439 Labour majority, so Ms Powell should walk
it in the by-election, in November. But after Bradford West, who knows?

The Tories' talent for disaster

Andrew Mitchell, the International Development Secretary, gave a talk last night
on "Disaster Resilience" - which, you will agree, what with one opinion poll
putting Labour nine points ahead of the Tories and another putting the UK
Independence Party ahead of the Liberal Democrats, is a quality the Government
needs by the shovel full.

Ken gives the doctor a thrill

Ken Livingstone added a detail too far when challenged at the Press Gallery
lunch yesterday to comment on the view expressed by a Labour MP, Austin
Mitchell, that he looks "tired out". Anxious to impress the hacks with how fit
and well he is, Labour's candidate for the London mayoralty announced: "I have
lost a stone in this campaign. I went for my medical check-up and the doctor
almost had an orgasm."

Rum do over the tombola

Long Melford, in Suffolk, is one of those lovely, picture-postcard English
villages with listed buildings, antique shops, and pubs with horse brasses,
where you imagine the only crime is wild rabbits raiding people's vegetable
gardens, and no voice is ever raised in anger. Yet there have been shocking
scenes on Long Melford Parish Council. It all started with the Long Melford
Street Fair, for which local businesses gave prizes. Donors apparently intended
the gifts to go in a raffle, but it is alleged that the organising committee, on
which Cllr Carole Michette is a leading member, misdirected the prizes to the
tombola. At a later meeting, Richard Roper, a resident not on the council, read
out a statement criticising Ms Michette. This was too much for her husband,
Richard, also a councillor, who shouted at Mr Roper: "One more word from you and
I'll thump you."

Mr Michette later confessed to the East Anglia Daily Times: "I lost my temper
and, under severe provocation, called him a 'little shit'."

He was suspended from the council for six weeks.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     April 18, 2012 Wednesday 11:49 PM GMT

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Tweet the Browns

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 492 words


Former Labour premier Gordon Brown has set up a Twitter account with his wife,
Sarah. No messages so far from the Kirkcaldy-based statesman. 'My not-so-secret
plan is to get Gordon tweeting before too long,' sighs Sarah, whose own most
memorable Tweet was 'Going into Boots...'

When President John F Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, 49 years ago,
his successor, vice president Lyndon Baines Johnson, was anxious to retain the
support JFK had received from the White House press corps. Hal Wingo, of
now-defunct Life magazine, reveals that LBJ gathered reporters for a pep talk in
Texas. 'Leaning forward in his chair, he put his hand on my knee and said "One
more thing, boys. You may see me coming in and out of women's bedrooms in the
White House, but just remember that it's none of your business." He made it
clear that he wanted the same cover the Press had given Kennedy.' Now presidents
avoid hanky-panky while their secret service guards cavort with prostitutes.

Britney Spears, pictured, wears an Eternal Love sports bra for her new music
video. The exotic, £12,500 silk garment features 18-carat  gold zips and is
covered in Swarovski crystals. Top togs for the treadmill!

The coverage of Pippa Middleton's adventures with Eurotrash friends in Paris
won't have pleased her sister, the Duchess of Cambridge, who is trying to forge
a role for herself as a charity figurehead. With the family firm, Party Pieces,
knocking out diamond jubilee knick-knacks - and Pippa's £400,000 fee for a book
on entertaining - might there arise a public perception that the Middletons are
over-leveraging Kate's royal status for their own commercial ends?

Having secured the support of Peter Stringfellow, the twice-married 7th Earl of
Bradford - UKIP candidate for Hyde Park in the Westminster City Council
elections - has a joint press conference in Covent Garden on Monday with the
lap-dancing tsar. How boring. Surely they'd get far better coverage if it was at

 Stringfellows' club, with near-naked lovelies on their knees.

Weightwatchers and Slimming World vie for the support of our politicians in
Westminster. WW has Baroness Jay and former minister Tessa Jowell on their
books. They get free slimming sessions at Parliament to the tune of £235 a year.
SW's members include Tory Culture minister Ed Vaizey and Labour's immigration
spokesman Chris Bryant, who get free, £290-a-year memberships. We taxpayers pay
to fatten them up. But you'd expect them to foot their slimming bills.

The Liberal Democrats' candidate for London mayor, former senior policeman Brian
Paddick, accuses supporters of independent candidate, Siobhan Benita, of pushing
him out of number 3 place (after Boris and Ken) by placing heavy bets on her
winning. Ms Benita's now 50/1 at Ladbrokes while Paddick's 100/1. She says:
'It's a scurrilous accusation. Brian Paddick is clearly feeling the pressure.'
As well he might. Ms Benita, 40, is by far the most attractive candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 18, 2012 Wednesday 8:28 AM GMT

Budget still haunts Osborne - Chancellor gets hammered by his own MPs over
string of contentious measures

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN, TIM SHIPMAN and JASON GROVES

LENGTH: 708 words


George Osborne's controversial Budget suffers another blow today as MPs warn
that his child benefit cuts will still unfairly penalise one-earner couples.

A report from the Tory-led Treasury select committee says a partial U-turn on
the removal of the payment to higher-rate taxpayers will add complexity to the
system.

It adds that while he has removed the 'cliff-edge' problem, which would have
seen someone getting a small wage rise suddenly lose all their child benefit,
the bias remains against single-earner households compared with those where both
parents work.

The MPs also raise questions over other contentious measures, including the
so-called 'granny tax', the 'charity tax' and the reduction in the top rate of
tax to 45p.

The report comes as a YouGov poll puts Labour 11 points ahead, on 43 per cent to
the Tories' 32 per cent. It also found that the UK Independence Party, with 9
per cent, had pushed the Liberal Democrats, on 8 per cent, into fourth place. An
Opinium survey put UKIP on 10 per cent to the Lib Dems' 9 per cent.

Government sources claimed Mr Osborne drew up the final version of the Budget in
unhealthy secrecy because of a series of leaks blamed on the Lib Dems.

They suggested that only the coalition 'quad' - Mr Cameron, Mr Osborne, Nick
Clegg and Danny Alexander - discussed the final details. 'People that should
have seen the Budget didn't see it, and the usual mine-sweeping didn't happen,'
said one source.

There is intense frustration in the Cabinet that the central measure of the
Budget - a record tax cut for 25million middle earners as the income tax
threshold is increased - has passed almost unnoticed after details leaked out in
the days ahead of the statement.

Today's Treasury committee report adds to the Chancellor's woes with criticism
of the latest version of cuts to child benefit. Tory MPs had threatened a revolt
over his original plan to remove child benefit - worth £20.30 a week for the
first child and £13.40 each for any more - from families where one parent is a
higher-rate taxpayer.

Critics said axing child benefit for couples where one parent earns just over
the higher-rate tax threshold, but not when both parents earn just under that
sum and have almost double the income, was unfair.

In a partial U-turn announced in the Budget, Mr Osborne said parents earning
£42,745 to £60,000 will be able to keep some or all of their child benefit. He
said anyone with an income of up to £50,000 would lose nothing, while those
earning £50,000 to £60,000 would have the benefit gradually withdrawn.

But MPs are now raising concerns that the tapered removal of the benefit will be
costly to administer, and complicate the tax affairs of families whose annual
net income is £50,000 to £60,000.

The committee said: 'The Government's latest proposals for reform of child
benefit solve only one of the two main problems identified with its original
policy.' It added: 'They add further complexity.'

The MPs suggested that linking the payment of child benefit - made to women - to
their partners' incomes represented a 'step backwards for women's financial
emancipation'.

Doubt was cast on the Treasury's claim that reducing the top rate of income tax
from 50p to 45p would cost only £100million a year.  MPs said it was 'highly
uncertain'.

The report also queries the way Mr Osborne presented the 'granny tax' - the
removal of age-related income tax breaks as the basic rate threshold is raised
to £10,000 for all. 'Although described as a simplification, the phasing out of
age-related allowances also represents a revenue increase to the Government of
£360million in 2013-14, rising to £1,250million in 2016-17,' it said.

The committee warned that capping tax relief on donations appeared to be aimed
at tax avoidance but may have a 'detrimental impact' on 'charitable giving'.

In another controversy MPs vote today on whether to scrap the 'pasty tax' in an
amendment to the Finance Bill. The proposal could add 50p to a Cornish pasty.

Tory chairman Baroness Warsi has likened attacks by senior Lib Dems on the
Government to a 'bad episode' of the TV show Come Dine With Me. She said: 'I
don't think it's nice for people to come along, sit at your table, eat your food
and then slag you off in the cab home.'

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

BAN JOBLESS FROM VOTING SAYS EX-TORY;
BLOG

BYLINE: DAMIEN FLETCHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 142 words


A FORMER Tory has questioned why the unemployed are allowed to vote and called
for the rich to get more say at elections.

Cllr Tom Bursnall defected to UKIP last month but views posted on his blog go
against his new party's ethos of being "for the people, by the people - all the
people".

The Windsor and Maidenhead council member wrote: "Why should those people who
are not contributors to the Government bank account be allowed to decide how the
money is spent?" Cllr Bursnall, who quit the Tories over the budget, also wanted
to give more votes to the rich, who pay "50 times more" tax than the poor.

People commenting on his website blasted him and disabled comedian Phil Aychio
said he should be "tarred and feathered".

Cllr Bursnall was unavailable for comment but a UKIP spokesman applauded him for
"having ideas" and said it was "intellectual musing".

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEFECTOR J Tom Bursnall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 18, 2012 Wednesday 2:37 PM GMT

London 2012 Olympics, 100 days to go: live;
Follow all the latest updates from our team of writers as the London 2012
Olympics countdown reaches the 100 days to go mark.

BYLINE: By Rod Gilmour and Nick Pearce

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 4118 words


Email olympics@telegraph.co.uk with your suggestions for the London 2012
Olympics slogan

· Weymouth Council knock down Olympic sandcastle
· I am more relaxed than ever, says Michael Phelps
· Edwin Moses joins Telegraph Sport · 'Inspire a generation': official slogan
revealed

14.25 Okay, 100 days to go is winding up for the day. It's been a green-fingered
one if truth be told with all the earlier activity at Kew. So let's finish with
some sporting insight: Telegraph Sport's exclusive behind-the-scenes documentary
from the World Indoor Championsips. See you on July 27!

14.20 All we need is Locog's help to insert blue skies and thousands of happy
faces. Picture the scene, though, come July 27.

14.15 Boat Race man etc, beware. As the Olympics opening ceremony approaches,
Lord Coe is mindful of events out of his control, warning anyone thinking of
using Games as a stage for a protest to think of the dreams they would be
destroying.

14.10 To Stateside and the Baltimore Sun, who have a riveting piece on Michael
Phelps, as the great Olympian contemplates another shot at a host of gold
medals.

I think the real biggest difference is that Bob [Bowman, coach] and I are more
relaxed now than we were. That's probably the real big change. I can only
prepare myself. I'm only in charge of myself. I know Bob and I can get the job
done.

Will the London Games 'Inspire a Generation' and achieve a sustained sporting
legacy?

13.55 Oooph! The Wheelchair Rugby test event begins at the Basketball Arena in
the Olympic Park tomorrow. It's already sold out at the Paralympic Games and
looks set for some mean business judging by today's warm-ups. Note: a welder
will be employed on the touchline during the Games for quick repairs.

13.50 Stay with us, this really is still an Olympics blog, but through
time-lapse and aerial footage, here's how five giant Olympic ring flowerbeds
took shape.

13.45 Are you well versed in Olympians - past and present - who are connected to
your village/town/city? (Heart warming BBC story here on two Hogsthorpe
residents here ). Hailing from Wandsworth myself, former Tooting resident Albert
Hill is perhaps the best I can come up with. Hill won double gold at the 1920
Games (800 and 1500m) but it was the manner in which he did that fascinates. He
arrived in Antwep by lorry and had to win 800m gold after officials had placed
all the best athletes in the heats.

13.35 Olympic slogan suggestions continue to trickle in. "DARE TO DESIRE"
screams Dr. Avani Fichadia, in India. I'll prescribe one of those.

13.30 Locog's simulated photos of how the Olympics will look in July always
portray a cloudless blue sky. Here's a heavy dose of reality from Trafalgar
Square today:

13.20 Not content with Ladbrokes's 10/1 quote on whether Usain Bolt can run
9.4secs, Sporting Index are predicting that the 100m final winner will clock
9.73 seconds. Punters can bet higher or lower on this figure. And here's what
the Jamaican told the BBC to mark today's countdown, so make your own mind's up:

People are looking forward to me running 9.4, 19 seconds, anything that's
amazing. So, I'm working as hard as possible so I can go as fast as possible.

13.15 Regarding Dorset council's scrooges and the decision to knock down the
sandcastle, there's nothing like a bit of 'lasting legacy' is there?

13.10 Incredible Olympic facts of the day: 2000 newts were relocated from the
Olympic Park to the Waterworks nature reserve. Moreover, stable workers will
have the fragrant job of clearing up a predicted 32,000 piles of manure from the
equestrian events.

Twitter: William Hague - . @TeamGB my favourite #TeamGB moment was when my
friend @SebCoe won his 2nd gold & broke Olympic record for 1500m in #LosAngeles,
1984

12.55 So what's the consensus on 100 days to go? With all the flora and fauna of
Kew, there was certainly more anticipation with one year to go. Something's
missing. I can't quite put my finger on it. Right on cue, here's our Olympics
editor, then email olympics@telegraph.co.ukwith your mascot whereabouts
suggestions as per below:

Twitter: Jacquelin Magnay - Hey where is wenlock the Olympic mascot today? Why
didn't it plant an oak tree or build a sandcastle for #100days countdown? Too
unloved?

12.50 Thanks Nick ... with Team GB cycling noise-reduction earphones as well.
Tancock's favourite phrase is "race ready" when you interview him during heats.
No doubt he was "ticket ready" during that Sky interview.

12.49: Here's Rod Gilmour back from a spell on one of our relaxation chairs.

12.45: Paul Kelso is boarding the tube:

Twitter: Paul Kelso - To Trafalgar Square for 100 days hooplah with
'representatives of London's (glittering) West End'. In the rain. Barca fans
also present.

12.44: Team GB Swimmer Liam "BOOM!" Tancock is being interviewed on Sky Sports
News about, you guessed it, tickets. Here's what he has to say:

It's the greatest sporting event in the world and the more people that can come
and support the better. I can't control [who has tickets] all I can control is
what goes on in the water.

12.40: CAPTION COMPETITION - What is Jeremy Hunt (with this ever-reliable quiff)
saying? Email us at olympics@telegraph.co.uk with ideas

12.36: A tweet from Jacquelin Magnay on what's got people talking overseas:

Twitter: Jacquelin Magnay - Global questions on london olympics r abt bands at
opening ceremony, queues at heathrow and security. Surprised very little abt
protests.

12.35: CRUSHING NEWS! The nice sandcastle built in Weymouth for this occasion
(see third picture at the top, or the one at the very bottom of the blog) has
been demolished over "health and safety fears". Boooooo. A Weymouth council
spoilsport spokesman said: "It was built to create a photo opportunity to mark
100 days to go to the Olympics.

"To keep it there until the start of the Olympics would have required additional
security and presented a health and safety risk in that it was quite a big
structure and it could have collapsed with a child playing on the beach near to
it."

12.28: Brrr. Russia is hosting the Olympics after next in Sochi and here's the
PR they have mustered up for today. Yes, it's a cold woman waving the Union flag
in St Petersburg.

12.25: Here's a 100 days to go curveball from the South African Olympic
Committee! Golfer Ernie Els has been chosen as an ambassador for the South
Africa Olympic team. Golf does not join the Olympic family until 2016, but when
it comes to sporting icons in the Rainbow Nation they can't get enough of the
'Big Easy'.

12.22: We're very proud that new man Edwin Moses has joined the Telegraph.
Here's a video of an interview he did with our Olympics editor Jacquelin Magnay:

12.18: When Paul Hayward writes, people read. Here's his overview piece from our
100 days to go supplement today.

London will become the Olympics and the Olympics will become London so that the
two are indivisible. This is how it works for three weeks. Then it lifts like a
spaceship and lands somewhere else, leaving the empty stadiums, the memories and
the bills

12.14: Lots of polls have been released today. Some show Ukip as the third
political party, some show how Londoners aren't excited about the Olympics. We
know you love these polls, so here's your chance to be a respondent! Cast your
vote in our London 2012 polls, which include the big question: Will the great
cost of the Olympics be worth it, ultimately?

12.10: London 2012 is not all about sport. It's also about bringing people to
the capital and showing off about all the cultural and gastronomical things it
has to offer. Our London editor John O' Ceallaigh has put the hours in to
produce a definitive list of 100 things to do in London . Check it out..

12.07: Nick Pearce back with you for a spell. Yow are you coping with all the
Olympic excitement? Doing laps in the office? Let us know by emailing
olympics@telegraph.co.uk

12.00 Midday video for you, direct from the Foreign Office. "The Games for the
30th Olympiad in 2012 will be awarded to the city of..." Cue heart-rendering
music...

11.55 There are plenty of views on whether tennis should be in the Olympics.
Today, the first two players have been confirmed for the Olympic tennis
tournament. The International Tennis Federation says Stephanie Vogt, of
Liechtenstein, and Veronica Cepede Royg, of that well-known tennis outpost
Paraguay, have been allocated places in the women's singles.

11.50 The digital TV switchover has curtailed fans of Ceefax in London today.
There will be no 380 for the Olympics . Sad times.

11.45                     Sky Sports have continued to hamper their interviewees
with a barrage of ticketing questions. To the firing line comes Fran Halsall.
Asked for a swimmers' reaction to the track and field athletes possibly securing
another 'plus two' for the Games, Halsall said, typically:

The swimming venue has 17,000 seats. As long as my mum and dad are there, I'll
be happy as Larry!

Meanwhile, great stooping from Seb Coe as he plants an oak tree at Kew. Our
colleagues on the Gardening desk are chomping at the bit...

11.40 Right, sounds like it's time for Team GB athletes to wrap themselves up in
a bubble, as per Ed Moses. In a study released to the Beeb today, Team GB will
win 27 golds, by far its largest haul in a century, a tally which would likely
hand them third place in the medal table. Should be enough to 'inspire a
generation'!

11.30 Meanwhile, here's Seb Coe in front of the 2012 slogan... the 'heartbeat
and DNA' of the Games, as Coe revealed earlier.

11.30                     Matt Mitcham, 2008 Olympic gold medallist, and Melissa
Wu, 2008 silver medallist, pictured at countdown event in rainy Sydney earlier
today:

11.20 Olympic research alert! According to Wimdu.co.uk, seven per cent of Brits
would be willing to break the law and buy black market Olympic tickets if they
were available. There's more! Brits would pay 2.5 times more for a Lady Gaga
ticket than a 100m men's final ticket. Any dodge merchants out there who wants
my pair of 200m final tickets? Let's be 'avin yer.

11.15 No porkies here. According to a report in the Yangtze Evening News,
Chinese athletes are swearing off meat ahead of the Games out of fear that
domestic pork, beef and lamb could contain substances banned under anti-doping
rules. At least 196 competitors under China's National Aquatics Centre, which
governs swimming, diving and other water sports, have been off meat for the past
40 days. Only 100 odd days and expect an athletes village with hog roasts
aplenty.

11.05 We'll be updating our 100 days to go gallery as the day goes on. But where
in the world was this picture taken? The British Ambassador in Manila has been a
busy man...

11.00 Tessa Jowell, the minister in charge when London secured the 2012 Games,
defends the ticketing process. Note: Sky Sports have been going hammer and tongs
with all interviewees on this subject today:

It was always going to be one of the difficult things. There has never been this
demand: six million tickets have been sold, with 24 million applications. Of
course there was going to be disappointment.

10.55 Simon Hart at Kew: "Mercifully the rain has stopped for the ceremonial
planting of an oak tree by Seb Coe. It's being dubbed the 'De Coubertain Oak'
because it was grown from an acorn gathered from an oak planted by the Olympic
Games founder Pierre de Coubertain in Much Wenlock more than a century ago."

10.50 Ladbrokes has gone binary digit-tastic today. With 100 days to go, Usain
Bolt is quoted at 10/1 to break his own Olympic and World record of 9.4secs for
the 100m. However, the firm have also previously offered odds of 10,000/1 he
would smash all records by running under 9 seconds, which has racked up
liabilities of over £1 million.

10.45 Here's decathlon hero Daley Thompson with his - you guessed it - 10 events
to follow at London 2012.

10.40 Despite today's rain, we already have a favourite for question of the day
thanks to a Norwegian journo, one of the plethora of international media who
have made it to Kew. Maggie Thatcher! Daley Thompson! Dame Kelly Holmes!

Twitter: Paul Kelso - Question of the day from Norwegian journalist: Will you
have enough water?

10.35 Here's a Locog prediction on how the summer will pan out from July 27.
First a buoyant Leeds city centre, watching a spot of basketball...

... and an active Portsmouth, complete with image of either the city Mayor or
Goldie Lookin Chain fan looking on.

10.30 Liking this. A silver cup awarded to Spyros Louis, the Greek runner with a
brilliant name who also won the first Olympic marathon in 1896, will be sold at
Christie's today. Louis's grandson, also called Spyros, has said he will give
proceeds - estimated up to 190,000 euros - to his children. That's the spirit.

10.20 More from Kew. "We don't intend to punish the athletes for the sins of
their rulers," says Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt when asked whether action
should be taken against the Syrian and Saudi Arabian teams .

10.15 Join the bandwagon! The flood of London 2012 press releases - from the
fascinating to the pointless - continue to pour in on countdown day. We'll
collate the best and post. Here's a first taster from Schweppes Abbey Well
Natural Mineral Water, launching their Unsung Heroes Campaign. "Malcolm
Fletcher, Fantastic Field Equipment Tester, has spent a quarter of a century
weighing and checking field equipment - his last event may see tears as he
weighs in the Javelin, his very favourite piece of equipment, for the last
time."

10.10 As we await pictures of tree planting and flower unveilings, let's dig
deeper on Aussie chef de mission Green's comments from Down Under today. Seems
to me that Australia are wary of Japan, Germany and France ahead of the Games.
Does that mean that Australia could finish outside the top five, we wonder?

We know we are in for a tough tussle to claim a revered top-five spot with hosts
and long-time rivals Britain, the strong European contingent headed by Germany
and France, and the ever-present Japanese," said Green. But we know, as Aussies,
we will never go down without a fight.

Twitter: Paul Kelso - Hunt says the economic benefits to business and tourism
make the £9.3bn investment in London 2012 worthwhile

10.05 Take that! Australia's Chef de Mission for London, Nick Green, has
targeted perennial rivals GB once more:

The challenge Great Britain has got is their overall medal tally in Beijing was
excellent, in sporting terms they may have peaked four years too early.

10.00 Not to be outdone, Australia have got in on the act already today. The
Kookaburras - men's hockey team - have been strutting their stuff in Perth, Matt
Mitcham (Tom Daley's rival) has been talking in Sydney, while water-based
hopefuls have been on show on the Gold Coast.

09.50 More from Simon Hart at Kew: "Seb Coe says the new London 2012 motto,
'Inspire a generation' should come as no surprise as it is the 'heartbeat and
DNA' of the London Games." Has your heartbeat just shot up a few levels?
Thoughts? Meanwhile, London 2012 chief exec Paul Deighton say the Red Arrows
flypast will be a 'fantastic curtain-raiser' to the Olympic Games.

09.45 Perhaps Zac Purchase's tweet from earlier will be worth it. For cyclists
at any rate. I refer to Olympics editor Jacquelin Magnay's story this morning
that Team GB cyclists will be given a cushy run into the London 2012 Olympic
races with £20,000 of public fundsearmarked for relaxation chairs and
noise-reducing headphones.

09.40 Simon Hart, our man at the Royal Botanical Gardens, missives Telegraph
Towers under a brolly. "Seb Coe kicks off 100 days celebrations in the Kew
Gardens Orangery by welcoming the world's media to 'a very wet and windy
London'."

09.35 IOC president Jacques Rogge says expectations are high but is confident
that London can deliver ... those VIPs to the Games venues on time:

From the athletes refining their technique, to the volunteers learning about
their roles, to the torchbearers carrying the Olympic flame and the people
supporting them as they go, each and every one of them is playing their part in
making these a Games to remember.

09.30 Slogan suggestions continue to make their make this morning. "Waste of
money!" quips Gabrielle de Pauw. Catchphrase's Roy Walker might add "It's good
but not right!" at this point. So what is the general feeling here? Granted,
three words is a tough one, but the 2012 slogan sounds bland. Compared to Share
the Spirit from Sydney 2000 at any rate.

09.25 With all this 100 days to go brouhaha (will there be a 50 days to go live
blog?), life most certainly goes on for Team GB hopefuls. What are our elite
sportsmen doing on such a miserable day? Step forward Zac Purchase, Olympic and
world champion:

Twitter: Zac Purchase - With #100DaysToGo can anyone guess what we are doing?
Yep, training. Just another day, but this time in the rain.

09.20 Wouldn't be the same without them: Locog have revealed that the Red Arrows
will perform a flypast - make that 'Big Battle' formation - across the UK to
mark the opening ceremony on July 27. The RAF's aerobatic team will fly over
London 2012 live sites in Belfast, Cardiff, Edinburgh and London. Usain Bolt
won't be far behind them.

09.15 A first soundbite from culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, at Kew Gardens:

There will be 69 live sites across the country and we are expecting half a
million people at those every single day. We are doing everything we can to make
sure it is a summer to remember.

09.10: Thanks Pearcey, good to be here. We've come a long, long way since
Stockholm 1912, 100 years ago. Back then there was no Olympic village and Team
GB stayed in a 2* hotel. Now, everyone's in it together and the public are
gunning for 5* performances from our lot. No better place start, then, than
Olympic gold hopeful Fran Halsall's opening tweet of the day:

Twitter: francesca halsall - Only 100 more days of pushing my limits to go until
its time to stand up and be counted! #olympics

09.07: After that quick burst of pace, I'm going to hand you over to Rod
Gilmour.

09.04: Chief sports writer Paul Hayward has weighed in on the Olympic slogan
debate:

Twitter: Paul Hayward - 'Inspire a Generation' is like a line from Twenty
Twelve. Life imitating art. Maybe something simpler and more sincere: 'Play
Time.'

09.01: Here's a mail from Bill, who has a suggestion on the London 2012 slogan:

The Olympic slogan should read, if the politicians and Lords (Coe) etc were
being strictly honest.... "S-D THE LOST (GENERATION)"

08.59: BREAKING: here's a (grainy) aerial view of those Olympic rings at Kew
Gardens, which are visible from the Heathrow flight path

08.56: Here's what Ian Chadband, our chief sports correspondent, thinks about
the London 2012 motto/slogan:

Twitter: Ian Chadband - Personally I would have preferred the slogan to be "Good
Games, Good Games". They only needed to ask Brucie

08.52: Och, he's not short on confidence is that Usain Bolt. Here's what the
Olympic sprint champion has to say today:

People are looking forward to me running 9.4s in the 100m, 19s in the 200m,
anything that's amazing. That's why people are coming to the Olympics and I want
to do it. The main thing for me is to defend my titles and win. I'm not worried
about time but if I can go and run 9.4s that would be an honour for me because I
want to amaze. If I dominate the Olympics I'll be a legend. A living legend
walking around.

08.47: Well done to Reading football club. It's 100 days to go to the biggest
sporting event we will ever see in our lifetimes but the Royals are leading the
BBC Sport bulletin. Chapeau....

08.46: We are delighted to welcome double Olympic hurdles champion Edwin Moses
to Team Telegraph. Here's his first column, in which he has some advice for how
Team GB handle the coming days:

I have seen people blown out of the water by the demands and distractions in the
run-up to an Olympics. There are the attentions of the press, the marketing
contracts, the sponsor appearances, the photo shoots but also the demands of
friends and family. In many ways, learning how to handle those close to you can
be harder than dealing with endorsements and the media.

08.40: Concerning (if you work for Locog) poll by by ComRes for LBC, London
Tonight and the London Evening Standard. The poll says that 48 per cent of
respondents are now not "excited" by the prospect of the Olympics. Any Londoners
out there? Are you excited?

08.36: Paul Kelso is our man in Kew:

Twitter: Paul Kelso - Absolutely foul morning in Kew for London 2012 100 days
event. Wonder if theming opening ceremony on 'The Tempest' may be tempting
fate...

08.30: BREAKING NEWS: The official slogan for the London 2012 Olympics
is.................."Inspire A Generation". Thoughts? Read the full story .

08.25: Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the London 2012 Olympics
100 days to go celebrations. This is it, Olympic fans. The countdown has begun.
Soon the world's greatest athletes will be in the greatest city on earth for the
greatest show on earth. If you don't like the sound of all this then I advise
you make plans for a four-month sabattical from the UK before the torch relay
starts on May 19, because it ain't going anywhere.

On the agenda today we have London 2012 organising committee (Locog) double act
Seb Coe and Paul Deighton from Kew Gardens, where we understand they will be
planting an oak tree to celebrate "the UK's role in the birth of the modern
Olympic movement". After this giant Olympic rings made up of 25,000 flowers -
visible on the Heathrow flight path - will be unveiled. Later, the West End
Theatre will host a 'Welcome the World' event in Trafalgar Square to celebrate.
Cast members from West End shows and Team GB athletes will be joining forces for
a 'West End Warm-Up' performance tailored for the occasion.

The main event, though, is the announcement of the official London 2012 slogan.
Send us your suggestions before it's announced.

The Olympics is fundamentally about sport, so we'll also keep you up-to-date
with goings on in the synchronised swimming and shooting test events, and
developments from the world of the Paralympics, which is today concentrating on
the wheelchair rugby test event.

There's sure to be many other developments/press releases/photo
ops/tweets/groundbreaking announcements throughout the day so keep your eyes
peeled for all the latest.

If you have any stories, pictures, video or gossip for us make sure to email
olympics@telegraph.co.uk and we will publish the best.

In the meantime, here's a picture of a sandcastle:

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 18, 2012 Wednesday 1:40 PM GMT

Siobhan Benita: Whitehall's candidate for mayor

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 811 words


As a convinced Ken-hater, perhaps I, like so many of my media colleagues, should
be hyping up the independent mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita. She's clearly on
the left and will thus take more votes from Livingstone than from anyone else.
But I object to the note of entitlement which runs through her candidacy.

Whatever Benita may think, you are not entitled to broadcast airtime and space
in national newspapers simply by hiring a PR and printing glossy leaflets. You
need either a track record, or genuinely distinctive ideas. Benita has neither.

The track record need not be political. If, say, a major and successful
entrepeneur - a British Michael Bloomberg - entered the race, they'd be taken
seriously. The same would go for someone who'd achieved distinction in science
or the arts, or even showbiz - because they've demonstrated the ability to
connect with people. (Watch out for Eddie Izzard, my tip as Labour's candidate
in 2016 or 2020.)

But Benita - and this is my fundamental problem with her - has spent the last 15
years as a Whitehall civil servant. In other words, exactly the kind of person
the mayoralty was created to rescue London from!

Who can possibly deny that the capital has improved since at least some (though
nothing like enough) of our executive functions were given to a democratic
politician and prised from Whitehall's grasp? Well, Benita, perhaps - she told
the Guardian on Saturday that she left the civil service because she was losing
faith in its power to keep politicians in check.

The journalists praising Benita's "thoughtful and sensible ideas" before she
even produced her manifesto should look at that document, published yesterday.
It is a very Whitehall set of promises in which new structures and bureaucracies
- an education commissioner, a youth assembly, an office of budget
responsibility, an independent review of policing, a requirement for councils to
"identify residents' top five local issues" - often substitute for real action.

And many of the concrete actions which Benita does promise - to overhaul the
schools admission system, build 167 new primaries by 2015, limiting new schools
to two classes of entry - are simply not within the Mayor's power.

Her pitch is against the "tired political battles" of the other candidates. But
political battles, however little they may be to bureaucrats' taste, are the
essence of democracy - and a real battle of ideas, as well as personalities, is
being waged in this election. The alternatives, tax and spend versus fiscal
discipline, are clearer here than in almost any recent contest. If elected
Benita, too, will have to choose between those alternatives, and it is idle to
pretend otherwise. She is democratically obliged to tell us on which side she
will land.

Benita's claimed "media blackout" has so far consisted of 136 separate mentions
in newspapers, multiple large feature articles in the Evening Standard and every
national broadsheet paper, including my own, and at least 20 TV and radio
appearances, including several extended interviews. She has, frankly, had far
more coverage than her ideas or poll standing (2%) deserves.

True, she isn't in the debates - but then neither are two other candidates with
far better democratic claims to a place than her, representing parties which
have actually won votes and London Assembly seats at previous elections. The
fact is that if she were included, so would UKIP and the BNP have to be - and an
hour-long debate with seven candidates would actually deny voters their full
opportunity to judge the only two who can win, Boris Johnson or Ken Livingstone.

The idea being pushed by her supporters that her betting odds represent a
likelier guide to her chances than the polls is clearly wrong. Odds reflect,
among other things, the amount of money wagered on a candidate - and Benita's
own supporters have been urging people to lay her to improve her odds. The
bookies have also been pushing Benita because they know they'll never have to
pay out. Every pound laid on her is a pound straight into their pockets. And
though she is now third in the betting, she almost certainly won't come third in
the election: she may well come sixth or seventh. All the other contenders have
better on-the-ground organisation than her.

I say "almost certainly" because the electorate is volatile and could respond to
the kind of bandwagon she's trying to create. But one thing we really can be
certain about is that she won't win. And that's the real puzzle about Siobhan
Benita. Why would an independent enter this of all elections, the one vote that
is more dominated by the two major parties than any other for at least the last
40 years? What's the real agenda here?

I can only think that she is trying to gain visibility for some other job,
perhaps at a quango or a charity. But I'm not sure the media needs to assist her
in that.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 18, 2012 Wednesday 1:30 PM GMT

Siobhan Benita: Whitehall's candidate for mayor

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 810 words


As a convinced Ken-hater, perhaps I, like so many of my media colleagues, should
be hyping up the independent mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita. She's clearly on
the left and will thus take more votes from Livingstone than from anyone else.
But I object to the note of entitlement which runs through her candidacy.

Whatever Benita may think, you are not entitled to broadcast airtime and space
in national newspapers simply by hiring a PR and printing glossy leaflets. You
need either a track record, or genuinely distinctive ideas. Benita has neither.

The track record need not be political. If, say, a major and successful
entrepeneur - a British Michael Bloomberg - entered the race, they'd be taken
seriously. The same would go for someone who'd achieved distinction in science
or the arts, or even showbiz - because they've demonstrated the ability to
connect with people. (Watch out for Eddie Izzard, my tip as Labour's candidate
in 2016 or 2020.)

But Benita - and this is my fundamental problem with her - has spent her whole
life as a Whitehall civil servant. In other words, exactly the kind of person
the mayoralty was created to rescue London from!

Who can possibly deny that the capital has improved since at least some (though
nothing like enough) of our executive functions were given to a democratic
politician and prised from Whitehall's grasp? Well, Benita, perhaps - she told
the Guardian on Saturday that she left the civil service because she was losing
faith in its power to keep politicians in check.

The journalists praising Benita's "thoughtful and sensible ideas" before she
even produced her manifesto should look at that document, published yesterday.
It is a very Whitehall set of promises in which new structures and bureaucracies
- an education commissioner, a youth assembly, an office of budget
responsibility, an independent review of policing, a requirement for councils to
"identify residents' top five local issues" - often substitute for real action.

And many of the concrete actions which Benita does promise - to overhaul the
schools admission system, build 167 new primaries by 2015, limiting new schools
to two classes of entry - are simply not within the Mayor's power.

Her pitch is against the "tired political battles" of the other candidates. But
political battles, however little they may be to bureaucrats' taste, are the
essence of democracy - and a real battle of ideas, as well as personalities, is
being waged in this election. The alternatives, tax and spend versus fiscal
discipline, are clearer here than in almost any recent contest. If elected
Benita, too, will have to choose between those alternatives, and it is idle to
pretend otherwise. She is democratically obliged to tell us on which side she
will land.

Benita's claimed "media blackout" has so far consisted of 136 separate mentions
in newspapers, multiple large feature articles in the Evening Standard and every
national broadsheet paper, including my own, and at least 20 TV and radio
appearances, including several extended interviews. She has, frankly, had far
more coverage than her ideas or poll standing (2%) deserves.

True, she isn't in the debates - but then neither are two other candidates with
far better democratic claims to a place than her, representing parties which
have actually won votes and London Assembly seats at previous elections. The
fact is that if she were included, so would UKIP and the BNP have to be - and an
hour-long debate with seven candidates would actually deny voters their full
opportunity to judge the only two who can win, Boris Johnson or Ken Livingstone.

The idea being pushed by her supporters that her betting odds represent a
likelier guide to her chances than the polls is clearly wrong. Odds reflect,
among other things, the amount of money wagered on a candidate - and Benita's
own supporters have been urging people to lay her to improve her odds. The
bookies have also been pushing Benita because they know they'll never have to
pay out. Every pound laid on her is a pound straight into their pockets. And
though she is now third in the betting, she almost certainly won't come third in
the election: she may well come sixth or seventh. All the other contenders have
better on-the-ground organisation than her.

I say "almost certainly" because the electorate is volatile and could respond to
the kind of bandwagon she's trying to create. But one thing we really can be
certain about is that she won't win. And that's the real puzzle about Siobhan
Benita. Why would an independent enter this of all elections, the one vote that
is more dominated by the two major parties than any other for at least the last
40 years? What's the real agenda here?

I can only think that she is trying to gain visibility for some other job,
perhaps at a quango or a charity. But I'm not sure the media needs to assist her
in that.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 18, 2012 Wednesday 1:30 PM GMT

Siobhan Benita: Whitehall's candidate for mayor

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 810 words


As a convinced Ken-hater, perhaps I, like so many of my media colleagues, should
be hyping up the independent mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita. She's clearly on
the left and will thus take more votes from Livingstone than from anyone else.
But I object to the note of entitlement which runs through her candidacy.

Whatever Benita may think, you are not entitled to broadcast airtime and space
in national newspapers simply by hiring a PR and printing glossy leaflets. You
need either a track record, or genuinely distinctive ideas. Benita has neither.

The track record need not be political. If, say, a major and successful
entrepeneur - a British Michael Bloomberg - entered the race, they'd be taken
seriously. The same would go for someone who'd achieved distinction in science
or the arts, or even showbiz - because they've demonstrated the ability to
connect with people. (Watch out for Eddie Izzard, my tip as Labour's candidate
in 2016 or 2020.)

But Benita - and this is my fundamental problem with her - has spent her whole
life as a Whitehall civil servant. In other words, exactly the kind of person
the mayoralty was created to rescue London from!

Who can possibly deny that the capital has improved since at least some (though
nothing like enough) of our executive functions were given to a democratic
politician and prised from Whitehall's grasp? Well, Benita, perhaps - she told
the Guardian on Saturday that she left the civil service because she was losing
faith in its power to keep politicians in check.

The journalists praising Benita's "thoughtful and sensible ideas" before she
even produced her manifesto should look at that document, published yesterday.
It is a very Whitehall set of promises in which new structures and bureaucracies
- an education commissioner, a youth assembly, an office of budget
responsibility, an independent review of policing, a requirement for councils to
"identify residents' top five local issues" - often substitute for real action.

And many of the concrete actions which Benita does promise - to overhaul the
schools admission system, build 167 new primaries by 2015, limiting new schools
to two classes of entry - are simply not within the Mayor's power.

Her pitch is against the "tired political battles" of the other candidates. But
political battles, however little they may be to bureaucrats' taste, are the
essence of democracy - and a real battle of ideas, as well as personalities, is
being waged in this election. The alternatives, tax and spend versus fiscal
discipline, are clearer here than in almost any recent contest. If elected
Benita, too, will have to choose between those alternatives, and it is idle to
pretend otherwise. She is democratically obliged to tell us on which side she
will land.

Benita's claimed "media blackout" has so far consisted of 136 separate mentions
in newspapers, multiple large feature articles in the Evening Standard and every
national broadsheet paper, including my own, and at least 20 TV and radio
appearances, including several extended interviews. She has, frankly, had far
more coverage than her ideas or poll standing (2%) deserves.

True, she isn't in the debates - but then neither are two other candidates with
far better democratic claims to a place than her, representing parties which
have actually won votes and London Assembly seats at previous elections. The
fact is that if she were included, so would UKIP and the BNP have to be - and an
hour-long debate with seven candidates would actually deny voters their full
opportunity to judge the only two who can win, Boris Johnson or Ken Livingstone.

The idea being pushed by her supporters that her betting odds represent a
likelier guide to her chances than the polls is clearly wrong. Odds reflect,
among other things, the amount of money wagered on a candidate - and Benita's
own supporters have been urging people to lay her to improve her odds. The
bookies have also been pushing Benita because they know they'll never have to
pay out. Every pound laid on her is a pound straight into their pockets. And
though she is now third in the betting, she almost certainly won't come third in
the election: she may well come sixth or seventh. All the other contenders have
better on-the-ground organisation than her.

I say "almost certainly" because the electorate is volatile and could respond to
the kind of bandwagon she's trying to create. But one thing we really can be
certain about is that she won't win. And that's the real puzzle about Siobhan
Benita. Why would an independent enter this of all elections, the one vote that
is more dominated by the two major parties than any other for at least the last
40 years? What's the real agenda here?

I can only think that she is trying to gain visibility for some other job,
perhaps at a quango or a charity. But I'm not sure the media needs to assist her
in that.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 18, 2012 Wednesday 12:05 PM GMT

Ukip a political force? In the 2010 general election, Nigel Farage lost to a
candidate dressed as a dolphin

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 539 words


Two days in a row, and Ukip is ahead of the Liberal Democrats in the polls.
According to YouGov, while just 8 per cent of people say they would vote for
Nick Clegg's party, 9 per cent say they would vote for Nigel Farage's. According
to lots of influential Tory-leaning writers - from our own Iain Martin through
to ConHome's Tim Montgomerie - this is something that ought to worry that
Conservative Party. Daniel Hannan is so worried that he reckons that the two
parties should merge - and then immediately hold a referendum on our EU
membership.

I'm not convinced. Ukip is a party without grassroots. In total, it controls one
council, in the market town of Ramsey in Cambridgeshire, which has a population
of 6,000. That's one tenth of one constituency. By contrast, the Green Party -
which does much less well in national polls - is the biggest party in Brighton,
a city of 150,000, and is close to controlling Norwich council too. It has an MP
in Parliament - Caroline Lucas - who appears to be quite popular, and a
well-motivated grassroots force. Ignore the polls - the Green Party is a bigger
political force than Ukip.

We are almost exactly in the midterm of this parliament, and we are at the very
bottom of a brutal economic downturn. It is unsurprising that when several
thousand people from across the country are asked how they will vote, many opt
for populist parties like Ukip, which has a strong media presence and a
charismatic leader. But, thankfully, political victories are not won in polls.
When someone actually goes into a ballot box, they are not presented with a list
of parties, but a list of candidates, and a specific job - whether it is a
council seat or a parliamentary one. Faced with that choice, disaffected Tories
will grit their teeth and vote Conservative.

The proof of this is in the 2010 election. The year after this newspaper exposed
mass fiddling of expenses by our politicians was the biggest chance for
independents in history. We heard so much about why Nick Griffin was going to
threaten Labour in Barking and Dagenham. We saw Cleggmania, and thought that
maybe the Liberal Democrats would finally see their long-awaited breakthrough.
We even thought that George Galloway, who was contesting another strongly Muslim
east London seat, might win again.

None of those things happened; once you exclude the nationalist parties in
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, small parties won less than 7 per cent of
the popular vote. Taking on the Speaker John Bercow, Nigel Farage himself got
fewer votes than an independent candidate, John Stephens, who campaigned dressed
as a dolphin called "Flipper" (Bercow was caught flipping his home).

As today's unemployment statistics hint, we may now be at the bottom of the
economic downturn. Quite probably, things are going to start getting better, and
the news will be less full of doom. As we get closer to an election, local
activists - the people who actually win elections - will be more motivated, and
more people will have actually encountered them on the doorstep. By 2015, this
blip in Ukip's support will be forgotten. And if the Conservative Party tries to
appeal to its non-existent voters, then it won't do too well either.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 18, 2012 Wednesday 12:05 PM GMT

Ukip a political force? In the 2010 general election, Nigel Farage lost to a
candidate dressed as a dolphin

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 539 words


Two days in a row, and Ukip is ahead of the Liberal Democrats in the polls.
According to YouGov, while just 8 per cent of people say they would vote for
Nick Clegg's party, 9 per cent say they would vote for Nigel Farage's. According
to lots of influential Tory-leaning writers - from our own Iain Martin through
to ConHome's Tim Montgomerie - this is something that ought to worry that
Conservative Party. Daniel Hannan is so worried that he reckons that the two
parties should merge - and then immediately hold a referendum on our EU
membership.

I'm not convinced. Ukip is a party without grassroots. In total, it controls one
council, in the market town of Ramsey in Cambridgeshire, which has a population
of 6,000. That's one tenth of one constituency. By contrast, the Green Party -
which does much less well in national polls - is the biggest party in Brighton,
a city of 150,000, and is close to controlling Norwich council too. It has an MP
in Parliament - Caroline Lucas - who appears to be quite popular, and a
well-motivated grassroots force. Ignore the polls - the Green Party is a bigger
political force than Ukip.

We are almost exactly in the midterm of this parliament, and we are at the very
bottom of a brutal economic downturn. It is unsurprising that when several
thousand people from across the country are asked how they will vote, many opt
for populist parties like Ukip, which has a strong media presence and a
charismatic leader. But, thankfully, political victories are not won in polls.
When someone actually goes into a ballot box, they are not presented with a list
of parties, but a list of candidates, and a specific job - whether it is a
council seat or a parliamentary one. Faced with that choice, disaffected Tories
will grit their teeth and vote Conservative.

The proof of this is in the 2010 election. The year after this newspaper exposed
mass fiddling of expenses by our politicians was the biggest chance for
independents in history. We heard so much about why Nick Griffin was going to
threaten Labour in Barking and Dagenham. We saw Cleggmania, and thought that
maybe the Liberal Democrats would finally see their long-awaited breakthrough.
We even thought that George Galloway, who was contesting another strongly Muslim
east London seat, might win again.

None of those things happened; once you exclude the nationalist parties in
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, small parties won less than 7 per cent of
the popular vote. Taking on the Speaker John Bercow, Nigel Farage himself got
fewer votes than an independent candidate, John Stephens, who campaigned dressed
as a dolphin called "Flipper" (Bercow was caught flipping his home).

As today's unemployment statistics hint, we may now be at the bottom of the
economic downturn. Quite probably, things are going to start getting better, and
the news will be less full of doom. As we get closer to an election, local
activists - the people who actually win elections - will be more motivated, and
more people will have actually encountered them on the doorstep. By 2015, this
blip in Ukip's support will be forgotten. And if the Conservative Party tries to
appeal to its non-existent voters, then it won't do too well either.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 18, 2012 Wednesday 12:05 PM GMT

Ukip a political force? In the 2010 general election, Nigel Farage lost to a
candidate dressed as a dolphin

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 539 words


Two days in a row, and Ukip is ahead of the Liberal Democrats in the polls.
According to YouGov, while just 8 per cent of people say they would vote for
Nick Clegg's party, 9 per cent say they would vote for Nigel Farage's. According
to lots of influential Tory-leaning writers - from our own Iain Martin through
to ConHome's Tim Montgomerie - this is something that ought to worry that
Conservative Party. Daniel Hannan is so worried that he reckons that the two
parties should merge - and then immediately hold a referendum on our EU
membership.

I'm not convinced.Ukip is a party without grassroots. In total, it controls one
council, in the market town of Ramsey in Cambridgeshire, which has a population
of 6,000. That's one tenth of one constituency. By contrast, the Green Party -
which does much less well in national polls - is the biggest party in Brighton,
a city of 150,000, and is close to controlling Norwich council too. It has an MP
in Parliament - Caroline Lucas - who appears to be quite popular, and a
well-motivated grassroots force. Ignore the polls - the Green Party is a bigger
political force than Ukip.

We are almost exactly in the midterm of this parliament, and we are at the very
bottom of a brutal economic downturn. It is unsurprising that when several
thousand people from across the country are asked how they will vote, many opt
for populist parties like Ukip, which has a strong media presence and a
charismatic leader. But, thankfully, political victories are not won in polls.
When someone actually goes into a ballot box, they are not presented with a list
of parties, but a list of candidates, and a specific job - whether it is a
council seat or a parliamentary one. Faced with that choice, disaffected Tories
will grit their teeth and vote Conservative.

The proof of this is in the 2010 election. The year after this newspaper exposed
mass fiddling of expenses by our politicians was the biggest chance for
independents in history.We heard so much about why Nick Griffin was going to
threaten Labour in Barking and Dagenham. We saw Cleggmania, and thought that
maybe the Liberal Democrats would finally see their long-awaited breakthrough.
We even thought that George Galloway, who was contesting another strongly Muslim
east London seat, might win again.

None of those things happened; once you exclude the nationalist parties in
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, small parties won less than 7 per cent of
the popular vote. Taking on the Speaker John Bercow, Nigel Farage himself got
fewer votes than an independent candidate, John Stephens, who campaigned dressed
as a dolphin called "Flipper" (Bercow was caught flipping his home).

As today's unemployment statistics hint, we may now be at the bottom of the
economic downturn. Quite probably, things are going to start getting better, and
the news will be less full of doom. As we get closer to an election, local
activists - the people who actually win elections - will be more motivated, and
more people will have actually encountered them on the doorstep. By 2015, this
blip in Ukip's support will be forgotten. And if the Conservative Party tries to
appeal to its non-existent voters, then it won't do too well either.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 18, 2012 Wednesday 11:13 AM GMT

Nick Clegg: Lib Dems must make 'painful compromises' to stay in Government;
Nick Clegg has defended his decision to take the Liberal Democrats into
coalition with the Conservatives and attempted to explain why his party has had
to make "painful compromises" in government.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross, Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 492 words


Mr Clegg said he would "love to be Prime Minister" but had to live in the real
world, in which the Liberal Democrats "came third" at the last election.

He made his remarks in the face of growing criticism of the coalition since the
Budget and after one poll put the Liberal Democrats on just 8 per cent, in
fourth place behind the UK Independence Party.

Speaking to BBC Radio's Today programme, the Deputy Prime Minister insisted he
had less influence in Government than some believed.

"I didn't win the election. The Liberal Democrats came third." Mr Clegg pointed
out that his party only had 8 per cent of the MPs in the House of Commons and
said he was "flattered" that people thought he had more influence than he did.

He said: "If you want the Liberal Democrat manifesto in full, vote for Liberal
Democrats in larger numbers. It didn't happen, and I have to deal with the world
as it is, not as I'd like it to be. I'd love to be Prime Minister, I'd love this
to be a Liberal Democrat government, but it isn't."

He defended his decision to abandon a pre-election pledge to oppose an increasee
in university tuition fees.

There were "painful" compromises to be made, "most notoriously in higher
education reform", and his party could not achieve all it wanted, Mr Clegg
added. Despite this, he said he felt it was a "great privilege" to be in
Government.

Mr Clegg said: "I feel genuinely lucky that I am playing a role in ensuring this
country is strong, prosperous and safe in the future."

He defended Government decisions that might generate anger, saying they took
place in the context of the "great big heart attack at the centre of our
economy" in 2008, the consequences of which would be felt for years to come.

Mr Clegg added: "I accept that governments get into situations whereyou have
bumps and scrape and media squalls, where it is difficult to get your side of
the story across."

During the interview, Mr Clegg also said that ministers would revisit the
"detail" of plans to limit tax reliefs on charitable donations.

While defending the principle of limiting the tax breaks, he hinted that the
limit could be raised from what was currently proposed.

Chancellor George Osborne, who has spoken of the need to tackle tax avoidance by
some of the country's highest earners.

"I'm not saying people make contributions to charities to avoid tax - of course
not, of course not," Mr Clegg told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"What I am saying is that it is very rare in the developed world to have
allowances in your tax system which are completely unlimited.

"There is a simple principle at stake, which is that if you have an unlimited
allowance, you are asking ordinary taxpayers on much lower incomes to fund that
tax break.

"Of course, as we said at the Budget, we will look at this in detail, we've got
time to get the details right, we will look at it in the round and very
sympathetically, because we don't want to damage charities or inhibit
philanthropy."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

PM 'to win' against Strasbourg

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words


DAVID Cameron is expecting to win widespread backing from across Europe this
week for his plans to rein in the power of the European Court of Human Rights.

Government sources last night said Britain was confi-dent most of the 47 members
of the Council of Europe will back its far-reaching plans to water down the
human rights convention so that more cases are decided in this country instead
of Strasbourg. The Prime Minister wants the convention amended so that the
Strasbourg court's role is reduced to reviewing decisions made in Westminster
and by UK courts. A new "filtering" process would slash the backlog of 150,000
cases currently referred to the court.

Britain will chair a conference on the future of the ECHR in Brighton from
tomorrow with Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke.

Ministers have been infuriated by Strasbourg's recent ruling that blocked the
deportation of extremist cleric Abu Qatada to Jordan.

Until last week lawyers for a second radical cleric, Abu Hamza, were able to use
an appeal to the court to delay his extradition to the US.

Last night Tory Dominic Raab said: "We've seen too much judicial legislation
from this overweening and unaccountable court."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said on major cases "we will still be kow-towing to a
foreign court".

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

REMEMBER that film The Madness [...]

BYLINE: Peter Hill

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 164 words


? REMEMBER that film The Madness Of King George? There's a new one: The Madness
Of George Osborne. How else can you explain the litany of disasters that can be
laid at the Chancellor's door? Hasty policy U-turns are now on the way to
reverse the crazy plan to kill major charity donations, rob old folk of their
savings, penalise home improvements and desecrate the countryside with wind
farms. You know things are bad when leaders head off on showboating foreign
tours as David Cameron has just done.

But nothing can divert attention from the baffling series of vote-losing
decisions by the Government. Put it down to mischievous schemes from Lib Dem
saboteurs coupled with bad advice from their expensive consultants and top civil
servants, if you like. But Cameron, Osborne and their posh pals are so out of
touch that they are heading for disaster. They scoff at UKIP's "swivel-eyed
rhetoric" but I reckon that's where thousands of despairing Tories will migrate
to - many already have.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

London mayor live blog - live Q&A on housing

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 3395 words

ABSTRACT

Join Shelter's Toby Lloyd and Ukip's mayoral candidate Lawrence Webb to debate
housing in the capital

FULL TEXT

1.42pm: My colleague Hannah Waldram asked Toby Lloyd of Shelter how he thought
the new mayor could drive down rent prices in the capital. Llloyd responds:

Firstly, by driving rogue landlords out of the capital - these crooks exploit
the vulnerable and, by cramming too many people into their properties, push up
rents. It's strange but true that the worst homes can be the most expensive to
rent if there are lots of tenants all paying a low rent each.

Secondly by offering some decent competition to the lettings agents: we want the
next mayor to set up a non-profit London lettings service that would offer
tenants and landlords a fair deal - low, transparent charges and no scams on
deposits or fees.

Thirdly by negotiating a new deal for good landlords and good tenants, that
would give families and other renters who want to stay long term the stability
they need to put down roots - and that means knowing that your rent isn't going
to shoot up suddenly. Landlords could agree to indexed rents, linked (for
example) to interest rates - in exchange for getting a decent, long term tenant,
which reduces their void costs.

1.33pm:CharlesSurface asks:

When are the rights of public and private tenants going to be aligned?

Case in point. I'm a private tenant, and our building currently only gets an
analogue signal. Our private landlord is refusing to install an aerial capable
of receiving a digital signal and we have no recourse under contract.

However, the analogue signal has carried an occasional banner across the bottom
asking Harrow public tenants to get in touch to have their system upgraded.

Bit galling.

Toby Lloyd of Shelter responds:

It's true that those who rent from social or public landlords (that's councils
or housing associations) have much stronger rights than private tenants - and
have done ever since the 1980s when the private rented sector was deregulated.

There are some moves to bring them more in line - but unfortunately in the wrong
direction, as the rights of social tenants are being reduced ... We want the
next mayor to get behind our campaign to improve private renting for Londoners.

1.27pm: Toby Lloyd of Shelter has now joined the discussion.

AlojzyVolodin asks:

Firstly, what do they think the solution is for private rental in London - a
system that pretty much everybody (aside from landlords/lettings agents, I
suppose) agrees needs overhauling?

Secondly, what in their mind is a "fair rent", and how could it be enforced? I'm
thinking about the GLA recommendations for a "living wage" which, while a really
very good idea, it's up to individual employers to honour that wage. How could a
"living rent" be implemented?

Toby Lloyd responds:

You're right - private renting is in urgent need of an overhaul. One in four
Londoners now rent privately, rents are sky high, the average cost of setting up
a new tenancy is 2,000 quid, and one in three renters face these costs each
year.

Shelter has called for the next mayor to get a grip on the private rented
sector:

1. Fair lettings - end letting agent scams and provide a non-profit London
lettings service.

2. Force rogue landlords out of business - clamp down on the crooks.

3. Family friendly tenancies that would let the quarter of London families with
children who rent privately put down roots and see the kids through school.

See http://www.homesforlondon.org.uk for more detail.

1.19pm: In response to my original points on the housing crisis in London,

From Lawrence Webb responds:

The current housing crisis only exists because neither Boris nor Ken before him
took any action to resolve it. Successive governments have not done enough to
reverse the trend of selling off council houses and have not replaced their
housing stock. Open door immigration has made the situation worse. The price of
rent like so many other things are set by supply and demand.

1.03pm: From poefaced:

I migrated to London after university. I've taken a highly skilled job from a
born and bred Londoner and am taking up housing space. Am I part of the problem
as you see it? Or do I get a free pass as my roots are south of the Watford Gap?

Lawrence Webb replies:

London thrives on attacking [sic] the brightest and the best from around the
world, as a highly-skilled worker you are unlikely to be competing for social
housing.

12.56pm: Ukip's mayoral candidate Lawrence Webb has begun answering your
questions in the comments below.

cometherevolution asks:

I'm glad that Ukip have resolved that long running debate on how exactly you
become a Londoner. Perhaps Mr Webb could enlighten us - I think at least 10
years residence (and within zone 1/2), my more traditionalist mates go for being
born within the sound of Bow Bells (as only cockneys are real Londoners), whilst
arriviste friends think that you can live in suburban Beckenham and still be a
Londoner....

Lawrence Webb replies:

A "Londoner" is anyone who lives within the boundaries as they exist for the
London Assembly election and who satisfies the current requirements to become a
UK citizen ie have lived here (in London) for five years or three if married to
a UK citizen

11.37am: Ken Livingstone's campaign has put out a statement saying that black
Londoners are only mentioned in the context of crime.

A quick search of the manifesto confirms this.

The one paragraph in the manifesto about black people is about Johnson's (surely
laudable) mentoring programme for young black boys, "who are over-represented
both as perpetrators and victims of crime, with a disproportionate number of
young black people affected by serious youth violence. For example, 86 per cent
of gang members in London are of black Caribbean ethnicity compared to Liverpool
where 93 per cent are white."

Livingstone's own manifesto mentions black people in the context of reforming
stop and search, deaths in custody, racist violence against black people,
cutting black unemployment, Black History Month and an adviser on black issues
in the mayor's office.

Livingstone also says lesbian and gay people, child poverty, and childcare all
do not feature either. This also seems to be true.

The Labour candidate said: "Boris Johnson's manifesto has more holes than a golf
course. The Conservative party doesn't understand London or Londoners, as its
manifesto shows."

11.14am: Some good news for our guest Lawrence Webb's party today, as a YouGov
poll for the Sun finds the United Kingdom Independence party polling above the
Liberal Democrats for the first time.

The YouGov poll shows the Conservatives at 32%, Labour at 43%, Ukip at 9% and
Liberal Democrats at 8%.

Meanwhile Boris Johnson gets the highest approval ratings of any of the
political figures tested in a Populus poll for the Times, with 48 points out of
100. (Respondents were not asked about Ken Livingstone.)

However, among those intending to vote Conservative, David Cameron, at 70.99,
scored considerably higher than Johnson, at 61.78, suggesting the time may not
yet be ripe for Johnson to launch any plans he may or may not have to replace
the PM.

10.36am: Independent mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita (left) is today going to
outline plans for a "fixed-price housing market" as part of her manifesto, my
colleague H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland reports.

Benita says that, if elected, she will create a second housing market by gifting
GLA land for property development, which would ensure the homes built are sold
at a fixed price in a bid to break "the crippling cycle of spiralling property
prices that prevent Londoners from getting on the property ladder".

Those who qualify for the homes would take part in a lottery and the "winners"
would be allowed to buy the property, whose prices would be lifted each year by
the mayor. Homeowners wishing to sell would be bound by law or contract to sell
the property back into the same fixed-price market at the increased rate.

Benita concedes that sellers would make less profit, but argues that it would
allow individuals to either stay in the fixed-price market and free up their
cash to support "a higher quality of life", or leave with some equity built up
for a deposit to buy on the open market, while maintaining affordable housing
stock for others.

Those who end up renting privately-owned, fixed-price housing will have a right
"to a regulated, affordable rent proportionate to the value of the property in
that market".

Benita says that, under her watch, 80,000 fixed-price homes would be available
by the end of her four-year term.

She also intends to restore the 50% target for "genuinely affordable homes"
scrapped by Boris Johnson (Livingstone and, to an extent, Paddick, also propose
restoring this), and bring 40,000 unused and derelict buildings back into use.

Benita has also promised to freeze transport fares until April 2014, lobby the
government to build 127 new primary schools to deal with the shortfall in
places, and set up an Office of Budget Responsibility for London to ensure
better financial management and "permanently end vanity projects" by elected
mayors. She is the only one among seven candidate backing a third runway at
Heathrow airport.

8.48am: Good morning and welcome to today's London mayoral election live blog.
Today we will be discussing housing in the capital, with the help of Toby Lloyd,
head of policy at housing charity Shelter, and Lawrence Webb, Ukip's candidate
for mayor of London.

Post your questions for our guests below. They will be live online to debate the
issue from 1pm to 2pm.

Yesterday's YouGov poll had Boris Johnson six points ahead of Ken Livingstone in
a second-round head to head, with 53% to Livingstone's 47%. Johnson's lead is
down two points since last month's YouGov poll. In the first round, Johnson was
on 45%, Livingstone on 40%, Brian Paddick (Lib Dem) on 7%, Lawrence Webb (Ukip)
on 3%, Jenny Jones (Green) on 2%, Siobhan Benita (independent) on 2% and Carlos
Cortiglia (BNP) on 1%.

Housing

Housing in London is expensive and there is not enough of it. Shelter estimates
that the capital's population needs a minimum of 33,400 new homes to be built
each year, and, as Dave Hill reports, the average price of a home in London has
more than doubled over the last 12 years and is now over [#xfffd]400,000.

In the private rental sector, many Londoners are now spending up to 50% of their
earnings on rent, and there are 350,000 families on the social housing waiting
list. Twenty-three per cent of Londoners live in privately rented accommodation,
the highest proportion in the country, and Shelter's research suggests that 1.8
million Londoners who are not homeowners say they have given up hope of ever
owning a home in the capital.

The number of people sleeping rough in England has grown by more than a fifth in
the last year. London had the highest number of rough sleepers in the country
(446), a rise that has been very visible in central London over the last few
years.

The government's changes to benefits - particularly housing benefit, which has
been capped at [#xfffd]400 a week -[#xfffd]are expected to force tens of
thousands of households into smaller properties and/or to cheaper parts of
London or elsewhere. The government's impact assessment states 67,000 households
will be affected, mostly in London, and the Guardian has estimated that 133,000
children could be affected by the changes. [#xfffd]

The population of the capital continues to grow. It was 7.8 million in 2010
[#xfffd]and is estimated to reach 8.3 million by 2018.

The mayor's new powers

Due to the Localism Act 2011, whoever is elected mayor of London on 3 May will
have greater housing and planning powers and more control over budgets and land.
For the first time he or she will be responsible for government spending on
London's housing - over a third of the national total. He or she will get
control of land and other assets that could be used to build homes.

The mayor also produces a housing strategy for the capital and recommends the
amount, type and location of new homes, subject to guidance from the communities
and local government secretary, currently Eric Pickles. He or she can also grant
planning permission to projects considered important for London's development -
or refuse permission to projects that run counter to his/her London Plan, the
main mayoral planning document.

Shelter is calling for the next mayor to set up a new body called Homes for
London to co-ordinate housing policy in the capital in the same way Transport
for London does for transport, and [#xfffd]lobby the government for funding for
the 33,400 new homes needed each year, to improve tenants' stability and
security, prosecute rogue landlords, and establish an independent lettings
service.

The three main candidates are all keen to use the mayor's new housing powers to
build new homes, with an emphasis on "affordable" homes, but whether in reality
they will be able to build enough to make a difference remains to be seen.

They are also all proposing to accredit or register private landlords in some
way.

Ken Livingstone and Brian Paddick back setting a rent cap, although they do not
have the power to enforce it, while Boris Johnson opposes this.

Livingstone's proposal of a non-profit lettings agency, if realised, would also
probably have some downward effect on rent levels by cutting out estate agents'
fees. [#xfffd]

Boris Johnson

The Tory mayorscrapped a rule put in place by his predecessor, Ken Livingstone,
intended to ensure that 50% of the homes built in large new developments were
"affordable" -[#xfffd]Boris Johnson chose instead to "work with" London's
boroughs on setting local house-building targets, creating 52,000 new affordable
homes.

Johnson got into trouble with the Tory hierarchy after attacking the housing
benefit cap mentioned above as risking "Kosovo-style social cleansing of
London".

But he rowed back from his outspoken remarks the same day and said: "I do not
agree with the wild accusations from defenders of the current system that reform
will lead to social cleansing. It will not and, if you listened carefully to
what I said, no such exodus will take place on my watch."

During the last election campaign Johnson said he would create a network of
community land trusts where communities own the land where houses are built,
sell the houses cheaply, and the owners agree to sell them back to the trust at
a fixed rate when they move on. None have yet appeared.

He also promised to end rough sleeping in London by the end of this year - as
mentioned above, it is growing. His 2012 manifesto still promises to do this.

This year Johnson is promising to create 55,000 affordable homes by 2015, and
wants to use a [#xfffd]108m fund to "unlock stalled sites with planning
permission". He is proposing [#xfffd]15m of investment to bring empty homes back
into use, and to boost his "First Steps" programme to help 25,000 people towards
owning their own home.

He wants 100,000 landlords to gain a single new accreditation badge by 2016, and
promises to bring 45,000 council homes up to the Decent Homes standard at a cost
of [#xfffd]821m. He wants to retrofit 20,000 homes through the "Re:new" scheme.

He is opposed to rent controls, which he says in his manifesto "can drive away
investment and reduce the quantity of privately rented housing stock".

Ken Livingstone

Ken Livingstone is proposing a non-profit lettings agency for London to cut
rent, which he says will help reduce rents, provide secure tenancies, and
improve homes, by "avoiding rip-off estate agents' fees". Landlords would only
be able to list their properties with the agency (which would be in their
interest because they would not have to pay estate agents' fees) if they signed
a "tenants' charter" that set minimum standards for rented accommodation.

Livingstone wants to reintroduce his 50% rule stating that half of the homes
built in large new developments are "affordable". He wants to release Greater
London Authority land to housing associations and other developers.

He is campaigning for a "London living rent" at one third of household income -
a rent cap, in other words[#xfffd]- although he does not have the power to
enforce this.

He is planning a mandatory landlord registration scheme where landlords will
have to prove they are "fit and proper" and offer accommodation of a decent
standard, a similar policy to Johnson's accreditation scheme.

The Labour candidate wants to use planning powers to block developments that
remove affordable or social housing without replacing it adequately. To
encourage more building of affordable homes, he will[#xfffd]make "maximum use of
land controlled by[#xfffd]the mayor for housing development,[#xfffd]and
[enforce] tough planning regulations so that private developments
reflect[#xfffd]the needs of all Londoners, not just the very wealthy".

He wants funding for homelessness services to be distributed throughout the GLA,
and wants to ensure those with mental illness do not need to sleep rough, and
wants to tackle hepatitis C among the homeless.

He has attacked the government's housing benefit cuts, saying: "The effect of
welfare cuts is likely to make inner London the preserve of the better-off,
forcing thousands of less well-off families into cheaper suburbs and beyond."

He is also campaigning against the High Speed 2 train route, which will result
in the demolition of many council homes in Camden.

Brian Paddick

The Liberal Democrat candidate promises to build 360,000 homes over 10 years.
Brian Paddick would try to make sure 50% of new developments are "affordable".

He wants to set up a London Housing Company to match public land with private
investment, and to create 40,000 extra homes by using the vacant space above
shops, and bring 50,000 empty homes back into use by ending tax discounts for
empty and second homes.

Like Livingstone, he wants to see a "London living rent" of one third of
tenants' income, and in a similar policy to both of the other main candidates is
proposed a "kitemark" for private landlords. He is also proposing a website to
help renters locate safe and decent accommodation.

He supports the government's housing benefit cap, with reservations, telling a
Guardian Q&A:

We have to make sure that any changes in housing benefit do not impact on
families forcing them to move to new areas and disrupting their children's
schooling. Many of my friends have had to move miles outside London in order to
find somewhere they can afford to live and it does not seem right that those on
benefits can live in central London when hard working families are having to
move out. So whilst I agree in principle with a cap on housing benefit we have
to make sure that it does not disrupt the lives of well established families.

Jenny Jones

The Green candidate proposes developing at least 15,000 "affordable",
fuel-efficient homes a year. Jenny Jones, who currently chairs the London
Assembly's planning and housing committee, also wants to create a London Mutual
Housing Company to help set up community land trusts - where communities own the
land where houses are built, sell the houses cheaply, and the owners agree to
sell them back to the trust at a fixed rate when they move on - to build new
affordable homes and restore vacant properties.

She wants to establish an ethical lettings agency (a policy similar to
Livingstone's), and a default five-year tenancy, and would campaign against
government attempts to raise social rents and reduce housing benefit.

She would bring homelessness grants back into the GLA.

She also told a Q&A on this blog:

We would also work closely with councils, housing associations and co-operatives
to be much more bullish in using compulsory purchase powers, other publicly
owned land and public money to build homes. The problem we all face is that land
is so expensive in London, it's what underpins the astronomical house prices, so
we would also campaign for a Land Value Tax to bring down the cost of building
and buying homes.

Lawrence Webb

The Ukip candidate says he will get "a tighter grip on immigration to ensure
that Londoners are put first when it comes to jobs and housing".

He also wants to cut council house waiting lists in half by filling empty
properties from a central register and "prioritising the needs of long-term
Londoners", and cut VAT on the refurbishment of existing buildings.

Post your questions for our guests, Ukip's Lawrence Webb and Shelter's Toby
Lloyd, below. They will be live online to debate housing from 1pm to 2pm.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

Tony Blair tells David Cameron to rethink charity tax cap

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 662 words

ABSTRACT

Former prime minister enters row as opinion polls show post-budget rows are
having damaging effect on coalition

FULL TEXT

Tony Blair waded into the row over Tory plans to put a cap on tax relief for
charities when he said the government should change its mind to avoid "a battle
with the philanthropic sector that I think they will find it difficult to win".

The former prime minister said: "The best thing is to disentangle completely the
idea of philanthropy and giving to charity from tax avoidance."

His remarks came as two opinion polls suggested the succession of post-budget
rows, including over charitable tax relief, was starting to inflict serious
damage on the coalition.

Blair, giving a long-planned speech on philanthropy in Washington, said: "It
would be wise for them to think again. We should be doing everything we can at
the moment to encourage the philanthropic sector. The third sector was a big
part of our agenda when we were in government and I think it is still very
important and in times of economic difficulty even more so.

"Anybody who is giving money to a charity if they are giving it to a genuine
charitable cause they are losing money. If they are not giving it to a genuine
charity, or the charity is not doing work with a proper public benefit, there is
an armoury and battery of rules to make sure this did not happen.

"I am sure the government does not want intentionally to harm the philanthropic
sector, and it would be daft to do so, and I am sure they don't want to do it,
but sometimes things slip through and they are not right."

Blair warned David Cameron: "Don't end up in a situation where you imply people
are donating for tax avoidance because I don't think that is the case."

The prime minister, now facing the eighth day of a backlash over plans to put a
cap on tax relief, promised the government would listen sympathetically during a
consultation this summer on the plans.

He said: "This was never going to be introduced until next year... there will be
plenty of time to get it right, plenty of time to consult and to listen."

The controversies caused by the budget are starting to have a serious impact on
the coalition parties. The regular YouGov/Sun tracker showed UKip third, ahead
of the Liberal Democrats. The poll put Labour on 43%, Tories 32%, UKIP 9% and
Lib Dems 8%. The Labour lead is their joint largest of the parliament.

A poll by Populus for the Times shows Labour on 42%, Conservatives 33%, Lib Dems
11% and others 16% - the highest Labour lead and the joint lowest Tory rating in
this poll in this parliament.

The poll shows the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, and the chancellor, George
Osborne, are on level terms.

The polls come weeks before the 3 May local elections and London mayoral
election, where Boris Johnson is still six points ahead of his rival, Ken
Livingstone.

On BBC2's Newsnight, Blair warned the coalition that sometimes it appeared to be
"a marriage of convenience rather marriage of conviction. The danger is that in
that policy trade you can sometimes get incoherence. I would make sure before
these polices are announced a little more in-depth policy work has been done".

On the same programme, Lady Warsi, the Conservative chairwoman, complained the
budget had been poorly communicated because some of the big plans had been
leaked in advance, leaving a focus on some issues such as the granny tax. She
added: "When you are in coalition, it is not easy to have a very clear narrative
and sometimes out of that comes some incoherence." She criticised the business
secretary, Vince Cable, for his attacks on the budget: "If you agree something
in cabinet, I think you stand by it."

The Treasury minister, David Gauke, said the plans to impose a cap on charitable
tax relief might raise £50m-£100m,

Labour will on Wednesday seek a vote in parliament over the tax cap, with shadow
chief secretary to the Treasury, Rachel Reeves, accusing the government of being
in "a complete mess" over the issue.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

Politics live blog: Theresa May's Abu Qatada statement

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2457 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political
developments, including Theresa May's Commons statement on Abu Qatada and the
Met commissioner giving evidence to MPs

FULL TEXT

10.45am:David Cameron wants to introduce minimum prices for alcohol.But today
the Local Government Association is saying this could lead to more people
drinking potentially dangerous illegal booze. This is from Cllr David Rogers,
chair of the LGA's community wellbeing board.

We are concerned that targeting cheap alcohol could push people to the black
market and cheaper drinks. When drinking counterfeit brands you can never be
sure what you are putting into your body. People who think they are getting a
bargain could end up making themselves blind or even drinking themselves to
death.

We know there is no simple solution to alcohol abuse but tackling cheap drinks
is only one part of the problem. Focusing solely on making alcohol less
affordable will fail to address the root causes of binge drinking as well as the
nuisance, vandalism and risks to health it causes.

National gestures like minimum pricing and banning multi-buy discounts will only
go so far in deterring binge drinking and don't take into account the varying
issues in town and city centres across the country. We need to see councils
given the powers and flexibility to tackle problems locally.

We now need a system that allows local authorities to act on the concerns of the
people in their area by saying 'no' to a new late night club on a street that is
already saturated with them. We also want to see health experts given a say on
whether the opening of a corner shop selling cheap booze could contribute to
alcohol dependency in a particular area.

10.23am: Tube workers are going to go on strike next week. Here's what the Press
Association have filed.

Workers who maintain and upgrade Tube lines on London Underground are to strike
for 72 hours next week in a dispute over pensions and benefits.The Rail,
Maritime and Transport union (RMT), which represents around 1,000 staff on the
Tube Lines contracts, said its members will walk out at 4pm on Tuesday until the
same time on Friday.The staff work on the Piccadilly, Northern and Jubilee lines
and provide a number of services, including emergency repairs, across the entire
network.The row is over union demands for all Tube Lines staff to be allowed to
join the Transport for London pension scheme and receive the same travel
concessions as those who work for London Underground.RMT officials said the
strike will have a "widespread" impact on Tube services across the network.

The two leading candidates in the London mayoral elections, Boris Johnson and
Ken Livingstone, are both trying to blame each other.

This is from a spokesman for Johnson.

It will come as no surprise to Londoners that, a week before the mayoral
election, Ken Livingstone's RMT friend Bob Crow is trying to hit hard-working
Londoners and businesses.

And this is from Val Shawcross, Livingstone's deputy mayoral running mate.

The failure of Boris Johnson and the RMT to resolve their differences comes at a
huge cost to Londoners. Now millions of Tube users are facing the huge
inconvenience and disruption that comes with a Tube strike. It has been 1,444
days since Boris Johnson was elected and he has still not bothered to meet
representatives of the Tube unions to discuss his manifesto promise to implement
a no-strike deal. Boris Johnson's failure to get a grip of the Tube has led to
more Tube strikes in the last four years than in the previous eight years.

9.48am: And here's an extract from the Press Association story about the
inflation figures.

A fall in the number of supermarket promotions saw the rate of inflation
unexpectedly rise last month, official figures revealed today, piling more
pressure on hard-pressed families.The Consumer Price Index (CPI) rate of
inflation rose to 3.5% in March, from 3.4% in February, the Office for National
Statistics (ONS) said, halting five months of declines.Food and non-alcoholic
drinks fell 0.5% on the month but this compared with a 1.4% fall last year when
supermarkets and other retailers offered a wider range of sales and special
offers.The rise in inflation will rattle Bank of England Governor Sir Mervyn
King and his colleagues, who previously predicted that CPI would fall swiftly
back throughout this year to the Government's 2% target. Households were
squeezed by high prices and sluggish wage growth throughout 2011 and some relief
from the high cost of living was expected this year.The Bank will now be less
inclined to pump more money into the economy through its quantitative easing
programme if inflation continues to remain above target.The average cost of
petrol and diesel at the pump hit a record high in March, up to [#xfffd]1.38 and
[#xfffd]1.46 a litre respectively.However, the ONS said the rise in fuel and
lubricants was similar to last year so had little impact on the rise in
inflation.The biggest upward pressure came from the softer drop in food bills, a
smaller fall in recreation and culture costs and higher clothing and footwear
prices.Fruit, bread and cereals and meat saw prices rise in March, compared with
falls a year ago, which acted as a drag on the overall food category.The softer
fall in prices follow a fierce price war between the supermarkets, as Tesco
introduced its Big Price Drop, Sainsbury's fought back with its Brand Match
scheme and Asda offered its Price Guarantee.But Tesco, which reports annual
results tomorrow, admitted its [#xfffd]500 million scheme had been a flop after
dismal trade over Christmas continued into the new year.Clothing and footwear
prices were up 2.2%, driven by women's outerwear, while recreation and culture
saw resistance from higher charges for toys and recording media.There was some
downward pressure in March as big six energy suppliers Scottish Power and EON
introduced cuts to their tariffs.Housing and household services costs, which
includes electricity and gas, subsequently dropped 0.2% on the month.Elsewhere,
transport costs fell on the month as second-hand car prices fell by 0.1%,
compared with a 1.5% rise last year.Alternative measures of inflation did fall,
however, with the retail price index dropping to 3.6% in March from 3.7% in
February.

9.44am: Here are the headline inflation figures.

[#xfffd] The consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation rose to 3.5% in
March, from 3.4% in February.

[#xfffd] The headline rate of retail prices index (RPI) inflation fell to 3.6%
in March, from 3.7% in February.[#xfffd] The underlying rate of retail prices
index (RPI) inflation fell to 3.7% in March, from 3.8% in February.

Here's the news release from the Office for National Statistics. And here's the
ONS statistical bulletin with the full details (pdf).

9.34am: The Resolution Foundation has publisheda report on the minimum wage
(pdf). It says the value of the minimum wage has been falling in real terms in
recent years and it suggests three reforms that could address this. Here's an
extract.

The idea of introducing a premium NMW [national minimum wage] for older workers,
for example those over 30, has merit. This would have the added benefit of
making the minimum wage somewhat better targeted on low-income households. The
downside is that older workers do not earn so much more (at the lower
percentiles of the distribution) than younger workers, meaning that any adult
premium minimum would be not be much higher than the current adult NMW. The
second possibility we have considered is a higher minimum wage forLondon.
Earnings in London are much higher than in the rest of the UK so the current NMW
has less impact in London than it might. A higher rate in this region could lift
the wages of large numbers of workers. Although there would be practical
difficulties there is little reason to think they would be insurmountable.
Finally, we have considered what could be learned from the approach of the
living wage. As we saw, the method of computing the living wage delivers a
number that is far too high to be considered as a national, mandatory minimum
wage. A narrative that views a living wage as an alternative to existing support
through the welfare system, in particular tax credits, overlooks the fact that
an hourly wage for individual workers can never guarantee a minimum standard of
living at the household level, where living standards depend on the hours of
work and the number of children. That said, these limitations take nothing away
from the fact that higher hourly wages would help to raise household income. The
living wage campaign has demonstrated the virtues of a voluntarist approach.
There may be a case for doing more to leverage the authority of the LPC to
change pay norms. Asking the LPC to take a judgment on non-mandatory
'affordable' minimum wages in different sectors might be one way of raising the
pressure on employers who pay unnecessarily low wages, as well as shining a
light on sectors of our economy that are dependent on unsustainably low levels
of pay.

9.09am: As the polls show (see 8.55am), the budget seems to have badly damaged
the government's popularity. In her column today, Polly Toynbee describes it as
"probably the most bungled budget in history, fiscally neutral yet politically
incendiary - mainly for that 50p top tax cut".

It would be good to be able to put this in context. Can anyone think of any
other contenders for the title of worse budget ever? By worst, I mean worst in
political terms - because they have damaged the popularity of the governing
party, or because they have created problems that require embarrasing U-turns.
You could also try to list the worst budgets in economic terms, but that really
opens up a different argument.

All thoughts welcome.

8.55am: As promised, here are today's polling figures. There are two sets around
this morning.

YouGov in the Sun

Labour: 43% (up 4 points from YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 32%
(down 1 point)UKIP: 9% (up 2)Lib Dems: 8% (down 2 points

Labour lead: 11 points

Government approval: -40

And here's an extract from the YouGov commentary on the figures.Our latest daily
poll for the Sun has topline figures of Conservative 32%, Labour 43%, UKIP 9%
and Liberal Democrats 8%. This is a significant jump from the 6 point leads we
were showing last week, and the largest Labour lead since before the 'election
that never was' in October 2007.

It's also the first time that we have shown UKIP overtaking the Liberal
Democrats for third place. Previously we've shown them as high as 8 points back
in 2009 after the European elections and the expenses scandal, but back them the
Liberal Democrats enjoyed far higher support. With the Liberal Democrats in
government and in decline, UKIP have the opportunity to benefit from
anti-government votes and the increase their support puts them into third
place.Populus in the Times (paywall)

Labour: 42% (up 4 points from Populus in March)Conservatives: 33% (down 1)Lib
Dems: 11% (no change)

Labour lead: 9 points

And here's an extract from one of the stories in the Times about the poll
(paywall).

A poll at the weekend showed a shift, with 37 per cent now saying the coalition
is going "well" against 61 per cent saying "badly"; 24 per cent believe that the
coalition is doing "very badly", compared with 15 per cent in September.

It found voters increasingly distrustful of the coalition's handling of issues
connected to the economy, although confidence in other areas of government
policy has held steady.

The proportion who say that the coalition is doing well "managing the economy
overall" has dipped from 42 per cent in September last year to 34 per cent over
the weekend. Those saying that the coalition is doing well "handling public
spending cuts" dropped from 36 per cent to 28 per cent, while the proportion who
approve of coalition "tax policy" dropped from 41 per cent in September to 33
per cent.

8.50am: It's a busy day for the home affairs correspondents. At 12.15pm Bernard
Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, is giving evidence to the
Commons home affairs committee. And at 3.30pm Theresa May, the home secretary,
is making a statement to MPs about Abu Qatada. As Alan Travis reports,she will
say that the government will not be appealing against the European court of
human rights decision blocking his deportation but that the government is making
progress in getting Jordan to give the assurances that could lead to the
deportation going ahead. I will be covering both events in detail. But there
will be more to say about the budget too because the row about the cap on tax
relief continues. Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, was on ITV Daybreak this
morning having a whack at the government over this.

If you cobble something together at the last minute and you don't think about
it, you don't talk to the charities, you don't talk to the Charity Commission,
it all falls apart. In this budget, there have been so many things - caravans,
pasties, pensioners' tax rise, charities - where the chancellor doesn't seem to
have thought it through in advance. Now it is a mess, really.

And the polls continue to get worse for the government. I'll post more on those
shortly.

Here's the full agenda for the day.

9.15am: Nick Herbert, the policing minister, gives a speech to the Reform
thinktank on reforming the criminal justice system.

9.30am: Inflation figures are released.

10.30am: Jack Straw gives evidence to the Commons justice committee about the
Freedom of Information Act.

10.30am: Alcohol experts give evidence to the Commons health committee.

11am: Executives from the Sun, the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Mail and the BBC
give evidence to the Commons home affairs committee about the use of private
investigators.

12.15pm: Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, gives
evidence to the Commons home affairs committee.

1pm: Ken Livingstone addresses a press gallery lunch.

1.30pm: David Cameron meets Li Changchun, a senior member of the Chinese
Communist party, at Downing Street.

2.30pm: William Hague, the foreign secretary, takes questions in the Commons.

3.30pm: Theresa May, the home secretary, is making a statement to MPs explaining
why the government will not be appealing against the European court of human
rights ruling blocking the deportation of the radical Islamist cleric Abu
Qatada.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow @gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

Labour has its biggest lead over Tories in polls since general election

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 674 words

ABSTRACT

YouGov-Sun poll also shows UK Independence party overtaking Lib Dems for third
place for the first time

FULL TEXT

The UK Independence party has leaped into third place ahead of the Liberal
Democrats for the first time in a YouGov-Sun poll. The poll also shows Labour
with its largest poll lead of this parliament at 11 points.

It comes alongside a Times Populus poll showing Labour on 42 points (up four),
the Conservatives on 33 (down one), the Lib Dems on 11 (unchanged) and others,
including Ukip, at 16.

The two polls underline the extent to which the coalition parties have been hit
by a budget that has led to a slew of bad headlines over the granny tax, pasty
tax and charities tax. Although the Populus poll gives Labour its largest share
of the vote since the general election, it will still concern Labour strategists
that so much of the discontent with the Tories is leaking to Ukip rather than to
Labour. The electorate appears to be unusually volatile.

The YouGov poll shows the Conservatives at 32%, Labour at 43%, Ukip at 9% and
Liberal Democrats at 8%. YouGov reports: "This is a significant jump from the
six-point leads we were showing last week, and the largest Labour lead since
before the 'election that never was' in October 2007.

"It's also the first time that we have shown Ukip overtaking the Liberal
Democrats for third place. Previously, we've shown them as high as eight points
back in 2009 after the European elections and the expenses scandal, but back
then the Liberal Democrats enjoyed far higher support."

Conservative MPs remain hopeful that David Cameron can win back Ukip mid-term
dissenters at election time, but Ukip claims the polling is its best performance
outside an election.

The figures will also put more pressure on Cameron to revive his tough
anti-European stance, notably the threat of a British veto at the Brussels
summit in December on economic co-operation.

The Conservatives will also be concerned that much of their long-term lead on
handling the economy appears to have been eroded by the noise around the budget,
as much as the overall state of the economy. The Populus poll asked voters how
well or badly they thought the coalition was doing overall: 37% now say it is
going "well", against 61% saying "badly". Last September, opinions were broadly
balanced, with 48% saying they thought the coalition was doing "well", against
51% who said they felt the coalition was doing "badly". Some 24% say they
believe the coalition is doing "very badly", up from 15% last September.

The poll found that voters were increasingly distrustful of the coalition's
handling of issues connected to the economy, although their confidence in other
areas of government policy has held steady since September. The proportion
saying the coalition is doing well in "managing the economy overall" has dipped
from 42% last September to 34% over the weekend. The proportion saying the
coalition is doing well "handling public spending cuts" dropped from 36% in
September to 28% now, while the proportion who approve of coalition "tax policy"
dropped from 41% to 33% over the same period.

The Populus poll also asked voters to rate politicians out of 100.

The shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, will be delighted he is running neck and neck
with the chancellor, George Osborne - they are both on 38.8 out of 100. Boris
Johnson gets the highest approval ratings of any of the nine figures tested in
the poll, on 48 points, while the education secretary, Michael Gove, emerged as
the least popular, on 35.5 points. Among Conservative supporters, however,
Cameron is still significantly more popular than Johnson.

A separate YouGov poll of Londoners found Johnson beating Ken Livingstone for
the London mayoralty by six points once second preferences were distributed.
Livingstone is trailing badly with women and elderly voters, and it is not clear
what he can do in the final weeks to change this. His party is pinning its hopes
on a superior get-out-the-vote operation, and last-minute appeals to women
voters on crime issues.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

Reply: Letter: The high costs and dubious benefits of academies

BYLINE: Kevin Scally

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 126 words


*In Fiona Millar's article (Time to debunk some myths about schools, 10 April),
she states that the only party that is publicly committed to reintroducing a
schooling that stamps the majority of children as failures aged 11 is Ukip. It
is also supported by the Democratic Unionist and the Unionist parties, and this
ensures that selection and rejection thrives in Northern Ireland. About 70
Northern Ireland schools (both Catholic and Protestant) continue to select
children, despite the stated wish of the Sinn Fein minister of education. Many
of us agree with the new chief inspector's comment that "we don't want a
secondary modern school, we want a comprehensive school". However, over here, we
don't have that choice.

Kevin Scally

Drumman Heights, Armagh

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

Blair tells Cameron to rethink charity tax cap: Don't link avoidance to
philanthropy, says ex-PM Polls show budget rows are damaging coalition

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 519 words


Tony Blair waded into the row over Tory plans to put a cap on tax relief for
charities when he said the government should change its mind to avoid "a battle
with the philanthropic sector that I think they will find it difficult to win".

The former prime minister said: "The best thing is to disentangle completely the
idea of philanthropy and giving to charity from tax avoidance."

His remarks came as two opinion polls suggested the succession of post-budget
rows, including over charitable tax relief, was starting to inflict serious
damage on the coalition.

Blair, giving a long-planned speech on philanthropy in Washington, said: "It
would be wise for them to think again. We should be doing everything we can at
the moment to encourage the philanthropic sector. I am sure the government does
not want intentionally to harm the philanthropic sector, and it would be daft to
do so, and I am sure they don't want to do it, but sometimes things slip through
and they are not right."

Blair warned David Cameron: "Don't end up in a situation where you imply people
are donating for tax avoidance because I don't think that is the case."

The prime minister, now facing the eighth day of a backlash over plans to put a
cap on tax relief, promised the government would listen sympathetically during a
consultation this summer on the plans.

He said: "This was never going to be introduced until next year. . . there will
be plenty of time to get it right, plenty of time to consult and to listen."

The controversies caused by the budget are starting to have a serious impact on
the coalition parties. The regular YouGov/Sun tracker showed Ukip third, ahead
of the Liberal Democrats. The poll put Labour on 43%, Tories 32%, Ukip 9% and
Lib Dems 8%. The Labour lead is their joint largest of the parliament. A Populus
poll for the Times shows Labour on 42%, Conservatives 33%, Lib Dems 11% and
others 16% - the highest Labour lead and joint lowest Tory rating in this poll
in this parliament.

The polls come ahead of the 3 May local elections and London mayoral election,
where Boris Johnson is still six points ahead of his rival, Ken Livingstone.

On BBC2's Newsnight, Blair warned the coalition that sometimes it appeared to be
"a marriage of convenience rather (than) conviction. The danger is that in that
policy trade you can sometimes get incoherence. I would make sure before these
polices are announced a little more in-depth policy work has been done".

On the same programme, Lady Warsi, the Conservative chairwoman, complained the
budget had been poorly communicated because some plans had been leaked, leaving
a focus on issues such as the granny tax. She said: "When you are in coalition,
it is not easy to have a very clear narrative and sometimes out of that comes
some incoherence." She criticised the business secretary, Vince Cable, for his
attacks on the budget: "If you agree something in cabinet, I think you stand by
it."

Labour will today seek a vote in parliament over the tax cap, with shadow chief
secretary to the Treasury, Rachel Reeves, accusing the government of being in "a
complete mess" over the issue.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 17, 2012 Tuesday 12:33 PM GMT

Poll gives Labour double-digit lead;


BYLINE: Daniel Bentley

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 183 words


Labour has established a double-digit lead over the Conservatives and the
Liberal Democrats have been overtaken by the UK Independence Party, according to
a latest poll.

The YouGov survey for The Sun put Labour 11 points ahead, on 43% to the Tories'
32%.

It also found that Ukip, with 9% support, had pushed the Lib Dems, on 8%, into
fourth place.

The findings follow a torrid month for the Tory-Lib Dem coalition, which has
faced heavy criticism over the Budget and its handling of the threat of strikes
by fuel tanker drivers.

A second poll showed Labour extending its lead over the Tories to nine points.

Support for Labour had risen by 4% to 42% over the past month, while that for
the Tories had fallen one point to 33%, the Populus survey in The Times found.

The Liberal Democrats were unchanged on 11%

Populus also found that 61% of voters felt the coalition was doing "badly", up
from 51% in September. Some 24% said the coalition was doing "very badly", up
from 15%.

:: YouGov surveyed 1,783 British adults on April 15 and 16. Populus interviewed
1,003 people by telephone between April 13 and 15.

PA

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 17, 2012 Tuesday 10:55 AM GMT

Steve Richards: The false allure of mavericks like Siobhan Benita and George
Galloway;
Smaller parties and Independents are part of an anti-politics culture - not the
solution to it

BYLINE: Steve Richards

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 823 words


George Galloway takes his seat in the House of Commons. Ukip's leader, Nigel
Farage, strides around the political stage with renewed swagger, hinting at
defections from the Conservative party. An independent candidate in London's
mayoral election attracts flattering attention by claiming to speak for the
people and not the parties. The cliché of disillusionment with mainstream
parties is suddenly accompanied by vivid images of self-confident figures
flexing their muscles from the outside.

Their rise is wholly unsurprising. Indeed, the surprise is that more of them do
not surface to dazzle fleetingly. The political narrative has taken hold that
life is not easy for any of the familiar parties. Voters blame Labour for the
economic crisis, but note that the two Coalition parties have not improved the
economy. In such circumstances some voters look elsewhere. Given the intensity
of the anti-politics culture when the economy was booming, a further
intensification is inevitable as the economy sinks.

The eccentric mayoral contest in London reflects the disillusionment, with polls
suggesting no great enthusiasm for the two main candidates. But to some extent
the attitude of the critics highlights the confusion that marks the current
hostility towards the so-called mainstream. The critics tend to be against
control-freakery from the centre of orthodox parties. Yet Ken Livingstone was
selected in an election of party members. If Ed Miliband had fixed the
selection, the candidate might have been more to the liking of those who are
Labour supporters who will not vote for Livingstone.

In the early 1980s, the Labour leadership was vilified in the media for having
no control over the weird candidates being selected in some seats. Neil Kinnock
was widely praised when he seized a degree of power over the selection process.
Now control from the centre of any mainstream party is impossible, and attempts
to pull levers cause a Twitter storm within seconds. Leaders have lost control
and yet will face the consequences if the candidates they do not select are
poor.

The conundrum about control freakery and losing control is one example of the
many dilemmas facing leaders of the main parties. That is politics in the real
world, a constant negotiation of impossibly high hurdles. Leaders of the
mainstream parties must seek the widest possible alliance of support while
retaining connection with the values their parties are supposed to espouse. This
immense task is not a science and is in some ways closer to an art form.

Tony Blair was too defensively preoccupied by what he imagined to be the
inflexible concerns of newly acquired Middle England supporters. In opposition,
David Cameron failed to move as far as was necessary towards the centre ground,
and now leads a government of the radical right that still manages to alienate
parts of the Conservative right. Ed Miliband is viewed with dismissive wariness
by newspapers read by Middle England for being on the left, and voters in
Bradford West who worry that he is nowhere near left-wing enough.

Getting the balance right is the essence of leadership and involves making tough
decisions every day of the week. Blair once described the decisions he faced on
a daily basis as, "do I cut my throat or slit my wrist?" There are few easy
options.

The independents and, to some extent, the smaller parties are unburdened by such
tedious matters as to how to win power. Voting for them is the equivalent of the
cathartic scream or moan. What they say is not only untested by power, but the
need to seek power. Without power they can achieve nothing. Some of them are no
doubt figures of integrity and principle. But they are part of an anti-politics
culture and not a solution to it.

Galloway can do little for the voters of Bradford West because he will not be
forming a government at the next election. In the 2001 election, the Wyre Forest
constituency elected a non-party MP to campaign against cuts to local health
facilities. He made no difference, at least in comparison to the big increases
in investment carried out by a party elected to power.

I am told that the independent candidate in the London mayoral election, Siobhan
Benita, has many attractive qualities, but I read her pitch and am suspicious.
She writes on her website: "I am not a party politician and won't waste my time
- or yours - fighting tired political battles. I am in touch with Londoners and
understand their day-to-day concerns."

What does she mean by "tired political battles"? Democratic politics depend on
the resolution of differences through political battles rather than the military
alternative. It is too easy to claim that they can be transcended with the wave
of a charming wand, in the same way that it is a piece of cake for Ukip to
pretend from the sidelines that the UK can be independent in an interdependent
world.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 17, 2012 Tuesday 11:58 AM GMT

Labour opens up largest poll lead over Tories since the election as Lib Dems are
overtaken by UKIP

BYLINE: RICHARD HARTLEY-PARKINSON

LENGTH: 421 words


Labour has opened its largest lead since the general election as it reaches
double figures ahead of the Conservatives.

A poll has found that if there was a general election tomorrow 32 per cent of
people would vote for the Tories while 43 per cent would choose Labour.

In a humiliating revelation for the Lib Dems, which had nearly a quarter of the
vote at the last election, the UK Independence Party has pipped the party to
third place with a score of 9 per cent.

Only last night the Government performed a series of U-turns, perhaps at sight
of the new polls.

Last night Downing Street was in retreat on charity tax after the plans were
denounced as a 'shambles' and Cameron hinted that he would water down the
proposals.

In a second sign of the Government giving way, the Prime Minister said he didn't
understand how the so-called conservatory tax that would cost home owners
hundreds even got into the Green Deal.

And finally the PM backtracked on the future of Britain's aircraft carriers with
the return of the jump jet.

YouGov, who carried out one of the polls for The Sun, said: 'This is a
significant jump from the 6 point leads we were showing last week, and the
largest Labour lead since before the 'election that never was' in October 2007.'

A separate poll found that the Tories were nine per cent behind Labour with 33
per cent of the vote compared to Labour's 42 per cent.

In the Populus poll Ukip fared less well with just 5 per cent of those
questioned saying they would vote for the party compared with the Liberal
Democrat's 12 per cent.

Most of Labour's new-found support, however, appears to have come from the
Liberal Democrats. At the May 2010 election the Conservatives had 36.1 per cent
of the vote compared with Labour's 29 per cent. Support for the Lib Dems has
halved from its 22.1 per cent support.

The results of the Times Populus poll reveal that last month was the worst for
David Cameron since taking office.

A variety of decisions have been blamed including the handling of the fuel
tanker strike and various measures in this year's Budget.

A separate poll revealed a Labour double-digit lead over the Conservatives and
that support for the UK Independence Party had overtaken that for the Lib Dems.

Support for Labour was put at 43 per cent compared to the Tories' 32 per cent.
Lib Dems polled at just 8 per cent behind UKIP's 9 per cent.

Populus also found that 61% of voters felt the coalition was doing 'badly', up
from 51% in September. Some 24% said the coalition was doing 'very badly', up
from 15%.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 17, 2012 Tuesday 9:14 AM GMT

Labour opens 11-point lead over Tories in the polls as Lib Dems are overtaken by
UKIP

BYLINE: RICHARD HARTLEY-PARKINSON

LENGTH: 393 words


Labour has opened its largest lead since the general election as it reaches
double figures ahead of the Conservatives.

A poll has found that if there was a general election tomorrow 32 per cent of
people would vote for the Tories while 43 per cent would choose Labour.

In a humiliating revelation for the Lib Dems, which had nearly a quarter of the
vote at the last election, the UK Independence Party has pipped the party to
third place with a score of 9 per cent.

Only last night the Government performed a series of U-turns, perhaps at sight
of the new polls.

Last night Downing Street was in retreat on charity tax after the plans were
denounced as a 'shambles' and Cameron hinted that he would water down the
proposals.

In a second sign of the Government giving way, the Prime Minister said he didn't
understand how the so-called conservatory tax that would cost home owners
hundreds even got into the Green Deal.

And finally the PM backtracked on the future of Britain's aircraft carriers with
the return of the jump jet.

YouGov, who carried out one of the polls for The Sun, said: 'This is a
significant jump from the 6 point leads we were showing last week, and the
largest Labour lead since before the 'election that never was' in October 2007.'

A separate poll found that the Tories were nine per cent behind Labour with 33
per cent of the vote compared to Labour's 42 per cent.

Most of Labour's new-found support, however, appears to have come from the
Liberal Democrats. At the May 2010 election the Conservatives had 36.1 per cent
of the vote compared with Labour's 29 per cent. Support for the Lib Dems has
halved from its 22.1 per cent support.

The results of the Times Populus poll reveal that last month was the worst for
David Cameron since taking office.

A variety of decisions have been blamed including the handling of the fuel
tanker strike and various measures in this year's Budget.

A separate poll revealed a Labour double-digit lead over the Conservatives and
that support for the UK Independence Party had overtaken that for the Lib Dems.

Support for Labour was put at 43 per cent compared to the Tories' 32 per cent.
Lib Dems polled at just 8 per cent behind UKIP's 9 per cent.

Populus also found that 61% of voters felt the coalition was doing 'badly', up
from 51% in September. Some 24% said the coalition was doing 'very badly', up
from 15%.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

LIBS BEHIND UKIP;
Anti-EU party beats Clegg

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN; EMILY ASHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 132 words


UKIP has ousted the Lib Dems as the third most popular political party, a Sun
poll reveals today.

The anti-EU party led by Nigel Farage has nine per cent support - with Deputy PM
Nick Clegg's lot on just eight.

The YouGov poll ahead of May's local elections puts Labour 11 points ahead of
the Tories.

It comes as it emerged Lib Dem councillors have wiped all mention of the party
from their leaflets in a desperate bid to cling to seats in North Tyneside.

A Sun poll 24 hours earlier found only seven out of 57 Lib Dems would remain as
MPs in a General Election - with leader Mr Clegg and Business Secretary Vince
Cable among those booted out. A Westminster insider said: "It's hugely
embarrassing for Clegg that his councillors are ashamed to even call themselves
Lib Dems."

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boost ... UKIP's Farage
Poll shock... Clegg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Lib Dems ousted as third party by UKIP

BYLINE: ANDREW NICOLL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words


UKIP has ousted the Lib Dems as Britain's third most popular political party, a
Sun poll reveals today.

The anti-EU crusade led by Nigel Farage has nine per cent support - with Deputy
PM Nick Clegg's lot on just eight.

The YouGov poll puts Labour on 43 points - 11 ahead of the Tories.

But Scots Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie says voters north of the border have
forgiven them for forming a coalition with the Conservatives at Westminster.

Mood Mr Rennie insisted they had turned a corner after last year's Holyrood
election debacle that saw them almost wiped off the map.

Launching their manifesto for next month's council elections he said: "It was
bad last year but the mood has changed.

"We've got an awful lot more people prepared to listen, especially because it is
a local election, where they recognise it's about choosing a champion for their
area."

The Greens also launched their manifesto with a string of pledges - including
investing in publicly-owned renewable energy generation. Leader Patrick Harvie
said: "Our vision is of a Scotland where power is exercised far more locally.

"The Scottish Government has put local councils in a straitjacket."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 17, 2012 Tuesday 6:57 PM GMT

As long as the Eurosceptic vote is fragmented, the Euro-enthusiasts will keep
winning

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 918 words


In 1993, Canada's Conservatives were wiped out. The governing party lost all but
two of its 156 MPs, and began a 23-year period in opposition. Defeat on such a
scale doesn't happen for just one reason, of course, but the Tories' single
biggest disadvantage is easily identified: the Right-wing vote was split.

The Progressive Conservatives, the established party of Diefenbaker and
Mulroney, had been challenged by a younger movement, the Reform Party. Led by
Preston Manning, one of the greatest conservative leaders of our age, Reform
spilled out from the western prairies, demanding radical decentralisation, tax
cuts, a crackdown on crime and an end to multiculturalism. For the next ten
years, Progressive Conservative and Reform candidates fought each other in most
ridings (as Canadian constituencies are called), with calamitous consequences.
The Liberals were left almost unchallenged in the House of Commons. For several
years, the Official Opposition was the Bloc Québécois, whose 13.5 per cent of
the national vote was enough to give it the second-largest number of
parliamentary seats.

Only at the end of 2003 did the two Rightist parties accept the electoral
arithmetic and merge. Since then, they have enjoyed a more or less unbroken
rise. Their leader, the excellent Stephen Harper, became prime minister in 2006,
and won an absolute majority in 2011. The new, merged party - today's
Conservative Party - reaches parts of the electorate that the old Progressive
Conservatives couldn't. Canada's Tories, like Britain's, had been disadvantaged
by being seen as a party for the better off. Reform brought a very different
constituency into the fold: rural voters, blue-collar workers, ethnic
minorities.

You can probably guess where I'm going with this argument. The latest YouGov
poll has my party on 32 per cent, and UKIP on 9 per cent. Together, that's a
Conservative government; separately, it's a Labour government. It's true, of
course, that not every UKIP voter is a former Tory. Then again, the relevant
question is not 'how did they vote before?' but 'if UKIP didn't exist, how would
they vote today?' It seems not unreasonable to assume that the majority would
support the most convincingly Eurosceptic party on offer.

So let's ask the question. Are there any circumstances in which UKIP and the
Conservatives might combine? UKIP leaders keep saying that they'd gladly fold
themselves into the Conservative Party if it became our policy to leave the EU,
but such an eventuality seems unlikely, at least in the short term. It's true
that most Conservative voters would withdraw from the EU tomorrow. So would most
party members. And so, I suspect, would most Tory MPs in a secret ballot. That,
though, is not party policy.

Fair enough. David Cameron made his views perfectly clear when he sought the
leadership, and was elected with a thumping mandate. He made two commitments to
Eurosceptics before he became leader: first, that he would allow individual
Conservatives, provided they were not frontbenchers, to campaign against EU
membership; second, that he would withdraw his MEPs from the federalist EPP. He
has delivered on both commitments. Leaving the EU was never part of the picture.

Could there, then, be a Conservative-UKIP alliance while the Tories remain in
favour of EU membership? Yes. Full independence is unlikely to be in the next
manifesto; but an In/Out referendum might well be. And such a referendum ought
to be enough. UKIP's raison d'être is secession. Sure, it has other policies:
tax cuts, selection in schools and so forth. But it exists, essentially, to
restore British sovereignty. A referendum would take that issue off the agenda
whichever way it went. Either Britain would vote to leave, at which point UKIP
supporters could award themselves medals and retire with honour; or - which is,
alas, a possibility - the country would vote to stay in, in which case UKIP (and
I) would have to admit defeat and do something else with our lives. Either way,
the door would be open to a Canadian-style merger and a commensurate rise in
support. That's not why the Conservatives should offer a referendum, of course;
they should offer one because it's the right thing to do. In this case, though,
doing the right thing would carry a tangible electoral benefit.

There will, of course, be opponents on both sides. There always are.
Twenty-three years after the Liberal-SDP merger, there is still an
irreconcilable Liberal Party, which holds 25 council seats, and even a tiny SDP,
with four councillors in East Yorkshire. Some UKIP supporters will resent the
idea of losing their identity just when things seem to be taking off. Some
Tories - especially the remaining Europhiles - will baulk at the idea of
admitting so many 'populists'. There may even be a few who are foolish enough to
think that they can recapture the UKIP vote by making strongly anti-Brussels
noises in the run-up to the next election. (Trust me, my friends, that one won't
wash.)

At present, the anti-Brussels vote is fragmented, with the result that a
Eurosceptic nation keeps returning Euro-enthusiast majorities. Every activist
who leaves the Conservatives for UKIP makes the Tories less Eurosceptic without
taking his energies to an alternative party of government. That is neither in
the Conservative Party's interests nor, indeed, in the interests of anyone who
wants an independent Britain. All of which, in any case, ought really to be
beside the point. Holding a referendum is right in principle.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 17, 2012 Tuesday 6:57 PM GMT

As long as the Eurosceptic vote is fragmented, the Euro-enthusiasts will keep
winning

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 918 words


In 1993, Canada's Conservatives were wiped out. The governing party lost all but
two of its 156 MPs, and began a 23-year period in opposition. Defeat on such a
scale doesn't happen for just one reason, of course, but the Tories' single
biggest disadvantage is easily identified: the Right-wing vote was split.

The Progressive Conservatives, the established party of Diefenbaker and
Mulroney, had been challenged by a younger movement, the Reform Party. Led by
Preston Manning, one of the greatest conservative leaders of our age, Reform
spilled out from the western prairies, demanding radical decentralisation, tax
cuts, a crackdown on crime and an end to multiculturalism. For the next ten
years, Progressive Conservative and Reform candidates fought each other in most
ridings (as Canadian constituencies are called), with calamitous consequences.
The Liberals were left almost unchallenged in the House of Commons. For several
years, the Official Opposition was the Bloc Québécois, whose 13.5 per cent of
the national vote was enough to give it the second-largest number of
parliamentary seats.

Only at the end of 2003 did the two Rightist parties accept the electoral
arithmetic and merge. Since then, they have enjoyed a more or less unbroken
rise. Their leader, the excellent Stephen Harper, became prime minister in 2006,
and won an absolute majority in 2011. The new, merged party - today's
Conservative Party - reaches parts of the electorate that the old Progressive
Conservatives couldn't. Canada's Tories, like Britain's, had been disadvantaged
by being seen as a party for the better off. Reform brought a very different
constituency into the fold: rural voters, blue-collar workers, ethnic
minorities.

You can probably guess where I'm going with this argument. The latest YouGov
poll has my party on 32 per cent, and UKIP on 9 per cent. Together, that's a
Conservative government; separately, it's a Labour government. It's true, of
course, that not every UKIP voter is a former Tory. Then again, the relevant
question is not 'how did they vote before?' but 'if UKIP didn't exist, how would
they vote today?' It seems not unreasonable to assume that the majority would
support the most convincingly Eurosceptic party on offer.

So let's ask the question. Are there any circumstances in which UKIP and the
Conservatives might combine? UKIP leaders keep saying that they'd gladly fold
themselves into the Conservative Party if it became our policy to leave the EU,
but such an eventuality seems unlikely, at least in the short term. It's true
that most Conservative voters would withdraw from the EU tomorrow. So would most
party members. And so, I suspect, would most Tory MPs in a secret ballot. That,
though, is not party policy.

Fair enough. David Cameron made his views perfectly clear when he sought the
leadership, and was elected with a thumping mandate. He made two commitments to
Eurosceptics before he became leader: first, that he would allow individual
Conservatives, provided they were not frontbenchers, to campaign against EU
membership; second, that he would withdraw his MEPs from the federalist EPP. He
has delivered on both commitments. Leaving the EU was never part of the picture.

Could there, then, be a Conservative-UKIP alliance while the Tories remain in
favour of EU membership? Yes. Full independence is unlikely to be in the next
manifesto; but an In/Out referendum might well be. And such a referendum ought
to be enough. UKIP's raison d'être is secession. Sure, it has other policies:
tax cuts, selection in schools and so forth. But it exists, essentially, to
restore British sovereignty. A referendum would take that issue off the agenda
whichever way it went. Either Britain would vote to leave, at which point UKIP
supporters could award themselves medals and retire with honour; or - which is,
alas, a possibility - the country would vote to stay in, in which case UKIP (and
I) would have to admit defeat and do something else with our lives. Either way,
the door would be open to a Canadian-style merger and a commensurate rise in
support. That's not why the Conservatives should offer a referendum, of course;
they should offer one because it's the right thing to do. In this case, though,
doing the right thing would carry a tangible electoral benefit.

There will, of course, be opponents on both sides. There always are.
Twenty-three years after the Liberal-SDP merger, there is still an
irreconcilable Liberal Party, which holds 25 council seats, and even a tiny SDP,
with four councillors in East Yorkshire. Some UKIP supporters will resent the
idea of losing their identity just when things seem to be taking off. Some
Tories - especially the remaining Europhiles - will baulk at the idea of
admitting so many 'populists'. There may even be a few who are foolish enough to
think that they can recapture the UKIP vote by making strongly anti-Brussels
noises in the run-up to the next election. (Trust me, my friends, that one won't
wash.)

At present, the anti-Brussels vote is fragmented, with the result that a
Eurosceptic nation keeps returning Euro-enthusiast majorities. Every activist
who leaves the Conservatives for UKIP makes the Tories less Eurosceptic without
taking his energies to an alternative party of government. That is neither in
the Conservative Party's interests nor, indeed, in the interests of anyone who
wants an independent Britain. All of which, in any case, ought really to be
beside the point. Holding a referendum is right in principle.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 17, 2012 Tuesday 6:57 PM GMT

As long as the Eurosceptic vote is fragmented, the Euro-enthusiasts will keep
winning

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 918 words


In 1993, Canada's Conservatives were wiped out. The governing party lost all but
two of its 156 MPs, and began a 23-year period in opposition. Defeat on such a
scale doesn't happen for just one reason, of course, but the Tories' single
biggest disadvantage is easily identified: the Right-wing vote was split.

The Progressive Conservatives, the established party of Diefenbaker and
Mulroney, had been challenged by a younger movement, the Reform Party. Led by
Preston Manning, one of the greatest conservative leaders of our age, Reform
spilled out from the western prairies, demanding radical decentralisation, tax
cuts, a crackdown on crime and an end to multiculturalism. For the next ten
years, Progressive Conservative and Reform candidates fought each other in most
ridings (as Canadian constituencies are called), with calamitous consequences.
The Liberals were left almost unchallenged in the House of Commons. For several
years, the Official Opposition was the Bloc Québécois, whose 13.5 per cent of
the national vote was enough to give it the second-largest number of
parliamentary seats.

Only at the end of 2003 did the two Rightist parties accept the electoral
arithmetic and merge. Since then, they have enjoyed a more or less unbroken
rise. Their leader, the excellent Stephen Harper, became prime minister in 2006,
and won an absolute majority in 2011. The new, merged party - today's
Conservative Party - reaches parts of the electorate that the old Progressive
Conservatives couldn't. Canada's Tories, like Britain's, had been disadvantaged
by being seen as a party for the better off. Reform brought a very different
constituency into the fold: rural voters, blue-collar workers, ethnic
minorities.

You can probably guess where I'm going with this argument. The latest YouGov
poll has my party on 32 per cent, and UKIP on 9 per cent. Together, that's a
Conservative government; separately, it's a Labour government. It's true, of
course, that not every UKIP voter is a former Tory. Then again, the relevant
question is not 'how did they vote before?' but 'if UKIP didn't exist, how would
they vote today?' It seems not unreasonable to assume that the majority would
support the most convincingly Eurosceptic party on offer.

So let's ask the question. Are there any circumstances in which UKIP and the
Conservatives might combine? UKIP leaders keep saying that they'd gladly fold
themselves into the Conservative Party if it became our policy to leave the EU,
but such an eventuality seems unlikely, at least in the short term. It's true
that most Conservative voters would withdraw from the EU tomorrow. So would most
party members. And so, I suspect, would most Tory MPs in a secret ballot. That,
though, is not party policy.

Fair enough. David Cameron made his views perfectly clear when he sought the
leadership, and was elected with a thumping mandate. He made two commitments to
Eurosceptics before he became leader: first, that he would allow individual
Conservatives, provided they were not frontbenchers, to campaign against EU
membership; second, that he would withdraw his MEPs from the federalist EPP. He
has delivered on both commitments. Leaving the EU was never part of the picture.

Could there, then, be a Conservative-UKIP alliance while the Tories remain in
favour of EU membership? Yes. Full independence is unlikely to be in the next
manifesto; but an In/Out referendum might well be. And such a referendum ought
to be enough. UKIP's raison d'être is secession. Sure, it has other policies:
tax cuts, selection in schools and so forth. But it exists, essentially, to
restore British sovereignty. A referendum would take that issue off the agenda
whichever way it went. Either Britain would vote to leave, at which point UKIP
supporters could award themselves medals and retire with honour; or - which is,
alas, a possibility - the country would vote to stay in, in which case UKIP (and
I) would have to admit defeat and do something else with our lives. Either way,
the door would be open to a Canadian-style merger and a commensurate rise in
support. That's not why the Conservatives should offer a referendum, of course;
they should offer one because it's the right thing to do. In this case, though,
doing the right thing would carry a tangible electoral benefit.

There will, of course, be opponents on both sides. There always are.
Twenty-three years after the Liberal-SDP merger, there is still an
irreconcilable Liberal Party, which holds 25 council seats, and even a tiny SDP,
with four councillors in East Yorkshire. Some UKIP supporters will resent the
idea of losing their identity just when things seem to be taking off. Some
Tories - especially the remaining Europhiles - will baulk at the idea of
admitting so many 'populists'. There may even be a few who are foolish enough to
think that they can recapture the UKIP vote by making strongly anti-Brussels
noises in the run-up to the next election. (Trust me, my friends, that one won't
wash.)

At present, the anti-Brussels vote is fragmented, with the result that a
Eurosceptic nation keeps returning Euro-enthusiast majorities. Every activist
who leaves the Conservatives for UKIP makes the Tories less Eurosceptic without
taking his energies to an alternative party of government. That is neither in
the Conservative Party's interests nor, indeed, in the interests of anyone who
wants an independent Britain. All of which, in any case, ought really to be
beside the point. Holding a referendum is right in principle.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

ANDREW PIERCE COLUMN

LENGTH: 687 words


WINSTON AND THE LABOUR TAX AVOIDERS

As frontman of TV science series Making Babies, The Human Body, and Superhuman,
Lord Winston s friendly manner and trademark moustache have made him a familiar
presence in millions of homes.

So the Labour leadership was delighted when the fertility expert, who still
works in the NHS, agreed to front their local election TV broadcast last week.

Winston, a veteran party member, declared he  holds  Labour s values. He s right
there. Along with Ken Livingstone and David Miliband, he funnels his vast media
earnings through a company to reduce his tax bill.

Winston set up Kayplot Ltd in 1999 as his TV career was taking off. He is the
sole shareholder and he and his wife Lira are directors. By setting up a company
in this way, Winston can avoid paying a high rate of national insurance. He can
also reduce his tax by choosing the timing of his dividend payouts and by paying
corporation tax of 28 per cent rather than the top income tax rate of 50 per
cent -- which remains in force until next year and was introduced by the last
Labour government. The potential for savings is huge.

Winston s earnings, represented as profits in his accounts, were £498,000 in
2010

-11; £497,000 in 2009; £448,000 in 2008; £404,000 and £319,000 in the two
preceding years.

The revelation that Ken Livingstone operated a company has cost him dear in the
London Mayoral race, and Red Ed Miliband has attacked tax avoidance as a
terrible thing .

Is this the same Ed Miliband who, with his brother David used a special  Deed of
Variation  to reduce inheritance tax exposure on their parents home after the
death of their father Ralph, a Marxist historian? Truly, they re all in this
together?

TORIES DITCH GAY ROW ACTIVIST

The Tory activist who ran a campaign against his MP for opposing gay marriage
has lost his post in the local Conservative association.

Philip Dawson, treasurer with Enfield Southgate association for six years, had
his nomination for re-election thrown out. He had been running a Facebook and
Twitter campaign against Tory MP David Burrowes, who is leading opposition in
Parliament to gay marriage.

There are difficult times for the association s agent Henry Lamprecht. He just
happens to be Dawson s partner.

PETER S POLE-VAULTED TO UKIP

Now, even the nightclub owner Peter Stringfellow (pictured), who was for years
the only minor celebrity willing to be wheeled out for the Tories, has given up
on them after George Osborne s disastrous Budget.

Millionaire Stringfellow -- the man behind London s best known pole-dancing
venue -- is endorsing the UKIP candidate in the council by-election in his
Westminster constituency.

It s the first time I have not supported the Conservative Party in 32 years
living in London,  he says sadly.

In a hard-hitting newspaper article, Nick  Calamity  Clegg demanded that  big
money  is driven out of party politics.  Unless we reform our discredited and
distrusted system of party funding, we may never restore that public confidence
and trust that is the lifeblood of our democracy,  he wrote. He could start
restoring trust by handing back the £2.4[0/00]million donation from Michael
Brown, who in 2008 was sentenced at Southwark Crown Court in his absence to
seven years in jail for fraud. Brown posed as a highly successful bond dealer
and secretly used investors  money to fund the donation to the Lib Dem election
war chest in 2005.

Quote of the week: London Mayor Boris Johnson at a hustings organised by gay
lobby group Stonewall, said:  There may be scholars who contest it, but we have
overwhelming evidence that William Shakespeare was gay. Well, certainly
bisexual.  Is there nothing our politicians won t say to drum up support?

The website for Ian Liddell-Grainger, Conservative MP for Bridgwater, is unique
in that it has an animated cat on its front page called Mogg-the-Blog.
Liddell-Grainger s site says:  This website is owned by Ian Liddell-Grainger and
financed by him alone (but it actually costs peanuts to run).  Why then, do the
records for MP expenses show two claims by Liddell-Grainger for  website hosting
, in September 2010 and August 2011?

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Who exactly does Mr Barker think he is calling swivel-eyed?;
Opposition to the euro, once lampooned, has been vindicated . Now, about those
wind farms

BYLINE: PAUL GOODMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1089 words


In this newspaper on Saturday, Greg Barker, the Energy Minister, warned the
Conservative Party against following Ukip "into swivel-eyed rhetoric". He was
right. My experience of Ukip activists is that they are almost certain to open
conversation by complaining that "NewLieBour" dragged "the sheeple" even deeper
into "the EUSSR" (though come to think of it, they have a point there) and may
well end it by explaining that the European Commission is secretly controlled by
the Vatican or the Bilderbergers or the Brotherhood of the Cruciform Sword. Mr
Barker is correct to say that they provide an implausible model for persuading
the British people to vote Conservative, and that's all that needs to be said on
the matter.

Or almost all, because the Energy Minister's image has a way of lingering on in
the imagination, to roll itself slowly into an overwhelming question - namely,
why are the eyeballs of Eurosceptics sometimes claimed to be rolling in their
sockets (the BBC is seldom shy of this suggestion) but those of Euro-enthusiasts
never reported to be doing so? Consider, for example, the case of Mr Barker's
former departmental boss, Chris Huhne, who once wrote that "the euro is living
up to the highest expectations of the economists who advocated it, and Britain
is missing out".

To be fair to Mr Huhne, he wrote those words in 2002. But I have not yet heard
the former energy secretary confess that he may have been wrong, and whether he
has or not, the spirit of his words lives on. As recently as last November,
Michael Heseltine drew gasps of incredulity when he told an audience that "we
should still join the euro". Mr Heseltine, as he was then, and Kenneth Clarke,
now Justice Secretary, were the most senior of the Tories who joined Tony Blair
on a platform, when the latter was prime minister, to press the case for the
euro and for more EU. All the great and good were there to dignify that event,
the launch of Britain in Europe in 1998: Edward Heath, Peter Mandelson, Charles
Kennedy, Richard Branson, Trevor Phillips.

"Everyone who's joined this campaign has joined it in principle because they're
in favour of joining the single currency," Mr Clarke said. Wasn't this faith in
the verities of the euro unjustified even at the time? If so, can the Justice
Secretary's eyeballs truthfully be said never to have twitched? Or Mr Huhne's?
Or Lord Heseltine's? There is something almost touching about the unshakeable
belief of this ageing band, whose obduracy of spirit is shared by that
apparently unrelated body, the Communist Party of Great Britain
(Marxist-Leninist). The death of North Korea's dictator drew from it "a red
salute to this great leader, Comrade Kim Jong-il", praise for the country as "an
impregnable antiimperialist fortress" and a magnificent denunciation of "the
sanctions, pressures, threats and provocations of US and other imperialists and
their lackeys".

If the euro goes the same way as Kim Jong-il, expect the same tribute from its
supporters, if not quite the same language. Can the eyeballs of either really be
said to be steady? The impregnable fortress of the European Union is a very long
way away from being that of North Korea. But as the five giants of unemployment,
bankruptcies, destitution, misery and hunger stalk the economies of Euroland,
perhaps those Ukip foot soldiers can be forgiven for getting a bit restless.

Obsessiveness is in the eye of the beholder. And more importantly, much depends
what one is obsessive about. William Wilberforce's obsession with ending the
slave trade was viewed as swivel-eyed by the establishment of his day. But who
is regarded both as righteous and reasonable now - Wilberforce or his opponents?

This meditation on conventional wisdom and the passing of time takes us back to
Mr Barker's department. There are two main positions on human activity and
climate change. The first is that human activity is driving that change, that
Britain must reduce its emissions as swiftly as possible, and that doing so will
create "green growth". The second is that human activity may not be mainly
responsible, that Britain is a relatively small contributor to it, and that
trying to reduce emissions as quickly as possible is more likely to damage
growth than help create it.

In opposition, David Cameron took the first view. Indeed, he and Mr Barker
travelled together to the Arctic to study climate change and be seen to study
it: the former was famously photographed on a sledge, being transported across
the fragile ice by a team of huskies. The Energy Minister is a committed and
knowledgeable expert on his brief. And Mr Cameron was right to believe that the
party had neglected environmental policies for too long. But there was more than
a whiff of public relations positioning about those that emerged. The party
committed itself to nuclear power only as "a last resort", opposed a third
runway at Heathrow and committed itself to tough emissions targets.

As a Conservative shadow minister at the time, I presumed that all this was a
bucket of preposterous greenwash which would swiftly be junked in government.
This view was evidently held elsewhere, and I was wrong only about the time
scale. The Energy Department's own climate change calculator shows more nuclear
stations to be indispensable. The Heathrow option is once again a possibility.
George Osborne has said our emissions will be cut no faster than those of other
European countries. And yesterday, we learnt that three of Mr Barker's
colleagues - Eric Pickles, Grant Shapps and Chris Grayling - want to see his
flagship policy, the "Green Deal", scrapped. They believe that its small print
could land millions of householders who try to improve their home with a stealth
"conservatory tax".

Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair. Like Ozymandias's statue, herd wisdom
dominates the landscape for a while - that the best model of righting injustice
is the communist state; that the pound is best scrapped in favour of the euro;
that the world will end if Britain's landscape isn't decorated from end to end
with wind farms. But time and truth have a way of bringing them to ruin. Mr
Barker conceded yesterday that his department's approach to onshore wind farms
has been "unbalanced", after more than a hundred exasperated Tory MPs campaigned
against them. Perhaps they couldn't help asking themselves: have the minister's
own eyeballs ever been known to swerve?

Paul Goodman was Conservative MP for Wycombe 2001-2010

Comment on Paul Goodman's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 16, 2012 Monday 5:50 PM GMT

Winston and the Labour tax avoiders

BYLINE: ANDREW PIERCE

LENGTH: 728 words


As frontman of TV science series Making Babies, The Human Body, and Superhuman,
Lord Winston's friendly manner and trademark moustache have made him a familiar
presence in millions of homes.

So the Labour leadership was delighted when the fertility expert, who still
works in the NHS, agreed to front their local election TV broadcast last week.

Winston, a veteran party member, declared he 'holds' Labour's values.

He's right there. Along with Ken Livingstone and David Miliband, he funnels his
vast media earnings through a company to reduce his tax bill.

Winston set up Kayplot Ltd in 1999 as his TV career was taking off. He is the
sole shareholder and he and his wife Lira are directors. By setting up a company
in this way, Winston can avoid paying a high rate of national insurance. He can
also reduce his tax by choosing the timing of his dividend payouts and by paying
corporation tax of 28 per cent rather than the top income tax rate of 50 per
cent - which remains in force until next year and was introduced by the last
Labour government. The potential for savings is huge.

Winston's earnings, represented as profits in his accounts, were £498,000 in
2010-11; £497,000 in 2009; £448,000 in 2008; £404,000 and £319,000 in the two
preceding years.

The revelation that Ken Livingstone operated a company has cost him dear in the
London Mayoral race, and Red Ed Miliband has attacked tax avoidance as a
'terrible thing'.

Is this the same Ed Miliband who, with his brother David used a special 'Deed of
Variation' to reduce inheritance tax exposure on their parents home after the
death of their father Ralph, a Marxist historian? Truly, they're all in this
together?

Quote of the week: London Mayor Boris Johnson at a hustings organised by gay
lobby group Stonewall, said: 'There may be scholars who contest it, but we have
overwhelming evidence that William Shakespeare was gay. Well, certainly
bisexual.' Is there nothing our politicians won't say to drum up support?

In a hard-hitting newspaper article, Nick 'Calamity' Clegg demanded that 'big
money' is driven out of party politics. 'Unless we reform our discredited and
distrusted system of party funding, we may never restore that public confidence
and trust that is the lifeblood of our democracy,' he wrote. He could start
restoring trust by handing back the £2.4 million donation from Michael Brown,
who in 2008 was sentenced at Southwark Crown Court in his absence to seven years
in jail for fraud. Brown posed as a highly successful bond dealer and secretly
used  investors' money to fund the donation to the Lib Dem election war chest in
2005.

Peter's pole-vaulted to ukip

Now, even the nightclub owner Peter Stringfellow, who was for years the only
minor celebrity willing to be wheeled out for the Tories, has given up on them
after George Osborne's disastrous Budget.

Millionaire Stringfellow - the man behind London's best known pole-dancing venue
- is endorsing the UKIP candidate in the council by-election in his Westminster
constituency. 'It's the first time I have not supported the Conservative Party
in 32 years living in London,' he says sadly.

The website for Ian Liddell-Grainger, Conservative MP for Bridgwater, is unique
in that it has an animated cat on its front page called Mogg-the-Blog.
Liddell-Grainger's site says: 'This website is owned by

Ian Liddell-Grainger and financed by him alone (but it actually costs peanuts to
run).' Why then, do the records for MP expenses show two claims by
Liddell-Grainger for 'website hosting', in September 2010 and August 2011?

Tories ditch gay row activist

The Tory activist who ran a campaign against his MP for opposing gay marriage
has lost his post in the local Conservative association.

Philip Dawson, treasurer with Enfield Southgate association for six years, had
his nomination for re-election thrown out. He had been running a Facebook and
Twitter campaign against Tory MP David Burrowes, who is leading opposition in
Parliament to gay marriage.

There are difficult times for the association's agent Henry Lamprecht. He just
happens to be Dawson's partner.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nasty Labour make the Tories look nice

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 721 words


I HAVE long argued it is Labour, not the Tories, who are The Really Nasty Party
- spiteful, envious, divisive, deceitful.

Yet it was Labour that somehow managed to smear Margaret Thatcher's MPs with
this libel - even after she saved Britain from economic oblivion.

Now I am delighted to hear it from the horse's mouth - or at least a credible
Labour voice.

Phil Collins is as impartial as anyone who worked as Tony Blair's Downing Street
speechwriter can be.

Yet he has just blasted his own comrades as "poisonous" bullies driven by a
"torrent of bitter rages".

He portrays them as fundamentalist zealots who denounce any deviation from
socialism as heresy punishable by political death.

He was not talking about Labour voters, just those like Harriet Harman and Tom
Watson who lead them.

By contrast, he adds: "For all that they are known as the Nasty Party, the
Tories actually behave rather nicely."

The Conservatives have their oddballs and fanatics - politics draws people like
that. But it stands first for public service - the delivery of justice, value
for taxpayers' money and strong defences.

Unlike Labour's "fixers" who, says Mr Collins, have "no objective beyond
dominating their fiefdom the better to pursue vendettas within".

Today, Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne appear to be attacking rather than supporting
hard-working core voters.

After the shambolic Budget assault on middle earners, some are asking if the
Prime Minister and Chancellor are Tories at all.

There are genuine excuses - Labour's gigantic debt legacy, slack discipline and
Whitehall incompetence.

But the greatest obstacle is the hideous Coalition so beloved of Mr Cameron.

The Lib Dems are little better than a rogue branch of Nasty Labour, paranoid,
attention-seeking, devious - and a little bit mad.

They are behind almost every catastrophe that has shaken his government,
including George Osborne's disastrous Budget.

If they are not to blame for the actual decisions, they have made things worse
with treacherous leaking. Every issue that makes voters choke with rage -
Europe, immigration, deportation, windmills - can be laid at the Lib Dem door.

Mr Cameron can be fairly blamed because he failed to score when presented with
an open goal in the 2010 General Election. Worse, he did so by deliberately
ducking the issues that would have handed him power - Europe and immigration. He
fell for the Labour lie that these were "toxic" and would expose the Tories as
Europhobic racists.

Even today, as Europe disintegrates, his own ministers are warning Mr Cameron
not to listen to "swivel-eyed Eurosceptics".

No wonder voters are threatening to stay home at election time while others are
defecting to the UK Independence Party - maybe including two Tory MPs.

Mr Cameron embraced coalition like a drowning man. It saved him running a
minority government or even one with a small majority.

But he has paid a huge price, not least through his promise to keep it going
until 2015. Without this straitjacket, he could manoeuvre his party into a
position where it could win outright at a time of his choosing.

Our new poll shows the Lib Dems risk extermination as a political force - and
deservedly so.

As Peter Kellner says, they are like an exotic plant that blossoms rarely,
leaving only a stink behind.

Mr Cameron needs to forget about his pal, Nick Clegg, and start thinking about
what makes Tory voters tick.

He should tackle Europe head-on by deporting not just terror threats such as Abu
Qatada and Abu Hamza but every other convicted foreign criminal.

And, yes, he could shoot UKIP's fox by staging an In-Out referendum on Britain's
EU membership.

That's an election winner on its own.

As for Labour, it only won power by imitating the Tories.

George Galloway's victory over Labour in Bradford West was a game-changer.

As will be the defeat next month of blubbering Ken Livingstone in the London
mayoral election.

'Nasty Labour now faces the fate it should have suffered in 2010.

Those Nice Tories should give them what they deserve.

MORMON millionaire Mitt Romney has emerged as the Republican candidate for
America's presidential elections.

In theory, incumbent Barack Obama could be in danger.

But as my colleague Fergus Shanahan points out: "Obama's opponent believes the
secrets of the universe were written on gold plates and dropped off by aliens.
God help us all!"'

Warning

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'2 Tories to defect'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


TWO Tory MPs are in talks to defect to the UK Independence Party, UKIP leader
Nigel Farage said last night.

The Conservatives were last week rumoured to be ready to switch to the anti-EU
party amid frustration with the Coalition's policies.

Mr Farage said: "In politics you have discussions with people all the time."

Asked if he would name the MPs, he said: "Not just yet."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2012 Monday 1:05 PM GMT

It's not Ukip who are 'swivel-eyed', Greg Barker

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1339 words


My heart sank when I saw in the Telegraph that Greg Barker had told Christopher
Hope, the Telegraph's political correspondent, that the Conservatives "don't
need to follow Ukip into 'swivel-eyed rhetoric'" to win the general election. Of
course, as an energy minister Mr Barker has some personal experience of
generating swivel-eyed rhetoric, and I certainly don't think that wind farms and
carbon taxes will do much to help the Conservatives to win in 2015. Even aside
from that, there are a good many Conservatives who will question Mr Barker's
enthusiasm for what he calls Mr Cameron's "robust and clear position on Europe."

On the Today Programme of October 1st last year it was Mr Cameron's deputy, Nick
Clegg, who became swivel-eyed when he claimed, on Mr Cameron's behalf, that
three million jobs in the United Kingdom "depend on our participation and role
and place" in the European Union. That nonsensical claim has been quietly,
calmly and firmly rebutted by Tim Congdon, whose reputation as one of our
leading economists (and one time Conservative supporter) is of rather greater
quality and longer standing than that of Mr Barker.

Congdon is the Honorary Chairman of The Freedom Association and stood as a Ukip
candidate in 2010, and his calm arguments on the EU issue cannot simply be
brushed aside as "swivel-eyed". If Mr. Barker thinks Congdon is wrong, let him
put the argument, not merely engage in name calling.

It is worrying enough that Mr Barker, who has been chosen to "put together ideas
for the Conservative Party election manifesto", is a victim of the delusion that
the election will be won on the middle ground. He goes on to grumble that there
seems to be something wrong about the "whole balance of power between ministers
and civil servants" with "so many decisions and appointments being taken by the
civil service and faceless unaccountable committees."

That may well be so, but there is no need to await the 2015 manifesto to put it
right. I never had any problems with officials going their own way when I was a
minister. All a minister has to do is to set out quite clearly what he wants
done and how it should be done, and his officials will get on and do it. The
problem is not that the civil servants do not obey instructions, but that
ministers are incapable of giving them clearly.

After all, who in Mr Barker's Department thought up that vote-losing nonsense of
"The Green Deal"? Was it Mr Barker, or one of his officials? And who in the
Treasury proposed changing the rules on charitable giving without thinking
through its impact? Was that the responsibility of ministers, or officials?

I have some news for Mr Barker's committee. Elections are not won by sneering at
one's own supporters' rational views on the EU. Nor are they won by rushing into
policies without thinking them through and then blaming the civil service. Nor
are they won by asking what minority groups such as homosexuals or "BMEs" think
and telling them that you agree. I am not a Conservative because I am an elderly
white heterosexual. I am a Conservative because I believe in Conservative
principles. I think that homosexuals and "BMEs" support one party or another for
the same reasons.

Elections are won by setting out the ideals of your party, stating how they
would benefit the country and how they could be achieved, thenpersuadingelectors
to support you. Good politics is about leadership, not following and
buck-passing. No amount of modernising, minority-chasing or detoxifying will
change those realities.

...

One thing that I should try to remember is that paranoiacs lack a sense of
irony, so my allusions to Mrs May's attempts to get "nasty" were not well
understood by some of you. I should also say straight away, as gently as I can
in order not to precipate convulsions of indignation and disbelief, that Mr
Cameron is not a communist, nor part of a worldwide communist conspiracy, nor is
he in the pay of the European Union, the Muslim Brotherhood, or for that matter
green lizards from another planet, Mossad or the CIA.

Oh dear! I have slipped into irony again.

What is more, I should say that not every member of both Houses of Parliament is
some kind of traitor, either so skilled as to have avoided detection, or so
stupid as to have made it obvious to the piercing intellects of those who are
privy to the plan hatched in Brussels by the Commission to create the Communist
Islamic European Union.

Now let us get down to some particular matters. It was thewritingonthewall
(which wall, I would rather not say) who suggested that a qualification for
British nationality should be that one's family had been here for 100 years,
which was too modest for mjg who suggested 200 years. That would exclude not
only Michael Howard, but I suspect the brave Pc Beshenivsky, mentioned by
boudicca, and all those Poles who came here to fight in 1940 and stayed after
the war. I knew a good many of them. Some I flew with during the Cold War, some
later in civilian life. I would rather rely on them than the authors of those
hysterical posts last week.

Turning to the matter of the proposed obligation on telcos and internet
operators to maintain records of traffic to assist in fighting organised crime
and terrorism, I repeat that access to this data should be subject to rigorous
safeguards. Why on earth the police or security services would be interested in
knowing with whom the great mass of us communicate I do not know. From my own
experience I know that it can be used to frustrate the plans of criminals.

Perhaps bubbles15 was just a bit over the top to say "it is about us controlled
drones of a malignant corrupt offensive evil unaccountable state machine". He
feared that it would be used by local authorities against people who put their
rubbish in the wrong bins. Well, he could put a stop to that by getting elected
to his council in May and sorting out the Town Hall. As wferguson said, "the
electorate have the power". On the other hand, pragmatist made the fair point
that we must establish that it would not all be just a waste of time and money.

I thought that gilzean's post in which he first acquitted me of racism but then
asked me to "come clean and condemn racism and bigotry" somewhat contradictory.
I hope it will make him happy to know that I judge people on how they behave,
not on who their parents were.

Who is British, some of you asked. Well, whether noun or adjective, that word
has many meanings, legal, cultural, geographical or historical. Too many to
explore here, but I recommend the Encyclopaedia Britannica.

I was asked by Suboptimal Planet if I think religion is essential and if I
believe in a Christian God. My beliefs are not the point. The question is from
where do we derive our ethics? Was Chesterton right to observe that when men
cease to believe in God they do not believe in nothing, they believe in
anything? Can a society without core beliefs, as opposed to opinions, withstand
the impact of one which does hold beliefs? Frankly, the blog format is not the
best to consider those matters.

I thought that Newster must be having a struggle with reality to describe me as
"a mouthpiece for Cameron", but of course I agree with John Mackie that Mrs May
is part of the problem for the Conservative Party, not the solution. As for the
sad case of abritabroad, he must really try to overcome his fixation about me,
before it becomes a matter of clinical concern. He must know that I have written
on these blogs of how and why my experience of life and politics convinced me
that my early youthful views on European integration were wrong and how they
have changed. If he can't be bothered to read what I write, it is hard to have a
grown up discussion with him.

Lastly I am sorry that I simply cannot take up all your comments, but I am
grateful to those such as shinyroundbauble, moray mint, hawkerhunter,
Barryvanhire, Richard Bruce, magpie, Englishgrit, RichardLTFC, sarahl, and
somewhat unusually, cartimandua and olcrom for their supportive posts. That was
kind of you all.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2012 Sunday 8:20 PM GMT

Are the 'swivel-eyed cranks and fruitcakes' about to take revenge? The Cameroon
abuse of UKIP is a dangerous game

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

LENGTH: 712 words


Michael Howard branded them 'cranks and gadflies'. David Cameron dubbed them
'fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'. Now energy minister and
uber-modernising Cameroon lieutenant Greg Barker has condemned their
'swivel-eyed' rhetoric.

We are talking about Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party, best known for its
enthusiasm for pulling Britain out of the European Union.

It would appear the Tory establishment is less than enamoured of UKIP given the
vitriol it periodically hurls in their direction.

But is this strategy of ritual abuse in the Conservatives' own best interests?

And with 5,000 council seats and the London mayoral election due to be fought in
less than three weeks time, is Mr Barker's rant likely to pay electoral
dividends?

After all, many UKIP members and supporters are disillusioned Conservatives who
have drifted away from their former party as it has moved steadily to the Left
in recent years.

Isn't there a danger that another barrage of insults - prominently displayed on
the front page of The Daily Telegraph, a newspaper with a high proportion of
traditional Conservatives among its readers - will simply drive more disaffected
Tories into the warm embrace of the energetic and entertaining Mr Farage?

The facts certainly suggest that ritual abuse has not proved a winning strategy
for the Tories in the past.

In the 1997 general election, UKIP polled just over 100,000 votes. By the

2010 election that Cameron should have won outright, this number was up to
900,000, with UKIP costing the Tories perhaps 20 seats.

In the 2004 European elections, UKIP picked up 16.1 per cent of the total vote
(2.65 million votes) and came third behind the Conservatives and Labour.

In the 2009 European elections, UKIP advanced slightly to 16.5 per cent of the
total (2.5 million votes on a lower turnout) this time coming second to the
Conservatives.

In both those European contests, UKIP comfortably outperformed the Liberal
Democrats. And given the anti-European mood in the country, not assuaged by
Cameron's recent retreat over the fiscal compact veto, few would bet against its
chances of making significant progress in next year's European elections.

Amid signs of growing dissent in Tory ranks, in Parliament and at the
grass-roots, UKIP is up to 11 per cent in the latest opinion poll as it picks up
support from core Conservatives. Many of them are dismayed by their party's
leftward drift on issues like gay marriage, human rights, political correctness
and nannying controls over smoking and by the incompetence and lack of touch
over the Budget.

More alarmingly for Cameron, there is growing speculation at Westminster (see
the Conservative Home blog by Tory MP Nadine Dorries) that some of his MPs are
in talks with UKIP about possible defections.

The May 3 elections offer a test of UKIP's rise. It is fielding a record number
of council candidates (700, up 100 since the last time these wards were fought
in 2008) and a surge in its support is bound to amplify the scale of the
expected Tory losses - almost exclusively to Labour's benefit.

It is also fielding a candidate in the mayoral election  - Lawrence Webb - and
again seems likely to undermine backing for Boris Johnson.

The rest of Barker's Telegraph interview was hardly calculated to reassure the
Conservative core vote. As chairman of the 2020 Group of modernising MPs, he has
been asked by Chancellor and election coordinator George Osborne to help draw up
ideas for the next Conservative manifesto.

His initial thoughts were depressingly predictable, more rainbow coalition
politics with a further quest to win over ethnic minorities and homosexuals, no
retreat from the "one-way street" of modernisation and an insistence on camping
out on the shifting sands of the illusory political centre ground.

Tony Blair made his name and won three elections by declaring war on the Labour
Left. Cameron and his cohorts are following the same strategy in reverse. Their
enemy is the Tory Right. But the steady rise of UKIP is evidence that
traditional Conservatives do have an alternative to slavish adherence to a party
that has turned its back on them.

May 3 will not give a definitive verdict on whether Cameron is right to follow
in Blair's footsteps. But it may give a lot of people pause for thought.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2012 Sunday 6:45 PM GMT

Clegg's 'obsession' with nanny state set to cost taxpayers £1bn as he lays out
plans to create army of child carers

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV, POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 637 words


Taxpayers will have to fork out £1 billion for Nick Clegg's 'obsession' to
create a 'nanny state' with tens of thousands of new jobs for childcare workers.

The Deputy Prime Minister laid out plans to create an army of new nannies who
would look after disadvantaged toddlers to ensure they were more 'classroom
ready' by the time they started school.

The nannies would care for 140,000 of the most 'disadvantaged' two year olds
every year to improve 'social mobility', the Liberal Democrat leader said.

From next year, two-year-olds from poor backgrounds in England will receive 15
hours of free childcare during term time.

It is expected around one in five two-year-olds would qualify for
taxpayer-funded nanny care.

The nannies would be employed by nurseries rather than directly by the
government but the taxpayer subsidy will come at a time when middle income
parents are facing soaring childcare fees of their own.

In a consultation document on the proposals, the state is referred to act as
'the corporate parent' of youngsters.

Mr Clegg wants to recruit an extra 65,000 nannies from September 2013 but
government sources said the true figure will be closer to 12,000.

The costs of the 'early intervention' policy will reach £1 billion by 2015.

Only children in care or those whose families are eligible for free school meals
- with incomes of below £16,200 or who are on benefit -would qualify for the
extra childcare.

But councils would have discretion to allocate places to other 'disadvantaged
groups' if take up was low.

The Deputy Prime Minister said the government was 'shovelling in resources' for
youngsters in a way that had never been seen before.

He also played down his controversial agreement to treble university tuition
fees to £9,000 a year, saying: 'Look what we were doing with public money, we
were putting it into the one bit of the education system which needs the least
public support and ignoring the bit that needed it the most.'

The Lib Dem leader said social mobility was his 'obsession'. 'I have been very
clear that it is now the government's principle social policy and priority.'

He told the Independent on Sunday: 'I don't think we should underestimate, and I
say this as a young dad seeing children going into primary school, I don't think
we should underestimate the formative effect on a child of those first formative
years in primary school.

'There was a lot of controversy about higher education, but actually what
happens when they are four, five, six and seven is more important arguably than
when they are 17 or 18,' he said.

Studies had shown that the reason 'the needle of social mobility didn't twitch'
over the last 15 years 'because we didn't start early enough', he added.

Health visitors and children's centres will be asked to identify children who
would benefit from the early intervention.

A consultation from the Department of Education also suggests that childcare
provided by local authorities could be extended to 12 hours a day - from 7am to
7pm.

David Davis, the senior Tory MP, said: 'I suspect it is not going to work. It
will cost a fortune [and] the state is not a very good parent.' Nigel Farage,
the UKIP leader also criticised Mr Clegg for attempting to create a 'nanny
state'.

He said: 'These plans are wrong, economically, practically and morally.

The costs will be astronomic at a time of supposed government austerity.'

Mr Farage added: 'Is it morally right to remove parents' responsibility for the
bringing up of their own children?

'This will amount to a massive power grab by the state, the ramifications of
which we will not see for decades, but all experience must make us wary when the
state decides to do things for our own good.'

A source close to the Department for Education said the true figure of new
nannies would be more like 12,000 rather than 65,000.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                 April 15, 2012
                                 3 Star Edition

Watch EU step, ministers

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 64 words


UKIP sympathiser Lord Stoddart wanted to know if Government ministers could be
jailed for failing to implement EU laws.

It is possible - if they defied a UK court's injunction to comply with an EU
obligation.

As Foreign Office minister Lord Howell said: "This could lead to contempt
proceedings and imprisonment." Ministers doing porridge, eh? That's a gratifying
image to savour.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 15, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

¦ TEAM Cameron has a [...];
CROSS BENCHER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 61 words


¦ TEAM Cameron has a problem appealing to the Tory Right. So can't imagine
Climate Change Minister Greg Barker's comments about the "swivel-eyed rhetoric"
of UKIP have been all that helpful. Haven't we all moved past the point where
Euroscepticism is accompanied by the words "swivel-eyed"? UKIP is probably now
thinking of signing up Barker as its new recruitment agent.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU vote is Cam's key to No10

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 536 words


IN the Westminster village, speculation is rife that a couple of high-profile
Tory MPs are about to defect to the UK Independence Party.

One in the frame is Nadine Dorries, MP for Mid Beds. Her seat looks certain to
disappear in the upcoming boundary changes and, given how critical she has been
of the party leadership, she's unlikely to get another.

Will she throw in her lot with UKIP leader Nigel Farage if he promises her a
safe seat in the European Parliament? That's just one of the possibilities
causing sleepless nights in Downing Street in the wake of the UKIP surge. In one
opinion poll, the Eurosceptic party were tied with the Lib Dems on 11 per cent.

If that support holds up at the next General Election, it could cost the
Conservatives 15 seats - enough to dash Cameron's hopes of remaining in office.

Not surprisingly, he and his advisors have begun to obsess about how best to
neutralise the UKIP threat and I hear they've commissioned a poll to find out
how voters would react to holding an EU referendum on the same day as the
Election.

The theory is that this would persuade those voters who've defected to UKIP to
return and, in addition, mobilise the Tory base. After all, there are plenty of
disillusioned Conservatives who will flock to the polling booths if they think
there's a chance of getting Britain out of Europe.

From the Conservative leadership's point of view, there are three difficulties
with this move.

Firstly, you can't hold a referendum without getting a bill through Parliament
and the Lib Dems might well team up with Labour to vote against it.

Having said that, at the last two General Elections the Lib Dems included in
their manifesto a commitment to hold an EU referendum, so it would be difficult
for them to backtrack.

Secondly, the Electoral Commission might advise Parliament that holding such an
important referendum on the same day as a General Election would be too much for
voters. That, too, isn't a major concern. Cameron could ignore the advice and
press on.

But the third and most important problem is that the referendum might not yield
the right result in Downing Street's eyes.

The British public might vote to leave the EU. Cameron denies being a die-hard
European, but if he doesn't fear this outcome why has he gone to such lengths to
avoid a referendum so far?

The leadership will be tempted to water down the question. Instead of a
straightforward in/out referendum, we'll be asked whether we want to
"renegotiate" our relationship with the EU - or some such guff.

Or the Government will bracket the big issue and hold a referendum on a lesser
topic, such as whether Britain should be subject to the jurisdiction of the
European Court of Human Rights. My sources tell me that is one of the questions
the Downing Street pollsters have put before a focus group.

Will that be enough to shoot the UKIP fox? Perhaps.

But if Cameron and his cronies are re-elected on the back of a Eurosceptic
victory in an EU referendum, they won't be able to put off for very long the
question of whether we should remain in Europe.

That nettle will have to be grasped. With a bit of luck, it will be throttled,
turned into soup and served up cold to the technocrats in Brussels.

Concern

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU VOTE IS CAM'S KEY TO NO 10

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 538 words


IN the Westminster village, speculation is rife that a couple of high-profile
Tory MPs are about to defect to the UK Independence Party.

For instance, Nadine Dorries, the MP for Mid Bedfordshire. Her seat looks
certain to disappear in the upcoming boundary changes and, given how critical
she has been of the party leadership, she's unlikely to get another.

Will she throw in her lot with UKIP leader Nigel Farage if he promises her a
safe seat in the European Parliament? That's just one of the possibilities
causing sleepless nights in Downing Street in the wake of the UKIP surge. In a
recent opinion poll, the Eurosceptic party were tied with the Lib Dems on 11 per
cent.

If that support holds up at the next General Election, it could cost the
Conservatives 15 seats - enough to dash Cameron's hopes of remaining in office.

Not surprisingly, he and his advisors have begun to obsess about how best to
neutralise the UKIP threat and I hear they've commissioned a poll to find out
how voters would react to holding an EU referendum on the same day as the
Election.

The theory is that this would persuade those voters who've defected to UKIP to
return and, in addition, mobilise the Tory base. After all, there are plenty of
disillusioned Conservatives who will flock to the polling booths if they think
there's a chance of getting Britain out of Europe.

From the Conservative leadership's point of view, there are three difficulties
with this move.

Firstly, you can't hold a referendum without getting a bill through Parliament
and the Lib Dems might well team up with Labour to vote against it.

Having said that, at the last two General Elections the Lib Dems included in
their manifesto a commitment to hold an EU referendum, so it would be difficult
for them to backtrack.

Secondly, the Electoral Commission might advise Parliament that holding such an
important referendum on the same day as a General Election would be too much for
voters. That, too, isn't a major concern. Cameron could ignore the advice and
press on.

But the third and most important problem is that the referendum might not yield
the right result in Downing Street's eyes.

The British public might vote to leave the EU. Cameron denies being a die-hard
European, but if he doesn't fear this outcome why has he gone to such lengths to
avoid a referendum so far?

To avoid this, he'll be tempted to water down the question. Instead of a
straightforward in/out referendum, we'll be asked whether we want to
"renegotiate" our relationship with the EU - or some such guff.

Or the Government will bracket the big issue and hold a referendum on a lesser
topic, such as whether Britain should be subject to the jurisdiction of the
European Court of Human Rights. My sources tell me that is one of the questions
the Downing Street pollsters have put before a focus group.

Will that be enough to shoot the UKIP fox? Perhaps.

But if Cameron and his cronies are re-elected on the back of a Eurosceptic
victory in an EU referendum, they won't be able to put off for very long the
question of whether we should remain in Europe.

That nettle will have to be grasped. With a bit of luck, it will be throttled,
turned into soup and served up cold to the technocrats in Brussels.

Concern

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 14, 2012 Saturday

WHY THE TORY GRASS ROOTS HAVE FALLEN OUT OF LOVE WITH DAVE

BYLINE: BY SIMON HEFFER

LENGTH: 1513 words


The mood among Tory MPs towards their leaders has turned decidedly uglier since
the Budget. Although supporters at the grass roots have been angry for months
(outraged by what they see as a Conservative Prime Minister falling over himself
to appease the junior Coalition partner Lib Dems at every turn), discontent has
now spread into the parliamentary party.This is a very serious development for
David Cameron. While he thinks he can ignore the views of constituency members,
the stirring rebellion on his backbenches could eventually pose a fatal threat
to his leadership.The truth is that Mr Cameron doesn't worry much about the
party's grass roots. In fact, he's reconciled to the Tories no longer being a
mass membership party. This is just as well, since numbers have fallen from more
than a million in the 1950s to 258,000 in 2005 (when David Cameron became
leader) and to 174,000 last year.In their place, rich businessmen are keeping
the party alive financially.

Indeed, as we now know thanks to an undercover newspaper investigation into Tory
funding, donors who hand over cheques for £250,000 are rewarded with a
invitation to dine with Mr and Mrs Cameron at No10.As a result, the PM
arrogantly feels he no longer needs a traditional loyal army of constituency
members to pay their hard-earned annual subs and sell tickets for strawberry
teas. And, I'm afraid, there's another reason why Mr Cameron has side-lined the
party's grass roots: they are an awkward squad with strong views about the
dilution of traditional party policies.While the PM may think he can ignore
unhappy party members, many Tory MPs realise this is madness. These Westminster
rebels, deeply worried about the direction the Government is going, cannot be
laughed off with Dave's trademark PR patter. Most MPs know better than to treat
their constituency parties with such contempt. They realise that their local
activists are not just people who raise money, stuff envelopes and drive old
ladies to the polling station.It is vital that they understand their wishes and
concerns if they are to stay in contact with the public mood and, ultimately,
keep their seats.It is not surprising that some associations and I know this for
a fact are refusing to pay their full dues to Central Office. This backlash is
also reflected in increasing criticism of MPs by party members.As a result, more
and more MPs are now taking this rebellious mood back with them to
Westminster.Mr Cameron has a pose of unflappability very reminiscent of another
old Etonian Tory leader, Howard Macmillan. It will be severely tested in the
coming months.The Prime Minister will no longer be able to swat away problems,
like he tried to do with the scandalous behaviour of his former Treasurer, Peter
Cruddas (who was trapped in the undercover newspaper sting) by thinking the
issue would  go away if he merely set up an internal inquiry'. Such a brazenly
cynical move did nothing to reassure the grass roots, who fear that their
leaders are yet again dragging their party back into a pit of sleaze.In a
brilliantly perceptive article for the Mail this week, Professor Anthony King,
the leading political theorist, accused Mr Cameron of being a dilettante' and
displaying signs of amateurism' for allowing mistakes like the Cruddas episode
to happen. Professor King is right, but the problem is worse than that for not
only does Mr Cameron have a weak grasp of detail by nature, he also can't be
bothered to do the homework that is necessary for great leadership.Not that No
10 isn't becoming increasingly concerned. MPs who saw Mr Cameron after the
Cruddas debacle testify that despite his public mood of calm, he seemed really
rattled' in private.It came at a bad time for him, of course, with MPs still
livid after a Budget that did nothing for most of their voters. Mr Cameron also
feels weakened by that fact that his close friend George Osborne has been under
fire. To compound matters, Mr Osborne is seen as an increasingly absentee
Chancellor having spent much of the week before the Budget in the U.S. and
diverting his attention from the economy to oversee Tory party strategy'.Anyone
who wants to destabilise Cameron knows they have to get Osborne first,' an MP
told me. As it is, Osborne has done it himself.'There is, though, a further
problem, and one that comes as no surprise. Cameron is getting rumbled by more
and more colleagues,' an MP remarked, who are working out that he isn't actually
a Conservative.'This detachment from, and apparent dislike of, his own party
evokes memories of Tony Blair, who became increasingly divorced from Labour's
core values. Those Tory MPs who feel Mr Cameron is out of tune with their party
point to issues that upset their constituents: Europe, immigration and a new
word in the Tory lexicon aspiration'. It is salutary that they see their leader
a supposedly Conservative Prime Minister as the enemy of the aspiring
classes.The Conservative grass roots see the grotesque burden of taxation made
worse by the Coalition's refusal to make serious cuts to public spending as a
brake on hard work and enterprise. They also feel the doctrinaire opposition to
grammar schools discriminates against bright children from homes where the type
of public school education enjoyed by the Prime Minister and so many of his
Cabinet colleagues is only a dream.The failure to have a strategy for economic
growth is holding back families who want a better standard of living for
themselves and their children. For several generations, children in Britain have
gone on to enjoy a better life than their parents. Now, that is no longer
certain.When people expect the country's Prime Minister to be talking about a
better economy, more opportunities, and more disposable income, he talks instead
of homosexual marriages and wind farms. Gay marriage was the straw that broke
the camel's back,' a Tory insider told me.  The results of this contempt for
conservatism are becoming clear for all to see.Ukip, whose policies bear an
astonishing resemblance to the Tory party's when Mrs Thatcher ran it, are level
with the Lib Dems in the opinion polls. I suspect they will soon overtake them.
And I also suspect that every vote gained by Ukip is one lost by the
Conservatives.The local elections on May 3 notably the London mayoral poll are a
sword of Damocles hanging over the Prime Minister. If Boris Johnson loses in
London, a multitude of new problems will beset Mr Cameron.He is completely
misguided not to be seeking to shore up his financial base by expanding the
membership of his party. However, he can do that only by speaking for millions
of hard-working families: and he patently does not. He speaks, increasingly, for
a small, affluent, metropolitan elite of centrist politicians.Trivialising
politics down to a succession of stunts about the rights of minorities, and
avoiding engaging with the issues his natural supporters regard as important, is
not utterly misguided. It also makes him dependent on precisely the sort of
shady moneymen that poison trust and integrity in politics.It also helps him
avoid popular accountability, which is possibly even more damaging. Most
politicians long to crusade for great causes, especially when those causes
include improving the lives and futures of people less fortunate than them. Yet
because he regards himself as unaccountable and the structure of the Coalition
helps him in this Mr Cameron doesn't connect with the views of the people on
whom his party should depend.Now the mood of rebellion is moving to Westminster,
he will find it harder to avoid difficult issues. Ultimately, with a shrinking,
alienated and increasingly sceptical party to fall back on, he will find it
harder to survive.TIME TO STUB OUT THE NANNY STATEI have never smoked in my
life, and loathe the habit. But it is legal, and if people wish to kill
themselves in that way, let them. We have just had the absurdity of the
Government banning big shops from displaying cigarettes. Next week a
consultation' is to be launched on whether all cigarette brands should have
identical plain packaging, with the brand name in small print on the back. This
is all part of a growing and insidious trend to nanny our lives.When will we
start putting cheeseburgers or gin in plain packaging? I also want to know: if
cigarettes were banned altogether, which is clearly what ministers would like,
how would they make up the lost £11 billion tax revenues each year?* In case you
haven't noticed, Spain and Italy are now nearing bankruptcy again. And France
and Greece both have elections on May 6 that will challenge the latest euro
rescue' package. The currency remains doomed. The sensible thing would be to
arrange orderly defaults for the vulnerable countries and, with their new
devalued currencies, allow them to trade their way out of their problems. The
alternative is potential global financial chaos. Pig-headed eurocrats refuse to
see the sense of acting now, because it wrecks their political project. I have
news for them: it will soon be wrecked anyway.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 14, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We can rise above Ukip's 'swivel-eyed' rhetoric, says Tory adviser

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 576 words


THE Conservatives should not adopt the "swivel-eyed rhetoric" of the Eurosceptic
UK Independence Party to win the next general election, a minister who is
helping to write the party's next manifesto has said.

Greg Barker, the energy minister and chairman of the influential 2020 group of
modernising Conservative MPs, also insisted that the changes to the party
started under David Cameron will continue. "It is a one-way street," he said.

The comments could infuriate MPs on the Right of the party, who believe
Conservatives must do more to win back the growing number of voters now backing
Ukip.

Latest polls put Ukip's support at as much as 11 per cent. Nigel Farage, the
party's leader, yesterday boasted of trying to persuade Conservative MPs to
defect.

Mr Barker has been asked by George Osborne, the Chancellor and the Tories'
election coordinator, to put together ideas for their manifesto at the election,
expected in 2015.

The initial proposals from the 2020 group - which includes Cabinet ministers
Michael Gove and Andrew Mitchell - will be put to the Prime Minister next month.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Mr Barker insisted that the
Conservatives should not be tempted to adopt a more Eurosceptic stance to win an
outright majority at the next election. "The important thing is to keep focused
on the centre ground, particularly now that David Cameron has spelt out such a
robust and clear position on Europe. We need to have a very clear and strong
message on Europe," he said.

"We don't need to follow Ukip into swivel-eyed rhetoric. People expect grown-up
statesmanlike leadership on Europe, and with David Cameron that is what they
get." Mr Barker was at pains to point out that the 2020 group included MPs who
had rebelled over Europe. "There are people in the 2020 who would regard
themselves as Eurosceptics and who voted against the Government last year in
that Europe debate."

An early backer of Mr Cameron for the Tory leadership, Mr Barker said there was
no turning back on modernisation of the party's agenda, begun by the Prime
Minister and Mr Osborne in opposition. "There is a real determination in the
parliamentary party that we are not going to let the Lib Dems or the Labour
Party grab the fertile ground upon which general elections are won," he said.

Mr Barker said the Tories had to attract more voters from ethnic minorities as
well as homosexuals. "It is policy for the whole country."

He said the traditional definitions of Left and Right were no longer relevant to
the modern Tory party.

The 2020 group has met weekly since last October. Tory MPs such as Claire Perry,
Sam Gymiah, George Freeman, Adam Afriyie, Andrea Leadsom and Nadhim Zahawi have
presented a series of discussion papers on topics ranging from personal debt,
ethnic minorities, women and families, food prices and food security.

Mr Barker said 2020 is about to go into "more formal grouping" to focus on
particular policy areas. He said he was keen to look at the "whole balance of
power between ministers and civil servants", because of concerns that power had
moved to unelected officials.

"There is a genuine unaccountability in Government in that so many decisions and
appointments are being taken by the Civil Service and faceless unaccountable
committees."

He added: "After the expenses scandal, the honours scandal, and worries about
special advisers, that balance has gone too far in favour of the Civil Service."

No10 losing its grip: Page 21

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 14, 2012 Saturday 11:01 AM GMT

Conservatives should not adopt 'swivel-eyed rhetoric' of Ukip to win 2015
election, leading minister says;
The Tories should not adopt the "swivel-eyed rhetoric" of the Euro-sceptic UK
Independence Party to win the next general election, a minister who is helping
to coordinate ideas for the next Tory election manifesto has said.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 779 words


Greg Barker, energy minister and chairman of the influential 2020 group of
modernising Conservative MPs, also insisted that the changes which started under
David Cameron will continue. "It is a one way street," he said.

The comments could infuriate MPs on the right of the party who believe
Conservatives must do more to win back the growing number of voters now backing
Ukip.

Latest polls put Ukip's support on as much as 11 per cent of vote. Yesterday the
party's leader Nigel Farage boasted of trying to persuade Conservative MPs to
defect.

Mr Barker's group has been asked by Chancellor George Osborne, the Tories'
election coordinator, to put together ideas for the Tories' manifesto at the
election, expected in 2015.

The initial proposals from the 2020 group - which has one in four Tory MPs as
members including Cabinet ministers Michael Gove and Andrew Mitchell - will be
put to Prime Minister David Cameron next month.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Mr Barker insisted that the
Conservatives should not be tempted to adopt a more Eurosceptic stance to win an
outright majority at the next election.

He said: "The important thing is to keep focused on the centre ground,
particularly now that David Cameron has spelt out such a robust and clear
position on Europe, now we need to have a very clear and strong message on
Europe.

"We don't need to follow UKIP into swivel-eyed rhetoric. People expect grown up
statesman-like leadership on Europe, and with David Cameron, that is what they
get."

Mr Barker, an early backer of Mr Cameron when he fought David Davis MP for the
Tory leadership, said there was no turning back on modernisation of the party.

He said there was "a real determination among colleagues to carry forward the
projects started by David Cameron and George Osborne in Opposition to modernise
the Conservative party's agenda. It is a one-way street.

"There is a real determination in the Parliamentary party that we are not going
to let the Lib Dems or the Labour Party grab the fertile ground upon which
general elections are won."

Mr Barker said the Tories had to attract more voters from ethnic minorities as
well as homosexual and lesbians. He said: "Absolutely - it is policy for the
whole country."

Mr Barker said the traditional definitions of left and right were no longer
relevant to the modern Tory party. "The old definitions of left, right or even
left, right, centre, don't really fit the modern parliamentary party well," he
said.

"It is about people who are determined to build a progressive force in British
politics. We want to be fair, inclusive, open, aspirational and liberal in our
economics."

A new website for the 2020 group - www.2020Conservatives.com - launched on
Friday, has been set up. It details the wide range of policy areas the MPs have
discussed.

Mr Barker was at pains to point out that the 2020 group included MPs who
rebelled over Europe. He said: "There are people in the 2020 who would regard
themselves as Eurosceptics and who voted against the Government last year in
that Europe debate."

The group has met weekly since last October, when Tory MPs such as Claire Perry,
Sam Gymiah, George Freeman, Adam Afriyie, Andrea Leadsom and Nadhim Zahawi have
presented a series of discussion papers.

Areas covered range from personal debt, ethnic minorities, women and families
and food prices and food security. Mr Osborne also spoke to the group with his
ideas for "A Conservative Vision for the Economy in 2020".

Mr Barker said 2020 is about to go into "more formal grouping, with standing
groups looking at particular policy areas which may follow the pattern of the
policy commission set up by David Cameron in Opposition".

Mr Barker added: "We are meeting the Prime Minister in May to run through our
initial policy programme and to tell him the sort of long term themes that we
are going to build on in the coming two years."

Mr Barker said he was particularly keen to look at the "whole balance of power
between ministers and civil servants", because of concerns that power had moved
from elected representatives to unelected officials in recent years.

He added: "There is a genuine unaccountability in Government in that so many
decisions and appointments are being taken by the civil service and faceless
unaccountable committees.

"There needs to be more accountability - more decisions taken by ministers who
are then held accountable for them to parliament. In 2020 we will be looking at
what we need to do to redress that balance.

"After the expenses scandal, the honours scandal, and worries about special
advisers that balance has gone too far in favour of the civil service."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Read Telegraph blogs at;
telegraph.co.uk/blogs

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 53 words


Iain Martin

The rise of Ukip is a nightmare for Cameron.

Dan Hodges

Why does Labour continue to indulge Ken?

Tim Stanley

Mr President, you're no Ronald Reagan.

Will Heaven

The Saudis ruined Mecca, but the British Museum doesn't want you to know.

Follow @TelegraphBlogs on Twitter Join us on Facebook at
facebook.com/telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 13, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Let's copy Swiss and boot out foreign crooks

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 198 words


CAMPAIGNERS want the UK to copy the Swiss and deport foreign criminals before
they are jailed.

The programme, currently being tried in Geneva, pays for convicts to be sent
home and take part in training courses on condition they never return to
Switzerland.

It is funded by cash confiscated from drug dealers and was set up after studies
found half of all petty crime in the city was committed by about 400 Algerian
men.

Local politicians claim the scheme will save hundreds of thousands of pounds in
prison and legal costs and it is set to be rolled out across the country. Euro
MP Gerard Batten, home affairs spokesman for Ukip, said: "There is an argument
for deporting people before they are jailed as a way of saving money."

But he warned: "It would only be worthwhile if border controls are good enough
to ensure they do not return."

The Swiss pay for a flight and training for foreigners guilty of petty
non-violent offences. They are fingerprinted and barred from entering
Switzerland again.

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We will always seek to deport any foreign
criminal sentenced to more than 12 months as quickly as possible and in 2011 we
removed over 4,500."

opinion: page 14

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 13, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PETER STRINGFELLOW has switched his [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 112 words


PETER STRINGFELLOW has switched his political allegiance to the UK Independence
Party after supporting the Tories for more than 30 years, I hear.

The evergreen table-dancing club owner, pictured, has announced that he'll be
supporting Ukip in the May local elections after giving his support to their
candidate Richard Bradford in the Hyde Park ward in London's West End. Stringy
adds that he's also considering supporting Ukip over the Conservatives in the
future.

He states on Bradford's new election leaflets: "This is the first time I have
not supported the Conservative Party in 32 years of being in London. I'm also
thinking seriously of supporting Ukip in the future."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

News Corp faces growing threat of phone-hacking lawsuits in US

BYLINE: Josh Hallidayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 488 words

ABSTRACT

Lawyers preparing News of the World phone-hacking claims in New York. By Josh
Halliday and Ed Pilkington

FULL TEXT

Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is facing the growing threat of legal action
in the US after two prominent lawyers said they were preparing News of the World
phone-hacking claims in New York.

Mark Lewis, the lawyer behind many phone-hacking claims in the UK, flew to the
US on Thursday for legal discussions about four potential actions against News
Corp in the United States.

A second London lawyer is understood to have started exploring the possibility
of legal proceedings over alleged phone hacking across the Atlantic. This
lawyer, who declined to be named because proceedings had not been filed, claimed
there was "considerable evidence" that a celebrity client had had voicemail
messages intercepted by the now closed News of the World while on US soil.

The fresh legal moves mark a broadening of the attack on Murdoch's media empire,
whose multimillion-dollar US headquarters has so far remained untouched by the
scandal that has engulfed the group's UK newspaper operation.

The potential US lawsuits are understood to relate mainly to public figures who
believe their phones were hacked while in America, where voicemail interception
could constitute a violation of US telecommunications and privacy laws.

Lewis will next week begin discussions with his New York-based legal partner
Norman Siegel, former director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, over the
details of US law as it applies to phone hacking.

One of the legal issues being explored by those preparing fresh lawsuits in the
US is the rule over so-called "double recovery": that is, whether or not a
claimant is able to win damages from a defendant in a foreign jurisdiction
following earlier action in a different country.

It is also understood that a US citizen had his or her phone hacked while in
America as a result of hacking into the transatlantic conversation of a
foreign-based celebrity who was a friend of the victim.

So far, the US component of the hacking scandal has been confined to an FBI and
department of justice investigation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
which forbids corporations headquartered in the US from indulging in acts of
bribery or corruption abroad. Any lawsuit that flows from Lewis's US activities
would take the scandal to another level by becoming the first legal action
within the US.

The legal moves carried out in America come as phone hacking lawyers prepare a
fresh tranche of civil claims in the high court in London.

News Group Newspapers, the News International subsidiary that published the News
of the World, could face up to 200 more civil actions, with figures including
Cherie Blair, the wife of the former Labour prime minister, singer James Blunt,
Ukip leader Nigel Farage, and Alex Best, the wife of the ex-Manchester United
footballer George Best, having already filed claims.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Comment: There is no alternative to error-strewn Cameron ... yet: Successive
strategic mistakes have led to murmurings over the Tory leadership - might a
woman be next?

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 846 words


How many strategic errors does the Conservative party have to make before even a
Labour party led by the likes of Ed Miliband seems electable to the British
people? I ask because the current Tory leadership seems to be playing the
electoral equivalent of Go for Broke, the board game where you race to lose a
million pounds and the winner is the one who becomes penniless first.

Two-thirds of the British people agree with Conservative instincts on crime,
tax, Europe, immigration and welfare, but David Cameron decided that the Tory
problem was that the party was too rightwing. In reality the party was seen as
lacking sufficient heart for families struggling to make ends meet. Cameron
pursued the wrong kind of modernisation and we ended up as a party of
white-collar liberalism rather than blue-collar conservatism.

Error has been piled upon error in subsequent years. We fought an election
campaign in which even our advertising agency couldn't work out what our message
was. The voters didn't stand a chance. We chose a big idea, the "big society",
that is as intellectually interesting as it is useless on the doorstep. It's so
far removed from working families' current concerns that polls find, over time,
that it is understood less rather than more.

Then there are the two big calls since the election. Where Margaret Thatcher
followed a ruthlessly effective strategy of divide and rule - dividing the
British left and keeping the right united - the compromises of coalition
government have united all British leftwingers in the Labour camp but divided
the right and created a surge in support for Ukip.

Rather than using the economic crisis as a grand opportunity for a far-reaching
overhaul of the supply side of Britain's economy, the prime minister, chancellor
and docile Liberal Democrats became overly obsessed with the deficit.
Unfortunately this obsession did not lead to urgency. Instead of getting on with
the task, the biggest reduction in public spending will occur in 2014-15 -
general election year. Debts, meanwhile, are mounting and a staggering 90% of
cuts still have to be implemented.

The Conservative party is a ruthless beast, and at other times there might have
been serious speculation about the party needing a different leader with a
superior strategy. Although leadership murmurings are indeed starting, they are
far from serious. Despite the chaos inside the Downing Street operation, the
vast majority of Conservative MPs still see Cameron as an asset. He's telegenic.
Intelligent. Cool under fire. Magisterial in the House of Commons.

Cameron's greatest single advantage, however, is the absence of any obvious
alternative to his leadership. A new ConservativeHome poll of more than 100
influential centre-right journalists, thinktank chiefs and parliamentarians
couldn't find any agreement on a near-term successor. Six names, each receiving
a similar proportion of votes, were mentioned if a change became, in theory,
essential before the next election. William Hague and Boris Johnson lead the
pack. Hague - who is proving to be a natural foreign secretary - means it when
he says he really doesn't want the job. Few believe Johnson when he says he
doesn't want the Tory crown, but few yet see him as a credible candidate. If he
beats Ken Livingstone, if he can get back into the Commons, and if MPs see him
perform in parliament, that might change, but not any time soon.

David Davis is mentioned but he fluffed his last opportunity and is seen more as
a conscience of the right rather than its future. George Osborne is the
favourite of the Cameron circle but his stock has fallen heavily after the
mishandled budget. Michael Gove scores well but wouldn't ever stand against
Osborne. Jeremy Hunt could yet emerge but is an ideological unknown.

The panel of influentials is clearer about the next Tory leader when asked about
the period beyond the next election. They nearly all choose an MP from the 2010
parliamentary intake. Some of the men, including Matthew Hancock, Sajid Javid,
Rory Stewart and Dominic Raab, get a handful of mentions, but a much larger
proportion of the votes go to women, and four in particular - Andrea Leadsom,
Priti Patel, Anna Soubry and Elizabeth Truss. It's as if the party is yearning
for another Thatcher. All four are fighters. Each has strong beliefs. They
perform well in the media. In different ways they all challenge the perception
of what it means to be a Conservative. Three of the four - not Soubry - are on
the right of the party.

It is, of course, far too early to make credible predictions about who may
become Tory leader at an unknown point in the future. Few of the names I've
mentioned have been tested in the political furnace. What is clear, however, is
that one of Cameron's most significant legacies will be the generation that
became MPs under his leadership. They are high quality. They are gritty
campaigners. And the brightest prospects appear to be women. Hopefully they'll
have better strategic sense than the man they might succeed.

Tim Montgomerie is the editor of ConservativeHome.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 13, 2012
                                 First Edition

Farage: frustrated Tories preparing to join Ukip;
POLITICS

BYLINE: NIgel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 330 words


Disillusioned Conservative MPs have secretly contacted the UK Independence Party
to discuss possible defection, its leader claimed yesterday as he appealed to
Tory Eurosceptics to jump ship.

Ukip is celebrating a recent rise in the polls, culminating in a survey two
weeks ago putting the party on 11 per cent of the vote. It has achieved three
recent high-profile defections from the Tories: the MEP Roger Helmer, the former
minister Lord Hesketh and Stuart Wheeler, previously a major donor to the
Conservatives.

Rumours have circulated among Tories that two sitting MPs are seriously
considering following their lead and joining Ukip, which advocates withdrawal
from the EU. In an interview with i, Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said his
party was "having conversations" with Tory MPs who felt out of tune with David
Cameron's leadership. He said: "There is a wing of the Conservative party in the
Commons - predomi-nantly young, but not all - who agree with us on a whole host
of issues, such as the opportunities afforded by selective education, the belief
that government is too big ?? If Ukip is seen to be a good bet, that obviously
increases the chances of them coming over."

A Tory official said last night: "This sounds like a classic example of Nigel
Farage bluster." But Mr Farage disclosed that his party plans to contest every
seat in the general election expected in 2015 - even in constituencies where the
incumbent MP backs withdrawal from the EU. "My message to the Eurosceptics in
the Tory party is: you're wasting your time," he said, adding that Mr Cameron
was "instinctively pro-EU ... There is a growing feeling he said all the things
he said just to get elected, but never really intended".

He said about half of his party's growing support came from previous Tory
supporters but that it also attracted votes from other parties.

Ukip's advance has alarmed some senior Tories who fear Mr Cameron is doing too
little to reassure traditional right-wing supporters.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 10:55 AM GMT

Tories win latest by-elections after swing from Labour;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 267 words


Tories gained from Labour in the latest local by-elections just a day after a
massive slump in a London contest.

Conservative Gill Cartwright returns to Darlington Council on a big swing, less
than a year since losing at Harrowgate Hill.

Tories came close to taking a second seat in the borough at Hurworth where
Liberal Democrats held on by 38 votes.

However, Wednesday's result in north London's Barnet Borough must be of concern
to Conservatives ahead of the capital's elections on May 3 - despite the opinion
poll lead for their mayoral runner Boris Johnson.

Labour's elections machine was successful in getting its supporters out at East
Finchley. The party candidate took nearly 70% of the votes it polled in 2010 on
the same day as the general election - despite a drop in turnout to 28%.

A similar performance London-wide on May 3 could enable it to defy the polls.

RESULTS

Darlington Borough - Harrowgate Hill: C 694, Lab 607, Lib Dem 142, Ukip 95,
England First 47. (May 2011 - Three seats Lab 1261, 959, 910, C 863, 590, 554).
C gain from Lab. Swing 13.6% Lab to C.

Darlington Borough - Hurworth: Lib Dem 474, C 436, Lab 144, Ukip 31. (May 2011 -
Two seats Lib Dem 886, 568, C 505, 386, Lab 175, 175). Lib Dem hold. Swing 8.6%
Lib Dem to C.

Newark and Sherwood District - Lowdham: C 787, Lib Dem 534, Lab 117, Ind 91.
(May 2011 - Two seats C unopposed). C hold.

From Wednesday: Barnet London Borough - East Finchley: Lab 2117, C 543, Lib Dem
461. (May 2010 - Three seats Lab 3315, 2931, 2868, C 1994, 1855, Lib Dem 1735, C
1723, Lib Dem 1397, 1237, Green 652, 588, 477). Lab hold. Swing 16.6% C to Lab.

PA

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Leading article: The centre cannot hold

SECTION: LEADING ARTICLES

LENGTH: 350 words


A significant change has occurred since the Budget. From the undeclared granny
tax, to the silliness over pasties, to the unnecessary panic over petrol, no
single one of the Government's stumbles was momentous in itself. Taken together,
however, they have for the first time raised questions as to the competence
rather than the politics of the Conservative leadership.

The judgement of the polls is unequivocal: a three percentage point drop in
support for the Tories. At another time, such details might be of only
incidental interest. After all, a Budget delivered in hard times was never
likely to win a chorus of approval, and after two years most governments are
starting to lose their gloss.

What is striking, though, is that Liberal Democrat support has not so much as
twitched in response, and Labour has picked up but a single point. With local
elections and the London mayoral race looming, all the main parties have much to
worry about.

Mr Miliband cannot fail to make headway on 3 May, given that the last round of
local votes were held when Gordon Brown was leading a deeply unpopular Labour
Government. But there are two major urban battlegrounds where the outcomes are
by no means certain and the stakes are high indeed.

In the aftermath of the Budget, it is David Cameron and George Osborne who are
struggling to regain their poise. If Boris Johnson loses the London mayoral
race, the newly-nagging sense of drift will be hard to shift. But if Labour
either fails to beat Mr Johnson, or loses Glasgow City Council, or both, then
questions over Mr Miliband's leadership will prove a more than effective
distraction.

These are unusual political times. An increasingly disillusioned electorate is
turning away from the main parties, clearing the way for those at the margins.
Labour has already had one shock, with George Galloway's spectacular win in
Bradford West. The threat from the SNP in the long-held fiefdom of Glasgow is
more troubling still. For the Tories, the danger comes from Ukip. Whatever
happens on 3 May, more will be won and lost than 5,000 council seats and one
mayoralty.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: Simon says Brum mayor rivals should stump up

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 645 words


Siôn Simon, the former Labour MP who wants to be Birmingham's first directly
elected mayor, has made what seems like a generous gesture - until you reach the
sting in the tail.

He says that the two sitting Birmingham MPs, Liam Byrne and Gisela Stuart, who
also want to be Mayor of Birmingham, should not be barred from competing with
him for the Labour nomination. But Simon has added a novel suggestion that if
either wins, he or she should pay a forfeit that could come to around £200,000.

In November, 41 police commissioners will be directly elected in England and
Wales for the first time, and up to 10 new cities will elect mayors, depending
on the outcomes of 10 referendums held on 3 May. In May, Labour's national
executive is expected to consider a proposal to prevent any sitting Labour MPs
from running.

Rumour has it that the shadow cabinet fixer, Tom Watson, is behind this, because
he is a friend of Siôn Simon who resigned his seat in Birmingham Erdington in
2010 to run for mayor of Birmingham, when no such job existed. His chance of
success would be greatly increased if Byrne and Stuart were out of the running.

There is, however, a more prosaic explanation, which is that the Labour Party is
broke. While they were in government, Labour raised the legal limit on what one
party can spend on one by-election to £100,000, a move they must now regret.

Tony Lloyd, MP for Manchester Central, wants to be Manchester's Police
Commissioner. Alun Michael, MP for Cardiff South, has the same ambition in south
Wales. Bob Ainsworth, MP for Coventry North East, has his eyes on being
Coventry's elected mayor, if it decides to have one. Even if no more MPs get
itchy feet, Labour is facing the nightmare possibility of having to scrape
together £400,000 to fight four simultaneous by-elections, with no guarantee,
post Bradford West, that they could win any. Each would also cost the taxpayer
an unquantified sum that could be close to £100,000. Hence Siôn Simon's sneaky
suggestion, in an article for the Birmingham Post, that "sitting Labour MPs
should be allowed to stand [but] they should perhaps also repay the Labour party
and the Exchequer the cost of their by elections."

A strange recipe for Ukip launch

The UK Independence Party chose Porters Restaurant in Covent Garden, London WC1,
for their campaign launch yesterday, which is understandable because its founder
and owner is Richard Bridgeman, the 7th Earl of Bradford, a Ukip activist who is
running for a seat on Westminster Council.

A more unexpected development is that the Earl's backers include the nightclub
owner Peter Stringfellow, who has given thousands of pounds to the Tory party in
the past. The Earl also claims the backing of the Salvation Army. They and
Stringfellow are a rare combination, he suggested.

BoJo's tirade gave Jenny a lift

Jenny Jones, Green candidate for the London mayoralty, has described that famous
moment when Boris Johnson blew a gasket in a lift after a phone-in on LBC and
directed a sequence of expletives at Ken Livingstone.

"The lift was absolutely tiny," she told a hustings meeting. "All four of us
[the four main candidates] were crammed in there. Between us is a journalist who
studiously ignores everything that is going on the whole time - and leaks it
afterwards. It was the highlight of my political life."

Rock 'n' roll 'n' all guns blazing

One of the great rock feuds rolls on. Axl Rose, front man of Gun'n'Roses, has
refused to join former fellow band members in an induction ceremony at the Rock
and Roll hall of Fame in Cleveland, Ohio, this weekend.

In an open letter, he did not deign to mention the band's former guitarist,
Slash. It is said they have not spoken since 1996. Compared with these two,
Lennon and McCartney were buddies.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Farage: Frustrated Tories set to join Ukip;


BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 499 words


Disillusioned Conservative MPs have secretly contacted the UK Independence Party
to discuss possible defection, its leader claimed yesterday as he appealed to
Tory Eurosceptics to jump ship.

Ukip is celebrating a recent rise in the polls, culminating in a survey two
weeks ago putting the party on 11 per cent of the vote - the same share as the
Liberal Democrats. It has achieved three recent high-profile defections from the
Tories: the MEP Roger Helmer, the former minister Lord Hesketh and Stuart
Wheeler, previously a major donor to the Conservatives.

Rumours have circulated among Tories that two sitting MPs are seriously
considering following their lead and joining Ukip, which advocates withdrawal
from the EU. In an interview with The Independent, Nigel Farage, the Ukip
leader, said his party was "having conversations" with Tory MPs who felt out of
tune with David Cameron's leadership. He said: "If polling results like that 11
per cent continue to be replicated or increased upon, the chances of people who
are sitting in the House of Commons coming to us grows.

"There is a wing of the Conservative party in the Commons - predominantly young,
but not all - who agree with us on a whole host of issues, such as the
opportunities afforded by selective education, the belief that government is too
big... If Ukip is seen to be a good bet, that obviously increases the chances of
them coming over."

A Tory official said last night: "This sounds like a classic example of Nigel
Farage bluster." But Mr Farage disclosed that his party plans to contest every
seat in the general election expected in 2015 - even in constituencies where the
incumbent MP backs withdrawal from the EU. "My message to the Eurosceptics in
the Tory party is: you're wasting your time," he said, adding that Mr Cameron
was "instinctively pro-EU... There is a growing feeling he said all the things
he said just to get elected, but never really intended".

He said about half of his party's growing support was coming from previous Tory
supporters but that it was also attracting votes from other parties. Mr Farage,
speaking after the launch of his party's campaign for the London elections,
acknowledged Ukip had been damaged by controversies over some of its previous
MEPs and the turbulent spell when it was led by the former television presenter,
Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Ukip's advance has alarmed some senior Tories who fear Mr Cameron is doing too
little to reassure traditional right-wing supporters. Even if Ukip picks up only
five per cent support at the next election, that has the potential to prevent
the Conservatives from gaining a series of crucial target seats - and Mr Farage
claims his party will be able to sustain its recent advance.

"This party has changed hugely - I hope that one reason is that people do not
see me as some hard-right wing, authoritarian figure - in fact quite the
reverse, I have tried to make sure are basically strongly libertarian, a party
that is socially incredibly relaxed."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Tories feel the heat in polls - and from Ukip

BYLINE: ANDRW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 47 words


The Conservative Party suffered a double blow yesterday amid evidence of a
public backlash against the Budget and claims that some of its MPs could defect
to the UK Independence Party.

The Independent's "poll of polls" showed that Labour's lead over the Tories has
jumped to six points.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Farage: frustrated Tories set to join Ukip

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words


Disillusioned Conservative MPs have secretly contacted the UK Independence Party
to discuss possible defection, its leader claimed yesterday as he appealed to
Tory Eurosceptics to jump ship.

Ukip is celebrating a recent rise in the polls, culminating in a survey two
weeks ago putting the party on 11 per cent of the vote - the same share as the
Liberal Democrats. It has achieved three recent high-profile defections from the
Tories: the MEP Roger Helmer, the former minister Lord Hesketh and Stuart
Wheeler, previously a major donor to the Conservatives.

Rumours have circulated among Tories that two sitting MPs are seriously
considering following their lead and joining Ukip, which advocates withdrawal
from the EU. In an interview with The Independent, Nigel Farage, the Ukip
leader, said his party was "having conversations" with Tory MPs who felt out of
tune with David Cameron's leadership. He said: "If polling results like that 11
per cent continue to be replicated or increased upon, the chances of people who
are sitting in the House of Commons coming to us grows.

"There is a wing of the Conservative party in the Commons - predominantly young,
but not all - who agree with us on a whole host of issues, such as the
opportunities afforded by selective education, the belief that government is too
big ... If Ukip is seen to be a good bet, that obviously increases the chances
of them coming over."

A Tory official said last night: "This sounds like a classic example of Nigel
Farage bluster." But Mr Farage disclosed that his party plans to contest every
seat in the general election expected in 2015 - even in constituencies where the
incumbent MP backs withdrawal from the EU. "My message to the Eurosceptics in
the Tory party is: you're wasting your time," he said, adding that Mr Cameron
was "instinctively pro-EU... There is a growing feeling he said all the things
he said just to get elected, but never really intended".

He said about half of his party's growing support was coming from previous Tory
supporters but that it was also attracting votes from other parties. Mr Farage,
speaking after the launch of his party's campaign for the London elections,
acknowledged Ukip had been damaged by controversies over some of its previous
MEPs and the turbulent spell when it was led by the former television presenter,
Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Ukip's advance has alarmed some senior Tories who fear Mr Cameron is doing too
little to reassure traditional right-wing supporters. Even if Ukippicks up only
five per cent support at the next election, that has the potential to prevent
the Conservatives from gaining a series of crucial target seats - and Mr Farage
claims his party will be able to sustain its recent advance.

"This party has changed hugely - I hope that one reason is that people do not
see me as some hard-right wing, authoritarian figure - in fact quite the
reverse, I have tried to make sure are basically strongly libertarian, a party
that is socially incredibly relaxed."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 3:49 PM GMT

Ukip if you want to: England needs to wake up

BYLINE: By Walter Ellis

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 947 words


It was Nigel Farage who said it best. "To subvert the tyranny of this execrable
system; to break the connection with Brussels, the never failing source of all
our political evils; and to assert the independence of my country - these are my
objects."

Except, of course, that these are not really the words of the leader of the UK
Independence Party, but of Theobald Wolfe Tone, the Irish revolutionary hero.
And it wasn't Brussels against which Tone directed his ire, but England.

Ukip opposes independence for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. In 1798, it
would have argued for the suppression of the United Irishmen as well, arguing
that as one of the "four pillars" of the UK, Ireland had a destiny vested not in
withdrawal, but incorporation.

Tone took up arms because he felt he had no other course. In fact, politics were
not yet entirely exhausted. If Gladstone's first Home Rule Bill had passed in
1886, Ireland would have had its own government, with national security,
defence, foreign relations and monetary and trade policy, as well as
constitutional affairs, vested at Westminster.

There would have been no 1916, no Black and Tans and no northern rump state.
Ulster Unionists would have protested loudly, but, as now, they would have come
round - for Home Rule is what they got in the north and have, ever since,
jealously defended. Irredentists on the nationalist side who demanded full
independence by way of armed insurrection would have met with short shrift on
the streets of Dublin as well as Belfast.

With the example of Ireland before them, the Scots and Welsh would have been
tempted to followed suit. Overwhelmingly monarchist, but always suspicious of
London, Scotland might have taken a decade or two to appreciate the value of
what was on offer. The Welsh, culturally intact but politically abject, would
have gone along only when convinced that England would not abandon them entirely
to their own devices.

One hundred and twenty five years on, a united Ireland within a United Kingdom
would be a fact of history. Generations of disaffection would have been
sidestepped. But the Celts would not have been sole beneficiaries. Reform of
local government in England would surely have followed, leading (who knows?) to
a reconstituted Witan, or a Council of the North and other regional bodies, with
appropriate powers.

But this is not what we got. Instead, Ireland is divided, with the larger part
independent of Britain and the smaller a semi-autonomous province. The Scots,
though, are restive, talking of full independence inside the EU, with the Welsh,
I suspect, not that far behind.

If the UK should shrink, and ultimately disappear, then Ukip must go with it, to
become, one imagines, the English National Party. Until that day, Farage - who
speaks out with force and conviction in the cause of splitting the UK from the
EU - is determined to retain the central plank of his party platform.

Ukip's 2011 manifesto for Scotland made not a single reference to Scottish
independence. London rule was the preferred model so far as devolution goes. On
the party's website, the pro-European SNP was twice described as the
"control-freak nasty party". The Scottish Parliament itself, instead of gaining
additional powers, would apparently be replaced by a body made up of Scotland's
Westminster MPs.

Well, good luck with that.

Writing in the manifesto, Farage observed that the majority of the people of
Northern Ireland supported the union with Britain and that any attempt to dilute
or dissolve that union would be "profoundly undemocratic".

Would he apply the same logic in the European context if a referendum on
Britain's EU membership revealed a majority in favour? I doubt it. He would
simply announce that a battle had been lost but the war continued.

Since then (and face it, 2011 is just soooo last year), Paul Nuttall, MEP for
the North West of England, has single-handedly jettisoned much of the above and
persuaded his leader that division, in the form of a federal state, may in fact
be the way forward for the, er, United Kingdom.

Et voila! Six weeks ago, talking to Andrew Neil on The Daily Politics, Farage
argued that the devolution genie was out of the bottle, and if the Scots, Welsh
and Northern Irish insist on their own institutions, then the English must
follow suit. Talk about jumping on the bandwagon! Farage now speaks of the House
of Commons becoming a designated English assembly, with the House of Lords
replaced by a directly elected "Union parliament".

He makes it sound like a mini-EU, with a supranational body empowered to review
devolved legislation and, no doubt, a Union court to determine who has broken
the rules.

I don't fault the logic. I merely question the sincerity with which it is now
advanced. The idea of an English parliament wasn't even mentioned during the
2010 general election. Now, on Nuttall's whim, it's party policy.

Farage, with his French name and his German wife, is a gifted and spirited
performer in the European Parliament, where he has earned a good living since
1999. The fact that he is frequently loutish when speaking out in Strasbourg is
undeniable. But he certainly knows what he thinks on any given day.

The larger question of whether a majority of the British people, including
Scots, Welsh and Northern Irish, share his mania for getting out of Europe
remains to be tested. I hope Ukip gets its referendum. If it does, I would
expect perhaps half of Conservative supporters, as well as Ukip stalwarts, to
opt for withdrawal, with a majority of voters favouring reasonable reform. In
that event, would Ukip disband and throw its undoubted energies into other
pursuits? Well ... we all have our dreams.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday

Mayoral election: Analysis: Will he still be sobbing on 4 May?

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 764 words


No one can know precisely where the tracks of Ken's tears take his campaign.
Conservative bloggers were shouting jubilantly "to oblivion", even if the
experience of lachrymose politicians in the US, from Obama to Clinton, is that
they survive such public displays of vulnerability.

The Labour party election broadcast was intended to be emotional, if not a tear
jerker. It was framed as an emotional rallying call by Londoners to Ken "to come
on" and win for them.

No doubt the tears genuinely reflected his desperation to win, his sense of
responsibility. But the impression could also linger of Livingstone lost in an
act of vanity, crying at his own election material.

Moreover, on a day when the party is desperate to shift the debate away from the
competing personalities of Ken and Boris - the territory on which Livingstone
knows he loses hands down - it might have been better for him to have bottled it
all up: this is an election campaign, with a month to go, that Labour has not
yet lost.

The Comres poll published by the Standard on Tuesday shows Livingstone six
points behind Johnson once second preferences are counted, trailing by 47 to 53.
On first preferences he loses 46-41. Given the pasting he has had over tax, Jews
and bankers, that's relatively resilient. On a range of issues he is well ahead,
on others behind only marginally. Indeed on first-preference votes, the poll
shows him outperforming his first-preference performance of 2000, 2004 and 2008.
In those three polls he scored a first preference of only 39 or 37 points.

But this could reflect the fact that Liberal Democrat voters have already
deserted their party and are backing Livingstone in the first round. The polls
show Livingstone still gains the majority of Liberal Democrat second
preferences, but there are just far fewer Lib Dem votes to hoover.

Moreover, it looks on the other side of the ledger as if Johnson's personality
can keep the potentially large Ukip protest vote down.

Livingstone faces three specific hurdles in the final weeks. Though he is the
oldest politician in the race, he seems to repel his demographic. On second
preferences he leads 56 to 44 points with 18- to 44-year-olds, but among older
voters the position is reversed; he trails 62 to 38 points among voters aged
over 65. There may be more young voters in London, but they are probably less
prone to vote. Ken-mail is going out to 400,000 older voters stressing that
Johnson wanted a lower top rate of tax and this is being funded by the "granny
tax".

Livingstone's second problem is the more familiar one of carving a message that
appeals to the suburbs, specifically to what Tony Travers, the LSE academic,
calls "the long-term drift of aspirational C2 voters to boroughs such as
Bromley, Havering and Bexley".

These mainly Conservative people vote - for instance, 57.9% of eligible voters
voted in Sutton in 2008. In Bromley alone Johnson piled up 143,000 votes. By
contrast, turnout in Labour-friendly Newham was 36.1%, making a simple
Labour-core vote strategy, based on the inner cities, fruitless.

Livingstone has worked hard to win the suburbs back, launching his campaign two
years ago by promising to represent all Londoners. A shadow cabinet meeting was
held in Bromley starting with a poster saying "£1,000 better off with Ken".

Labour claims to have a superior party machine to deliver this message.
Inner-city Labour activists have been deployed to the quadrant of Bexley,
Hillingdon, Havering and Bromley to locate a long-neglected Labour vote.

Yet it is ominous for Livingstone that the Comres poll shows Johnson still ahead
in outer London on second preferences by 60 to 40 points. Travers suggests: "His
difficulty is he has a flagship policy on transport that may not be that salient
and may not be believed."

Livingstone's third problem is that he is underperforming his party in London.
His aides believe they have a month to try to persuade the group that likes
Labour but not Ken. Livingstone's aides acknowledge that a straight appeal to
vote for him to "send a message to Cameron" about the economy will not work.
(Johnson is immunised from Cameron's unpopularity; the blue rosette just
endearingly keeps falling off him.)

The more subliminal Labour message is that voters are suffering a
government-created squeeze on living standards that Johnson has done nothing to
alleviate. It may all be too late, and after decades on the frontline of London
Labour politics, there is an ingrained, settled will about Livingstone in the
capital. But he will not stop fighting until the last polling booth closes.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 12, 2012
                                 First Edition

UKIP ON THE RISE;
The Opinion Matrix COMMENT FROM HOME & ABROAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 110 words


UKIP ON THE RISE Cameron is at risk from the right The Spectator UKIP are now
around 7 per cent in the polls. One even has them as high as 11 per cent, neck
and neck with the Lib Dems for third place. All signs point to a strong showing
in the 2014 European elections, and the defection of a Tory MP or two could
cause serious trouble for Cameron in 2015. UKIP's rise means he won't be able to
ignore his grassroots critics for much longer. (James Forsyth) Conservative Home
If activists feel that they have no role to play in the party they will leave.
Or, again, they may join UKIP, whose activist base is the provisional wing of
the Tory right.

(Paul Goodman)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 12, 2012
                                 First Edition

PAGE 3 PROFILE

BYLINE: SIOBHAN BENITA INDEPENDENT LONDON MAYORAL CANDIDATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 358 words


The only independent candidate for the London mayoralty. But a credible one? She
certainly offers a welcome distraction from the antics of Ken and Boris, whose
campaign highlights so far have included disputes about their tax arrangements
and a bust-up in a lift. Mr Johnson, never normally afraid to probe the exotic
limits of his vocabulary, labelled his rival "a f***ing liar". The two
favourites have sullied their media coverage by firing potshots at each other,
so spare a thought for Ms Benita, who has thus far struggled to gain traction in
the popular press.

Or even the BBC ...

Yes, the world's leading experts on political correctness declined to give equal
coverage to Benita in a Newsnight debate, and she will also be sidelined in
upcoming programmes on Sky and ITN. At an Evening Standard debate last night,
she was relegated to the bleachers with the BNP and Ukip candidates. Luckily,
the public has greater enthusiasm. Paddy Power have slashed her odds from 500/1
to a more respectable 40/1. Richard Branson, Tom Conti and Lord O'Donnell have
offered their support. As has Dragon Peter Jones. But let's not forget that he
spent £75,000 backing indie band Hamfatter. Remember them? Of course you don't.

What does she stand for? The parts of her manifesto that have been released are
a dry affair. There's a lot of "inclusive" this and "opportunities" that. One of
her more interesting (read: open to mockery) proposals is to relinquish £43,000
of her mayoral salary to create a new youth mayor, presumably to despatch to
scenes of riots and conflict to give the "youth" view that people terrified of
leaving their homes are so desperate to hear.

She also suggests a third runway at Heathrow rather than a new airport ("Boris
Island") in the Thames Estuary. Her summarised agenda calls for more bobbies on
the beat and fare freezes until 2014, but until Londoners hear something more
concrete on crime and transport they're unlikely to vote for her.

Couldn't she pull a Galloway? Sure, we had egg on our faces when Gorgeous George
took Bradford, but in this instance, absolutely not, although maybe one to watch
for the future.

News, Page 10

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 12, 2012 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: Ukip's Tory defectors could be thorn in the side for PM;


BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 671 words


The UK Independence Party has more reason than any other to complain about the
British election system: despite winning 900,000 votes at the last general
election it has no MPs. In the European Parliament, which is elected by
proportional representation, the party has a dozen MEPs.

Another quirk of the system is that MPs and MEPs can switch parties without
consulting the people who voted for them and yet remain in their seat for the
remainder of the Parliament. Last month, Ukip gained an MEP because a
long-serving Tory, Roger Helmer, fell out with the party chairman, Baroness
Warsi.

And yesterday, the voice of the Conservative grass roots, Tim Montgomerie, who
runs the ConservativeHome website, announced that he knows of two Tory MPs who
are thinking of switching to Ukip.

The only time Ukip has ever had an MP was when the Tory MP for Castle Point, Bob
Spink, fell out with his local party in 2008 and defected, but he stayed only a
few months. If Ukip suddenly had two MPs - and it's a big if - it could start to
become more of a threat for the Tories than Respect is for Labour. Mr
Montgomerie's point is that David Cameron needs to watch his right flank.

A special stone at the Abbey for Ted? You must be joking

The decision to create a commemorative stone in Westminster Abbey for the former
Tory Prime Minister Sir Edward Heath has prompted a furious letter to the
Abbey's Receiver General, Sir Stephen Lamport, from Rodney Atkinson, a prominent
member of Ukip and older brother of Rowan, the comedian otherwise known as
Edmund Blackadder and Mr Bean.

The letter's sub-headings reflect its general tone: "Lies to Parliament and
people... Betrayal of Sovereignty... Awarded Charlemagne Prize (founded by the
Nazis). Negotiated with Fascist Spain... Apologist for and beneficiary of
Chinese Communism."

The former Labour Premier Jim Callaghan is to receive the same honour, but no
one hated Sunny Jim in the way that the Tory right hated Ted Heath.

Imagine no cars - it's easy if you try

Hearing the opening words of the new Green Party election broadcast - "Imagine a
city that belongs to people and bikes" - evokes memories of a sentiment
expressed 10 years ago by Brian Coleman, Conservative member of the London
Assembly: "I consider cycle lanes to be an unnecessary obstruction to cars, for
which, of course, roads were built." Once there were no cycle lanes; in Green
heaven, there'll be no car lanes.

Something rotten in Reading

If Oscar Wilde were alive now, he might write a Ballad of Reading East, in which
"some grow mad and all grow bad", because something is poisoning the political
atmosphere in that constituency.

A few months ago, the Tories in Reading East deselected a councillor, Jamie
Chowdhary, reputedly because he was too close to the former Tory council leader
Andrew Cumpsty, who was on the way out. They threatened to expel another, Mark
Ralph, who publicly objected. Baroness Warsi, intervened to prevent Councillor
Ralph's expulsion, but to no avail. This week, he announced that he is
resigning. Reading East is also the only constituency in a generation where a
sitting MP was sacked by the local members of the Labour Party. Jane Griffiths,
who lost the seat in 2005, has accused her former colleagues of being "racist"
because of an election leaflet in which a Labour council candidate, Eileen
McElligott, is described as "one of us" - as if to imply that there is something
alien about her opponent, Azam Janjua, who, by the way, used to be a Labour
councillor before he switched to the Conservatives.

Caption clanger

The story from China about a British businessman who may have been murdered at
the behest of the wife of one of the country's foremost politicians is
disturbing enough, without the added element that The Times gave it in its early
edition yesterday. According to the picture caption on its front page, the dead
Briton was Jeremy Heywood, who is a Knight, the Cabinet Secretary and the
country's most senior civil servant. The caption was corrected later to read
Neil Heywood.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 12, 2012 Thursday 9:33 AM GMT

Why no decent Tory should vote Ukip;
Abhijit Pandya spent a year advising Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party. What
he found convinced him that the anti-EU firebrands are not a serious alternative
to the Conservatives.

BYLINE: By Abhijit Pandya

LENGTH: 665 words


This weekend Ukip was found to be on 11 per cent in one poll. At this testing
time for the Coalition, some members of the Conservative Party  may be tempted
to turn their support to Ukip. They would be seriously misguided.

I would know. I spent the bulk part of the last year advising Nigel Farage;
formerly as Head of Research for Ukip. He is a man whose patriotism I admire,
but whose methods I deplore.

His party's MEPs are obsessed with infantile stunts. These include wondering
around Brussels, at the taxpayer's expense, singing "there is a hole in my
bucket". Entertaining as it is watching Mr Farage doing this, and giving
bombastic speeches in the European Parliament, it does nothing to curb the
powers of the EU.

To my knowledge there is not a single amendment to a European regulation forced
by Ukip, despite being Britain's second-largest party in the European
Parliament. Legislation in that forum is almost certain to be passed, due to the
numbers being stacked against Ukip, and the European Parliament having no
effective method of veto. So it is extraordinary that Ukip has not, in over a
decade, managed to develop a strategy to undermine European law by appropriate
subtle and strategic amendments.

The party is more interested in ranting and raving than in the more thoughtful
task of fully engaging with its opponents on policy terms. This is why its
failure to alter the course of Europe away from a social-democratic federal
state has been immense.

Worse still its MEPs have been softened by the alluring lifestyle Brussels
offers, as the poor expenses record of Ukip MEPs shows. So much for breath of
fresh air that Tories upset at the Coalition would be looking for; they simply
won't find it in Ukip.

Ukip membership is based around a universal opposition to the EU. However, this
masks the party's inconsistency on domestic policy. Tories going to Ukip will
find the problems that used to haunt the Conservative Party split on Europe in
the Major years flipped on their head. Ukip may not be split on Europe, but as a
consequence of being a one-issue Party, they are just about split on everything
else. Ukip will go Left, Right or centre to grab the next available vote.

For example, instead of trying to appeal to mainstream voters, they are obsessed
with grabbing votes from the English Democrats. Hence their unprincipled support
for breaking up the Union and having an English parliament. Thus we have a
self-proclaimed "UK" Independence Party that doesn't want a "UK". This is the
level of absurdity Ukip operates under. A sharp contrast to Lady Thatcher's
handbrake on Scottish devolution in her first term.

I am wholly opposed to the EU in its present form, but I am for free trade and
movement of peoples (where there is no welfare dependency). Ukip treats these
issues in simplistic black-and-white terms, not acknowledging their complexity.
For example, Ukip is against immigration in absolute terms, but this is
economically unrealistic. By sticking to screaming demagoguery for an
immigration ban of a random arbitrary period, without assessing market needs,
Ukip loses economic credibility for a few votes.

This is the least of its problems. Christine Hamilton, known for her
sexual-innuendo-filled television shows, and her husband Neil, the former "cash
for questions" Tory MP, have become the new stars of Ukip. They have been given
places on Ukip's National Executive Committee that runs the party.

For Tories yearning for the old years of glory, a move to Ukip would be a move
back to the feeling of looking at the remnants of the Tory Party after its 1997
catastrophe. This is when Hamilton, Aitken and others pulled the great Tory
beast down. Worse still it would benefit Labour, and another Labour victory is
the last thing this country needs.

It would be far better to support a Prime Minister who managed one of the
biggest swings in electoral history, and is harshly been judged for not
achieving the improbable all-out victory in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 12, 2012 Thursday 8:46 AM GMT

The rise of Ukip is a nightmare for David Cameron

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 726 words


How much damage can Ukip do to the Tories? Some Conservative über-modernisers
seem to have concluded that the answer is: "not very much". Given their record,
which involved adherence to a strategy which resulted in a failure to beat
Gordon Brown outright, I am tempted to conclude that Conservatives should now be
very worried indeed.

Professor Tim Bale has said that Tories concerned about Ukip are worrying about
a "daft distraction" and should aim only for the centre ground. He says the real
threat to Conservative prospects will come from Labour. Well, yes, of course the
next election will principally be a fight between the two largest parties. But
that is only part of the story: elections have sub-plots that can turn out to
have a significant impact.

At the next general election, in 2015 or earlier, it will matter what happens to
the 6,836,248 Lib Dem votes from 2010. Will the party fall back to a number
closer to its 5,985,454 tally in 2005, or sink even further to poll something
like the 4,814,321 of 2001? After the events of the last few years, might the
fall be even steeper, leaving more than two million votes up for grabs? Or will
the party prove more geographically resilient in the seats it holds? In
Scotland, hitherto a stronghold, it looks to be headed for oblivion.

The UK polls suggest that Labour has already hoovered up many Left-leaning Lib
Dem voters, who defected when Gordon Brown was in the chair. Before the recent
Budget-related excitements the Labour leadership view was that both they and the
Tories were stuck at around 38 per cent and facing the same challenge: how to
get to 42 per cent and an overall majority.

If that turns out to be the eventual scenario, then Cameron doesn't need a
growing Ukip threat making his tricky task even more difficult. Equally, if it
is worse than that for the Tories by the time of the next election, and they are
now polling consistently below 35 per cent, Cameron also needs every vote he can
get.

Ukip's vote is not concentrated in ways that enables it to win seats in a first
past the post election system. And, say its critics, the party is not yet
well-organised enough to pose a serious threat to the Tories. But the current
rise of Ukip obviously matters. Tim Bale is making a common psephological error:
just because something has not happened in the past does not mean that it won't
at some point in the future.

Ukip scored 11 per cent in one poll last weekend. Even if that turns out to be a
rogue finding, Nigel Farage's troops have been polling 7 per cent recently.
Plenty of Conservatives, disgruntled with Cameron and the coalition, are
currently flirting with the possibility of voting Ukip at future elections, even
just as a protest. There is widespread discontent with the major parties,
including amongst the kind of Tory-leaning voters Cameron needs to get back
onside.

It is the steady rise of Ukip at UK general elections that should trouble the
Tories. In 1997 the party polled just 105,722 votes, but the Referendum Party
caused havoc for the Tories with its 811,849 votes. That showed there was a
strong Eurosceptic constituency of 900,000+ voters prepared to consider
alternatives to the Tories, which Ukip struggled at first to tap into. In 2001
the party moved up to 390,563, but in 2005 it was 605,973 and in 2010 it rose to
919,471. I fail to see how almost a million voters, disproportionately likely to
have previously voted Tory, voting Ukip can be anything other than a serious
problem for the Conservatives, particularly when Cameron fell short of an
overall majority.

The question for Farage is now whether he can maintain the rate of progress of
the last decade, by smashing through the million vote mark next time and pushing
up towards 1.5m.

In contrast to the current über-moderniser analysis, George Osborne, as the
Conservative party's election supremo, has always taken the threat seriously.
Ahead of the 2008 local elections, he was obsessed with trying to ensure that
Ukip did not jeopardise Tory progress against Gordon Brown. Now the Conservative
leadership faces a strategic dilemma. In 2008 and in 2010 they could play the
Eurosceptic card and say that Cameron was determined to govern as a robust
opponent of further EU integration. To what extent will such promises be
believable this time? Don't all answer at once.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Most read at thetimes.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 55 words


1 The Shard and London's skyline 2 Indian Ocean tsunami warning 3 Ambition kills
lapdancing skills 4 Briton's murder inquiry in China 5 Teen saves school bus 6
Are British losing love of dogs? 7 Arsonist looter jailed for 11 years 8 Cameron
ignores Ukip at his peril 9 Shed heaven 10 Leading Article: Teachers must rise
against unions

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Labour needs 700 seats for 'credible' local election result

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 551 words


Labour needs to gain at least 700 councillors in the local elections to restore
Ed Miliband's credibility after the party's shock defeat in Bradford, political
analysts have said.

The Liberal Democrats, who were trounced in elections last May, could lose a
further 200 to 300 seats as their price for being coalition partners while the
Conservatives are expected to lose at least 300 to 400 seats.

Nearly 5,000 seats in 181 councils in England, Scotland and Wales are up for
election on May 3. Although the main focus will be in London, where Boris
Johnson will battle it out with Ken Livingstone for the mayoral contest, there
will also be a close fight in Glasgow between Labour and the SNP.

UKIP could cause upsets in Eastleigh, Chris Hulne's constituency, while Respect
is set to cause further trouble in Bradford, where it is fielding 11 candidates.
The so-called "granny tax" could also have an impact in pensioner strongholds
such as Hastings, where traditional Tory voters aged over sixty could flock to
Labour.

Other seats that could change hands include Birmingham, Sefton, Walsaw, Dudley,
Portsmouth, Southampton and Cambridge.

Tony Travers, local government expert at the London School of Economics, said
that Labour would need to get at least 600 to 700 seats and a handful of
councils to compensate for the party's poor results since 2000. He said Labour's
result in the Bradford West by-election would put even further pressure on Mr
Miliband next month.

"Labour really needs a big fightback this year to stabilise Ed Miliband. To get
back to the level of seats which they had in the mid 1990s before Tony Blair won
power, they will really have to go some. George Galloway's win will make Labour
even more desperate to do well in the locals.

"Labour will be pushing the 'granny tax' for all its worth, as pensioners are
generally Tory voters. The 50p tax has not played well and there is a sense that
the Tories have lost the plot which could also help Labour," he added.

Mr Travers said that it was possible that more protest votes would go to the
Respect Party in the local elections although it was unlikely to pick up many
council seats. Respect has put up 11 candidates for the Bradford council
election and is considering putting up a candidate for the mayoral election in
November if a referendum goes in favour on May 3. If Mr Johnson beats Mr
Livingstone in London, Labour's consolation prize should be Birmingham, the
country's biggest city council. Labour only needs a handful of seats to wrest
the city from a Tory-Lib Dem coalition.

Last May the Tories defied polling experts who predicted losses by gaining 86
seats, while the Liberal Democrats did worse than expected and lost 748. Mr
Travers said that the Tories picked up seats from the Lib Dems in rural councils
in the South last year, but pointed out that this year only about 1,000 seats
are being fought in that region, down from 5,000 in 2011.

Instead, most of the local election battles will be in northern cities such as
Sheffield, Newcastle upon Tyne, Liverpool and Manchester where the Liberal
Democrats are expected to lose seats to Labour.

Colin Rallings, a leading psephologist at Plymouth University, said he expected
Labour to pick up more than 600 seats, with 200 gains in unitary authorities and
at least 120 in Wales.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fearful city halls try to sabotage campaign for directly elected mayors;
Many councillors see their powers being usurped in the coming revolution, Jill
Sherman reports

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1093 words


Local councils are trying to scupper David Cameron's plans for directly elected
city mayors by attempting to persuade residents to vote against the idea in
referendums on May 3.

Greg Clark, the Cities Minister, has now decided to withdraw funding from
Bristol City Council after it published an "unbalanced" referendum leaflet that
inflated the costs of the elections and mayoral powers.

Mr Clark claimed that the Lib Dem council's handling of the issue was a
"shambles", but a leading campaigner for a "no" vote accused the minister of
being a liar.

In Nottingham, the Labour council has put up posters around the city to
demonstrate its opposition while the Labour group has sent newsletters to
residents saying that a "Tory Extra Mayor" will cost £1 million.

Other cities that are holding mandatory referendums have adopted a more subtle
approach but few are enthusiastically backing the plan. Apart from Birmingham,
where two Labour MPs - Gisela Stuart and Liam Byrne - wish to stand, few
potential mayoral candidates have come forward so far.

The row in Birmingham, where senior Labour figures have been accused of trying
to "fix" the election in favour of a former local MP, Sion Simon, may also
discourage further MPs from standing as mayors in other cities.

Although David Cameron wants to devolve power from Whitehall many authorities
fear that a directly elected leader will emasculate councillors' influence.

Ministers are still deciding which powers to hand down to the new mayors, but
they will have a much greater say than local councillors about how budgets are
spent. They will also have more power over transport, housing and investment
policy.

Liberal Democrat activists hate the idea, arguing that it flies in the face of
democracy, as do many Labour politicians and some Tories. Unlikely alliances
between Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens are now fronting No campaigns up and
down England.

"National politicians are much more enthusiastic about mayors than local
councillors and activists who think they will lose power to one individual,"
said Tony Travers, local government expert at the London School of Economics.

"David Cameron, like Tony Blair, thinks directly elected mayors will be dynamic,
dignified leaders."

Ten cities are to hold mandatory mayoral referendums on May 3 with three -
London, Salford and Liverpool - holding mayoral elections on that day.

Liverpool skipped the referendum process after two thirds of the Labourled
council approved a proposal to go straight to an election.

Those holding referendums include Sheffield, Birmingham, Wakefield, Leeds,
Bradford, Nottingham, Manchester, Bristol and Coventry.

The Government has countered its critics by sending Lord Heseltine and even Lord
Adonis, the former Labour Transport Secretary, to push the idea at conferences,
seminars and hustings.

But Mr Clark is also trying to negotiate a number of "city deals" where councils
are in line for extra funding if they opt for the mayoral model. Joe Anderson,
the Liverpool council leader, managed to get a £130 million bonus out of Mr
Clark after agreeing to support the case for a directly elected mayor and stand
for the post himself.

Local polls have recently suggested that only a few councils - Birmingham,
Sheffield, Bradford and Wakefield - may back a referendum.

Last month Mr Clark agreed to fund pamphlets issued by the ten councils where
referendums are being held to give residents a clearer idea about what they were
voting for or against. The leaflets were supposed to be impartial although it
was up to town halls to draft them.

Bristol council had already prepared a leaflet pointing out that a mayoral
election, if Bristol voted "yes", would cost £400,000. It also set out some of
the possible mayoral powers.

But Mr Clark refused to pay for the publication, arguing that the costs would be
only £170,000 and disputed the details about powers being handed down.

In an interview Mr Clark said there was a bit of a "shambles in Bristol" and
refused to pay £20,000 for distributing the leaflet claiming it was "inaccurate
and unbalanced".

However, Bristol decided to go ahead and shouldered the costs itself. Tim Kent,
a leading No campaigner in Bristol, accused Mr Clark of lying about the costs
and called for his resignation.

Last night a spokesman for the Communities Department defended Mr Clark's
position. "In our judgment the leaflet from Bristol City Council failed to match
the legal requirements of being fair and balanced," the spokesman said. "The
Government cannot pay for pamphlets and leaflets that are not fair and
balanced."

A Bristol council spokesman said: "Bristol City Council estimated the costs of
holding future mayoral elections as about £400,000. Officers of Bristol City
Council have no interest in encouraging people to vote either "yes" or "no" in
the upcoming referendum and certainly would not over-inflate costs."

Mayoral and local election guide May 3

Key contenders in the mayoral elections

SALFORD

Karen Garrido leader of the council Conservative group

Ian Stewart former Labour MP for Eccles

Norman Owen leader of the council Lib Dem group

LIVERPOOL

Joe Anderson Labour head of Liverpool City Council

Tony Caldeira local businessman who founded international textile company -
Conservative

Liam Fogarty a former BBC editor - Independent

Richard Kemp deputy leader of the council Lib Dem group

LONDON

Boris Johnson Conservative

Ken Livingstone Labour

Brian Paddick Lib Dem

Siobhan Benita Ind

Mayoral referendums

Newcastle Birmingham Bristol Sheffield Leeds Manchester Wakefield Bradford
Coventry Nottingham

10 battles to watch

LABOUR GAINS?

1 Birmingham from a Tory/Lib Dem coalition

2 Bradford from NOC, but could be scuppered by Respect

3 Sefton from NOC

CONSERVATIVE LOSSES?

4 Walsall to NOC

5 Plymouth to Labour

6 Southampton to Labour

LIB DEM LOSS?

7 Cambridge to Labour

OTHERS TO WATCH

8 Eastleigh Chris Huhne's constituency where UKIP is fielding seven candidates

9 Hastings the Granny Tax row could help Labour gain from NOC

10 Glasgow Labour could lose control to the SNP

Key Conservative Labour Lib Dem Independent No overall control Not voting 128
local elections and their political stance 21 local elections 32 local elections
Local elections COUNCILS UP FOR GRABS SCOTLAND WALES Shetlands Islands Orkney
Islands ENGLAND (2,419 total number of seats) 2 Con 53 Conservative 2 Lab 39
Labour 8 Lib Dem 3 Ind 14 Other 28 Other 2 Lab 3 Ind 27 Other 1 5 8 7 7 10 6 8 4
2 3 4 2 9 3 10 6 1 5 25 London Assembly seats are also up for election - 14 are
directly elected and an additional 11 are allocated on a London-wide top up

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greg Clark: offering cash if cities adopt mayoral model
OLI SCARFF / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hamza gets the boot so why isn't he on a flight out of Britain?

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1480 words


What were the appeal grounds?

The suspects claimed being sent to America to face time in a Supermax prison, in
solitary and locked up for 23 hours a day, breached the European Convention of
Human Rights. The court disagreed, saying it would not lead to ill treatment.

How soon will they be kicked out?

The ruling does not become final for three months in which time lawyers can
appeal. The judges said that Britain should not extradite q&A the men until the
decision is finalised. They could remain in the country for months.

Will Abu Qatada be kicked out now?

Qatada is set to be extradited to Jordan, but the court is worried that evidence
obtained through torture will be used against him.

How long has it taken to arrange the extradition of Abu Hamza?

The ruling was the last hurdle in Abu Hamza's extradition which started in 2004
when he was detained and appeared before magistrates under the Extradition Act
2003.

Will he face the death penalty?

The United States has had to give written assurance that, if he is found to be
guilty, Abu Hamza will not face the death penalty or appear before Guantanamo
Bay-style military tribunals.

BRITISH officials were last night facing overwhelming demands to kick
hook-handed hate preacher Abu Hamza and four other terror suspects out of
Britain immediately as fears grew that they could remain here for years.

A huge groundswell of public support and scores of MPs are calling for the five
fanatics to be sent packing after a landmark court ruling yesterday said they
could be extradited to the US.

But the five have been given three months to appeal against the European Court
of Human Rights judgment.

If, as expected, they do so, they could stay in Britain for the foreseeable
future.

Mockery

Their right to appeal to the European Court's Grand Chamber means it could be
months, if not years, before they leave the UK.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the Government "will work to ensure that the
suspects are handed over to the US authorities as quickly as possible".

Ukip leader Nigel Farage echoed the calls for the five to be extradited
immediately. And he added: "It is important to look at the underlying facts to
understand just how defi-cient British law and the British legal system has
become when it comes to extradition.

"Those facts demonstrate clearly that playing the Strasbourg card makes a
mockery of our legal system and that the Extradition Act 2003 remains a blot on
our justice system. Where there are grave allegations of terrorist activity, the
process should involve the presentation of evidence to justify extradition
followed by a speedy resolution of individual cases."

Conservative MP Philip Davies said: "I am delighted that they can now be
extradited, it can't happen soon enough." Fellow Tory MP Dominic Raab also
welcomed the court's ruling.

"To say that we couldn't extradite serious terrorist players to the US because
they may get along sentence in difficult, tough prison conditions would be
ludicrous," he said.

"It would be ludicrous as a moral matter but it would also undermine the whole
basis for counter-terrorism extradition to the US." The judgment comes after an
exclusive poll revealed that 99 per cent of Express readers think Hamza should
have been thrown out of Britain long ago.

The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg rejected the men's claims that
their human rights would be breached by leaving the UK. They had complained that
prison conditions and jail terms would expose them to "torture or inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment".

David Cameron, on a visit to Japan, said he was "very pleased" that Hamza's
extradition could go ahead. "It is quite right that we have proper legal
processes, although sometimes one can get frustrated with how long they take,"
he said.

"I think it is very important that the deportation and expulsion arrangements
work promptly and properly, particularly when people are accused of very serious
crimes."

The judges unanimously agreed that there would be no human rights breach either
as a result of detention in the high-security Colorado Supermax prison, or the
length of possible sentences on conviction.

Egyptian-born Abu Hamza, 53, who gained British citizenship through marriage, is
wanted in the US on 11 charges related to taking 16 hostages in Yemen in 1998,
promoting violent jihad in Afghanistan in 2001 and conspiring to set up a jihad
training camp in Oregon.

Hamza was jailed in the UK for seven years in February 2006 for preaching hate
and inciting murder at Finsbury Park mosque in North London. He is in Belmarsh
prison.

Four other men - who would have been free to walk the streets within months if
extradition had been denied - will also face trials.

They include computer expert Babar Ahmad, 36, and Seyla Ahsan, 32, who are
accused of conspiracy to commit terrorist atrocities overseas and supporting
terrorist groups.

They have been held in high-security British jails for between five and seven
years.

A fourth suspect, Khalid al-Fawwaz, 49, has been in jail since 1999. He was
arrested in connection with the 1998 bomb attacks on two US embassies in East
Africa which killed more than 200 people.

The fifth, Adel Abdul Bary, 51, is also wanted in connection with the bombings
and has been held in prison for 13 years. They were indicted, along with Osama
Bin Laden and 20 others, for alleged involvement in the attacks in Nairobi,
Kenya.

The court adjourned its decision on a sixth man, Hamza's alleged lieutenant
Haroon Aswat, 37.

The judges said they wanted to consider issues concerning his mental health if
transferred to America, including whether his condition would properly be taken
into account.

The court gave the Government until May 9 to submit its observations before the
case is reconsidered.

OPINION: PAGE 12

ABU HAMZA

ABU HAMZA has been dubbed "one of the most dangerous terrorists in the world"
whose sermons of hate have inspired a legion of suicide bombers.

Several chilling plots, including a conspiracy to massacre thousands in New York
and London, are said to be partly influenced by the cleric, pictured above. The
former Soho club doorman was jailed for seven years at the Old Bailey in 2006
for soliciting the murder of non-Muslims and race hate crimes. Egyptian-born
Hamza, 53, completed his sentence but was held in custody while awaiting
extradition to the US.

The hook-handed cleric, who milked Britain's benefit system while plotting to
destroy the west, is believed to have met 7/7 killers Mohammed Khan, Shehzad
Tanweer and Germaine Lindsay.

BABAR AHMAD

BABAR Ahmad is accused of running websites inciting murder and of possessing US
Navy plans showing battleships' vulnerability to terrorist attack. The computer
expert from Tooting, south London, allegedly raised money to support terrorism
in Chechnya and Afghanistan while urging Muslims to become jihadists. Last week,
Ahmad, 38, pictured right, admitted fighting "battles" in Bosnia but said he
condemned terrorism. He claimed that if he had been put on trial in the UK in
2003, after his arrest, and had been found guilty, he would have been free by
now.

ADEL ABDUL BARY

AdEL Abdul Bary is alleged to have taken part in Al Qaeda's conspiracy to bomb
the embassies in Nairobi and dar es Salaam. The Egyptian, 49, was sentenced to
death in absentia in Egypt in 1995 for his part in a plot to blow up a market.

He was granted political asylum in Britain in 1993 but was arrested in 1998 over
alleged involvement in terrorism.

KHALID AL-FAWWAZ KHALID al-Fawwaz was one of Osama Bin Laden's key lieutenants
in Britain after coming to London in 1994 to take control of the UK arm of Al
Qaeda.

Two years later, Bin Laden ordered him to distribute the declaration of a holy
war against Americans in Saudi Arabia. Al-Fawwaz, 47, is wanted by the FBI for
bomb attacks at US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, which claimed more
than 200 lives.

SEYLA AHSAN

SEYLA Talha Ahsan is accused of providing support to terrorists and conspiracy
to murder, kidnap, maim or injure. He also faces a discretionary life sentence
at the Supermax jail. Little is certain of his background. The suspect, also
known as Syed Ashan, allegedly plotted with Ahmad in a conspiracy to kill on
foreign soil. The FBI claim he played a vital role in the plot.

HAROON ASWAT

THE case against Haroon Rashid Aswat, 37, who allegedly plotted with Hamza to
set up a terror camp in Oregon, was adjourned. The judges in Strasbourg want to
know more about the impact on the mental health of Aswat, who grew up in
Dewsbury, West Yorks, if he went to the Supermax prison. They want further
submissions on the relevance of his schizophrenia and detention at Broadmoor
Hospital.

Q Should Britain ditch European court?

YEs: 0901 792 5304

NO: 0901 792 5305

Yes text DXWEDYEs to 86611

No text DXWEDNO to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa May is being told to act now

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday

London mayoral Q&A on economy - with Siobhan Benita, David Dewhurst and Louise
Cooper

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4516 words

ABSTRACT

[#xfffd] 9.30am: Ken Livingstone launches election manifesto[#xfffd][#xfffd]1pm:
Join guests David Dewhurst of Occupy London, Siobhan Benita, independent
candidate for mayor, and Louise Cooper of financial services company BGC
Partners to discuss the economy, business and the City

FULL TEXT

4.07pm: I'm going to sign off shortly, but my colleague H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne
Mulholland will be covering tonight's London Evening Standard mayoral debate
live here from 6.30pm.

2.58pm: The Press Association has written up the launch of Ken Livingstone's
mayoral manifesto this morning.

Livingstone described the position of elected mayor as an American concept that
was "a bit alien", and said it was always his fear that a mayor would be
"focused on trivial personality politics" - something this campaign seems to
have borne out, although how trivial some of the personality politics has been
is up for debate.

You can read Livingstone's manifesto - which includes promises to cut transport
fares and to reintroduce the education maintenance allowance for students in the
capital - in full on his website.

The manifesto also states that he would work to reduce rents and improve homes
with a non-profit lettings agency, while "rip-off energy prices" would be cut by
creating a co-operative.

Livingstone said his 7% fare cut would be funded by Transport for London's
"completely unacceptable" cash surplus (see Polly Curtis's Reality check for
analysis of that).

Livingstone spoke about the party political broadcast mentioned earlier, saying:

I did find it very moving. It's the fact that for so many Londoners this
election makes a huge difference to their ability just to be able to put a hot
meal on the table for their kids every day of the week. It's an awesome
responsibility to make sure we win because we can deliver so much for Londoners.

Ed Miliband claimed that Livingstone had "always been the underdog" in this
campaign - a debatable point given Livingstone's one-time poll lead - but had
fought his way back into the race through "the power of his ideas".

Miliband made an interesting point about Boris Johnson's "not Ken again" attack
ads. The Labour leader said:

I think there's something telling about this campaign, which is that, what is
Boris Johnson campaigning on? What are those big posters about? They're not
about his achievements in the first four years. They're not about what he wants
to do in the next four years, they're about Ken Livingstone.

That tells you something about what the guy has to offer and what he actually is
going to do with the post.

2.38pm: Thanks very much to our guests, David Dewhurst of Occupy London, Siobhan
Benita, independent candidate for mayor, and Louise Cooper of financial services
company BGC Partners, who have been debating London's economy with you below the
line. Feel free to continue the debate for as long as you like.

2.15pm:An early video put out by Ken Livingstone's campaign and featuring
Stephen Pound MP was almost unwatchable, but his latest party political
broadcast is much slicker.

A professional and competent-looking Livingstone sits at a desk, looking like a
CEO, before giving way to a series of Londoners of all ages and ethnicities (a
Jewish man is prominently featured, presumably as part of Livingstone's attempts
to mend fences with the Jewish community after a series of controversial
remarks) talking about the rise in transport fares and the other economic
pressures bearing down on them. Violins play beneath the clip, which comes to a
climax with the Londoners saying: "Come on, Ken." This is the video that seemed
to have Livingstone in tears at his manifesto launch this morning. It's an
effective piece of work.

2.09pm: One of the major issues of this campaign so far has been whether or not
Ken Livingstone's prosed 7% fare cut is affordable. My colleague Polly Curtis
has examined the question on her Reality check blog. Her piece is well worth
reading in full, but here is her conclusion:

TfL [Transport for London] does run an annual surplus but this is earmarked for
capital spending so should Livingstone want to claw some back for fare decreases
it would inevitably mean some cuts in capital expenditure. According to TfL's
current projections it is only just big enough to cover the cost of
Livingstone's promise, meaning that in a large annual budget there would be no
buffer to protect TfL from going into deficit should income unexpectedly fall or
costs increase. Having a surplus is prudent accounting but the scale at which it
becomes unreasonable is disputed.

2.01pm:liner77 asks:

The thing is Siobhan, though we might like the fact that you are not
representing any political party, why on Earth would we vote for you?

You aren't an expert in anything, don't have much experience in anything and
don't demonstrate any flair for anything.

You might well have been "fast tracked" at the civil service but that's not
exactly particularly special, is it?

It seems the only reason to vote for you would be to vote for someone who isn't
a politician.

An independent businesswoman, artist, comedian, chef, taxi driver, bar owner,
musician, mathematician, teacher etc maybe but a career civil servant!?

At least you won the bet for standing:)

Siobhan Benita responds:

Not a comedian no, but I think we have tried that as mayor already :)

As a senior civil servant with 25 years at the centre of government I know
exactly how the machinery of government works (and where it doesn't!) I have
experience of working across all sectors and I know and understand public
finances and how money flows around the system. I've worked on transport, local
government and environment policies. I've lived and worked in London all my
life.

If you'd prefer a chef, I can make a mean victoria sponge or chicken tikka
masala.

1.46pm: Here is a picture of an emotional Ken Livingstone with Ed Miliband at
today's manifesto launch.

1.37pm: In the comments Siobhan Benita has written: "You might not have heard of
me yet - Ofcom rules and BBC guidelines are based on previous political party
results which mean that a new candidate like me doesn't get equal coverage."

My colleague H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland has just filed this story on
Benita's campaign to be included in tonight's London Evening Standard hustings.
H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne writes:

Benita instead will have to settle for a place in the audience, watching her
rivals on stage. The Ukip candidate, Lawrence Webb, and the BNP candidate,
Carlos Cortiglia, are also not invited.

Benita posted a call-out to supporters urging them to join her outside the
Emmanuel Centre in Marsham Street, Westminster, before the debate ...

Benita is also not billed to appear on debates organised by Sky News or ITV
later this month, giving her little exposure before polling day in a contest
where personality is widely seen as a dominant factor.

She argues that her experience bodes ill not just for the London mayoralty but
for mayoral and police commissioner elections to be held in the autumn, in which
independents hope to stand against the established political parties.

1.22pm: I asked Louise Cooper of GBC Partners whether the Occupy movement had
done anything to alter the general attitude towards banking or capitalism in the
City. She replies:

Given that there were about 200,000 redundancies in the financial sector in the
last year, most who work "in the City" are more worried about whether they will
have a job than the Occupy movement. There is a lot of misinformation about
"City workers" and what they do. Most had nothing to do with the financial
crisis and yet all are blamed. There is plenty of blame to be shared around
regulators, politicians and even the ordinary person living a lifestyle they
could not afford. I am not saying the financial industry is blameless but this
industry paid for an awful lot of schools and hospitals - at its peak I believe
it paid one in every six pounds of tax revenue and even now it pays something
like one in every ten.

The UK is facing a debt crisis which could spiral out of control. We need
industries that we are good at to pay taxes and bring that debt down.

1.15pm:Username18 asks David Dewhurst of Occupy London:

David, do you get the feeling that there is some "protest fatigue" which is
causing people who might be more receptive to your cause to actually feel quite
hostile to Occupy? It seems that every week there is a different protest which
ultimately inconveniences (and costs) ordinary people. Now we have protesters
trying to disrupt the Olympics. Perhaps Occupy and other protest movements
should take the "less is more" approach and try to annoy people less.

Dewhurst responds:

There may have been some "protest fatigue" all round but people still want an
economy we can all flourish in, and that won't happen if just left to our
rulers. Watch out for May. Personally I'm all for the Olympics in principle but
check out the specific bits of dubious management and policy which the protests
are about (like the effect on local people). The media registered in tax havens
generally ignore actions which can not be presented as disruptive. By the way
the economic mess is rather more disruptive. I sympathise with people who are
inconvenienced, although a lot is exaggerated. We would love wider debate and
engagement. Try the website.

1.06pm:Siobhan Benita, the independent candidate, has also joined the
discussion. She introduces herself:

Hi - I'm Siobhan Benita and I am standing in this year's mayor of London
election. You might not have heard of me yet - Ofcom rules and BBC guidelines
are based on previous political party results which mean that a new candidate
like me doesn't get equal coverage - but my support is growing fast and people
really like my campaign once they hear about me.

I'm an independent candidate, which means I am not representing any political
party. Like so many people, I am tired of the traditional politicians fighting
old party battles instead of tackling the real issues that matter to the public.
I want public leaders to put people before party politics and to be more
representative of the public they serve. More info on me at
www.siobhanformayor.com Twitter @siobhan4mayor

She also says she is not opposed to a bulk energy scheme such as that proposed
today by Ken Livingstone "in principle", and says it might help to bring costs
down.

I agree that it should be voluntary though - if it's successful people will want
to join. If it doesn't save money, they won't - and shouldn't - join it.

Triffid100asked about Ken Livingstone's tax arrangements. Benita responds with a
declaration about her own:

My tax details are very simple and published on my Facebook site Siobhan Benita.

12.58pm: Two of our guests have arrived and are beginning to answer your
questions below the line.

Louise Cooper of BGC Partners introduces herself:

First of all, I want to say that my role is to look at the economic arguments of
the two main candidates and to try and answer the question which one is best for
London's economy. Will Boris or Ken create more jobs and wealth?

The Greater London economy is larger than that of either Sweden and Austria, and
is home to 7.6m people. It has the highest business start-up rates in the
country and productivity is also higher than anywhere else. London is the engine
of growth not just for the south east but also for the rest of the UK. It is the
economic jewel in the British crown.

One of the main problems for any mayor is that the government takes all the main
economic decisions - but that does not mean the mayor has no economic role.
Firstly a mayor must stand up for London in negotiations with the government -
easier for Boris being a Tory. Secondly in these times of austerity, a rigid
discipline not to waste taxpayers' cash and also to realise that politicians are
appallingly bad at picking business winners and losers.

Moving to more positive aspects of what the mayor can do to stimulate growth in
London. Here it should be quite simple, to recognise what it is that London is
good at - its natural strengths - and then do everything possible to maximise
those strengths and let the "animal spirits of capitalism" take over. London has
some huge economic advantages that will ensure future prosperity provided our
leaders understand what they are and nurture them.

David Dewhurst of Occupy London says the answer to London's economic problems is
"bigger than London but London can contribute to resolving the mess that the
greater part of the world economy is trying to survive".

Behind the incompetence of the finance sector and their financially captured
national legislatures lies the steady 35-year capture of a higher proportion of
wealth and income from the mass of the population and its secretion in
particular in the portfolios of the richest of the top 1%. This has a lot to do
with their tax strike/go slow over the same period, which means we have to
borrow from them.

So demand for real goods and services gets squeezed while the richest accumulate
paper assets which bubble and burst while the rest of us are expected to bail
them out.

Without a real re-redistribution to the 99% the economy will continue to stutter
at best and probably shrink. There are many ways back to fairness; the issue is
sufficient public pressure internationally to return sovereignty to elected
governments rather than plutocrats.

Personally I think London could, with integrity, remain the world's largest
financial sector - but not as we know it.

Dewhurst also answers my question about why both Livingstone and Johnson have
felt the need to stand up for the City as mayor. He writes:

Whose City? Sure the main parties are scared of the finance sector. We know
where they get masses of funding from. We have to find ethical ways of
developing the economy rather than administrating tax havens which suck the
wealth from the poorest countries as well as our own.

12.30pm:Siobhan Benita, independent candidate for mayor of London, David
Dewhurst of Occupy London, and Louise Cooper of financial services company BGC
Partners will be online at 1pm for a live Q&A on the economy in the capital.

Post your questions for the three of them below.

Here are a few from me.

For Siobhan Benita: How would London's economy look different if you win this
election rather than Boris Johnson or Ken Livingstone? The dominance of Johnson
and Livingstone in this campaign means smaller candidates stand little chance of
winning - if you can't win, what instead do you hope to achieve by standing for
mayor?

For David Dewhurst of Occupy London: Why do you think both Livingstone and
Johnson felt it necessary to stand up for the City during their periods in
office?

For Louise Cooper of BGC Partners: In your opinion has the Occupy movement done
anything to alter the general attitude towards banking or capitalism in the
City, or have its arguments for a fairer financial system largely fallen on deaf
ears?

11.57am:VoteMatch has put together a site where you can check your views against
the mayoral candidates' policies.

11.57am: Alongside our live blog coverage of the London mayoral campaign we're
also asking for readers to help us keep track of candidates' activity.

The London #Mayor2012 project aims to create to picture of what the candidates
are up to, generated by reports from across London of their campaign activity.

Help us track the candidates by submitting a report whenever you see a candidate
out campaigning in your area, have a leaflet through the door from their party,
or see other campaign literature such as billboards or placards in your area.

You can also use this form to tell us about stories from the local campaign
trails which we might have missed.

Head over to this post to find out more and submit a report to the #Mayor2012
project.

10.44am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland sends more from Ken Livingstone's
campaign launch:

Livingstone told the audience: "I remember growing up in this city where my
parents, and all my friends' parents had to count every penny. That's the world
we are back in, maybe for some time to come."

He was visibly emotional when he sat next to Ed Miliband later as Labour's
election broadcast was unveiled. The broadcast depicts a number of ordinary
Londoners from a range of backgrounds saying to camera: "Come on, Ken, win this
election for us."

Miliband also gave a short address focusing on Labour's proposals for London.

"We know that people are struggling and I think that is the choice we have to
talk about in the coming weeks. It's a choice that is in my mind that is very
very clear. Do you want a mayor who says the priority in this city is to stand
up for the people right at the top, who are doing OK already, or is the priority
to stand up for the other 99%?"

10.29am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes from Ravensbourne college, next
to the O2 on the Greenwich peninsula, where Labour party leader Ed Miliband and
Ken Livingstone are launching Ken's 2012 London mayoral manifesto in full - all
100 pages of it.

The launch is taking place in front of an audience of about 35 Labour
supporters, mostly party members, including a smattering of Labour assembly
members. I say audience, but actually they are participants, grouped around
tables with laptops that allow them to check how much better off they would be
if Ken were re-elected, courtesy of a ready reckoner website that allows them to
calculate the difference Ken's policies would make to their lives. Miliband and
Ken are going around the four tables to chat to people about the pledges and to
see what difference the policies would make to their individual lives.

Aside from the flagship promise to cut fares by 7%, Livingstone has also
promised a number of measures to help Londoners, including tackling heating
bills through an insulation scheme, and an energy co-op run from City Hall that
would bring down prices.

Livingstone said the way to get around the "rip-off energy prices which are
completely unacceptable". People could use the website
www.betteroffcalculator.com, to see how much they would save by switching their
energy supply to the City Hall co-op.

"The simple fact is Transport for London is the biggest buyer of energy in the
city and you won't be surprised to know that TfL only pays half what a domestic
household pays for their energy. So we will be just buying more energy and then
selling it on at a much cheaper rate than the energy companies do it."

The former mayor, who is seeking to oust his Conservative rival Boris Johnson in
May, said around half a million pensioners in the capital would pay [#xfffd]83
more on average as a result of the "granny tax" announced in last month's
budget, "in order to pay for the cut in the top rate of tax that Boris Johnson
successfully campaigned for". Many of these pensioners were living in poorly
insulated homes, he said, as he outlined his insulation package which he claimed
would save them another [#xfffd]150.

9am: Ken Livingstone is launching his mayoral election manifesto today at 9.30am
and we'll be covering that here.

A ComRes survey for the Evening Standard, London Tonight and LBC, published
yesterday, suggested Boris Johnson, the Tory candidate, had 53% support,
compared with 47% for his Labour counterpart on a second round of voting in an
election fought under the supplementary vote system.

Also today on the London mayoral election live blog we will be discussing the
capital's economy, business, and the City, with the help of these three special
guests:

[#xfffd] David Dewhurst of Occupy London.

[#xfffd] Siobhan Benita, independent candidate for mayor of London.

[#xfffd] Louise Cooper of financial services company BGC Partners.

David, Siobhan and Louise will be online to debate the economy, business and the
City with you from 1pm-2pm today.

One of the mayor's key responsibilities is to promote the economic improvement
of London. His (or one day presumably her) powers cover planning, housing,
economic development, tourism, and regeneration, among other things. Transport
and the environment, which we have discussed separately, also obviously have
huge implications for the capital's economy.

The mayor sets the budget for the Greater London Authority, the Metropolitan
police, Transport for London, the London Development Agency and the London Fire
Brigade, and the mayor's office has now been given more direct control of
methods of fostering economic development and directing regeneration. The mayor
can also encourage innovation and decentralise enterprise, helping London's
poorer and outlying areas with grants for high street and public realm
improvements. He can also designate London development areas.

As Dave Hill points out, a huge amount of the next mayor's time will be spent
trying to extract funds from central government, as London struggles with high
unemployment and its huge gap between rich and poor. While the mayor of New York
gets over 60% of his gross income from local taxes, for his London counterpart
the figure, according to the Economist, is 7%. As such, Boris Johnson has made
his good relations with the government one of his selling points in this
campaign. His relationship with David Cameron is complicated, but George
Osborne, the chancellor, did seem to go out of his way to give him a leg up
during the budget, linking Johnson specifically to plans to continue with
transport investment in London and telling parliament the mayor had persuaded
him to offer enhanced capital allowances to the Royal Docks.

Both Johnson and his predecessor, Ken Livingstone, have cultivated good
relations with the City and, at the other end of the scale, both have supported
the London living wage. The skyscraper boom in the City, Canary Wharf and
elsewhere that began under Livingstone has continued during Johnson's time,
against some expectations, with the Gherkin (completed under Livingstone) and
the Shard (due to be completed in May) probably the most celebrated tall
buildings of each mayor's time. More are planned, including one ("the Pinnacle")
almost as tall as the Shard now under construction across the river in the City.

Boris Johnson

Much of Boris Johnson's "nine-point plan" revolves around London's economy,
including:

[#xfffd] Making a further [#xfffd]1.5bn in cuts to "waste" in Transport for
London, the policing and crime office, the Greater London Authority and the fire
authority, on top of the [#xfffd]2bn he has already made.

[#xfffd] Making the point that he froze council tax for three years and then cut
it by 1% for the fourth year. He claims the frugality of his first term as
London mayor on average saved Londoners [#xfffd]400 in lower council tax bills.

[#xfffd] Creating 200,000 new jobs over the next four years, in housing, the
tube, Crossrail, the Olympics, and other areas.

[#xfffd] Continuing to invest [#xfffd]221m to transform outer London high
streets and support small businesses.

[#xfffd] Converting the Olympic village into 11,000 new homes and creating
10,000 new jobs in Olympic regeneration.

His proposals for a new airport to the east of London and his continued backing
for Crossrail can also be seen in terms of their economic impact. He has also
called for an amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Johnson defended the City at the start of his 2012 campaign, telling fellow
Tories "it's about time we stopped abusing [City workers]".

Ken Livingstone

Ken Livingstone's two terms in office during the 2000s were notable for the
unexpectedly moderate stance he took towards the City. In a recent interview
with my colleague Andrew Sparrow he was asked if he was too tolerant of excess
in the Square Mile. He replied:

No. When I was talking to City audiences, I had a line which I often used, which
was: 'This is isn't the world I would have created; it's the one I'm stuck
with.' If a bank is deciding whether to locate in London or New York, your job
as mayor is to get them to come to London. But we did everything to build all
the other areas of employment.

He went on to say that in 1997 he advocated eliminating the government's deficit
using a combination of "revenue increases and expenditure cuts" - on the face of
it a similar policy to that pursued by George Osborne today, although much
depends on how you strike the balance between the "revenue increases" (tax) and
the cuts. He added: "Every budget I have ever prepared has been balanced. I have
only ever borrowed money for investment. I have been sound money all my life."

In the same interview Livingstone poured scorn on the idea that bankers will
leave London if taxes go up, saying they couldn't go to Shanghai because of
"political uncertainty" and couldn't go to Frankfurt because "young men want to
go out on the pull and do a load of cocaine and they can't really do that easily
in Frankfurt". He acknowledged that New York was a realistic rival, however.

Rhetorically his attitude to the City has become more hardline in this election
- he controversially suggested solving the financial crisis by hanging a banker
a week "until the others improve".

Livingstone has also said he thinks it is more important to keep people in work
than to implement public sector pay rises and that he wants to decrease pay
differentials in public sector posts he controls. "There will be a freeze on top
pay and there will be a cut in some areas in terms of top pay, and we will use
that money for the low-paid, so that they have at least increases equal with
inflation." In a Q&A on this blog he promised to cut his own pay.

He has been fiercely critical of tax avoiders, saying: "These rich bastards just
don't get it ... no one should be allowed to vote in a British election, let
alone sit in parliament, unless they pay their full share of tax." But that
stance has been undermined by criticisms of his own tax arrangements - an issue
that flared into life again quite dramatically after last week's radio debate
between the candidates, and resulted in the candidates declaring their earnings
and tax arrangements.

Much of his platform would have an economic impact on individual voters in terms
of putting more money in their pockets: his cut to transport fares, introduction
of an all-London non-profit lettings agency, attempt to tackle heating bills
through insulation, and his education maintenance allowance and childcare
grants.

Brian Paddick

Liberal Democrat Brian Paddick says he will set up a "London Small Business
Fund" to work with the banks to get money and advice to the capital's businesses
and entrepreneurs.

Jenny Jones

On the City, Jenny Jones, the Green candidate, calls for the replacement of the
Corporation of London with a more conventionally democratic borough, with its
funds used for jobs and affordable homes, the creation of an investment bond to
raise money for the Greater London Authority and Transport for London, and
support for small and medium-sized businesses, local community banks, and
building societies. Under Jones, the GLA would "try to ensure" it only used the
services of and took sponsorship money from banks that were lending to small
businesses.

She pledges to support small and medium-sized businesses, help them bid for
public sector contracts, and use planning policy to protect traditional high
streets. Jones also promises to work with employers to create thousands of
training places, apprenticeships and jobs.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     April 11, 2012 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Viv Groskop: Wherever you go, you can't escape yourself;
Notebook

BYLINE: Viv Groskop

SECTION: COMMENTATORS

LENGTH: 547 words


According to popular lore, Britain has been threatening to break for some time.
And now it is finally broken. Dave Jones, dubbed "Britain's hardest-working
father", is emigrating to Australia with his wife and 12 children because he
believes the future for his family is "too bleak" in the UK. Yes, that did just
say 12 children. With no job prospects and only an offer to stay with friends in
Brisbane, 42-year-old Jones, from Barrow, Cumbria, has quit his £38,000-a-year
job and spent £8,000 on flights. They left on Easter Sunday.

Jones' pluck  and hard work are to be applauded. And his abandonment of the UK
is indeed an unfortunate symbol. Jones hit the headlines two years ago when he
was lauded as the ultimate opposite of a benefits cheat, working 12-hour shifts
in a paper mill. His cycle meant two day shifts, a rest day and then two night
shifts. He did it for 15 years.

So I don't begrudge him the move and only wish I could personally sponsor him to
go and live out his days in the Bahamas. But I'm not sure how much we should
read politically into this family's departure. People rarely overturn their life
circumstances for one singular reason. In any case, Jones has already made a
life decision which can be interpreted as far more radical than emigrating to
Australia: he's had 12 children.

In a world where you are criticised for reproducing more than twice (think of
the environment!), he is no stranger to doing things his own way. He and his
wife, Jackie, obviously made a positive decision to have these children and to
provide for them responsibly. Very few people are able to strike out for what
they really want in life in the way he obviously has. This is where the Joneses
are to be envied.

Never mind what it says about Broken Britain. What is completely fascinating is
how you save £8,000 with 14 mouths to feed. They've managed trips to Majorca and
Euro Disney. Could someone check the house to see if they've left their
spreadsheet behind? I need to know the secret.

Let's hope the move works out for them. But be mindful of philosopher Alain de
Botton's warning. Traveller, beware. You can journey as far as you like but
there is one thing you cannot escape: yourself. In the Jones' case, it's worse.
They'll be in Australia. But they'll still have 12 children.

Enough, already

There's nothing (that) wrong with swearing. Although when Ken Livingstone and
Boris Johnson do it in lifts, it's objectionable. Swearing, that is. And
generally it should be avoided, especially on live radio.

So imagine the hot shame when an exclamation of mine was misinterpreted as an
expletive, almost causing BBC Radio 4 to come off air. The occasion was Any
Questions last week, where a fellow panellist was Ukip rabble-rouser Nigel
Farage. Teaching, police racism, politicians' tax returns... all Europe's fault,
you know.

His ranting pseudo-patriotism is enough to bring out the Mediterranean in
anyone. Which is why I found myself shouting a phrase familiar to anyone who has
dealt with an overzealous Parmesan-wielding waiter: "Basta!" ("Enough!"). Of
course, the sound technicians heard "bastard!" As did a rash of complainants. A
split-second ruling kept us on air.

Too close to Europe? Mamma mia! Not nearly close enough!

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 11, 2012 Wednesday 9:07 PM GMT

Boris is right, we can't afford to have Ken back in London

BYLINE: FRANCESCA PREECE

LENGTH: 625 words


Today, Boris started the fightback to maintain control of London with a new
attack on his 'expensive' rival Ken Livingstone.

While vile Ken promises the earth, the moon and the sun in a desperate bid to
get back into city hall, the true extent of his promises has been revealed in a
damaging dossier written by the Back Boris team.

The ex-London mayor, who was even too much for Labour to bear in the past, won't
talk numbers and has even told his voters to wait until after polling day to see
how he will achieve his audacious plans for London. I'm sorry but we've already
learnt from that mistake... DC, anyone?

What's the big secret, eh, Ken? Can you actually afford these plans? Are we in
for a big fat tax rise? Or are you going to increase city hall's coffers by
charging to use parks/bus lanes? Where on earth are you going to find the
estimated £2.7billion to fund your promises?  Will the city hall be sponsored by
some oil-rich sheikh?

People may criticise Boris's significant fare rises on the Tube and buses, but
improvement of the crumbling transport infrastructure doesn't come cheap and is
the result of years of underinvestment. Unfortunately we must stump up now to
keep things at the standard we have grown accustomed to.

Whatever people may think of bumbling Boris, few can ignore his record.

From bikes to banning booze on the Tube, London - admit it -  has improved under
his watch.

The 'clown' candidate has proven that politics is severely lacking in the
personality department. Across politics and society Boris still comes up trumps
for likeability. Few can deny his energy, passion and endearing fallibility.
That is the real problem in politics today - there aren't enough politicians
with personality. Everything is about style and sound bites.

They should remember that people do not want perfection. They want someone they
can identify with, someone they can trust and have a beer with. David, Ed and
Nick tick none of those boxes. In contrast there is no doubt that voters will
banging on their local polling stations' doors at stupid o'clock to back Boris.

The terrible trinity couldn't get the same response.

Politicians too often worry about the consequences of being human but it is the
one quality that voters look for in their candidates.

Take the mayoral candidate list for example. It's a collection of unknowns,
aside from the new Lembit Opik, Brian Paddick, who is standing again for the Lib
Dems. It seems they couldn't persuade a serious candidate to stand. Or perhaps
Paddick thinks a new wave of I'm A Celeb voters will give him their vote for
baring his bum on national telly.

Do voters really believe the ex-policeman can deliver or achieve his crackpot
policy to get buses to stop where each passenger wants to help safety? How long
would a bus journey take then? It beggars belief that he would suggest such a
thing.

I honestly cannot name the UKIP or others standing for election. They may have
good ideas or a good heart but their personalities are not shining through.
Would-be candidates would do well to take a tip out of Johnson's book if they
wish to be elected.

But more importantly, make sure to promise what you can actually deliver.

Putting up taxes by an estimated £87 extra a year will not go down with voters,
Ken. Nor will setting up yet more congestion charges around Heathrow.

Ken may well have some good ideas (such as step-free Underground stations for
the disabled, cheap cinema tickets for kids, reintroducing EMA) but he has no
way of achieving these without hitting London with more bills - and in case he
didn't notice, times are still tough.

With the Olympics, Paralympics and Queen's Jubilee on the way, we just can't
afford to pay for the biggest waste of money of them all: Ken Livingstone.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

David Cameron ignores UKIP at his peril;
The party represents a caricature of Conservatism but it is starting to press
disillusioned voters' buttons

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1065 words


Margaret Thatcher and John Major kept winning elections because they faced a
divided Left and kept the Right united. Luck explained the fractured Labour, SDP
and Liberal parties of 1983 to 1992. Careful party management and ideological
clarity was, in contrast, the key explanation for the loyalty of right-wing
activists and newspapers - loyalty that lasted until that fateful Wednesday when
Britain was forced out of the ERM.

David Cameron has performed the opposite trick. From the moment that he formed
his coalition with Nick Clegg he united Britain's left-wing voters inside the
Labour tent and has started to divide the Right.

Mr Cameron chose coalition quite deliberately. Some time before polling day in
2010, as soon as it became possible that he might not win a majority, he was
plotting his offer to the Liberal Democrats. Unlike 86 per cent of Tory
grassroots members, he didn't fancy governing on his own for a few months before
calling a second election that he feared might also be indecisive. His decision
to form a coalition was understandable but was nonetheless a huge strategic
error. It will potentially have longer lasting consequences for the Conservative
Party's political potency than any policy decisions that he takes as Prime
Minister or George Osborne takes as Chancellor.

We all know about the defection of left-wing Lib Dem voters to Labour. It means
that even a hapless Labour leader such as Ed Miliband automatically and
immediately commands 35 per cent of the electorate. Less commented upon has been
how the coalition has begun to split Britain's right-wing vote.

Team Cameron has always believed that the Tories' right-wing voters could pretty
much be taken for granted. The theory was that they had nowhere else to go and
that Mr Cameron had to devote all his energy to winning swing voters. This
gamble worked as long as Tory-inclined voters were primarily motivated by a
desire to oust Gordon Brown and also retained the hope that Mr Cameron would be
more conservative in office than he appeared in opposition.

But there are increasing signs that disillusioned Conservatives have found a new
home: they are defecting in significant numbers to the United Kingdom
Independence Party. UKIP's recent surge from 3 and 4 per cent in the opinion
polls to 7 and 8 per cent is nearly all a reflection of how many disillusioned
Tory voters are out there. One weekend survey put UKIP as high as 11 per cent.

Lord Ashcroft, the former Conservative deputy chairman, who oversaw polling for
the party until the last election, advised Mr Cameron to focus on swing voters.
He is now sounding the alarm. Study of the latest data leads him to believe that
leakage to UKIP has become a serious threat to Mr Cameron's prospects.

On issue after issue, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, is directly wooing unhappy
Conservatives. UKIP's position on human rights laws, foreign aid, immigration
and gay marriage all appeal to those most unhappy with the limits that coalition
has put on Mr Cameron. By campaigning against the high-speed rail link and the
construction of wind farms, Mr Farage is also attempting to detach the Nimby
vote from the Conservatives.

I have never been attracted to UKIP.

For me, it has always represented a caricature of Conservatism. You can be in
favour of tough border controls and still believe that we have a responsibility
to help the poorest people in the world. There is a noble and internationalist
strand to Euroscepticism but UKIP often appears to be simply anti-foreigner. It
gives the impression that it wants to turn the clock back to the 1950s. Many of
the party's MEPs are a regular embarrassment to Britain - bombastic in their
attacks on European leaders, sometimes misogynistic and frequently getting into
trouble over their expenses.

Mr Farage is fully aware of this and five weeks ago changed UKIP's constitution
to centralise control of candidate selection for the 2014 European elections. He
is optimistic that, with a cleaned-out stable of candidates, he will outpoll the
Tories in those elections, held under proportional representation. This will
give his party momentum for the next year's general election. He also hopes that
more high-profile Tories will have defected by then. I know of two Conservative
MPs seriously considering following the path already trodden by Roger Helmer,
MEP, and other Tory activists.

Mr Cameron cannot easily stop the UKIP bandwagon. Even if he offered a
referendum on British membership of the EU, many UKIP-inclined voters wouldn't
believe it was a credible promise. Mr Cameron has turned UKIP from a vanilla
party of Euroscepticism into a multiflavoured receptacle for disillusioned
Conservatives. Additionally, coalition government has helped UKIP to become a
refuge for Britain's growing "angry" tendency of people who simply want to poke
a tired political establishment in the eye.

Mr Farage's party doesn't have to get 11 or even 8 per cent to make it hard for
the Tories to win the next election. At the last election, when UKIP won 3 per
cent of the vote, there were 21 constituencies where the UKIP vote was greater
than the Tories' losing margin. It would be wrong to assume that if there hadn't
been a UKIP candidate all of these votes would have gone to the Conservative
candidate - UKIP has always attracted a ragbag of unhappy Labour, Lib Dem, Tory,
BNP and stay-at-homers. Nonetheless UKIP certainly cost the Conservative Party
at least six seats at the last election and possibly ten.

If UKIP were , say, to double its support and win two million votes it could
easily stop the Conservatives winning 15 seats. Such an impact would completely
offset any gain that Mr Cameron will get from changing the constituency
boundaries.

Mr Cameron will win many UKIP voters back by, quite simply, leading a
successful, wealth-creating government. But that alone may not be enough.
Simultaneously reaching out to Labour and UKIP-inclined voters won't be easy but
an ability to occupy the whole political stage is the difference between
adequate and great Tory leaders. Mr Cameron must stop taking right-wing
Eurosceptic voters for granted. He may not like them very much but he won't stay
in No 10 without them.

Tim Montgomerie is the founder of the grassroots website, ConservativeHome

Lord Ashcroft is now sounding the alarm. UKIP is a threat

If they win 2 million votes it could cost the Tories 15 seats

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

NOW BRITAIN S EVEN LENDING CHINA THE CASH TO PLANT TREES

BYLINE: BY DANIEL MARTIN WHITEHALL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 651 words


BRITISH taxpayers are underwriting a multi-million-pound loan to help China
plant trees as part of a project to tackle climate change.

The Treasury has agreed to a European Union scheme to help the country grow
forests to compensate for its contribution to global warming.

The Luxembourg-based European Investment Bank - of which the Chancellor is a
governor - has lent China £210million (250million euros) to kickstart the
project.

Britain has agreed to underwrite the loan, covering 16p in every pound that is
not paid back should the debt turn toxic - which would cost us more than
£30million.

While EU member states - which are the EIB s shareholders - are mired in
trillions of pounds of debt and sluggish growth, China is now the second largest
economy in the world and continues to expand by 2 per cent a year.

India and Brazil are among other countries with surging economies to receive
similar EU anti-climate change loans in the past 12 months.

Since last year, the deals have seen the UK taxpayer loaded with an extra
£920million of liabilities.

The British government has announced plans to stop sending aid to China. But,
through the EIB, we will still be underwriting loans to the country for years to
come.

Last night, critics expressed amazement that the UK was helping China plant
trees - saying the move could harm our economy.

Philip Davies, Tory MP for Shipley, said: As a result of ridiculous climate
change policies at home, we are seeing industries relocating to China because
energy here is becoming so expensive.

And yet at the same time as we are exporting industry, it turns out we are
helping them curb their own climate change emissions.

You couldn t make this up - it s like a late April Fools.

He added:  This is what happens when you re controlled by a supranational body
like the European Union. We want to make our own decisions.

Roger Helmer MEP, industry spokesman for UKIP, said:  The revelations that the
UK is underwriting nearly £1billion for climate change packages in the last year
alone is staggering. That we are sending hundreds of millions off to Brazil,
India and China to plant trees and the like is quite simply absurd.  The Chinese
deal was struck last month between Beijing and the EIB, which borrows money from
the markets to lend out.

A total of £210million (250million euros) will support eight forestry projects,
which will involve the planting of millions of trees to soak up industrial
carbon emissions.

The loan comes in the wake of two others to China totalling £460million
(550million euros) for  green  energy schemes in 2007 and 2010

.

China s carbon dioxide emissions rose 10 per cent in 2010 to 8.33billion tons -
a quarter of the global total.

Meanwhile Britain is backing more investment to India through the EIB.

Last summer, it lent £167million (200million euros) to Mumbai-based financial
giant ICICI Bank to distribute to renewable energy projects and has since
approved another £82million (100million euros).

This comes despite India recently telling the UK that it doesn t need the
£1.1billion of foreign aid London is sending there over the next four years,
describing it as  a peanut .

And, in October, the government of Brazil - where annual growth is 5 per cent -
was given a £418million (500million euros) loan to support undefined  green
schemes.

In all, since the start of 2011, the EIB has paid out 66 loans worth a total of
£5.4billion (6.4billion euros) in a bid to fight climate change.

The EIB insisted that the risk to the British taxpayer was a remote one.

A spokesman said:  We perform due diligence to ensure that all projects are
economically and financially viable, technically adequate and in compliance with
the Bank s environmental and social requirements.

But Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said:  The true purpose of EIB loans is to buy the
loyalty of the contractors, consultants and middle-men that feed off the system.

Comment - Page 12

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

London mayor election: Johnson six points ahead of Livingstone in poll

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 512 words

ABSTRACT

Ken Livingstone wins back support after row in lift sent his support plunging,
according to ComRes, but still trails incumbent

FULL TEXT

Ken Livingstone is trailing Boris Johnson by six percentage points in the
contest for London mayor, according to a ComRes poll for the Evening Standard,
London Tonight and LBC.

The survey suggests the Conservative candidate has 53% support compared with 47%
for his Labour counterpart on a second round of voting, with no winner after the
first round.

The deficit is probably recoverable in the final month of the campaign although
some of the underlying figures look ominous for Livingstone as he prepares to
launch his manifesto on Wednesday.

The extent of Johnson's lead was revealed after ComRes released revised figures
for the poll. They had initially given Johnson a 50% to 46% advantage. Some
other data was also amended after the polling company said there had been a
weighting error.

In a previous ComRes poll, Livingstone was two points behind, although a YouGov
poll put him eight points behind.

Livingstone and Johnson have rowed over their personal tax payments, an argument
that became highly personal when the two clashed in a lift over mutual
accusations of hypocrisy.

The poll found 48% of people interviewed were less likely to vote for
Livingstone following the row.

Overall, before the set-to in the lift the two main rivals were neck and neck -
each polling 48% - but afterwards the mayor opened up a large lead of 58% to
36%.

The sample size for these two findings was not available.

In inner London, Livingstone is ahead on 60%, compared with Johnson's 40%, but
his rating has shrunk since January when he was on 68%. Much will depend on the
propensity of voters in inner and outer London to turn out to vote. Labour
claims to have a better "get out the vote" operation.

Johnson is still well ahead in outer London, where he is polling 60% to his
rival's 40%. Johnson appears to be outperforming the Conservative party as a
whole among his voters, with 28% saying they liked the mayor but not his party,
according to the survey.

Livingstone, on the other hand, continues to be less popular than his party.
Just 14% of his backers said they liked him but not Labour, while 17% said it
was the other way round. Much of his deficit relates to the willingness of older
voters to back Johnson, even though Livingstone is the older of the two main
candidates.

Johnson is more trusted among 32% of respondents to deliver on his promises,
while just 26% trust his main rival more. More than a quarter of Londoners trust
neither candidate.

Among Lib Dem voters at the last general election, Livingstone is more popular
than Johnson by 46% to 33%.

This will be a concern for Johnson's campaign, given the historical importance
of second preference votes.

The poll suggests that in the first round of voting, 46% of Londoners would back
Johnson, 41% Livingstone, 6% Liberal Democrat Brian Paddick and 4% Green party
candidate Jenny Jones. The independent candidate Siobhan Benita is also
standing, as well as Ukip and BNP candidates.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

Education: Opinion: Time to debunk some myths about schools

BYLINE: Fiona Millar

SECTION: GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 789 words


For too many people the Easter holidays mean only one thing - revision - so I
have been putting together my own short crib sheet. These are challenging times
and we campaigners need to be up to speed with facts and arguments to rebut the
myths and misinformation that frequently colour current debate.

Myth 1: Comprehensives have failed This line is usually promoted by people who
have never been in a comprehensive school, don't use them for their own
children, or who read the Daily Mail.

The legal definition of a comprehensive school is simple - one that serves
children of all abilities. If you don't have comprehensive schools, you have
selective schools and the only party publicly committed to reintroducing a
system that stamps the majority of children as failures aged 11 is Ukip.

The numbers of pupils in comprehensive schools has steadily increased since the
mid-1960s and in that period standards have risen continuously. Around six times
as many pupils get five good GCSEs as did in 1968. Five times as many go on to
university and, contrary to one of the best publicised myths, the proportion of
students admitted to Oxbridge from state schools has almost doubled since 1961.
The OECD, so popular with our secretary of state, says: "On average, school
systems with greater levels of inclusion have better overall outcomes and less
inequality."

Myth 2: Local authorities run schools This ridiculous statement is used
repeatedly by politicians who should know better, especially if they are
Conservatives, as it was their party that introduced Local Management of Schools
in 1988, removed direct financial control from local authorities and
decentralised power to heads and governing bodies, who have been able to
allocate resources, recruit staff and make decisions about subjects and exams
ever since.

Meanwhile, in the same period, central government control has increased
spectacularly. Before 1988, the secretary of state had three powers over schools
(removal of wartime air raid shelters, managing numbers in teacher training and
opening/closing schools). The 1988 Act increased those powers by over 250 and
the DfE now has more than 2,000 powers over schools. As Sir Tim Brighouse
pointed out in his excellent lecture last year to the Oxford University
education department, the losers in this "shift of power downwards and upwards"
were the local authorities.

Myth 3: Autonomy leads to higher standards Autonomy alone is not a golden
bullet. Ask the Swedes, who have seen their country slip down the international
league tables since they introduced more "free" schools. The most recent DfE
performance tables, and successive reports from Ofsted's chief inspectors, show
clearly there is very little difference overall in either results or inspection
grades for academies and maintained schools in similar circumstances. Indeed, on
several key indicators, maintained schools outperform academies with similar
intakes. This is not to suggest that academies haven't improved, simply to point
out that maintained schools have improved at the same rate. It is a mystery why
ministers, who are responsible for both, won't take credit for that.

Myth 4: Mossbourne replaced a failing school The claim that the Mossbourne
academy replaced a failing school, Hackney Downs, appears in nearly every
article celebrating this school's undeniable achievements. The trouble is, it is
not true.

The only link between these two schools is the site on which they were built.
Hackney Downs school closed in 1995 and its remaining pupils transferred to
other schools. Most would have been young adults by the time the new academy
opened its doors in 2004 with a new intake, buildings, head and teaching staff
and probably more generous funding, although the veil thrown over academy
finances makes this hard to establish beyond doubt.

In 1995, 77% of Hackney Downs pupils were eligible for free school meals. The
figure for Mossbourne in its first year was 37.6%, high by national standards
but not in the local context, which brings me back to my starting point.
Mossbourne's success, relative to its distant relation, is in part down to its
fully comprehensive intake. In one of his earliest interviews its headteacher,
and now Ofsted chief inspector, Sir Michael Wilshaw, said: "The ability mix is
crucial if the academy is to succeed . . . we don't want a secondary modern
school, we want a comprehensive school."

So there you have it - comprehensives work. Every time you hear Mossbourne
lauded, take it as a backhanded compliment to the all-ability schools that are
proven beyond doubt to educate the greatest number of children to the highest
standard, whatever their relationship to their local authorities, sponsors or
secretary of state.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 10, 2012 Tuesday 3:01 AM GMT

Now Britain is lending China - the world's second largest economy - millions of
pounds to plant trees

BYLINE: DANIEL MARTIN

LENGTH: 676 words



     ·    UK agrees to underwrite loan which could cost us £30million
     ·    A total of £210million will support forestry projects
     ·    Through Europe, UK will underwrite loans for years


British taxpayers are underwriting a multi-million-pound loan to help China
plant trees as part of a project to tackle climate change.

The Treasury has agreed to a European Union scheme to help the country grow
forests to compensate for its contribution to global warming.

The Luxembourg-based European Investment Bank - of which the Chancellor is a
governor - has lent China  £210million (250million euros) to kickstart the
project.

Britain has agreed to underwrite the loan, covering 16p in every pound that is
not paid back should the debt turn toxic - which would cost us more than
£30million.

While EU member states - which are the EIB's shareholders - are mired in
trillions of pounds of debt and sluggish growth, China is now the second largest
economy in the world and continues to expand by 2 per cent a year.

India and Brazil are among other countries with surging economies to receive
similar EU anti-climate change loans in the past 12 months.

Since last year, the deals have seen the UK taxpayer loaded with an extra
£920million of liabilities.

The British government has announced plans to stop sending aid to China. But,
through the EIB, we will still be underwriting loans to the country for years to
come.

Last night, critics expressed amazement that the UK was helping China plant
trees - saying the move could harm our economy.

Philip Davies, Tory MP for Shipley, said: 'As a result of ridiculous climate
change policies at home, we are seeing industries relocating to China because
energy here is becoming so expensive.

'And yet at the same time as we are exporting industry, it turns out we are
helping them curb their own climate change emissions.

'You couldn't make this up - it's like a late April Fools.'

He added: 'This is what happens when you're controlled by a supranational body
like the European Union. We want to make our own decisions.'

Roger Helmer MEP, industry spokesman for UKIP, said: 'The revelations that the
UK is underwriting nearly £1billion for climate change packages in the last year
alone is staggering.

That we are sending hundreds of millions off to Brazil, India and China to plant
trees and the like is quite simply absurd.' The Chinese deal was struck last
month between Beijing and the EIB, which borrows money from the markets to lend
out.

A total of £210million (250million euros) will support eight forestry projects,
which will involve the planting of millions of trees to soak up industrial
carbon emissions.

The loan comes in the wake of two others to China totalling £460million
(550million euros) for 'green' energy schemes in 2007 and 2010.

China's carbon dioxide emissions rose 10 per cent in 2010 to 8.33billion tons -
a quarter of the global total.

Meanwhile Britain is backing more investment to India through the EIB.

Last summer, it lent £167million (200million euros) to Mumbai-based financial
giant ICICI Bank to distribute to renewable energy projects and has since
approved another £82million (100million euros).

This comes despite India recently telling the UK that it doesn't need the
£1.1billion of foreign aid London is sending there over the next four years,
describing it as 'a peanut'.

And, in October, the government of Brazil - where annual growth is 5 per cent -
was given a £418million (500million euros) loan to support undefined 'green'
schemes.

In all, since the start of 2011, the EIB has paid out 66 loans worth a total of
£5.4billion (6.4billion euros) in a bid to fight climate change.

The EIB insisted that the risk to the British taxpayer was a remote one.

A spokesman said: 'We perform due diligence to ensure that all projects are
economically and financially viable, technically adequate and in compliance with
the Bank's environmental and social requirements.

But Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said: 'The true purpose of EIB loans is to buy the
loyalty of the contractors, consultants and middle-men that feed off the
system.'

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 10, 2012 Tuesday 10:53 PM GMT

Ken Livingstone: can he still win?

BYLINE: By Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 791 words


Last week, in my favourite sign yet of Camp Livingstone's desperation, one
Labour councillor tweeted a poll from 2008 as showing a Ken lead of 1 per cent
in this election. Today's real poll - from ComRes - looks bad in every possible
way for Ken. In a Labour-supporting city, after three weeks of cash-for-dinners,
fuel fiascos, granny taxes, pasty taxes, third runways - three weeks, in short,
when the Tories left no stone unturned in their efforts to lose votes - he is
still six points behind Boris, not far off the eight-point deficit he had (with
a different pollster) just before the storms all started. Ken has come down from
two points ahead in the previous ComRes, in January.

The killer moment, tracked quite clearly in the poll, was when Ken, with truly
amazing foolishness, put the issue of his tax back at the heart of the campaign
- and on the front pages - by lying that Boris, like him, had channelled his
earnings through a personal company to avoid tens of thousands of pounds in
income tax and National Insurance. Ken is the only candidate not to have kept
his promise last week to "publish details of everything I've earned over the
last four years." He continues to conceal the earnings he has channelled through
his company to avoid tax. But a company can't present a radio show, or give
after-dinner speeches, Ken. You did those.

The Tories' concerns that the tax issue had not percolated through to all parts
of the electorate are clearly no longer true. Perhaps the key finding in this
poll is that 48 per cent of voters said tax made them less likely to trust Ken,
against 34 per cent who disagreed and only 19 per cent who did not know.

When specific policies are tested, the responses are even more negative. By 45
to 28, people do not believe that Ken can deliver his fares cut - a margin of 17
points, almost double that when this question was asked in January (39-30.)
Ken's attack lines are flopping even worse. His claim that Boris's Daily
Telegraph column distracts him from his duties is rejected 52-30.

Can he come back? Well, I detect just the beginnings of a strategy to try to
smuggle a Ken victory through second-preference votes. The hope is that the many
Labour voters who dislike Livingstone can be persuaded to back the Greens' Jenny
Jones or the independent left-winger, Siobhan Benita, and then give Ken their
second preference. This may be presented as "registering a protest" against
Livingstone but is, in fact, worth precisely the same to him as giving him your
first preference vote.

The Guardian's long talked up Jones, saying she might come third -not
impossible, but still fairly unlikely on the current polling, where she is at
about half Brian Paddick's level. Paddick has outperformed her in the debates.

Someone's also been trying to create a Benita bandwagon this week by laying
money on her - it doesn't take much to shift the odds on an outsider. In recent
days the Guardian has started talking up Benita too, describing her exclusion
from the TV debates as "outrageous." As even one of Ken's supporters has
written, it really isn't. TV debates have to be restricted in size or they
become unmanageable. And if anyone new does get a debate place, UKIP or the BNP,
which have both won London Assembly seats and significant numbers of votes in
the past, have far better democratic claims to it than Benita - however
unpalatable they may be.

I've never understood why an independent would choose to run in this most
hopeless of all elections - more dominated by the two big parties than any other
in the last 40 years - unless she's using it to raise her profile for another
job, or act as a stalking-horse for Ken.

So far, however, according to this and other polls, second preferences are not a
factor. Indeed, Boris's lead actually stretches, from five to six points,
between the first and second rounds. Despite some claims today that Lib Dem
second preferences are breaking more for Ken than Boris, that turns out to
relate to the second preferences of people who voted Lib Dem in 2010,
pre-coalition - a very different and larger group than those who will vote for
Paddick now. Because of the Lib Dems' association with the Tories nationally, I
would expect at the very least Paddick's second preferences to break roughly
50-50 for Ken and Boris, as they did in 2008, or - more likely - to favour
Boris.

The best hope for Ken is that Boris's sudden spike after the tax row in the lift
wears off, and he goes back to the much more level-pegging that was seen in
today's poll before the F-word was deployed. But there's not much time left now.
Could this be the first election that was turned by a four-letter word?

PS - Sorry, I forgot the real best hope for Ken. It's Lee Jasper to the rescue!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 10, 2012 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT

British taxpayers pay for trees in China;
British taxpayers are underwriting a multi-million-pound loan to China to help
plant trees as part of a project to tackle climate change.

LENGTH: 322 words


The Treasury has agreed to a European Union scheme to assist with funding for a
number of forests to compensate for the country's contribution to global
warming.

The Luxembourg-based European Investment Bank (EIB) has lent China £210million
to start the project.

Britain has agreed to underwrite the loan, covering 16p in every pound of the
debt that is not paid back - which could cost more than £30million.

China is now the second largest economy in the world and continues to expand by
two per cent a year. India and Brazil are among other countries with surging
economies to receive similar EU anti-climate change loans in the past 12 months.

Since last year, the deals have seen the British taxpayer take on an additional
£920million of liabilities.

The UK government has announced plans to stop sending aid to China, yet through
the EIB, taxpayers will still be underwriting loans to the country for years to
come.

The Chinese deal is believed to have been struck last month between Beijing and
the EIB. A total of £210million will support eight forestry projects, which will
involve the planting of millions of trees to soak up carbon emissions.

China's carbon dioxide emissions rose 10 per cent in 2010 to 8.33 billion tons -
a quarter of the global total.

Yesterday, critics expressed amazement that the UK was helping China plant
trees. Roger Helmer MEP, industry spokesman for UKIP, said: "The revelations
that the UK is underwriting nearly £1billion for climate change packages in the
last year alone is staggering.

"That we are sending hundreds of millions off to Brazil, India and China to
plant trees and the like is quite simply absurd."

The EIB insisted that the risk to the British taxpayer was a remote one. A
spokesman said: "We perform due diligence to ensure that all projects are
economically and financially viable, technically adequate and in compliance with
the Bank's environmental and social requirements."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              April 9, 2012 Monday

RICHARD KAY DIARY

LENGTH: 1123 words


BARONET S LADY AND THE HANDYMAN

FoR Lady Chatterley it was the gamekeeper. But in a real-life love tangle,
multi-millionaire landowner Sir Benjamin Slade is blaming his handyman for
stealing his lady of the manor.

For Sir Ben s long-term partner, actress Kirsten Hughes, I can reveal, is no
longer to be found living at the baronet s 13th-century mansion in Somerset.

She left him, says Sir Ben, at the same time as his 30-something odd-job man,
Jason Biddiscombe, vanished.

Worse still, the colourful baronet tells me Kirsten, 45, abandoned him not long
after he helped her secure a share of a £4.5[0/00]million inheritance left to
her by her godmother.

But far from wallowing in self- pity at the loss of his newly- wealthy partner
and his employee, colourful Sir Ben is advertising for replacements -- both a
new handyman and a girlfriend.

Tory-supporting Sir Ben, 65, had lived in unmarried bliss with glamorous Kirsten
for 12 years. She shared his 13-bedroom Maunsel House, near Bridgwater, where
Chaucer wrote some of the Canterbury Tales.

Sir Ben also owns nearby Woodlands Castle -- 1,400 acres in all.

Worth an estimated £20[0/00]million, though he frequently pleads poverty, Sir
Ben was filming Sky s programme on country houses, The Guest Wing, when staff
informed him that Kirsten had been romancing his handyman for more than three
years. The couple had a blazing row and Kirsten left.

Now eccentric Sir Ben has posted the following advertisement online:  Sir Ben is
on the search for a young lady! You must have: a shotgun certificate, be able to
run two castles, an estate and a grouse moor.[0/00].[0/00].[0/00]

Must be able to breed two sons (don t mind if she has bred before and is
proven).

A little private capital and income would be helpful. A large fortune would be
more helpful.

He tells me:  I was so busy trying to run this place I didn t notice what was
going on between Kirsten and Jason. I had also been working with lawyers in
Scotland on a very complex legal case to secure Kirsten s multi-million- pound
inheritance. I managed to do that and then she walks out!

SKIN SCARE FOR PEELING SOPHIE

As if she hasn t had enough trouble in her life, including an addiction to
cocaine and boyfriend woes, Sophie Anderton has been struggling to stop her face
turning black .

The model, who once dated multi-millionaire Robert Hanson, discovered to her
horror that the skin on her face was changing colour thanks to her over-use of
chemical peels.

After years of microdermabrasion in her 20s -- a treatment that removes the top
layers of skin -- Sophie, 34, believed she had permanently damaged her pigment.

Now, she has to travel twice-a-week from her home in Surrey to a specialist
cosmetic clinic in North London for a two-hour repairing treatment.

Sophie over-did it when she was younger and was left with paper-thin skin,  says
Andria Vassiliou, who manufactures Cetuem organic creams which, Sophie says,
have re-instated her original skin colour.

She sunbathed after the peels and then found patches of her skin were turning
black,  says Andria at a charity auction hosted by actress Sally Farmiloe last
week for Food Relief International.

She s been coming to me twice a week for two years.

Says Sophie:  It has completely changed my life. It s a miracle.

EARL S GIRL BO: I M NOT POSH

Congratulations to the Earl of Cardigan s plucky daughter, Lady Catherine
Brudenell-Bruce, who has turned her life around after she descended into a drugs
and alcohol hell -- only to emerge as a star on BBC s The Voice.

But Catherine, 27, who appears under her stage name Bo Bruce, wants to dispel
any notion that she was born to a life of privilege.  That spoon in my mouth was
pretty rusty and not very silver,  he says.

Until recently, Bo worked behind the bar of a West London pub and says she
struggles to pay her bills  just like everyone else .

She has been estranged from her irascible father for seven years, and her
mother, Rosamond, Cardigan s first wife, is fighting pancreatic cancer in
hospital.

Please don t think I fit into any stereotype because I don t,  says Bo.  As for
the drink and drugs, as a teenager I was a mess, turning to the wrong things to
try to make myself feel better.

I feel so fortunate I managed to get out of that hole.

One omission from the obituaries on Princess Margaret s private secretary Lord
Napier who has died aged 81 concern his crucial role in the fraught conclusion
of Margaret s marriage to Lord Snowdon.

In the summer of 1976, Margaret abruptly announced she was getting divorced
while her husband was in Australia with Lucy Lindsay-Hogg. But as Snowdon flew
back to Heathrow, Margaret realised he would head to Kensington Palace, where
the couple lived with their two children, David and Sarah. The hapless Napier
was dispatched to intercept Snowdon and inform him he couldn t go home.

It was extremely delicate,  says a friend.  Napier liked Snowdon and Snowdon
liked him. Then he was faced with telling him to find somewhere else to go. Not
a very nice thing to have to do.

Snowdon was diverted to his mother s apartment in Belgravia and the Queen later
bought him a palatial grace-and-favour Kensington house -- now worth
£12[0/00]million.

For the second time in 15 years, Sir Peter Graham-Moon has given up on his
300-year-old pub, The Red Lion in Bradenham, Bucks.

Sir Peter first abandoned the premises in 1997 when his girlfriend Mem
complained of the cold and they returned with their daughter Flana to Mem s
native Thailand. Now he has left again.

Sir Peter, 70, is best remembered for the revenge of his first wife Sarah, who
20 years ago left dozens of bottles of his finest wines on local doorsteps,
poured white paint over his BMW and snipped off the arms of 32 of his Savile Row
suits. As UKIP goes from strength to strength -- they re just one point behind
the Lib Dems in the polls -- the party s chain-smoking leader Nigel Farage is
throwing his weight behind a campaign to save a swathe of countryside in Kent
near where Charles Darwin developed his theory of evolution. Walsall-based
businessman Aamer Waheed wants to build a car park and cemetery near the village
of Keston.  We ought to be celebrating this site rather than allowing a
businessman to make a vast amount of money for a burial site that is not
required,  puffs Farage.

ps OH DEAR, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie will have nowhere to stay at next year
s Cannes Film Festival. The iconic Carlton Hotel is closing after this year s
event for l8 months and an £85[0/00]million refit. Past Hollywood patrons have
included Elizabeth Taylor, Grace Kelly, Cary Grant and Robert Mitchum. The hotel
was bought four months ago by Qatar-based investor Ghanim bin Saad al Saad and
will re-open as the Carlton Palace with 100 extra suites and two new swimming
pools.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 9, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip joins Lib Dems in third place, say polls;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words


The UK Independence Party is challenging the Liberal Democrats for third place
in the forthcoming local elections.

Recent opinion polls suggest that Ukip and the Liberal Democrats are both
recording 11 per cent support ahead of the local and mayoral elections in May.

An opinion poll by Survation found Labour with 35 per cent support compared with
30 per cent for the Conservatives.

The figures have led to demands from Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, for the BBC
and other broadcasters to give the party more prominence in their coverage.

Mr Farage, an MEP, said: "No doubt the BBC response to these results will be to
continue to treat the Greens as the fourth party and to pretend that Ukip does
not exist."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 9, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

Crackdown on the foreign crooks who use 'human rights' to avoid deportation

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 459 words


FOREIGN criminals who abuse human rights rules to avoid getting thrown out of
Britain are facing a crackdown, said Home Secretary Theresa May yesterday.

She vowed to have a tougher regime in place by summer to try to stop criminals
staying here by using the "right to a family life" guaranteed by Article 8 of
the European Convention on Human Rights.

The clause has been used by a string of criminals who argue they are entitled to
stay because they have formed relationships and had children in the UK.

The Home Secretary aims to change immigration rules so Article 8 can be used
only in "rare and exceptional" cases.

Judges will be told the right will not prevent removal of a foreigner who has
been convicted of a crime, breached immigration rules or cannot support
themselves and their family without relying on the state.

The Government and campaigners believe that courts have not always given enough
weight to the crimes committed and the threat posed - and say that the picture
was only confused by law that Labour passed in 2007.

Mrs May said: "I get as frustrated as anybody when I see somebody who should not
be in this country remaining."

However, the effectiveness of Mrs May's latest promise was questioned.

Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper said: "This won't close the massive gap
between the Government's rhetoric and reality on immigration. Nor will it
seriously tackle the Home Secretary's growing failure to deport foreign
criminals. "Since the Home Secretary took office the number of foreign criminals
being released into the community rather than being deported has gone up.

"And the number of people removed for breaking the rules has gone down.

"As the independent inspector of UK Border Agency has pointed out, the majority
of foreign criminals not deported do not remain here because of human rights.
The Home Secretary is still not addressing the growing failure by UKBA to deal
with foreign criminals."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the Government would still be powerless against
criminals from within the EU.

He said: "Anyone from within the EU can come to live, work and settle in this
country, and now they can claim benefits regardless of any criminal records.

"In fact, we cannot even deny rapists and murderers entry into the UK if they're
from the EU."

The importance of the issue was underlined by the case of Gabrielle Browne, who
fought a nine-year battle to get a foreign sex offender who had attacked her and
up to 10 other women deported.

In other recent cases a man branded a war criminal by a judge was able to escape
deportation because he had married a British woman and had children. Another man
was allowed to stay when a judge said the fact that a man had a cat showed he
was in a committed relationship.

OPINION PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 9, 2012 Monday

G2: Shortcuts: Pass notes: No 3,155: Siobhan Benita

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 335 words


Age: 40.

Appearance: Like your average Londoner.

What? Paranoid, unfriendly and exhausted?

No, just not like a politician.

Why would she look like a politician? Because she's the only independent
candidate running to be the mayor of London.

So how come I've never heard of her? She would argue that that is because
broadcasters are shutting her out of their coverage.

And are they? Well, duh. She's an independent, what do you expect them to do?

They could at least let her stand at the back of the debates and wave at
viewers. That's more or less what they have done, actually, at least on the BBC.
Last week's mayoral hustings on Newsnight confined Benita - along with the BNP's
Carlos Cortiglia and UKIP's Lawrence Webb - to a short pre-recorded message at
the end. Only Jenny Jones of the Green party was allowed to join in person the
debate with Ken Livingstone, Boris Johnson and Brian Paddick.

How did Benita feel about that decision? Outraged. She tweeted: "BBC Newsnight
having mayoral debate this evening but not giving me equal coverage either.
Broadcasters still working against democracy." She's also been excluded from
debates on LBC and BBC London Radio, as well as forthcoming televised hustings
on ITV

and Sky News.

Then let's right those wrongs here and now. Who is she - and what's she all
about? She's a former civil servant.

Yawn. She's fed up with the same old party politics and wants to shake things
up.

Again, yawn. If you want to shake things up buy some snow globes. Does she have
any actual policies? A few. Her full manifesto is due to launch this week but
she has already committed to freezing transport fares, introducing a skeleton
24-hour train service and keeping the tube open an hour later on Friday and

Saturday nights.

Not exactly radical, is it? No. But that's all the more reason not to lock her
out of the debate: she's unlikely to rock the boat.

Especially if she's in it. Exactly.

Do say: "I am not a politician . . ."

Don't say: ". . . that's why I'm asking you to help me become one."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 9, 2012
                                 First Edition

twittersphere

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 261 words


frasernelson Ladbrokes: 33-1 odds on Peter Hitchens to triumph as independent in
a byelection before 2015. Boris still odds-on to succeed Cameron. (Fraser
Nelson, editor of The Spectator) zanelowe Not even really a fan of sultana
bread, but put em in bun form, throw a cross on, serve em up in April and BOOM!

(Zane Lowe, DJ and broadcaster) BretEastonEllis Greta Gerwig is probably the
most interesting young American actress in movies now... (Bret Easton Ellis,
novelist) BorowitzReport Easter is the most American holiday because it converts
the resurrection of Jesus into the eating of chocolate.

(Andy Borowitz, comedian) edgarwright Jennifer Lawrence has now skinned
squirrels in two different movies. I say, cast her in the next Chipmunk
squeakquel. (Edgar Wright, director) laurenlaverne Best "Wheels on the Bus"
verse ever just suggested by Master Laverne (4) "The wierdos on the bus go up
and down" :((( #LDN (Lauren Laverne, broadcaster) Sarah Silverman Worrying u
don't get the respect u deserve is a great way to ensure you'll never get the
respect u deserve (SarahKSilverman, comedian) hopisen What odds on either or
both of Greens/UKIP beating LibDems in Mayoral elex? (Hopi Sen, political
blogger) nancyfranklin Helped a man up who'd fallen in the street, he gave me as
a gift 3 jokes. One: where does a goldfish keep its money? In a riverbank.
(Nancy Franklin, TV critic) mrchrisaddison Easter Joke! *Fanfare* I've been
doing Pilates. I don't feel any fitter but my hands are REALLY clean. *cymbal
crash, tumbleweed, footsteps* (Chris Addison, comedian)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 9, 2012 Monday 6:49 AM GMT

Baronet's lady and the handyman

BYLINE: RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1214 words


For Lady Chatterley, it was the gamekeeper.

But in a real-life love tangle, multi-millionaire landowner Sir Benjamin Slade
is blaming his handyman for stealing his lady of the manor.

For Sir Ben's long-term partner, actress Kirsten Hughes, I can reveal, is no
longer to be found living at the baronet's 13th-century mansion in Somerset.

She left him, says Sir Ben, at the same time as his 30-something odd-job man,
Jason Biddiscombe, vanished.

Worse still, the colourful baronet tells me Kirsten, 45, abandoned him not long
after he helped her secure a share of a £4.5 million inheritance left to her by
her godmother.

But far from wallowing in self- pity at the loss of his newly- wealthy partner
and his employee, colourful Sir Ben is advertising for replacements - both a new
handyman and a girlfriend.

Tory-supporting Sir Ben, 65, had lived in unmarried bliss with glamorous Kirsten
for 12 years. She shared his 13-bedroom Maunsel House, near Bridgwater, where
Chaucer wrote some of the Canterbury Tales.

Sir Ben also owns nearby Woodlands Castle - 1,400 acres in all.

Worth an estimated £20 million, though he frequently pleads poverty, Sir Ben was
filming Sky's programme on country houses, The Guest Wing, when staff informed
him that Kirsten had been romancing his handyman  for more than three years.

The couple had a blazing row and Kirsten left.

Now eccentric Sir Ben has posted the following advertisement online: 'Sir Ben is
on the search for a young lady! You must have: a shotgun certificate, be able to
run two castles, an estate and a grouse moor. . .

'Must be able to breed two sons (don't mind if she has bred before and is
proven).

'A little private capital and income would be helpful. A large fortune would be
more helpful.'

He tells me: 'I was so busy trying to run this place I didn't notice what was
going on between Kirsten and Jason. I had also been working with lawyers in
Scotland on a very complex legal case to secure Kirsten's multi-million- pound
inheritance. I managed to do that and then she walks out!'

As UKIP goes from strength to strength - they're just one point behind the Lib
Dems in the polls - the party's chain-smoking leader Nigel Farage is throwing
his weight behind a campaign to save a swathe of countryside in Kent near where
Charles Darwin developed his theory of evolution.

Walsall-based businessman Aamer Waheed wants to build a car park and cemetery
near the village of Keston.

'We ought to be celebrating this site rather than allowing a businessman to make
a vast amount of money for a burial site that is not required,' puffs Farage.

Earl's girl Bo: I'm not posh

Congratulations to the Earl of Cardigan's plucky daughter, Lady Catherine
Brudenell-Bruce, who has turned her life around after she descended into a drugs
and alcohol hell - only to emerge as a star on BBC's The Voice.

But Catherine, 27, who appears under her stage name Bo Bruce, wants to dispel
any notion that she was born to a life of privilege.

'That spoon in my mouth was pretty rusty and not very silver,' she says.

Until recently, Bo worked behind the bar of a West London pub and says she
struggles to pay her bills 'just like everyone else'.

She has been estranged from her irascible father for seven years, and her
mother, Rosamond, Cardigan's first wife, is fighting pancreatic cancer in
hospital.

'Please don't think I fit into any stereotype because I don't,' says Bo.

'As for the drink and drugs, as a teenager I was a mess, turning to the wrong
things to try to make myself feel better.

'I feel so fortunate I managed to get out of that hole.'

For the second time in 15 years, Sir Peter Graham-Moon has given up on his
300-year-old pub, The Red Lion in Bradenham, Bucks.

Sir Peter first abandoned the premises in 1997 when his girlfriend Mem
complained of the cold and they returned with their daughter Flana to Mem's
native Thailand. Now he has left again.

Sir Peter, 70, is best remembered for the revenge of his first wife Sarah, who
20 years ago left dozens of bottles of his finest wines on local doorsteps,
poured white paint over his BMW  and snipped off the  arms of 32 of his Savile
Row suits.

Skin scare for peeling Sophie

As if she hasn't had enough trouble in her life, including an addiction to
cocaine and boyfriend woes, Sophie Anderton has been struggling to stop her face
'turning black'.

The model, who once dated multi-millionaire Robert Hanson, discovered to her
horror that the skin on her face was changing colour thanks to her over-use of
chemical peels.

After years of microdermabrasion in her 20s - a treatment that removes the top
layers of skin - Sophie, 34, believed she had permanently damaged her pigment.

Now, she has to travel twice-a-week from  her home in Surrey  to a specialist
cosmetic clinic in North London for a two-hour repairing treatment.

'Sophie over-did it when she was younger and was left with paper-thin skin,'
says Andria Vassiliou, who manufactures Cetuem organic creams which, Sophie
says, have re-instated her original skin colour.

'She sunbathed after the peels and then found patches of her skin were turning
black,' says Andria at a charity auction hosted by actress Sally Farmiloe last
week for Food Relief International.

'She's been coming  to me twice a week for two years.'

Says Sophie: 'It has completely changed my life. It's a miracle.'

One omission from the obituaries on Princess Margaret's private secretary Lord
Napier, who has died aged 81, concerns his crucial role in the fraught
conclusion of Margaret's marriage to Lord Snowdon.

In the summer of 1976, Margaret abruptly announced she was getting divorced
while her husband  was in Australia with Lucy Lindsay-Hogg.

But as Snowdon flew back to Heathrow, Margaret realised he would head to
Kensington Palace, where the couple lived with their two children, David and
Sarah.

The hapless Napier was dispatched to intercept Snowdon.

'It was extremely delicate,' says a friend. 'Napier liked Snowdon and Snowdon
liked him. He was faced with telling him to find somewhere else to go. Not a
nice thing to have to do.'

Snowdon was diverted to his mother's apartment in Belgravia and the Queen later
bought him a palatial grace-and-favour Kensington house - now worth £12 million.

PS...

Oh dear, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie will have nowhere to stay at next year's
Cannes Film Festival.

The iconic Carlton Hotel is closing after this year's event for l8 months and an
£85 million refit. Past Hollywood patrons have included Elizabeth Taylor, Grace
Kelly, Cary Grant and Robert Mitchum.

The hotel was bought four months ago by Qatar-based investor Ghanim bin Saad al
Saad and will re-open as the Carlton Palace with 100 extra suites and two new
swimming pools.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        April 9, 2012 Monday 2:33 PM GMT

It's a tough life, being Home Secretary - but Theresa May is right to be 'nasty'

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1177 words


There are moments when I am thoroughly glad that I am not the Home Secretary. It
is not her fault that she presides over a schizophrenic department charged with
both upholding the law and upholding the rights of criminals. Nor that she is
responsible for defending our borders against those who most of us would rather
not have here, while at the same time defending the "human rights" of those who
sneak their way in to our country to work for our harm. And on top of that, to
pay for their money-grubbing lawyers to help them resist being thrown out.

Poor Mrs May. Her perfectly sensible efforts to allow the prosecution of
suspected terrorists without having to expose vital information about our
security services were heavily attacked last week. Of course there is a balance
to be preserved between ensuring that justice is seen to be done and protecting
the intended victims of those attacking our country. However, as in any fight
against the violent hostile forces who threaten peace and security, it is the
right of British people to go peacefully about their business which should trump
the rights of those determined to rob them of that right.

In an earlier Battle of Britain we did not only mourn our dead, but we could
cheer as enemy bombers and their crews were seen plummeting in flames to a
violent end. It is not like that in the war waged against Britain today. Many
successes of our forces go unreported - and the more successful our forces are
in frustrating the plans of our enemies, the more complacent many people become,
believing that the absence of bombings and killings springs from an outbreak of
decency amongst our enemies, rather than the success of our intelligence
services.

There is something similar about the outburst of indignation over the
Government's proposal that telephone companies and internet operators should
maintain records of calls made for two years and that the Government should have
access to those records in order to detect patterns of communications between
those suspected of criminal acts or intent.

In both cases it seems to me that what should be at issue is not the principle,
but the restrictions which should be put in place to safeguard the rights of the
innocent.

At first glance the Home Secretary seems to be on rather easier ground in her
efforts to restrict the rights of judges to allow the exploitation of the "right
to family life" provisions of human rights law. There is overwhelming support
for ending the nonsense by which the rights of foreign criminals have been given
priority over those of their victims. Indeed Mrs May is to be applauded for
trying to be more like those "nasty" Conservatives she used to decry. The danger
for her is that if she fails to deliver on this she will be denounced not just
by the Leftists in the human-rights industry for being nasty, but by sensible
Conservative and Labour supporters alike for being ineffective. I hope that,
unlike so many of her colleagues, she has thought this through and will not have
to back down.

It is a hard life being the Home Secretary, especially in a Coalition in which
the panic-stricken Lib Dem tail is frantically wagging the Conservative dog, as
one poll suggests that Ukip may be ousting the Lib Dems as the third party in
our politics.

...

Amongst your comments last week there were some largely futile exchanges between
pretty polly, assegai, tepid cocoa, and others which did little to advance the
cause of enlightenment and some real absurdities such as helenoake's claim that
Margaret Thatcher was like Hitler, which was dealt with quite robustly by
bersher, Delboy 36, and glowered. Once again there was some vintage bilge from
Fabian Solutions. That was ended by an outburst of common sense from
english_pensioner who observed that he would have been tempted to vote for
Galloway "out of sheer bloody mindedness", whilst assegai would have done so out
of detestation of Blair, Middle East Wars and "gay marriage". Then johnmcevoy
said he was cheered by this rejection of Westminster, and Jackthesmilingblack
thought it all made worth while by Galloway's entertainment value. I hope he
proves to be right.

Despite all that, I still rather doubt that many former Conservative voters
switched to Labour and remain of the view that his votes came mainly from former
Labour voters and abstainers in 2010. At any event as manmachine and others
said, it should make the other party leaders think, or as darkseid put it, "it
is two fingers to the establishment." There were plenty of you, including
thewiganer, Islingtonblue, Zeusgoose and therealpm, who blamed a lot of this on
to the lack of substantial difference between the three main parties, and I am
sure there is a lot in that.

A good many of you, including rubyduck and1963 oakeh, expressed concern at the
way in which our electoral system is wide open to fraud. It always has been, but
for the last hundred years and more the accepted norms of conduct ensured that
there was never any significant fraud. Sadly that is no longer so. As
shakesphere wrote, Royal Mail postmen know how many items of election material
go to very small houses and flats. Perhaps jonanon1 is right and we have now
introduced multiculturalism into our elections.

I very much regretted the tone, and indeed content, of some posts which followed
Laveen Ladharam's criticism (with which I did not agree) of Enoch Powell.

Some of them were quite grotesque. I am all in favour of these islands remaining
the national home of we British. I think we have more to be proud of and less of
which to be ashamed than many other nations. However, to claim superiority in
all things over all other is absurd. Just recollect the state of Chinese
civilisation well over 2,000 years ago compared with ours, or Middle Eastern
architecture or mathematics 1,500 years ago. The rudeness of danoconnor (who to
judge by that name may well not even be British) towards Laveen Ladharam was
sickening and I hope that when he thinks about it he might feel he should
apologise. Indeed he might take a lesson from Sarahl whose disagreement was
couched in reasoned terms.

I was disappointed, but not surprised, that a britabroad was still claiming that
'no one voted (in 2010) for a Conservative or Labour majority' Well only 10.7
million Tories and 8.6 million Labour supporters. As to the Bradford vote, no
one was voting for a government. It was a by-election. We will see what happens
in 2015, but it certainly has shaken the main party leaders. I have written
often enough about the dangers of leaving so many electors without reason to
vote for the major parties, and that was well demonstrated at Bradford.

The post which stood out from all others was from oldandarthritic. He was
absolutely right to say that the problem we face is not that of Muslim belief
and culture but our lack of belief and culture of our own. Islam, he said, gives
it followers the morals and backbone which Christianity once gave to us, but
which we now disdain. Or as I have put it in the past, it is not easy to beat
something with nothing.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 8, 2012 Sunday

Billion Euro House opened by Dublin artist

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 668 words

ABSTRACT

Frank Buckley's museum, in which he lives rent-free, is lined, carpeted and
decorated with 1bn decommissioned euro notes

FULL TEXT

Eurosceptics have themselves a new must-see Irish tourist destination: a Dublin
museum in memory of the euro.

Set inside an apartment whose interior walls are built from blocks of more than
1bn decommissioned euro notes, the museum is a monument to the death of the
dream of the single currency.

Based in Dublin's cobblestoned Smithfield district, a two-minute walk from the
river Liffey, the artist who lives in the Billion Euro House opened his home as
a museum over the Easter weekend.

Surrounded by shredded euro notes covering the walls, floors, tables, chairs and
even his toilet bowl, Frank Buckley said he had had so many foreign visitors
wanting to see his unusual abode that he had turned the place where he eats,
sleeps and lives into a gallery-museum.

Pointing to a gravestone placed inside his front window, a sawdust pile of
desiccated euro notes over the "burial lawn", Buckley said: "I went up to
Glasnevin cemetery and asked for a headstone to bury Irish national sovereignty
in 2010. I think we killed it. So personally I wanted to bury the bad euro."

Buckley lives rent-free in his ground-floor flat inside the slickly designed
Glasshouse building. He moved in there after he went into negative equity in his
home in Co Wicklow. His idea for building a home interior from bricks of
compacted disused euros tickled the landlord, he said, and the shredded money
was given to him by Ireland's central bank.

As an official Dublin tour bus passed by the museum, Buckley said: "I am going
to get them to come into the Museum to the Euro and what they will see is a
light blue-white pebbledash on the wall that at first they won't really
understand. But their curiosity will be answered when I tell them this
represents more than a billion euros that are now just worth bricks. They will
be in the most expensive house in the world and I live in it for free."

Even the euro-wrapped toilet he uses every day has been transformed into a
museum piece, which the public can view, but definitely not use. This
installation will be named the "Bertie Bowl" to commemorate the disgraced former
Taoiseach, recently accused in a report into corruption of lying about his
personal finances.

"When I was sitting on it one day a lot of thoughts were flashing around in my
head like 'flushing money down the toilet', which is exactly what this society
was doing in the so-called boom. Then it dawned on me that our ex-leader Bertie
Ahern ... had grandiose plans to build a national soccer-only stadium that in
the end never got off the ground. It was nicknamed the Bertie Bowl that was
never built. Now we have a piece called the Bertie Bowl in memory of those
wasted years and that folly."

Asked whether the former prime minister was invited to the museum, Buckley said:
"I really don't think he would see the irony of it."

But the artist said he would be happy to invite Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader,
and any other Eurosceptics from the UK to his museum.

"We could hold a debate here about the single currency surrounded by millions of
euros," he said.

Local business owners have welcomed the house's transformation. Kieran Finnerty,
the owner of the nearby Dice Bar pub and music venue, said the gallery-museum
was very appropriate given that the area around it had been devastated by
Ireland's disastrous property crash.

Pointing to the Glasshouse, Finnery said: "That building has been empty since it
was built six or seven years ago. So at least it's being put to good use and the
landlord now has a better opportunity to rent it out because people are going in
and out of the building now."

Opening the gallery-museum, Robert Ballagh, the artist who drew the original
designs for Ireland's euro notes, said Buckley's home "asks important questions
of us, of the nature of our society, of our obsession with money and property,
and how that has brought us to the state we are in".

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 8, 2012
                                 First Edition

For everything but rain;
The IoS Diary

BYLINE: Matthew Bell

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 763 words


Casting has begun for a new film adaptation of Swallows and Amazons. The BBC is
behind the production, which is scheduled for release next year. It follows the
success of a musical staging of Arthur Ransome's 1930 story, featuring songs by
The Divine Comedy's Neil Hannon, which is touring after a West End debut. The
surprise is how few screen versions have been made: one in the 1970s, starring
Virginia McKenna (pictured below), and one in the 1980s, with Rosemary Leach.
Though both have retired, producers for the new adaptation should note that
another big name also once starred: Julian Fellowes. He played the part of
"Hullaballoo" Jerry, the baddy with a pencil moustache. The Beeb would be sure
of a hit if it persuaded Julian to return to his acting career ....

?????????

One of the most moving tributes to the late Christopher Hitchens came recently
from his brother, Peter. The two writers famously never agreed on anything:
Christopher was an atheist and one-time Trotskyist, Peter is a Christian and
unwaveringly right wing. But it's good to see that Peter has gone back to
celebrating their differences. Writing in the Mail on Sunday last week, Peter
celebrated George Galloway's surprise victory, saying he rather liked the
maverick MP, "because he says what he means and believes what he says". He
added: "It is thanks to these qualities that he is a thrilling public speaker
and devastating debater." Never more so than when locking horns with
Christopher, an arch-enemy, who memorably chose rather more colourful words to
describe Galloway: "He looks so much like what he is: a thug and a demagogue,
the type of working-class-wideboy-and-proud-of-it who is too used to the
expenses account, the cars and the hotels - all cigars and back-slapping. He is
a very cheap character and a short-arse." No wonder Peter likes him.

?????????

Tomorrow sees an important anniversary in Conservative Party history: it'll be
20 years since it won a general election, in 1992. Cue much nostalgia for the
good old days of John Major, who pulled off that surprise victory. Leading the
Major reassessment is Peter Oborne, who admits he "looks back with regret and
mortification" at his record from that time, when, as a junior hack, he piled in
with criticism like everyone else. One person not reaching for the birch twigs
is Anthony Seldon, the self-publicising headmaster of Wellington College. He has
written to the Telegraph to boast that, in his biography of Major, he "took the
unpopular line that he was a much better prime minister than most argued at the
time". Writing to newspapers to say "I told you so" is not an attractive
quality. It's particularly odd when, as Seldon admits, you are the "authorised
biographer" of the person in question. It would be more surprising if he hadn't
been pro-Major.

?????????

Millionaire lyricist Sir Tim Rice once admitted that he yearned to be a pop
star. Now, he has shone a light on why he never got very far with it. In the
1970s, he sang with the inexplicably named Huddersfield Transit Authority.
Unwieldy names work for some bands, but this didn't do much for him. He has
written about this strange episode in a letter to Record Collector magazine. "I
was thrilled to see a single by Huddersfield Transit Authority featured in the
excellent article on the brilliant British sax player Tubby Hayes," he writes.
"However Simon Spillett's piece stated that the vocalist on 'Runaway' was Terry
Saunders, which is inaccurate. The vocalist, ... was me." Alas, Spotify doesn't
appear to have a recording.

?????????

Eric Pickles could find himself on the wrong side of Selina Scott, who has waded
into a planning row in the Yorkshire town of Malton. It's the usual story:
council gives permission to supermarket on council site, netting itself £5m. As
the minister for Local Government and Communities, Pickles will now have to
rule. Scott likes a fight: she successfully sued Five when it reneged on an
agreement to hire her to cover Natasha Kaplinsky's maternity leave. Backing the
people of Malton, she quotes Oscar Wilde and "people who know the cost of
everything, but the value of nothing". She's using every weapon going.

?????????

Ping! An email from Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip. He's worked up about George
Osborne's plans for ministers to publish their tax returns. "When will it end?"
he rants. "The last 20 years of tax returns? School reports? Medical records?"
In his haste, Farage may not have double-checked the email's subject heading. It
reads: "We will drive talent out of politics: Farage". Promise?

m.bell@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 8, 2012 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

IoS letters, emails & online postings (8 April 2012)

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 838 words


You have highlighted the devastating damage inflicted on girls and young women,
and on all of society, by a culture that perpetually judges women and girls on
their looks, rather than who they are or what they do ("Girls, interrupted...
the true cost of low self-esteem", 1 April). As well as dampening their
aspirations and directly impacting equality, the persistent portrayal of women
as objects to be judged - based on stereotypical values of sexual attractiveness
- negatively impacts the attitudes of boys and men, and often leads to
discrimination, harassment and violence against women and girls.

We presented evidence to the Leveson inquiry to tackle prejudicial reporting of
violence against women and girls, and to call for an end to the portrayal of
women as sex objects in the UK press. With growing evidence of the harms
associated with sexualisation and objectification, and with all eyes on the
outcomes of much needed reforms of the regulation of the press, now is the time
for decision-makers to take action to promote equality and to stop the
stereotyping of women as sex objects in our media.

Anna van Heeswijk

OBJECT, London W4

Heather Harvey

Eaves, London SW9

Holly Dustin

End Violence Against Women Coalition, London EC2

Jacqui Hunt

Equality Now, London SW1

Body image and self-esteem are serious issues but it is an outdated myth that
this works only one way; as women's influence in society and particularly the
media has grown over the past 30 years, obsession with physical looks and
fashion has increased exponentially. Now boys and men as well are under constant
pressure to worry about their appearance. I'm sure I have not been alone, though
it often seemed that way, in being a male whose confidence and opportunities
have been diminished over decades by a profound sense of discomfort at my own
appearance. This is not a gender issue but an ugliness issue.

Mike Shearing

Sabah, East Malaysia

Would it have hurt to feature a more diverse line-up in your report on low
self-esteem among girls? Are there no black or Chinese businesswomen? However,
black people were duly represented in a feature about global poverty ("The real
hunger games"). I expect your paper to challenge stereotypes, not reinforce
them.

Lucia Shaw

Chorley, Lancashire

Plenty of people are born with a stake in Britain without ever needing to graft
for it (Janet Street-Porter, 1 April). Any child born to an even moderately
well-off family with equity in a house, or one with the wherewithal to get them
to a good school, has a stake just by being born. Not to mention a child born
already registered at Eton. Many others are born into poor families with little
prospect of a good education or even employment who have to graft really hard to
get on to the first rung in society. Looters and rioters should face justice -
but there needs to be an even greater justice than that.

Bob Morgan

Thatcham, Berkshire

I do not blame Francis Maude for the appalling petrol chatter causing panic and
chaos throughout Britain. I blame David Cameron: the buck stops with him. He
gave Mr Maude a job, and has turned most of us into a depressed, frustrated and
angry people. This millionaire and his equally wealthy cronies are always all
right. I wish I could sack the self-serving lot.

Jenny Rainbird

Epsom, Surrey

It is an insult to the 18,341 people who voted for George Galloway in Bradford
West to suggest that they did so only because they are Muslims ("A win that has
made fools of us all", 1 April). It is not only Muslims who are having to work
longer for less pension, or whose children are missing university education
because of the high tuition fees. And it is not only Muslims who are against the
plan to replace Trident nuclear weapons system at a cost of £100bn while NHS
accident and emergency departments are closing down and pensioners choose
between eating and heating.

More British people should go for independent Members of Parliament like George
Galloway who can speak out without the fear of offending party leaders and
risking political careers. Most MPs are indebted to their funders from trade
unions or big business.

Sam Akaki

London W3

If an unpopular figure such as George Galloway can cause the Labour and
Conservative vote to collapse, the next Parliament could have representatives
from the English Democrats and Ukip.

Nigel Bywater

Leeds

The granny tax is not "a squeeze on pensioners on incomes of between £8,000 and
£24,000 a year" ("Mr Cameron, get a grip", 1 April). The tax comes into effect
from April 2013, at which time the personal allowance for those aged 64 to 74
becomes £10,500. The additional personal allowance for pensioners only gradually
reduces for taxable incomes between £24,000 and £29,000.

John J Hedley

Ramsbottom, Lancashire

Have your say

Letters to the Editor, Independent on Sunday, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5HF;
email: sundayletters@independent.co.uk (with address; no attachments, please);
fax: 020 7005 2627; online: independent.co.uk/dayinapage/2012/April/8

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 8, 2012 Sunday 9:36 PM GMT

Mrs May's crackdown on the ECHR: not a cat's chance in hell

BYLINE: ANNABELLE FULLER

LENGTH: 556 words


Every few years a Home Secretary makes an announcement about how they are going
to change legislation on immigration. They're going to tighten up rules, they
are going to close loopholes and the realise that these laws, which are always
the fault of the previous administration, are not in line with public sentiment.
And there are elections coming up so there is nothing more important to a
politician than appearing to care about what the voter thinks.

Failure to deport foreign criminals was the reason that then Home Secretary
Charles Clarke resigned. For those of us who want out of the EU, it lead to a
mass sharp intake of breath as we realised that a government minister, a senior
cabinet minister no less, would take the bullet for an EU law.

Let's get this one straight - the EU is not just about trade, it's about the
free movement of people. If someone is a member of an EU country, they can
travel into the UK and stay there for 3 months without having to get in touch
with the immigration authorities. Considering that this government can't keep
control of who comes in and out of this country, can you really imagine them
spending time and money tracking people down after 3 months if they didn't know
they were here in the first place?

Our embarkation controls were removed in 1994 by the Conservative Party and when
Labour took power, after sign off by MEPs including Labour, Lib Dems, Tories and
Green, Labour waved them through Westminster.

One of these laws is EU Directive 2004/58/EC of the 29th April 2004.

I don't usually cite tedious legislative numbers but when it comes to the EU,
unless you wave it in people's faces they think it's just 'scaremongering'. Look
how few people, for example, are aware that the reason the taxes on pasties and
sausage rolls went up was because of a ruling by the European Court of Justice?
Ed 'the duck' Miliband and Ed Balls made a big show of eating a fatty snack in a
bakers but fact is, they'd have done the same thing.

And so back to Mrs May and her plans to stop an end to foreign criminals being
allowed to stay in the UK.

If she wants to change the law to allow the UK to deport criminals from within
the EU she is going to have a pretty tough time.

1. Subject to the provisions of this charter, Member States may restrict the
freedom of movement and residence of Union citizens and their family members,
irrespective of nationality, on grounds of public policy, public security or
public health. These grounds shall not be invoked to serve economic ends.

2. ...Previous criminal convictions shall not in themselves constitute grounds
for taking such measures.

If the Home Secretary, and indeed the people of this country, wish to control
our own borders, decide to stays in this country, who can work or claim benefits
in this country, then the only way is to leave the EU.

This Conservative Government is not going to get an EU which wants ever more
control to repeal an act which is at the heart of what the EU exists for:
integration. Only UKIP stand for that policy.

As with immigration caps, I suspect that the EU element will be ignored. It'll
be 'non EU citizens' only who are mentioned as some kind of victory and the half
a billion who aren't included, including rapists and murderers, well they just
don't count, do they Mrs May. Or have I let the cat out of the bag?

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 8, 2012 Sunday 9:36 PM GMT

Dave's trumpet strikes a wonky note. Perhaps it's time for retuning...

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

LENGTH: 782 words


David Cameron's fortnight from hell has been followed by an entirely predictable
opinion poll slump.

A Survation survey for the Mail on Sunday puts the Conservatives on 30 per cent
- the lowest figure since Dave took over the reins of his party more than six
years ago.

The poll also gave anti-European UKIP 11 per cent, its highest score since it
rocked the political establishment by sweeping up 16.5 per cent of the vote in
the 2009 European elections.

The two figures bode ill for Dave as he approaches the mid-term test of the
council elections next month. And, because they suggest that old-style Tories
are defecting to a overtly right-wing party, they will worry Boris Johnson as
well.

Local and mayoral elections are essentially core vote affairs and Boris cannot
afford Conservative diehards switching their support to a party that shares
their traditional social attitudes, such as opposition to gay marriage, and
their hostility to Brussels.

Conventional wisdom has it that Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne are on the
ropes because their privileged backgrounds make them "out of touch" with
ordinary voters - hence the derision that has greeted the pasty tax, the kitchen
supper and the idea that we all have garages big enough to accommodate a
lorry-load of jerry cans that can be filled with enough petrol to stave off a
nuclear winter.

There is probably something in this jibe. The Mail on Sunday poll also found
that two out of three people think that the "real Dave" is the Oxford University
fop of Bullingdon Club fame.

Cameron cannot do much about the fact that he went to Eton and Oxford and enjoys
a spot of riding on nags farmed out by the Met to the Chipping Norton set.

But he can do something about the fact that his Government seems a mass of
contradictions. As the Bible has it: "For if the trumpet give an uncertain
sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?"

Here are six recent mixed messages, the PM might care to ponder. Others will no
doubt think of plenty more. They cover Europe, banker's bonuses, civil
liberties, charitable giving and the Big Society, cuts to the top rate of income
tax, and the future of Christianity.

On all of them, the PM faces both ways at once.

He vetoed the proposed new European treaty, then meekly retreated and let Merkel
and Sarkozy have their way without a peep of protest about their illegal
decision to use the institutions of the EU to police budgetary decisions by
Eurozone states.

Cameron and Osborne have both urged the banks to rein in their bonuses, and
defended the right of their bosses to make their own decisions about rewards for
high-fliers.

On civil liberties, Cameron pledged at the time of the formation of the
Coalition: 'We will scale back Labour's database state and protect the privacy
of the public's information.' Now he wants powers to snoop on the nation's
emails.

The Big Society has long been one of his pet projects, even if most of the
country either cannot comprehend it or think it is smokescreen for spending
cuts. Now, as The Observer reported at the weekend, charities are up in arms at
the Budget announcement that tax relief on donations is to be capped.

Osborne said that the 50p rate of income tax for high earners was a "temporary
measure" and announced in the Budget that it would drop to 45p next year, the
implication being that he would soon scrap it altogether since it raised
virtually no extra revenue and acted solely to deter business start-ups and
expansion. Now the Chancellor indicates that the 45p rate is here to stay.

Cameron told church leaders recently that he wanted to see a Christian fightback
and supported the right of believers to wear a cross at work. But his Equalities
Minister Lynne Featherstone has ordered Government lawyers to tell the European
Court of Human Rights that such conduct is unlawful.

Cameron has also bizarrely pleaded with the Churches "not to fall out" with him
over gay marriage. Did he seriously believe that the Archbishop of Canterbury
and the Pope were going to endorse an upheaval that flies in the face of
centuries of Christian doctrine?

And how does the legalisation of gay marriage square with the notion that
Christians should reassert their beliefs?

All governments have to reset their compasses from time to time. They even have
to admit they have got things wrong and attempt a graceful U-turn or full-scale
retreat.

But political success - like success anywhere - does require leadership,
consistency and coherence. That way the troops, in this case Tory MPs, members
and supporters, know who they are fighting for and what they are fighting for.

Some clarity of purpose might not come amiss from No 10 over the next few weeks
and months.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 8, 2012 Sunday 7:06 PM GMT

Mrs May's crack down on the ECHR: not a cat's chance in hell

BYLINE: ANNABELLE FULLER

LENGTH: 556 words


Every few years a Home Secretary makes an announcement about how they are going
to change legislation on immigration. They're going to tighten up rules, they
are going to close loopholes and the realise that these laws, which are always
the fault of the previous administration, are not in line with public sentiment.
And there are elections coming up so there is nothing more important to a
politician than appearing to care about what the voter thinks.

Failure to deport foreign criminals was the reason that then Home Secretary
Charles Clarke resigned. For those of us who want out of the EU, it lead to a
mass sharp intake of breath as we realised that a government minister, a senior
cabinet minister no less, would take the bullet for an EU law.

Let's get this one straight - the EU is not just about trade, it's about the
free movement of people. If someone is a member of an EU country, they can
travel into the UK and stay there for 3 months without having to get in touch
with the immigration authorities. Considering that this government can't keep
control of who comes in and out of this country, can you really imagine them
spending time and money tracking people down after 3 months if they didn't know
they were here in the first place?

Our embarkation controls were removed in 1994 by the Conservative Party and when
Labour took power, after sign off by MEPs including Labour, Lib Dems, Tories and
Green, Labour waved them through Westminster.

One of these laws is EU Directive 2004/58/EC of the 29th April 2004.

I don't usually cite tedious legislative numbers but when it comes to the EU,
unless you wave it in people's faces they think it's just 'scaremongering'. Look
how few people, for example, are aware that the reason the taxes on pasties and
sausage rolls went up was because of a ruling by the European Court of Justice?
Ed 'the duck' Miliband and Ed Balls made a big show of eating a fatty snack in a
bakers but fact is, they'd have done the same thing.

And so back to Mrs May and her plans to stop an end to foreign criminals being
allowed to stay in the UK.

If she wants to change the law to allow the UK to deport criminals from within
the EU she is going to have a pretty tough time.

1. Subject to the provisions of this charter, Member States may restrict the
freedom of movement and residence of Union citizens and their family members,
irrespective of nationality, on grounds of public policy, public security or
public health. These grounds shall not be invoked to serve economic ends.

2. ...Previous criminal convictions shall not in themselves constitute grounds
for taking such measures.

If the Home Secretary, and indeed the people of this country, wish to control
our own borders, decide to stays in this country, who can work or claim benefits
in this country, then the only way is to leave the EU.

This Conservative Government is not going to get an EU which wants ever more
control to repeal an act which is at the heart of what the EU exists for:
integration. Only UKIP stand for that policy.

As with immigration caps, I suspect that the EU element will be ignored. It'll
be 'non EU citizens' only who are mentioned as some kind of victory and the half
a billion who aren't included, including rapists and murderers, well they just
don't count, do they Mrs May. Or have I let the cat out of the bag?

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 8, 2012 Sunday 11:36 AM GMT

This IS a Government of chums, say six out of ten in damning new poll

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS

LENGTH: 716 words



     ·    Nearly two out of three say entry to Mr Cameron's elite inner circle
          depends on 'who you know'
     ·    Three out of ten said George Osborne was a 'snob'
     ·    Ratings of Boris Johnson show that it is possible to have a privileged
          background and still be popular


David Cameron is running a 'Government of chums' where 'who you know' matters
more than 'what you know' - and he is becoming  dangerously out of touch with
voters as a result.

That is the finding of a new poll in the wake of the longest run  of political
and public-relations blunders by the Tories, many self-inflicted, since Mr
Cameron became Prime Minister.

The hostile reaction to the 'granny tax,' the 'pasty tax,' the petrol panic and
the Downing Street 'donorgate' scandal appears to have led to a growing feeling
that Mr Cameron and his Ministers are elitist and remote.

The phrase 'a Government of chums' was first coined in a leader column in The
Mail on Sunday last week, which asserted that 'a small group of people from very
similar backgrounds, who have known each other for years, are running the
country mainly by talking to each other - and to nobody else'.

The idea was then taken up by former Tory Cabinet Minister Norman Tebbit in The
Times the following day.

Now, a poll by Survation for The Mail on Sunday provides convincing evidence
that the public concurs.

More than six out of ten say Mr Cameron heads a 'Government of chums' - fewer
than one in seven disagree.

Nearly two out of three say entry to Mr Cameron's elite inner circle depends on
'who you know' against just one in five who say 'what you know' matters more.

Perhaps the most damning verdict came when voters were shown two photographs of
Mr Cameron - one in his Oxford University Bullingdon Club days and a more recent
one showing him dressed in jeans drinking a pint of beer in a pub - and then
asked to identify the 'real David Cameron'.

The Bullingdon Club emerged as the 'real Cameron' by a margin of 63 per cent to
37 per cent.

Nearly three-quarters of the population view the Conservatives as 'out of touch'
and 61 per cent say the Tory leader is 'more style than substance'.

The rest of the Cabinet fares little better when it comes to sharing the pain of
the recession.

Nearly seven out of ten say that Ministers are not personally committed to their
'we're all in it together' slogan.

Four out of ten say Mr Cameron is a 'snob' and he polled a lowly average of 13
per cent for being 'in touch', 'caring', charismatic', 'sincere' and
'trustworthy', while nearly one in four said he was 'competent'.

Three out of ten pin the same 'snob' label on George Osborne. A dismal one in 25
say the Chancellor is 'caring'.

Yet the ratings of  the Prime Minister's fellow Old Etonian Boris Johnson show
that it is possible to have a privileged background and still be popular.

When asked who they would invite to dinner, the public put Mr Johnson way ahead
with 22 per cent, followed by Mr Cameron on eight per cent.

Only one in ten regard state school-educated Ed Miliband as a snob, yet a mere
five per cent would want to sit next to him at dinner, making him a less popular
guest than ex-Labour MP George Galloway.

Similarly, London Mayor Mr Johnson is seen as 'most in touch' by 14 per cent,
followed by Mr Miliband on ten, Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls on nine and Mr
Cameron on eight.

But the poll shows the Budget backlash is fading, with Labour's lead down to
five points from its eight-point margin two weeks ago. Labour now stands at 35
and the Tories 30.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg's woes grow as anti-EU party UKIP has caught up
with his Lib Dems on 11 per cent.

Mr Cameron will be relieved that despite the Budget backlash, he still beats Mr
Miliband on economic trust by 34 per cent to 26. And Mr Miliband's lack of flair
remains a fatal flaw: only one in 33 say he has charisma, against 17 per cent
for Mr Cameron.

Mr Osborne has edged back in front of Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls on economic
trust.

However, Mr Balls' 'man of the people' image appears to have helped him achieve
a notable victory when voters  were asked who would get the best bargain at a
car boot sale.

More than one in four chose Mr Balls, with 13 per cent for Mr Osborne; Ed
Miliband nine; Mr Cameron eight and Mr Clegg seven.

Survation interviewed 1,039 people online on Thursday  and Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              April 8, 2012 Sunday

THIS IS A GOVERNMENT OF CHUMS, SAY SIX OUT OF TEN

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 662 words


DAVID CAMERON is running a Government of chums where who you know matters more
than what you know and he is becoming dangerously out of touch with voters as a
result.

That is the finding of a new poll in the wake of the longest run of political
and public-relations blunders by the Tories, many self-inflicted, since Mr
Cameron became Prime Minister.

The hostile reaction to the granny tax, the pasty tax, the petrol panic and the
Downing Street donorgate scandal appears to have led to a growing feeling that
Mr Cameron and his Ministers are elitist and remote.

The phrase a Government of chums was first coined in a leader column in The Mail
on Sunday last week, hich asserted that a small group of people from very
similar backgrounds, who have known each other for years, are running the
country mainly by talking to each other and to nobody else .

The idea was then taken up by former Tory Cabinet Minister Norman Tebbit in The
Times the following day.

Now, a poll by Survation for The Mail on Sunday provides convincing evidence
that the public concurs. More than six out of ten say Mr Cameron heads a
Government of chums fewer than one in seven disagree.

Nearly two out of three say entry to Mr Cameron s elite inner circle depends on
who you know against just one in five who say what you know matters more.

Perhaps the most damning verdict came when voters were shown two photographs of
Mr Cameron one in his Oxford University Bullingdon Club days and a more recent
one showing him dressed in jeans drinking a pint of beer in a pub and then asked
to identify the real David Cameron .

The Bullingdon Club emerged as the real Cameron by a margin of 63 per cent to 37
per cent.

Nearly three-quarters of the population view the Conservatives as out of touch
and 61 per cent say the Tory leader is more style than substance . The rest of
the Cabinet fares little better when it comes to sharing the pain of the
recession.

Nearly seven out of ten say that Ministers are not personally committed to their
we re all in it together slogan. Four out of ten say Mr Cameron is a snob and he
polled a lowly average of 13 per cent for being in touch , caring , charismatic
, si ncere and trustworthy , while nearly one in four said he was competent .

Three out of ten pin the same snob label on George Osborne. A dismal one in 25
say the Chancellor is caring . Yet the ratings of the Prime Minister s fellow
Old Etonian Boris Johnson show that it is possible to have a privileged
background and still be popular.

WHEN asked who they would invite to dinner, the public put Mr Johnson way ahead
with 22 per cent, followed by Mr Cameron on

Only one in ten regard state school-educated Ed Miliband as a snob, yet a mere
five per cent would want to sit next to him at dinner, making him a less popular
guest than ex-Labour MP George Galloway. Similarly, London Mayor Mr Johnson is
seen as most in touch by 14 per cent, followed by Mr Miliband on ten, Shadow
Chancellor Ed Balls on nine and Mr Cameron on eight.

But the poll shows the Budget backlash is fading, with Labour s lead down to
five points from its

eight-point margin two weeks ago. Labour now stands at 35 and the Tories 30.
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg s woes grow as anti-EU party UKIP has caught up
with his Lib Dems on 11 per cent.

Mr Cameron will be relieved that despite the Budget backlash, he still beats Mr
Miliband on economic trust by 34 per cent to

26. And Mr Miliband s lack of flair remains a fatal flaw: only one in 33 say he
has charisma, against 17 per cent for Mr Cameron.

Mr Osborne has edged back in front of Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls on economic
trust. However, Mr Balls man of the people image appears to have helped him
achieve a notable victory when voters were asked who would get the best bargain
at a car boot sale. More than one in four chose Mr Balls, with 13 per cent for
Mr Osborne; Ed Miliband nine; Mr Cameron eight and Mr Clegg seven.

l Survation interviewed 1,039 people online on Thursday and Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                 April 8, 2012
                                 3 Star Edition

GEORGE: I'LL BE OPEN OVER TAX;
Ministers' finances could be made public

BYLINE: Keir Mudie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


GEORGE Osborne said he would be "happy" if he and other top politicians had to
reveal their earnings by making their tax returns open to the public.

The Chancellor added his voice to Business Secretary Vince Cable, who said on
Friday he had "no problem" with it.

Now pressure is expected to rise on David Cameron and the rest of the Cabinet to
agree - and for the measure to become law.

The question came up after Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson had a blazing row
over their personal tax affairs in the week.

Labour London Mayor election candidate Mr Livingstone channels some earnings
through a company to pay less to the Revenue and suggested Tory mayor Mr Johnson
has been doing the same thing.

Mr Johnson reacted furiously and called Mr Livingstone a "f****** liar".

In a newspaper interview yesterday Mr Osborne said: "We are happy to consider
publishing tax returns for people seeking high office. They do it in America."

The Chancellor also said the 50p top rate of tax for pounds 150,000 earners,
which last month's Budget controversially cut, had been "deeply uncompetitive".

He said: "I am unrepentant about it being an aggressively pro-business Budget.

"The last time I filled in a tax return (for 2010-2011) I was not a 50p
taxpayer," he revealed.

A ComRes poll for ITV News showed 60 per cent of people no longer trust Mr
Osborne with the nation's finances.

keir.mudie@people.co.uk This is politicians'own fault FOR by Matthew Sinclair of
TaxPayers' Alliance PRESSURE for politicians to reveal their taxes has come from
the fact that people have lost trust in them. The most important thing is that
people are not able to withhold or hide information.

A turn-off for the talented AGAINST by Nigel Farage UKIP leader OSBORNE wants
transparency but where will it end? Will politicians have to show medical and
school records? It will discourage people of flair and ability putting
themselves forward for office.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  NO REGRETS: Mr Osborne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 8, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Publishing MPs' tax details 'wrong'

BYLINE: Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 208 words


MOVES that would force MPs and ministers to publish their tax returns have come
under fire from leading politicians.

Former minister John Redwood said the idea would lead to too much concentration
on personalities in elections instead of candidates' policies.

Chancellor George Osborne signalled a possible change saying: "My personal
principle has been: make the rules in general more transparent. We are happy to
consider publishing tax returns for people seeking the highest offices. Of
course, they do it in America."

Business Secretary Lib Dem Vince Cable declared he had "no problem" with making
his tax details public. Last week London mayoral candidates Boris Johnson and
Ken Livingstone had a blazing row about their tax affairs. They clashed after
appearing on Sunday Express columnist Nick Ferrari's radio show.

Tory Mr Redwood said such a move would "crowd out the more important matters of
what Ken or Boris would do to the council tax, policing, and transport of
London".

He said: "It would reinforce the tendency of elections to be about individuals
and their personal lives rather than about public policy and what they will do
for the electors."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said it would deter talented individuals from politics.

OPINION: PAGE 36

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              April 8, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BBC GOING GREEN AT EXPENSE OF UKIP

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 193 words


THE London mayoral debate on Newsnight was good, knockabout stuff, but it was
missing one vital ingredient - the UKIP candidate.

That wouldn't have been such a glaring omission if the BBC had restricted the
debate to the candidates of the three main parties, but for some reason the
programme's producer took the decision to include Jenny Jones, the Green
candidate.

Why was she in the studio and not Lawrence Webb, pictured, the UKIP candidate?
The official explanation was that UKIP came seventh in the last mayoral
election, but that was in 2008.

Don't forget that UKIP came second in the European elections in 2009, pushing
Labour into third place.

And according to the current polls, UKIP are on seven per cent, one point behind
the Lib Dems, while the Greens are on three per cent. In future, the BBC should
either include candidates from all political parties or restrict it to the three
most popular.

But there's no excuse for inviting the Greens and not UKIP.

Of course, it won't be long before UKIP overtake the Lib Dems as the third
biggest party, in which case I'd have no objection if the BBC wants to drop the
Lib Dem candidates from any future debates.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              April 8, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tax breaks for the art you cannot see;
Owners of stately homes have saved billions and still hide their treasures,
write Nicholas Hellen and Robin Henry

BYLINE: Nicholas Hellen; Robin Henry; Nick Renaud-Komiya; Henry Green

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1146 words


BILLIONS of pounds of tax breaks have been handed to stately home owners and art
collectors under a scheme that is failing in its aim of opening the nation's
hidden heritage to the public.

In one case, a duke has been permitted to claim the same tax concessions for a
JMW Turner painting and six other works he keeps in his private living space as
for those in his castle's museum.

Some famous works are so inaccessible that no member of the public has seen them
under the scheme.

The attraction of avoiding inheritance and capital gains tax has fuelled a 50%
rise to 35,604 in the number of artworks placed in the "conditional exemption"
scheme in the past decade. A further 121 art collections and 343 castles,
stately homes, gardens and landed estates also benefit.

John Whittingdale, chairman of the Commons culture, media and sport select
committee, said that, while he was sympathetic to historic houses struggling to
balance their books, they should do more to meet their responsibilities."If the
state is giving these tax advantages, it expects something in return. It doesn't
appear that the public are getting much benefit," he said.

A decade after The Sunday Times first highlighted the scheme's failings, HM
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) said it could not give visitor figures or the total
value of assets in the scheme.

It does not have up-to-date figures on the amount of tax waived when the assets
are bought or sold. For every £1 billion of assets that the taxman allows into
this scheme he loses £400m in inheritance tax, normally due every 25-30 years.

The curious logic of the scheme means the 11th Duke of Rutland can charge
visitors £40 to view a Turner landscape of Belvoir Castle, the duke's ancestral
home in Leicestershire, and a number of other works kept in the castle's private
area, and yet still comply with the rules.

An adult must pay £15 for the general admission fee and £25 for a private tour.
This weekend a spokesman for Rutland, 52, conceded that only one such tour had
ever taken place, with only two visitors.

For the duke the attraction of the deal, which he struck with the taxman about
five years ago, is obvious. He is able to keep art treasures tax-free in his
private home, and even if more members of the public applied, would only have to
show them 10 days a year. If the exempt art in his private quarters is worth
£2.5m, the inheritance tax saving at 40% would be £1m - or £500,000 for each
visitor.

The public, however, lose out. If the works were in the public museum, a few
yards away in the castle, they would be accessible for at least 30 days a year,
without a surcharge.

A spokesman for Rutland said: "If the Revenue had asked us to put it all on the
public side, no doubt that would have been done." However, he insisted the duke
would be delighted if more people applied to see art in his private quarters,
and defended the £25 fee, saying it met the cost of a special tour guide and
security.

The shortcomings of the heritage scheme run deep. The Sunday Times attempted to
make appointments to see 129 artworks listed on the HMRC website as being
available for viewing. The owner can stay anonymous and name an agent to avoid
the risk of theft.

Only a fifth of the official points of contact were willing to arrange a
viewing, a quarter were out of date or otherwise incorrect and the remainder
said they would respond but failed to do so.

The painter Walter Sickert, a member of the Camden Town group of artists known
for their documentary realism, produced works including Grand National. This
weekend Greene & Greene, a firm of solicitors in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, said
it had not had a single approach to see the painting since it began dealing with
visitors on behalf of the private owner in 2001.

Charles Crowther of the estate agent Carter Jonas in Huddersfield was bemused
when asked about viewing arrangements for a Thomas Gainsborough portrait of the
2nd Earl of Dartmouth, on a list of works belonging to the 10th Earl of
Dartmouth and now in the tax-exempt scheme.

"We're the agents for Lord Dartmouth but I don't know anything about this
Gainsborough.

You'd best contact him in Devon," he said. Although Crowther is listed by name,
he added: "I've worked here for 19 years. As far as I know, it's the first call
I've had."

The earl, the UKIP MEP for South West England, insisted the scheme was "not a
scam" and said that without it, "up to half the art in it would have been sold
and a large proportion of that would have left Britain for good". He added: "We
do make an honest effort but we're not a Blenheim or a Chatsworth where it's
relatively straightforward to show these artefacts." He said the public could
see many of the 50 works on annual open days at his Devon home.

Anthony Roland, 75, a filmmaker based in East Sussex, inherited a collection of
prints, drawings and sculptures. They include a work by Auguste Rodin, the
father of modern sculpture, yet in 20 years Roland has had only eight applicants
to see them.

The HMRC list provides a phone number from his previous address and includes
pieces by the painter Josef Herman that were sold 20 years ago, even though
Roland said his accountant had provided updates.

Heritage is supposed to be rated as "pre-eminent" by the taxman's specialist
advisers to qualify for the scheme. Yet one owner of a Scottish castle admitted
he had been allowed to include everyday items such as walking sticks worth £5
each and stags' heads on sale for £30. The items qualified because they were
historically associated with the building.

There are no such concerns about admitting Blenheim Palace, Alnwick Castle, Syon
Park, Althorp and Badminton to the scheme. The benefits extend to the
surrounding estates, with Chatsworth including 13,000 acres, Longleat 8,000
acres and Highclere Castle - where Downton Abbey is filmed - 5,000 acres.

Sir Reginald Sheffield, father of Samantha Cameron, has tax breaks for his
Sutton Park estate near York.

At Highclere, the Countess of Carnarvon said that in return for the tax break,
the estate had to spend hundreds of thousands of pounds on follies such as the
temple of Diana.

Additional reporting: Nick Renaud-Komiya and Henry Green

Out of view

The public have the right to visit privately owned heritage assets such as works
of art, land and buildings that have a tax exemption.

Getting access to an individual artwork can, however, be frustrating because the
owner can require visitors to make an appointment through a solicitor, based
anywhere in the country.

Because of potential security risks, the owners can remain anonymous and they
are not required to display the item where it is usually kept. A fee may also be
charged.

Every five years, the Revenue sends officials to check properties and writes to
art owners. It also invites the public to complain about obstructive owners. Its
website, however, does not highlight newly added items.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Countess of Carnarvon, left, enjoys tax breaks at Highclere, as
does the Duchess of Rutland at Belvoir Castle
RICHARD POHLE/ANDY WATTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The British public are demanding an EU referendum

BYLINE: Stephen Pollard

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 872 words


ERE we go again. .... .....

HBarely a week goes by without a new example of Eurocrats interfer­ ing in our
lives. From pensions and car insur­ ance to the way burgers are made and the
shape that fruit has to be before it can be sold - not to mention the type of
light bulbs we are allowed to use - EU meddling gets steadily worse with every
passing week.

Yesterday it emerged that an EU decree in 2010 on the ingred­ ients in paint
means that white walls are turning yellow. Two years ago Brussels bureaucrats
ordered manufacturers to reduce solvent levels in all oil­ based paints.

One company is now having to pay out compensation to customers after its
so­called "brilliant white" paint failed to hold its colour.

Earlier this week the Food Standards Agency (FSA) said it had no choice but to
implement a new EU ban on the way some burgers are made - despite there being
not a shred of evidence that it is in any way harmful.

Since the Nineties what the FSA calls a "very small part" of the UK's
meat­processing industry has used a process known as Desinewed Meat (DSM) to
remove some meat from bones.

Low­pressure water is applied and the meat comes away. You may find the idea of
DSM disgusting. Indeed you may think it quite right that manufacturers are
banned from using the process.

But here's the real issue: why is it the EU's business to decide how we
manufacture our burg­ ers? If ever there was an issue that should be for
national parliaments to decide it is the type of meat sold.

THE French, for instance, love horse meat. We find the idea appalling. But it
should be up to the French to decide what meat they want to eat - and not for us
or any­ one else to order them to fall in with our own tastes.

Yet we have no choice but to adopt these rules banning DSM or see a total ban on
the export of British meat. What a crazy world we live in - and all as a result
of our EU membership.

Estimates vary of the number of rules that come from the EU. One widely accepted
figure is 85 per cent of all new laws. Another study found that the EU is
responsible for 72 per cent of the cost of regulations imposed on the UK during
the past 10 years.

It is not even as if these regu­ lations improve our lives or have ever been
agreed to by the British people. Most make things worse, interfering in our
freedom to live as we like and are simply imposed on us by our EU masters.

Take the ban on traditional light bulbs. The EU's bureau­ crats have changed the
very light we see by. Gone is the bright, clear light we took for granted,
replaced by the dull, often flickering EU light - and that accompanied by a huge
rise in the price of bulbs.

Last October Sainsbury's had to drop its plan to sell misshapen fruit and veg in
a Hallowe'en promotion.

The weird­looking pieces were going to have funny names such as Zombie Brain
cauli­ flower and Witch's Fingers carrots.

But when bosses realised that it wouldn't be the com­ pany that was prosecuted
under EU law for selling mis­shapen fruit and veg but the individual employees
the plan was shelved.

It's easy to joke about such idiocies. But the EU's interfer­ ence has a direct
impact on the cost of living. Last year the European Court of Justice destroyed
the entire basis on which the insurance industry has operated for many years
when it banned risk assess­ ment based on a person's sex. The ruling meant that
even though young men are 10 times more likely than women to have a serious
crash their premiums cannot be higher.

And so women, for no reason other than the EU's madness, will have to pay far
more for their car insurance.

The ruling had a profound impact on pensions too. The EU court ruled that it is
illegal for men to receive more than women each month - even though they are
statistically likely to die younger.

So the income a man receives for life from his pension will be cut by as much as
8 per cent, or hundreds of pounds each year.

The new arrangements will come into force by December and there is nothing you,
I or Parliament can do about it.

WELL, there is one thing we can do: opt out. Say enough is enough and tell our
politicians that we want rid of all this.

So it is hardly surprising that on Thursday, 89.9 per cent of those who voted in
the first People's Pledge poll in Thur­ rock, Essex, decided they want a
referendum on our member­ ship of the EU. And that on a turnout of more than 30
per cent, higher even than at the last local elections.

Over the next year there are going to be over 100 more such votes. We all know
that the results are likely to be equally emphatic. The British people want to
be heard. We want a say in how we are governed. This is an issue that is only
going to get stronger.

In opinion polls, UKIP's support has been rising stead­ ily in recent months and
now the anti­EU party regularly scores around eight per cent.

On pure mathematics the Conservatives need to listen to this demand or say
goodbye to any chance of a majority at the next election.

That, no doubt, is why West­ minster is swirling with rumours that the
Conservatives will offer a referendum as part of their next manifesto. We must
keep the pressure up - and demand the referendum. All we want is a say in our
own democracy.

'We should opt out and say enough is enough'

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUSADE: Daily Express readers have been polled
Picture: Jonathan Buckmaster

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We shall break free from the shackles of Brussels

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 291 words


IT IS becoming more obvious with every passing day that neither the
Conservatives nor Labour will win a parliamentary majority again unless they
give the British people a referendum on membership of the European Union.

Enough voters are ready to make this issue the determining factor as to how they
cast their ballot to make it impossible for either Labour or the Tories to get
over the magic 40 per cent threshold that secures a Commons majority.

Many voters who were once core supporters of one or other of those parties will
either vote for an explicitly anti­EU party, such as UKIP, or stay at home
rather than put up with democracy being suppressed any longer.

Yet despite the latest demonstration of EU­scepticism, in the People's Pledge
referendum in Thurrock, neither the Conservatives nor Labour nor indeed the
Liberal Democrats have yet budged on offering a referendum.

It is easy to see why the political class does not wish its cosy relationship
with Brussels to be disrupted by democratic accountability. But equally the
clock is ticking to the next election and as that contest looms, so the pressure
grows.

In the interim nothing good for Britain will come out of Brussels. The eurozone
will continue to implode, the cost of EU membership will increase, the examples
of Brussels trampling over national sovereignty will keep coming thick and fast
and moves towards fiscal union in the EU core will carry on.

This newspaper said it would be a long haul when we launched our crusade for a
referendum on getting Britain out of the EU back in November 2010. But events
are moving in our direction all the time.

Freeing this great nation from the clutches of Brussels will take a little
longer yet but keep the faith and victory shall be ours.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

the liberal democrats have turned nasty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 309 words


ARE the Liberal Democrats the tail that wags the Government dog as Right-wing
Tories believe, or David Cameron's poodle as Labour Left-wingers contend?
Increasingly another canine comparison sums it up best - they are the dog in the
manger of the coalition. They do whatever they can to ensure that the
Conservatives are deprived of popularity even though they are unable to achieve
any themselves.

The most recent example of this is the claim this week of Cabinet new boy Ed
Davey that the coalition may come to be regarded as more pro-European than the
Labour administration it succeeded.

This outburst caused huge annoyance among anti-Brussels Tories who fear it may
be true and probably contributed to another UKIP surge in the polls (the fourth
party reached 8 per cent this week, compared with the Lib Dem 9 per cent and a
very poor 32 per cent for the Tories).

Davey's words are all of a piece with Lib Dem tactics in the run-up to George
Osborne's bad Budget.

In their bid to take credit for an impending rise in the personal allowance and
blame the Tories for reducing the 50p tax rate on the highest earners, the Lib
Dems ensured that the only bits of the Budget not leaked in advance were the
so-called "granny tax" and "pasty tax". That led to disastrous press coverage
the day after.

Many Tories blame Nick Clegg's stand-in spin doctor Olly Grender for their
junior partner's aggressive new approach. They say Grender, who is filling in
while Clegg's regular spokeswoman is on maternity leave, has made the Deputy PM
much less collegiate and more narrowly focused on grabbing favourable headlines.

There are fears that even though the tactic has done the Lib Dems no good
whatever in the polls, the fact that it has damaged the Tories may lead to Clegg
keeping Grender on. "After all," quips one Lib Dem mischief-maker, "we are all
in it together."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron and a Cabinet of pals

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1236 words


IT'S A Government of chums, observed Lord Tebbit in one of many instances of
blue-on-blue "friendly fire" to have rained down on David Cameron over recent
weeks. And it is easy to see what Tebbit means. After all, Cameron has his Eton
friend Ed Llewellyn as Chief of Staff and his university pal Lord Feldman as
co-chairman of the party.

Chancellor George Osborne is a close and longstanding friend and so is Education
Secretary Michael Gove. Embattled Health Secretary Andrew Lansley was Cameron's
boss at the Conservative Research Department. The Prime Minister and his deputy
Nick Clegg also have several mutual friends including the well-connected actress
Helena Bonham Carter who was a contemporary of Clegg at Westminster School and
has been a guest of Cameron at Chequers.

Another old friend of Cameron's, Steve Hilton, was until lately his main ideas
man, while yet another Old Etonian Oliver Letwin is also a linchpin of the
governmental innercircle. Osborne's father-in-law Lord Howell is a Foreign
Office minister. In fact in nearly every government department there is at least
one ministerial FOD (Friend of Dave).

Now there is nothing wrong in work colleagues getting along well outside the
office and most of those mentioned above are people of unquestionable talent.
But as time goes by the bonds of personal loyalty felt by a prime minister to
members of his team are inevitably put under strain.

If someone is no longer the best person for a job, a premier should dismiss him
or her without sentiment. If such a move jeopardises a cherished network of
social relationships then that can be an unwelcome complicating factor. In this
regard, being prime minister is a lonely job.

AS LADY Thatcher memorably put it, you have to learn to carve the joint. Mr
Cameron has not yet done so. But nearly two years in, his administration is
obviously in need of a wide-ranging revamp. Parts have worn out, others have
proven to be dud and that annoying rattle coming from the back wheels has
developed into a worrying clunk. The bonnet needs to come up and significant
re-tuning must take place.

Of the FODs mentioned above, Lansley is floundering at the Department of Health
while there are growing noises off about Osborne's performance at the Treasury.
Letwin, meanwhile, is part of a coterie of Cabinet Office ministers with a gift
for saying the wrong thing in public and Feldman is under sustained criticism
over the "donorgate" furore. Indeed there are calls for a senior MP to be made
full-time party chairman in place of the failing "job share" arrangement between
Feldman and Lady Warsi.

Elsewhere around the Cabinet table, Caroline Spelman at Environment is regarded
by Mr Cameron's circle as "hopeless". Neither is the Chief Whip Patrick
McLoughlin held in universal esteem while Ken Clarke at Justice infuriates Tory
backbenchers.

Leader of the House Sir George Young, another affable Etonian, is regarded as
eminently dispensable too. Wales Secretary Cheryl Gillan may wish to leave in
protest at plans for a new highspeed rail line to carve its way through her
constituency.

Mr Cameron's preference is said to be to wait until early September - after the
Olympics but just before party conference season - to conduct his first
reshuffle. But plenty of Tories think he must act before then. Some believe
recent reverses are so dangerous that a response needs to take place before the
May local elections.

Others say Friday May 4, the day after those elections, is the perfect
opportunity. But that would give ministers precious little time to get on top of
their new briefs before the Queen's Speech on May 9 launches a new legislative
programme.

Among the hot tips for the Cabinet are junior social security minister Maria
Miller to take Gillan's role (her far-sighted parents having helpfully arranged
for her to be brought up in Bridgend). Strongly performing Ministers of State
Grant Shapps and Chris Grayling are also tipped for promotion.

The only "chum" in real danger this time round is Lansley, with smooth-talking
Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt expected to be given a bigger department to run on
the basis that Cameron is impatient to see "how good he really is".

But it won't always be like this. The past fortnight has given Cameron a taste
of what it is like to be a beleaguered premier. And once the honeymoon is over
beleaguered is the standard state of a premier.

Some 50 years ago this summer Cameron's political hero Harold Macmillan tried to
revive his flagging administration by sacking seven Cabinet ministers in a
brutal reshuffle that became known as the Night of the Long Knives.

The Liberal MP Jeremy Thorpe inverted an old biblical quotation to describe the
event, sarcastically observing: "Greater love hath no man than this, that he
should lay down his friends for his life."

Surrounded as he is by chums on the front bench and in the back room too, that
is what David Cameron will end up doing. Perhaps not this time round. But one
day.

WITH the Government struggling to fend off accusations that it is
toff-dominated, how ironic that Minister of State Lord Henley was left in charge
of the Home Office this week. I am told that his Lordship presided from Scaleby
Castle, his country seat in Cumbria, and hence was not of enormous use when
controversy broke out over the department's email snooping proposals. "It's a
shambles," says one frustrated Downing Street insider.

THE BBC's Newsnight excluded UKIP from its London mayor debate this week and
included the Green candidate, despite UKIP being well ahead of the Greens in
recent London opinion surveys. The excuse was that the Greens got more votes in
the last mayoral election. But if that's the test then UKIP should be able to
look forward to getting more coverage than Labour at the next European elections
in 2014 after beating it last time. What are the chances of that happening?

CLANK! There is a spanner in the works of Liam Byrne's plan to stand for
election as mayor of Birmingham. After Labour's humiliation at the hands of
George Galloway in Bradford party bigwigs have decided they cannot afford
another by-election in a seat with a high Muslim population and Byrne's Hodge
Hill constituency has just that. So he's been left in limbo, half in the shadow
cabinet and half out of it.

STAND by for a new row between Brussels and the Government. I am told that
negotiations due this summer over the European Commission's budget for the next
few years will be played "hard and noisy" by David Cameron in the expectation of
an ensuing boost in the polls.

ENVIRONMENT Minister Richard Benyon was fielded to talk about the hosepipe ban
in southern and eastern parts. Few will be so badly hit as him since he has a
very large garden indeed - his country estate runs to about 20,000 acres on the
Berkshire-Hampshire border.

THE massive vote in Thurrock this week in favour of an EU referendum took many
MPs by surprise. Most expected the vote, organised by the People's Pledge, to go
in favour of a referendum but on a much lower turnout than the 30 per cent
achieved.

One MP had even repeated the old joke to me about campaigners going round the
country "stirring up apathy" but more than 14,000 Thurrock voters showed that
Europe is a major concern and nine in 10 wanted that referendum. The pressure
for a referendum is growing all the time and I believe the main three parties
will all end up promising one at the next election.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MATES: David Cameron shares a joke with George Osborne in the House of
Commons
Picture: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 7, 2012 Saturday 12:50 PM GMT

Osborne backs tax 'transparency';


BYLINE: Joe Churcher

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 832 words


A US-style system of top politicians' tax returns being published could be
considered in the UK, George Osborne indicated as the issue of personal finances
continued to dominate the London mayoral race.

The Chancellor told The Telegraph he was "very happy" for the Government to look
at the move, and Business Secretary Vince Cable declared that he was prepared to
be open about his personal finances.

Pressure for ministers to reveal their income intensified on Thursday when the
main rivals for the capital's top job set out details of their own earnings and
tax.

The openness was prompted by a bitter public row between Boris Johnson and Ken
Livingstone over tit-for-tat accusations of avoiding income tax by channelling
earnings through companies.

In an intervention that is sure to open a serious debate, Mr Osborne told the
newspaper: "My personal principle has been: make the rules in general more
transparent.

"We are happy to consider publishing tax returns for people seeking the highest
offices. Of course, they do it in America."

Mr Osborne also made clear that he would be open about whether he personally
benefits in future from the reduction in the top 50p rate of income tax which he
controversially cut in last month's budget.

"No doubt, next time I fill in a tax return, I will be asked the question and
will give you a straightforward answer," he said - saying he had not been in the
top earner category last time.

Backing openness in tax affairs, Mr Cable told The Telegraph: "I'm quite happy
to be open about it. I have no problem with my tax return being published while
I am in government."

Mr Livingstone, who is fighting to wrest back for Labour the post he lost in
2008, has come under fire for channelling earnings through a company so that
they are liable for corporation not income tax.

In a foul-mouthed bust-up, Tory incumbent Mr Johnson called his City Hall
predecessor a "f****** liar" over on-air allegations that he operated a similar
arrangement.

Challenged to do so by Mr Livingstone, Mr Johnson and Liberal Democrat hopeful
Brian Paddick issued accountant-signed statements of their earnings and tax for
the past three or four years.

But although he published some figures, the ex-mayor said he would only give
full details of his earnings if others agreed to disclose information concerning
spouses and partners.

Mr Osborne, who has faced a stinging backlash over the tax cut for top earners
and other budget measures such as the so-called "granny tax" of reduce income
tax allowances for pensioners, defended the package.

"We are not in a daily popularity contest. But Britain is in a daily contest
around the world," he said.

"I think this Government is helping Britain to win that contest."

His latest defence of the measures came as an opinion poll showed voter
confidence in his ability to run the UK economy had slumped to an all-time low.

As many as 60 per cent do not trust him with the nation's purse strings (up
eight points on last month) while those expressing confidence is down from 25%
to 21%.

That net score of -39, in a ComRes poll for ITV News, is much worse than his
previous low of -30, in July last year.

Mr Osborne insisted he is "unrepentant" about the Budget and claimed the
measures it included have been received well internationally.

He said: "I don't have any regrets about the substance of the Budget, I'm
unrepentant about it [being] an aggressively pro-business Budget ... it cut the
top rate of tax which was deeply uncompetitive, it lifted millions of low-paid
people out of tax altogether, and it cut the corporation tax rate so that
Britain is very, very competitive in the world."

He also hit back at suggestions the Conservatives are out of touch.

"That is, again, a usual charge from the usual suspects," he said.

"It's now been four years since we were all chased around by people in top hats
so it's hardly a new charge. I don't think it's relevant now and I don't think
it was relevant then."

He added: "I feel that as long as the Government is on the side of those working
people, then it will be a Government that is in touch."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said publishing tax returns would deter some talented
potential political candidates from standing for office.

He said: "Everyone complains about the quality of our politicians. But it is our
own fault. Why would somebody of flair and ability put themselves forward today?

"Osborne wants politicians to publish their tax returns in the cause of
transparency. But that will never be enough. When will it end? The last 20 years
of tax returns? School reports? Medical records?

"We are creating a situation where no one with any ability will put themselves
forward for elected office. This suggestion will be yet another reason for
people to look at the prospect of devoting their lives to public service and ask
themselves is it worth it?

"We are tired of being run by a bunch of college kids who have no experience of
the real world. These proposals will merely reinforce the problem."

PA

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 6, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Huge bill after EU meddling makes white paint go yellow

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 452 words


EUROCRATS faced a pasting yesterday over claims that EU meddling has led to
white household paint turning yellow.

Scores of customers have been left furious after their DIY work was ruined
because of an EU diktat which has changed the way paint is now made.

Brussels ordered manufacturers to reduce solvent levels in all oilbased paints.
It claimed the compounds cause air pollution and may be harmful to humans,
animals and plants. But the regulations, introduced in 2010, have led to a
blizzard of complaints.

Leading producer Dulux has been forced to pay out thousands of pounds in
compensation to disgruntled customers after its "brilliant white" product turned
a creamy yellow, often within weeks.

The company has admitted the problem was caused by the EU rules and has since
altered its mixture so it stays white for longer. Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall said the
changes were ill-thought-out. "While trying to portray itself as whiter than
white on matters of public health, the EU has ended up instead painting the
consumer into a corner."

Customers have also vented their fury at the changes. Gary Harries spent days
painting his Gloucestershire home only for some of the white paint to turn
yellow within weeks.

Colin Beare, 58, was offered £500 compensation after 11 doors in his home and
the flat he rents in Gillingham, Dorset, turned yellow just weeks after he
applied the paint.

Annoying "To my surprise Dulux actually put their hand up straight away and
said: 'Yes we have a problem with this paint, it is a problem that we know
about,'" he said.

"It pulls into question why they managed to sell it to me in the first place.
They have offered me £500 in compensation but I have estimated it will cost
£2,120 to re-paint."

Mother-of-two Lisa Winter, 35, of Yatton, near Bristol, said: "We've had to
repaint everything. It's very annoying, especially when you pay extra for a
leading brand."

A Dulux spokeswoman apologised to customers affected. "EU legislation was
brought into effect on January 1, 2010, to reduce the amount of a particular
type of solvent, known as VOCs, which were allowed to be in paint products," she
said.

"In changing the formulation, and despite rigorous testing, it became clear
that, in some conditions, early versions of the new paint were more prone to
yellowing after application.

"We addressed this issue in 2011 by reformulating our Pure Brilliant White gloss
and satinwood paints.

"We are confident that the performance and finish of these paints is comparable
to the versions we produced before the legislative changes came into effect."

Rival Crown Paints has put a warning on some of its tins saying: "Recent changes
made to meet reduced solvent levels may lead to yellowing over time."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lisa Winter is having to repaint all her woodwork, while Colin Beare
was offered a £500 payout for his yellowing doors, left
Picture: SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 6, 2012 Friday

National: The lost candidates

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 218 words


The independent candidate for mayor of London, Siobhan Benita (pictured below
left), has demanded a meeting with BBC executives over the way she feels she is
being systematically excluded by the BBC from its ocverage of the mayoral
contest.

Benita's aides say her case has implications not just for the London mayoralty,
but for the mayoral and police commissioner elections to be held in the autumn,
in which independents hope to stand against the established parties.

Benita has also been excluded from the main hustings programmes to be aired by
Sky and ITN later this month.

Benita said: "I feel like I am banging my head against a brick wall of
institutions that are adverse to change, slow to adapt and scared to embrace
difference."

Newsnight refused to allow her on its hustings programme on Wednesday, which was
watched by 1.2 million people. Benita, with the BNP and Ukip candidates, was
given seconds to put her case in a prerecorded clip before a 45-minute debate
between the party candidates, Ken Livingstone, Boris Johnson, Jenny Jones for
the Greens and Brian Paddick for the Liberal Democrats.

The BBC maintains that its guidelines require it to give airtime only to
candidates from parties with a track record in a previous relevant election, or
who can show clear evidence of support in the polls.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

BBC accused of excluding independent from London mayoral contest coverage

BYLINE: Brian Paddickguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 784 words

ABSTRACT

Siobhan Benita objects to not being allowed on Newsnight where main candidates
were given 45-minutes to debate

FULL TEXT

The independent candidate for mayor of London, Siobhan Benita, has demanded a
meeting with BBC executives over the way she feels she is being systematically
excluded by the BBC from its coverage of the mayoral contest.

Benita's aides say the battle about her news blackout has implications not just
for the London mayoralty but for mayoral and police commissioner elections to be
held in the autumn, in which independents hope to stand against the established
political parties.

She has also been excluded from the main hustings programmes to be aired by Sky
and ITN later this month.

Benita said the BBC's electoral guidelines were framed for general elections,
not for contests in which independents have the potential to do well. "I feel
like I am banging my head against a brick wall of institutions that are adverse
to change, slow to adapt and scared to embrace difference," she said.

BBC Newsnight refused to allow her on to its hustings programme on Wednesday
despite an appeal to the presenter, Jeremy Paxman. Newsnight said 1.2 million
people watched the debate. Benita, with the BNP and Ukip candidates, was given
seconds to put her case in a prerecorded clip before a 45-minute debate between
the party candidates, Ken Livingstone, Boris Johnson, Jenny Jones for the Greens
and Brian Paddick for the Liberal Democrats. Jones secured only 3% of the vote
in the 2008 mayoral campaign.

The BBC maintains that its guidelines only require it to give airtime to
candidates from parties with a track record in a previous relevant election, or
with clear evidence of support in the polls. London Tonight, the flagship London
ITV I programme presented by Alistair Stewart has also decided that only the
four candidates Johnson, Livingstone, Paddick and Jones should appear in an hour
long programme on 24 April. ITV said they were conforming to the standards of
the Ofcom code and would work to ensure other candidates also received a chance
to put over their views in other formats.

The Ofcom guidelines state: "Due weight must be given to the coverage of major
parties during the election period. Broadcasters must also consider giving
appropriate coverage to other parties and independent candidates with
significant views and perspectives."

Benita, a former high-ranking civil servant in the Cabinet Office and Department
of Health, was only officially accepted as a candidate last Friday, so as yet is
unable to demonstrate support in opinion polls, especially since she is not
being given any air time.

She has already been excluded from the LBC hustings in which Johnson and
Livingstone made accusations over their tax returns. She was subsequently
allowed onto the follow-up programme with UKIP and BNP in which much of the
discussion was inevitably dominated by immigration, an issue that is not central
to her campaign.

She has also been refused access to the BBC Radio London's Mayoral hustings
programme.

In a letter to Ric Bailey the BBC's chief adviser politics, Gisele Green,
Benita's press officer argues " I really feel something is seriously wrong with
BBC guidelines that mean a serious independent candidate gets just a few seconds
of airtime while party political candidates get 45 minutes.

"At a time when the public is becoming increasingly disillusioned with the main
parties, why are voters being prevented from hearing about serious alternatives?

She points out an IPSOS-MORI commissioned by the BBC itself showed "high levels
of people being unsure who has the best ideas on issues, showing "that the race
is open, with plenty of minds still to be made up."

In one email dated 12 March, Bailey says the BBC's "way of providing election
coverage is the result of a long-standing system in the UK - not just the BBC -
which has established that it is in the broader interests of the electorate that
not all candidates have to be treated identically. You are right, of course,
that licence fee payers should be able to have access to all candidates - but
with 'due weight'.

"I understand that we may well disagree about the definition of "due" and that
it can be frustrating for independent candidates who feel they should be getting
more coverage".

Sky News is also holding an hour long hustings on 17 April in what the
broadcaster is billing as "an enthralling hour of back-and-forth between the
three main candidates" in front of an audience of 250 Londoners, followed by
another 60 minutes of analysis.

Sky has determined the three main candidates are Johnson, Livingstone and
Paddick. The other candidates will be allowed to comment during the Sky analysis
section.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM's rating at new low

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 130 words


PUBLIC confidence in David Cameron's premiership has hit an all-time low, a
YouGov poll for The Sun reveals today.

Only 30 per cent said he would "make the best PM" - the lowest figure since he
entered No 10. His rating has dived EIGHT points in a fortnight, after rows over
donors, fuel, pasties and the Budget.

But Labour leader Ed Miliband has failed to take advantage. Only 19 per cent
said he would make the best PM, up just one point in the last two weeks. Only
five per cent thought Nick Clegg would be the best PM, down one point.

Forty-six per cent said they "don't know" who would make the best PM - the
highest figure since May 2010.

Labour is on 42 per cent - 10 points ahead of the Tories. The Lib Dems are on 9
per cent, just one point ahead of the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Our lives change but the party's not over yet;
Political parties are dying, but for democracy's sake we need a better
replacement than 'George and the Muslims'

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1066 words


'We don't need the old parties!" a spunky young pup wrote to me a couple of
weeks ago (he was disagreeing with me on party funding in the wake of the
Cruddas debacle). "We can start up our own new political organisations!" Right
here in the old barn, I thought, but replied: "All right, and what will yours
look like?" There was no reply.

But there was the question: if we could start all over again, what form would
our political organisations take? Certainly they would be different from the
ones we have now, which are hold-overs from the past and are increasingly
hollowing out. I was told that a senior Labour figure asked last Friday why
Labour's grassroots organisation had failed to anticipate the massive late swing
to George Galloway in Bradford West, replied: "What grassroots organisation? We
don't have those any more."

People are wonderfully blasé about all this. If you say that party membership is
falling, that affiliation to the main parties is declining and that they face
financial crises, you're most likely to be told that it's their own silly faults
for being so dislikeable. Or, a pseudo-intelligent variant on the same theme,
that they have become so like each other that there's no point in them. In
reality it makes no difference how pleasant or ideological our main parties are,
we don't want to be in them, we don't want to pay for them and, in the case of
Labour and the Tories, we increasingly don't want to vote for them. Nor,
incidentally, in practice do we want them to be supplanted by independents. I
could bore you to death with details on how independents fail in Britain, but I
don't have the space.

The membership decline has been dramatic and has happened in almost all mature
democratic countries. And, as Paul Whiteley and Patrick Syed demonstrated in the
mid 2000s, it has been paralleled by a declining activism among those who are
members. In 1990 one in two Labour members devoted no time at all to party
activities. By 1999 this had risen to two in every three. The same was true of
the Conservative Party, despite its decline from mass membership to activist
membership. It used to be said that local Conservative Association events were
where the young bourgeois went to find a mate. Today the last place you'd look
for a new partner is in the local Tory party. Unless, sadly, yours had died.

In part, with changes in mass communication, party leaders need fewer members to
make contact with voters. And activists have long been potential awkward squads,
with concerns often quite different from those of the electorate. But the
overwhelming reason for the hollowing out has been the change in how we live. I
often threaten my daughters with that past represented by Tony Hancock's famous
sitcom episode on a British Sunday, where there is nothing, nothing at all, to
do.

Today we are busier because we want to be - we have a choice of entertainments
and diversions immediately available, such as would have flustered Louis XIV.
Fathers spend far more time with their children than they used to, mothers more
hours at work. A zillion sports and social organisations occupy our time
infinitely more pleasurably than attending meetings, handing out leaflets or
knocking on doors.

This, it seems to me, will not change.

The activist-based large party is becoming a thing of the past. Professor Justin
Fisher, of Brunel University, asks politics students whether they'd bother with
members at all if they were starting parties from scratch. His research,
conducted with electoral agents after the 2010 election, suggests that much
campaigning is already conducted by non-party volunteers, not members. One agent
in a target seat said that "members are almost insignificant compared with the
pool of helpers and activists ..." Another, asked why those supporters didn't
join the party, "indicated that many didn't want to be on lists 'receiving
begging letters [for donations']."

As membership decline continues, party leaderships (now representing a narrower
and narrower base) are desperately co-opting other organisations that have
influence and affiliates. Just this week we've seen George and the Muslims, and,
on a much lower key, Cameron and the Christians. Both take the risk that
atheists won't be put off by some religiosity in the same numbers that the
religious will be attracted by it. The same effort is visible in the
"reachingout" done by parties towards the voluntary sector, the small
battalions, the active citizens, the Big Society - anyone really who has some
kind of purchase (sometimes imagined) on the affections of ordinary voters.

The desire to get beyond the limits of traditional organisation explains the
proliferation of new opportunities to vote for individuals: primaries such as
those that selected the Conservative candidate in Totnes for 2010; elected
police commissioners, city mayors. It won't be long before a leading British
party opens up its leadership election to registered supporters, as the French
Socialist Party did to select François Hollande for this month's presidential
election. You paid a euro, you got a vote, and hundreds of thousands did.

There are dangers here. As parties surrender some control, you get phenomena
such as the Boris and Ken Show, the sweary double act in which both candidates
are bigger than their parties, and know it. And who in Bradford West voted for
Respect because they supported what the party stood for? A small round number .
But if we need political parties, albeit ones with a much wider view of who is
entitled to a say in their affairs, the question still arises, do we need these
political parties? Or would we be better off with others? The coalition
experience tells us that a certain kind of centrist Tory has much more in common
with a certain kind of Liberal, than with a Tory on the wild UKIP fringes. And
it's obvious that a brand of Labour anti-capitalist would be far happier
snuggling up to a Brighton Green than to a liberal interventionist. How about a
nationalist party, a nostalgist/communitarian conservative party, an
internationalist progressive party, a centrist technocratic party and an
anti-capitalist party? Dreams. No one trades speculative gains for certain
losses and our parties will divide roughly along the same lines in 30 years as
now. They'll just be much smaller and much looser.

A zillion things are more pleasurable than handing out leaflets

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The local Conservative Association is the last place you'd look for a
partner
DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

But what about the workers, Mr Cameron?;
MPs worry about women and ethnic groups, forgetting families who can't fill
their tanks

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 874 words


It could have been Samosagate.That's what they were worried about at No 10 and
the Treasury before the Budget. Could putting VAT on freshly baked pastries
possibly upset an ethnic minority? They didn't want to be seen to offend the
Asian community by targeting their favourite snack.

This Government is constantly worrying about gender and race. Ministers agonise
over issues such as childcare and gay marriage, but they don't think about the
working class - the builders, drivers, call centre workers, supermarket
assistants, cleaners and dustmen. Petrol and pasties are these people's issues.

They can't afford a full tank - or a crayfish and avocado sandwich at Pret a
Manger. They buy the same lunch every day from Subway or Greggs and spend a
tenner on petrol at the pump.

This isn't just a government problem - Labour doesn't get the working class
either. Middle England has been its obsession since the days of Tony Blair. Ed
Miliband set himself up as the voice of the squeezed middle and this week gave a
speech on how the Tories had "abandoned Middle Britain" - the very territory he
hopes to occupy.

Politicians may believe we are all middle-class now but only 40 per cent of the
country agree. And it is those who disagree, the working classes, particularly
in the North and the Midlands, who have deserted the polling booths in the past
decade. Between 1997 and 2010 turnout among manual workers in general elections
dropped by 21 per cent.

It is certainly true that politicians are all middle-class now. The parties
focus on getting more women and ethnic minorities into Parliament but it is the
drop in the number of working-class MPs that is startling. According to recent
research by the think-tank Policy Exchange, MPs now come from an increasingly
narrow range of backgrounds. More than 90 per cent went to university, with the
majority of Tories going to private school. Among the 2010 intake, more than a
quarter of MPs came from the financial sector or public relations.

Nye Bevan was a miner before becoming an MP, Ernest Bevin a lorry driver and
Herbert Morrison a grocer's assistant. In 1979 40 per cent of Labour MPs had
done manual work but by 2010 it had dropped to 9 per cent. The chauffeur in
Downton Abbey had a greater chance of becoming an MP than a minicab driver would
now. When the parties wheel out their working-class heroes - John Prescott for
Labour, Eric Pickles for the Tories. - it is often as the butt of jokes.

But the aspirational working class has been forgotten. When it transpired last
week that the Planning Minister Greg Clark's father was a milkman from
Middlesbrough and his mother had worked in a supermarket, he was depicted as a
man who had a Dickensian upbringing with no shoes. But, as he explained: "I am
the one that's normal." We need more MPs like him and Mike Penning, the
Transport Minister who was once a fireman.

The working classes don't care if their leaders are toffs, or if they eat
kitchen supper rather than tea. Mr Cameron is rated more highly by low-income
voters than Mr Miliband.

But if they are going to be blind to the Cabinet's privileged backgrounds, they
expect their leaders to be class blind too. Instead, it looks as though the
political elite are in it for themselves and their own kind.

It is telling that for many senior ministers their favourite DVD boxed set at
the moment is not Sherlock or Call the Midwife, but Gossip Girl, a series about
the lives of phenomenally wealthy New York teenagers and their Filipino maids.

The Liberal Democrats squeal loudly that they have taken the lowest tier of
workers out of the tax system, but that is a notional idea rather than a
tangible gain. These Budget watchers wanted to see a cut in fuel duty; they
don't want to be paying more because a minister carelessly caused a run on
petrol before disappearing off to his country house. They are not going skiing
this Easter; they were going to drive to the relatives and now maybe they can't.

These same voters didn't rebel when VAT went up last year, but they do mind when
their pasties are being targeted and nothing else. It's only bankers and those
on benefits who catch this Government's attention, while these working people
are trying to balance their budgets, to do the right thing. At the Bradford West
by-election some made their point by refusing to vote, but many others went for
George Galloway - not because he could do anything for them, but because he had
the smack of authenticity, unlike Mr Miliband. That same need for genuine
understanding on the doorstep has driven them previously towards parties such as
UKIP and the BNP, which appear more receptive to their concerns.

We don't need a working-class government but we do need leaders who understand
their issues. Clement Attlee and Hugh Gaitskell didn't get to Westminster on
sweat and toil, but they could identify with manual workers in the way that
Margaret Thatcher and John Major, both from modest backgrounds, could relate to
the rich. It wasn't that Mr Cameron was playing badminton rather than darts in
the No 10 garden last week; it was that if he is to win the next election, he
needs to espouse the same values as those who throw arrows.

In 1979 40% of Labour MPs had done manual work. By 2010 it was 9%

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: If Labour wants to wheel out a working-class hero, it's John Prescott

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday

London mayor live blog - Boris expletive-filled rant at Ken plus transport Q&A

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 7858 words

ABSTRACT

[#xfffd] Johnson calls Livingstone 'a fucking liar' after Labour candidate
accused Tory over tax arrangements[#xfffd][#xfffd]1pm: Join guests Tony Travers
of the LSE, Lib Dem deputy mayoral candidate Caroline Pidgeon, Rachel Holdsworth
of the Londonist and Annie Mole of Going Underground blog to discuss transport
policy in the capital

FULL TEXT

2.28pm: Ken Livingstone's team has just put out another statement about this
morning's debate. Their tack now is to claim that Livingstone concentrated on
the issues that mattered to Londoners while Johnson is obsessed by the past.
Here's the full statement from a spokesperson for Livingstone:

Ken Livingstone won this debate - by talking about things that really matter to
people, like living standards and the need to cut fares and addressing the
reality of life for millions of Londoners.

By contrast the incumbent Conservative Boris Johnson was obsessed with arguments
from the last election, raking over old stories now well by their sell-by date
and going on about cable cars and other projects of no interest to the majority.

As an incumbent who has built a brand based on being upbeat, his campaign's
relentless negatives on Ken Livingstone are damaging to the carefully
constructed Boris Johnson image.

Unlike four years ago the Tory candidate is now subject to real scrutiny by the
other candidates - and his touchy reactions indicate that as an establishment
figure he is not used to it.

2.07pm:Tony Travers adds more about why he feels the mayor should take control
of National Rail services in the capital:

I think the train operating companies and Network Rail are too far from any kind
of accountability. Whatever one thinks about Boris, Ken, Brian, Jenny, Siobhan
and the rest of the candidates, we do know who they are and they would be held
to account for poor services, unstaffed stations etc in parts of London (mostly
south of the river) where the tube doesn't reach. It would undoubtedly make it
easier for people to comment on services and demand improvements if TfL ran
(even if using the same companies) them rather than the anonymous organisations
that are currently responsible.

1.56pm:Tony Travers answers Hannah Waldram's comment about what the top
transport priority for the next mayor should be:

I think that by far the top priority should be to get the Underground running
effectively - that is with fewer delays. While the buses are important, they are
less susceptible to the kind of top-down intervention the tube requires. Since
the (wretched and subsequently failed) PPP began - at Gordon Brown's insistence
- in 2003, upwards of [#xfffd]12bn has been spent on reinvesting in the
Underground. I am not sure that it feels as if [#xfffd]12bn+ worth of value has
been added ... So I would do whatever necessary to drive up the operational
standard of the Underground.

Also support the idea (which Boris and Ken are agreed about) to allow the mayor
to take over the "local" national rail system in London.

1.52pm:Rachel Holdworth answers my question on the advantages and disadvantages
of the mayor taking control of National Rail services:

As a resident of Lewisham who uses Southeastern, I cannot wait for National Rail
to come under TfL's authority. The Overground is fantastic; clean, reliable,
frequent. Southeastern is the exact opposite. The one pause it does give me is
fares: it currently costs [#xfffd]3 peak / [#xfffd]2.10 off peak to travel from
zone 3 to zone 1 on a Southeastern train. On the Overground it costs
[#xfffd]3.10 peak / [#xfffd]2.60 off peak to travel zone 3 to zone 1 (I just did
some quick and dirty checks with TfL's single fare finder). I suspect fares
would go up if the franchises came under TfL.

1.46pm:Tony Travers of the LSE has joined the debate below the line, and he
starts by stating that "there is little doubt" that Ken Livingstone's proposed
7% fare cut could be paid for out of Transport for London's budget. He writes:

Apologies for starting a bit late in joining this debate.

I suppose the big transport question posed by the policies put forward by Boris
and Ken is whether or not people would prefer a fare cut now rather than
increased investment in the future. Ken is proposing a 7% fare cut if he wins
the election and there is little doubt - given the large amounts of money
sitting within TfL's [#xfffd]10bn budget - that such a cut could be delivered.

However, every pound spent on a fare cut is removed from TfL's capacity to
invest in improvements in an Underground system that desperately needs every
penny it can get. So the real challenge begged by the difference between the
candidates on this issue is: do we want short-term fare cuts or higher long-term
investment?

That, as Hamlet didn't quite say, is the question ...

1.40pm: My colleagues H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland and Luke Martin have just
published their story on the Boris v Ken lift row.

They write that on arrival at LBC's studios this morning Johnson "made to hand
his coat to Livingstone, as if mistaking him for a member of staff, to the
amusement of some". H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne and Luke add:

Johnson's aides released a letter dated 12 March from the mayor's personal
accountant, Robert Maples, stating that Johnson is "liable to income tax on the
entirety of his earnings and has made all due payments. He is not party to any
tax avoidance or deferral schemes, nor has any of his income been transferred to
any other members of his family."

1.32pm: From drygoni:

Personally I think the main issue is a disregard for road safety and the highway
code. Both cyclists and drivers now regularly fail to indicate or signal when on
the roads. I don't know what can be done about it apart from introduce cycling
proficiency and stricter penalties for drivers breaking the highway code.
Personally, I really, really like the 1930s approach of Model Traffic Areas for
children so that they can learn the ways of the road in playgrounds and have fun
at the same time. Obviously back then the highway code hadn't been around for
very long so probably wouldn't work so well today. Unfortunately only one was
ever built (Tottenham) But it is currently being renovated. More information
here: http://untitledfruit.com/2012/03/01/model-traffic-area/

Caroline Pidgeon responds:

Road safety is a really serious issue. We need to make sure that our roads are
safe for every user, including pedestrians and cyclists who are often
overlooked. Did you know that there are 347 crossings in London that are unsafe
for visually impaired people? This is an outrage in 2012, when London should be
at its most accessible in preparation for the games.

1.27pm: From linvoy4england:

How is each candidate looking to manage the ridiculous year on year increase in
fare prices across London?

Annie Mole replies:

This is an excellent question Isaac and I'd also like to know how the fares will
be realistically tackled. Yes we need upgrades as we are largely using a
Victorian system which is seriously unable to cope with current levels of
commuters - that's not even thinking about the 3 million extra passenger
journeys over the Olympics.

Ken says he can pay for his 7% fare cut out of TfL's operating surplus. Boris
says there isn't a surplus. Why don't TfL actually explain whether there is or
isn't a surplus?

Rachel Holdsworth responds:

I'd love to see that as well. The TfL budget is a complicated thing and to
settle this fight - and it does look like being the major fight of the campaign
(lifts not withstanding) - it would be so useful if TfL could just explain how
much money is earmarked for which project and where it's coming from. Presumably
that would nip the rows about various budgets and surpluses in the bud.

1.22pm: Brian Paddick, the Lib Dem mayoral candidate, has commented on the
Boris-Ken lift row. A spokesman for Paddick said:

Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone clearly hold each other in complete contempt.
This should be about Londoners, not the foul mouths and fragile egos of Boris
and Ken. Londoners deserve better and it's time for a change.

1.16pm:Rachel Holdsworth of the Londonist answers my question about whether
taxpayers should subsidise the cycle hire scheme if it is predominately being
used by a well-off section of society.

The cycle hire scheme is worth expanding - but there's a number of caveats.

- I think some of the expansion is to the wrong areas and won't combat the idea
that it's a rich boy's toy. Taking it east to Tower Hamlets was good, but
Boris's planned expansion out to Bromley, Richmond, Kingston etc seems a little
odd as it skips over entire boroughs. What about Peckham, Lewisham, Greenwich,
Brent?

- The cycle hire isn't going to get casual users from outside zone one cycling
into work without serious improvements to road safety - in reality and
perception.

- The system is still not perfect - it would be a better idea to get it running
more smoothly before expanding further.

- The scheme's funding is a problem. We were originally promised it would be all
privately funded but that's not happened at all. The Paris Velib scheme is
financed entirely by JCDecaux in exchange for revenue from previously city-owned
advertising space (so you can argue there's a cost to the taxpayer there). But
the deal with Barclays is ludicrously low, with "up to" [#xfffd]50m coming in
until 2018, so TfL and the boroughs are having to stump up the rest. But, we
have it, it's a fantastic scheme when it works, and to keep it to zone one
really does keep it for the City boys and tourists.

1.09pm:Caroline Pidgeon answers my questions about how the Lib Dems would rework
the congestion charge and the cycle hire scheme:

We would improve the congestion charge by introducing variable charges
throughout the day to discourage road use during the most congested hours. We
would also increase the charge to keep pace with the rise in fares on public
transport.

On the cycle hire scheme, we would make the scheme easier to use for casual
users, with a "one-swipe" facility; expand it south and north; increase the
membership fee to non-Londoners; bring in tough penalties for the contractor to
improve bike distribution; promote the scheme more widely and put the fun back
in with limited edition bikes to celebrate events such as the Diamond Jubilee
and Pride, funded by sponsorship.

Annie Mole of Going Underground responds to my colleague James Walsh's question
about Boris Johnson having "taken credit for tube upgrade work that was already
scheduled before he became mayor, while allowing the future upgrade program to
slip worryingly":

Many of the tube upgrades were in place before Boris came into power and Boris
has had the task of simply seeing a number of these through. The Guardian's Dave
Hill also has a summary of Boris's transport record over the past three years
and also agrees that he's simply "carried on where his predecessor has left
off".

I too would be interested to hear about Brian's plans for tube fares as we have
the highest public transport fares in Europe (for the distance travelled) and
fares appear to rise each year with little discernible improvements to the
service.

1.04pm: Our panel debating transport policy in London have begun answering your
questions. Caroline Pidgeon, the chair of the London assembly transport
committee and Lib Dem deputy mayoral candidate, sets out some of her policies:

We would like to transform central London streets, pedestrianising large parts
from Trafalgar Square up to Oxford Street and develop a New York-style "summer
streets" programme as well as improving signage for walking. We do support
expanding trams in London, starting with extending the Croydon Tram and the
cross-river tram from Peckham and Brixton to Euston.

12.35pm: More on the Boris v Ken row, from my colleague Andrew Sparrow. Ken
Livingstone has now challenged Johnson to answer three questions about his
private company, Finland Station, if Johnson wants to prove that his tax
arrangements were quite unlike Livingstone's. Here are the questions.

1. Did [Johnson] pay income tax on all of his earnings from Finland Station? Can
he categorically say that he didn't receive any income through dividends and
instead pay capital gains tax of 18% (rather than paying income tax at 40%)?

2. When he sold his shareholdings in Finland Station to David Jeffcock and
Barnaby Spurrier - did he pay income tax on the money that he received at 40%,
or capital gains tax at 18%?

3) Did he employ anyone?

I'll let you know when we get an answer from the Johnson camp.

12.21pm: Twitter is agog about the prospect of Ken and Boris going head to head.
This comment perhaps sums up the mood:

Now I like Ken Livingstone, and I like Boris Johnson, but which is
better?There's only one way to find out... #kenandboris#fight

- Will West (@Castmana1) April 3, 2012

Meanwhile, Tony Travers of the LSE, Lib Dem deputy mayoral candidate Caroline
Pidgeon, Rachel Holdsworth of the Londonist and Annie Mole of the Going
Underground blog will all be online here on this blog at 1pm to debate transport
in the capital.

In my opening post this morning I ran through all the key transport issues in
the campaign, including fares, unions, driverless trains, and airports. I also
ran through the main transport policies of each of the four main candidates.
Click here to read that.

Here are some questions to get the debate going.

For Tony Travers, London expert at the LSE: Ken Livingstone says he can pay for
his 7% fare cut out of Transport for London's operating surplus. Boris Johnson
says there is no such surplus. Who do you think is right?

For Caroline Pidgeon, Lib Dem deputy mayoral candidate: Brian Paddick, the Lib
Dem candidate for mayor, has said "the congestion charge doesn't work and the
cycle hire scheme is costing millions of pounds in subsidy because it's badly
managed". Can you explain exactly how the Lib Dems would rework each scheme?

For Rachel Holdsworth of the Londonist: If the cycle hire scheme is costing
taxpayers a lot to run and seemingly being used mainly by a well-off section of
society, is it worthwhile expanding it?

For Annie Mole of Going Underground: Boris Johnson wants to construct a new
tunnel from Greenwich to Silvertown and to "examine the feasibility" of a new
pedestrian bridge between Vauxhall and Chelsea bridges. Ken Livingstone promises
to "start preparatory work" on a cross-river tram scheme originally planned to
run from Camden in the north, across Waterloo Bridge, to Peckham and Brixton in
the south and says he will "build the case" for Crossrail 2 and the South London
line to Victoria, and extensions to the Docklands Light Railway and Croydon
tram. Do we need all these extra lines and new projects?

And a question for all our guests: both Livingstone and Johnson have proposed
that the next mayor takes control of National Rail services within London. What
would be the advantages and disadvantages of such a move?

12.05pm: The Press Association's report on what Johnson said to Livingstone
differs slightly from ours. PA claims Boris said: "It's all fucking lies, it's
all fucking lies."

Either way I think we get the point.

11.55am: Ken Livingstone's team has just sent this statement regarding the lift
row. It doesn't address the issue of whether or not Johnson's tax arrangements
are the same as Livingstone's. A spokesman for Livingstone said:

Boris Johnson lost his temper because he lost the debate - he talked about cable
cars not cutting fares and the squeeze on Londoners.

11.11am: My colleague Luke Martin talked to Jenny Jones, the Green candidate, to
see how she felt the hustings had gone. She said there was a "lot of
testosterone in the room" and "getting my voice in wasn't always easy. But she
hoped that once the candidates' manifestos were published in full, the debate
would turn away from personality to the policies candidates were proposing to
implement tohelp Londoners.

11.07am: Johnson's campaign have issued a statement rebutting Livingstone's
claims about the mayor's tax arrangements. The statement says: "His claims
against Boris Johnson's tax arrangement are lies and he knows they are."

Johnson added:

In relation to my business affairs and tax arrangements, specifically do I have
any company or other arrangements constructed to enable me to pay less tax and
do I, as has been claimed by the Labour mayoral candidate and the opposition
leader, have the same arrangements as Labour's mayoral candidate, the answer is
simple and unequivocal in both cases: no.

He went on to say that his salary as mayor "is taxed as an employee of the GLA
[Greater London Authority], in the same way as when I was an MP my salary was
taxed as an employee".

He added:

Any other income that I have received from outside endeavours has been received
on a self-employed basis, to me as an individual (no company or other structure
has been involved). No income earned by me has ever been paid to a "service"
company, through which a person or person's freelance earnings can be channelled
so that they pay corporation rather than income tax. To suggest otherwise is a
complete and utter fabrication.

11.03am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes to say that she has not been able
to contact Boris Johnson yet about the lift row, but Ken Livingstone's team has
confirmed that Johnson said "you are a fucking liar" to Livingstone.

During the debate Livingstone said that Johnson had the same arrangements for
declaring his income for tax purposes as Livingstone has, but Johnson says this
is absolutely untrue.

When I spoke to Boris afterwards, he seemed calm. He said what he hoped he got
across in the hustings was that London needs another four years of
cost-effective responsible government.

I also caught up with Ken. He said Johnson's company, Finland Station, was set
up to handle his outside income from filming. "That's the same as my company -
Silveta Ltd. That's not to avoid tax. If you really want to avoid tax you have
something offshore. He said he enjoyed the hustings "immensely".

10.38am: Boris Johnson called Ken Livingstone a "fucking liar" three times after
the hustings, H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland reports.

We've learned that things did not go well in the lift after the hustings was
over. Boris went nose to nose with Ken in a small lift and told Ken three times:
"You're a fucking liar, you're a fucking liar, you're a fucking liar." Paddick
and Jenny were also squeezed in, alongside LBC's managing editor, James Rea.
Johnson's anger was due to claims made during the hustings by Livingstone about
Johnson's tax arrangements, which the mayor flatly denies. He told me later that
Ken's claims were "nonsense". Of course at that point we hadn't heard about the
ding-dong in the lift.

10.36am: Simon Harris of ITV's London Tonight has just tweeted that Boris and
Ken had a bit of a bust-up after the debate.

Johnson and Livingstone are involved in a furious row in the lift after the LBC
broadcast. @londontonight

- Simon Harris (@simonharrisitv) April 3, 2012

Sources say Johnson and Livingstone"nose to nose". Johnson 's face "red with
rage" @londontonight

- Simon Harris (@simonharrisitv) April 3, 2012

10.03am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

A listener whose son was mugged calls in, so it's back to policing. Paddick says
officers need to be out on the street in uniform. The police and the community
need to stand side by side against the criminals. Jenny agrees it's about
visibility. It's absolutely crucial that the police are trusted.

The candidates wrap up with a quick summary of their pitches.

Boris Johnson highlights his plans for jobs, and says Ken's fares pledge would
cut investment for transport.

Jenny Jones says she wants to see a more equality in the capital and says more
attention needs to be paid to the environment. She urges voters to think of
voting Green not just for her, but also for the London assembly (she's on the
list too).

Brian Paddick also urges voters to back Lib Dem assembly members on 3 May.

Ken Livingstone says his fares cut would put money back into the pockets of
Londoners. He will fight to the death to protect the freedom pass for older
londoners, he says.

That's it. I'm going to go and chat to the candidates and file back.

9.58am: Ferrari announces the final results of the "Twitter poll", which are a
bit of a surprise. Brian Paddick is now on 24%, Ken Livingstone is also on 24%,
Boris Johnson is on 16%, and Jenny Jones is on 8%.

9.55am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

A question to Ken on his tax arrangements. Ken says he is not avoiding tax; he
pays the proper rate of tax on the income he takes home, he says. Paddick tells
him the way he has chosen to arrange his payments, which go into a company,
means he is not paying as much as he should.

Paddick also says that Boris is going to benefit significantly from the
abolition of the top rate of tax (just from his mayoral salary and Telegraph
column he's on [#xfffd]400,000). Boris will not discuss his tax affairs, but
says he's paying the right rate of tax. Ken points out that Boris had a company
called "Finland station". Boris said he once set up a production company, but he
says he's never set up a company to channel his income payments.

9.51am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

A question on housing from a listener who says he and his partner are thinking
of splitting up because they'd be better off living apart on practical grounds.
They have four children. Ken accuses Boris of failing to deliver sufficient
affordable homes. Boris says he has built over 50,000 in his first term. He says
he met his target, but he is challenged on his definition of affordable -
they're not all for people on very low incomes.

On airport capacity, Boris has made the case for a new airport hub to the east
of London and he says London needs it for business. Jenny says his idea is
"barking mad" and is never going to happen. Aviation is a dangerous commodity in
a world facing the threats of climate change, she says. Paddick says it's about
switching slots, so that the flights for business are concentrated. You can get
more flight capacity out of the existing infrastructure, he says. Ken is
generally opposed to increased flight capacity, and points out short-haul trips
to France and Belgium can be made by train.

9.42am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

A question on gay marriage. Paddick, who is in a civil partnership, says couples
gay or straight should be able to get married. Ken says: "We all agree with
Brian."

Turning to the tube unions, Ken says strikes went down on his watch, whereas
Boris hasn't even met the union leaders. Ken says if he had been mayor, he would
have secured a four-year deal right at the start of his mayoralty. Now, the
unions have got the power because the Olympics are around the corner. Boris has
had 22 strikes on his watch. Boris says he "won't give ground" on strikes in the
Olympics. Jenny reminds Boris that he failed to meet his 2008 promise to secure
a no-strike deal, but worse still he never did anything to make it happen.
Paddick says Boris's claim not to give ground won't make things any better. You
have to get around the negotiating table.

Paddick says he hears Bob Crow, the RMT leader, is quite a reasonable guy. Jenny
says Crow is a really nice bloke.

Ken says that Boris had promised to keep a ticket office open at every station.
That didn't happen. In some stations there is no ticket office, and female
commuters going home late at night feel unsafe. Boris says he kept a ticket
office at every station that has a ticket office. Paddick says whatever Boris
says, women do not feel safe later at night. Paddick suggests buses dropping
women off at the end of their streets. Boris says he's in favour of that.

The presenter, Nick Ferrari, just read out a "Twitter poll" showing that so far
25% of respondents are backing Livingstone, 25% Johnson, 16% Jones and 8%
Paddick.

9.36am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

Ken is asked whether he would extend the congestion charge if elected. (He
introduced it in his first term, extended to the west in his second term, then
Boris scrapped the western extension when he took power.) Ken says he isn't
planning to, and takes a swipe at Boris over his cable car project, and the cost
of it. Boris defends it.

Jenny agrees with Ken that it's not worth spending more money on reinstating the
western extension of the congestion charge. She highlights the very unsung issue
of poor air quality in the capital. She wants to see a [#xfffd]40 charge slapped
on gas guzzling cars.

Ken says you won't solve congestion by more charging, but by having control over
the utilities who constantly dig up London's roads. If you charged them
[#xfffd]1,000 a day, they'd be more swift in filling the holes. (We've had a bit
of silence because the volume faded out in the room where the media is sitting.)
Ken is asked about a [#xfffd]40 charge for gas guzzlers. He says there will be
no increase in the congestion charge, or council tax.

Boris presses Ken on his pledge to cut fares by 7%. He admits it would cost over
a billion pounds over four years, but he says it's [#xfffd]253m this year. He
insists this can be funded from a massive surplus - ie because there is more
fare revenue than was anticipated. There are separate budgets, he stresses.
Jones wades in about the new Routemaster bus, which cost a lot to develop. The
second bus only came out yesterday - three weeks late. Ferrari says they'll
return to buses later.

9.30am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

A question on cycling safety from a listener who had an accident and injured
himself. Jenny says there should be a default 20-mile speed limit across the
capital. She wants cycling measures at junctions, though she doesn't specify
what she wants. Paddick says there is an obsession in the city with the speed of
traffic, whereas the need is for greater safety. Boris says he's working on it.
Now you are, exclaims Paddick, because the Lib Dems on the London assembly have
been going on about it and there's an election looming. Boris says we need
investment in the capital's infrastructure to improve cycling and "that guy"
(Ken) wants to undermine that (through his fare cut). Ken claims police are
investigating Transport for London for corporate manslaughter over the death of
two cyclists. He adds that Boris's transport adviser Kulveer Ranger said traffic
flow was the priority. Strong stuff.

9.25am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

Paddick asks why senior Met police officers have chauffeur-driven cars and
grace-and-favour residences. Boris says he has talked to the Met chief, Bernard
Hogan-Howe, about these excesses. He also points out that through cutting waste
and efficiencies he has been able to freeze the council tax for four years. It's
getting a bit heated on all sides.

9.21am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

The issue of where Boris was when the riots hit London last summer comes up
during a question from the next caller. Paddick asks the caller, Carl, about how
he felt about the fact that Boris didn't rush back when it happened (he was
holiday in Canada buteventually came back). The caller says it didn't bother him
that Boris didn't rush back.

Ken then wades in to criticise Boris for not offering an immediate presence and
giving Londoners reassurance. Ken also criticises heavy handed policing. Paddick
mentiones the need to reform stop and search powers that see far more black
Londoners stopped than their white counterparts

A caller asks Ken about the use of his credit card (this is in reference to the
Daily Mail spread I mentioned earlier). Ken says he was in office for eight
years so the amounts are not high. Yes but why did you need to buy six bottles
of cognac, asks Boris. Jenny then asks Boris why he has spent [#xfffd]5,000 on
taxi fares during his term, despite saying he was going to bear down on waste.

9.11am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

Boris says crime has gone down under his watch, and there are more 1,000 police
officers on the beat. Asked by Ferrari if there are fewer police on the beat now
than when Ken was mayor, Boris says his figure is that there is 32,573. Ken when
he became mayor they had 25,500 and they got the figure up to 32,000. He
disputes Boris's claim that crime is down. Ferrari says but it is (down 10.8%
overall ) but not in every crime category. Paddick says Boris has cut the number
of sergeants in safer neighbourhood teams by half.

Boris insists there are 1,000 more warranted officers than when he came to
office. Jenny Jones, who served on the now defunct Metropolitan Police
Authority, says a lot of them are not on the streets but doing back-office jobs
because of cuts in that area. Ken says vacant posts are not being filled, which
is demoralising for those left behind. Boris has defended what he has been able
to do against the backdrop of massive cuts to resources.

9.11am: A caller asks about putting more police on the streets. Boris Johnson
says crime has gone down and "you can bet your life" that he will be continue to
put more police on the streets.

He says it is not true that there are fewer police on the streets than when Ken
Livingstone left office.

Livingstone disputes this.

"It is nonsense to say crime is coming down," he adds.

Nick Ferrari, the presenter, says crime has gone down 10.8% overall.

Johnson says crime is 11% down.

9.07am: Each of the candidates was just given one minute to summarise their key
policies. H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

Boris gets the bullseye so he goes first and outlines his nine-point plan for
London. Jenny goes second and highlights her policies, including making streets
safer for walking and cycling and cleaning London's dirty air. Ken goes next,
saying we are in difficult times and we need to help Londoners. He wants to put
some of the high fares back in people's pockets. He highlights the benefits of
his planned 7% fare cut, plus his pledge to return the educational maintenance
allowance for students.(LBC present this as someone having a one-minute tube
journey with doors opening and closing on cue.) Paddick goes last, highlighting
his police experience to ask Londoners who they want to keep Londoners safe. He
also highlights his targeted fare cuts.

8.56am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

The hustings is about to start. Each of the four candidates will each have a
minute to state their case. The running order will be decided by the throwing of
a coloured dart (party colours) at a dartboard in the studio. Whoever gets
closest to the bullseye will go first.

8.49am:H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland writes:

Morning. As we near the four week mark to election day, the London radio station
LBC 97.3 is hosting the third hustings - the first broadcast event of the
campaign season - with both Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone present. Also
taking questions from listeners in London are the Liberal Democrats' Brian
Paddick and the Green party's Jenny Jones. The one-hour session with callers
starts at 9am and is hosted by LBC presenter Nick Ferrari. Darts will be
involved (more of that later).

It's almost weeks since the four candidates last shared a forum together, where
they took part in a business hustings in the heart of the City which frankly
wasn't for my money as lively as the first one in front of an audience of older
Londoners. It might be worth noting here that neither Ken or Boris attended a
"Disability Question Time" taking place at the end of last month, organised by
Transport for All.

For the first couple of months of this year, the race was seen as a neck and
neck affair between Boris and Ken. But the most recent YouGov poll (20 March)
widened Boris' lead to eight points. Paddick dropped to just 5%, down from 6% in
the February poll.

Nominations for the race closed last week with seven candidates in the running.
The other candidates are Siobhan Benita (independent), Carlos Cortiglia (BNP)
and Lawrence Webb (Ukip).

Both Ken and Boris have launched their transport manifestos (see below for full
details), while Boris launched his crime manifesto yesterday. Paddick, a retired
former senior police officer, is about to launch his today, and Ken is also due
to unveil his this week.

Boris also held an event last week to promise Londoners that the Olympic legacy
for London would not cost them a "penny more". But it emerged during questions
with journalists that the man who has been at the helm for the past four years
had no idea that Olympic torchbearers will have to pay [#xfffd]199 if they want
to keep their torches as souvenirs.

On the non-policy front, there have also been a few developments, as you might
expect.

Boris was in hot water on the first day of the official election period starting
over his decision to migrate the official mayoral Twitter account to his
re-election campaign. The information commissioner has confirmed it is
investigating a complaint.

Meanwhile a private meeting between Ken and Jewish Labour voters did not appear
to go very well at all, sparking a letter of concern by some of those present to
Labour leader Ed Miliband, claiming that Ken had suggested that "votes for the
left are inversely proportional to wealth levels, and suggested that as the
Jewish community is rich we simply wouldn't vote for him". Miliband said Ken
didn't have "a prejudiced bone in his body", and Ken insisted he stood by
everything he did say during the meeting. But the following week he wrote a
contrite article in the Jewish Chronicle in which he conceded the way the
conversation unfolded meant this interpretation was placed upon it. "When such
controversies unfold, it is easy to get dug in and appear to defend positions. I
don't want to do this. Jewish voters are not one homogenous block," he wrote.

Over the weekend, the Sunday Telegraph's Andrew Gilligan trawled over Ken's time
in office to claim that he paid at least [#xfffd]6,500 of public money to Jan
Woolf, with whom he fathered a son 20 years ago.

In the interest of balance, it would also be worth pointing out that Boris was
himself taken to task in 2010 over his commitment to end "alleged cronyism" in
City Hall by explaining the details surrounding the appointment of a woman with
whom he allegedly had an affair.

Also over the weekend, the Daily Mail highlighted Ken's expenses when he served
as mayor.

I think we're all up to date.

8.30am: Hello, and welcome to today's London mayoral live blog.

This morning at 9am LBC radio is hosting the first broadcast mayoral debate of
the campaign. Tory Boris Johnson, Labour's Ken Livingstone, Lib Dem Brian
Paddick and Green Jenny Jones will be going head to head in the studio, and my
colleague H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland will be with them, and reporting live
for this blog. You can listen to the debate live here.

After that, from 1pm-2pm we'll be debating transport in the capital, with
special guests:

[#xfffd] Tony Travers, London expert at the London School of Economics.

[#xfffd] Caroline Pidgeon, chair of the London assembly transport committee and
the Lib Dems' deputy mayoral candidate.

[#xfffd] Rachel Holdsworth of the Londonist, a website about the capital.

[#xfffd] Annie Mole of the Going Underground blog.

Post your questions for our guests below.

Since the post of elected mayor of London was introduced in 2000, transport has
been one of its key election battlegrounds. Transport for London is one of the
four main bodies the mayor controls, and is responsible for running the
Underground, Overground, Docklands Light Railway, trams, buses, roads and
cycling (which we discussed separately earlier).

Here's a video filmed by my colleagues Oliver Laughland and Alice Salfield in
which Londoners explain the transport issues that matter to them.

So far in the campaign three transport issues have played a major role: fares,
the role of unions and driverless trains, and airport capacity.

Fares

Ken Livingstone has made transport fares one of the key issues of the election,
promising to cut them by 7% this year and freeze them in 2013. From 2014 they
would not rise above inflation. Figures released by the House of Commons library
in January showed the average transport fare in London had risen 26% since 2008,
when Boris Johnson was elected, with bus fares up 50%.

Johnson is committed to yearly increases of the inflation rate plus 2%, although
the popularity of Livingstone's pledge - a recent YouGov poll found 82% of
respondents supported it - seems to have spooked him. In the press release
launching his policy on driverless trains last week Johnson promised to "hold
fares down", giving no further detail.

At the same time he has aggressively characterised Livingstone's fare cut plan
as representing a [#xfffd]1.2bn cut in investment, using strikingly Labourite
language:

The choice at this election is between investment in our transport system - or
cuts in investment at the worst possible time.

Livingstone defended his proposals against such accusations to my colleague
Andrew Sparrow in January. His key point was that "in a budget of [#xfffd]8bn if
you can't find the money to have a 7% fares cut, you are breathtakingly
incompetent". And he rejected a Channel 4 FactCheck analysis that there was no
surplus that could be drawn upon to pay for the fares cut. A February 2012
Transport for London board paper highlighted by Livingstone last week (see page
one, paragraph two) showed a total [#xfffd]338m surplus in Transport for
London's operating budget. Livingstone puts the cost of his fare cut at
[#xfffd]270m for the first year.

Livingstone has also posted a video featuring comedian Eddie Izzard explaining
his fare cut policy. It is a lot better than a previous one featuring Stephen
Pound MP.

Unions/driverless trains

Last week Johnson launched his transport policies with an eye-catching pledge to
introduce driverless trains on the London Underground within a decade, something
he partly justified on the ground that the move would "reduce the bargaining
power of the union bosses intent on bringing London to a halt".

Livingstone said that the non-driving staff who would work on these trains
instead ("train captains") would still be able to strike. "In other words it
doesn't solve the issue of industrial disputes, which is what seems to motivate
this convoluted policy from the Tories."

There have been far more tube strikes during Johnson's four years in power than
Livingstone's eight. Reaching a no-strike deal with the unions was one of the
promises Johnson admitted not being able to keep in his recent assessment of his
own record in so far. He is lobbying the government to change strike laws to
mandate a minimum turnout of 50% in strike ballots.

Livingstone is essentially promising to return to his former policy of
"negotiating with the workforce", which saw, as he put it recently, "the number
of shifts on the tube lost due to strike action ... cut by 98%."

Brian Paddick, the Lib Dem candidate, has also hit out at the transport unions,
saying: "Londoners need a mayor who will stand up to the unions, not by refusing
to meet them until the eleventh hour but by engaging with them, looking the
likes of Bob Crow in the eye and being tough but fair with them."

Airports

Johnson has proposed a new private-sector funded airport to the east of London,
nicknamed "Boris Island", something the government announced in this year's
budget it would now consult on. He says this would increase prosperity and the
number of jobs in the capital and contribute to the regeneration of east London,
while its noise levels would be low because flight paths would be over the
Thames Estuary and the North Sea.

By contrast he is firmly opposed to the building of a third runway at Heathrow,
saying this would be an "environmental disaster" and promising "it will not be
built as long as I am mayor".

Livingstone has said he thinks an a new airport in the Thames Estuary would be
"devastating for west London and threaten 114,000 jobs", and would end up
downgrading Heathrow "to a regional feeder airport". He calls for investment in
high-speed rail as an alternative to air travel, and the construction of two
further phases of Crossrail. If more airport capacity is needed "and there is no
other alternative", Livingstone says other airports outside London, for example
Stansted, should be expanded instead.

Boris Johnson and transport

Johnson's most visible move as mayor has been the introduction of the cycle hire
scheme, first proposed by Livingstone but now completely identified with Johnson
to the extent that the cycles are known as "Boris bikes". (We discussed this
earlier.) He has overseen improvements to the above-ground local train services
(the "Overground"), introduced the Oyster card on national rail services, and
made the Freedom Pass for older people valid 24 hours a day. He took "bendy
buses" out of service, introducing instead a handful of dramatic new vehicles
styled after the popular old Routemaster buses; he says 600 of these will be in
service by the end of his second term, each costing no more than "an existing
hybrid bus". One of his first policies was to ban drinking on public transport;
protest parties on the Underground took place on the last night alcohol was
allowed, but the ban now seems widely observed. He scrapped the western
extension to the congestion charge and got rid of Livingstone's proposed
[#xfffd]25 charge for the most polluting cars.

Johnson pledges to reduce tube delays by 30% by 2015 (Transport for London says
delays are already down 40% since 2007-08), to continue construction of the
Crossrail east-west rail link and the extensions to the Docklands Light Railway
in the east and the Overground - linking it up in the south as an "orbital"
railway by late this year - as well as expanding the cycle hire scheme east and
west and "exploring expansion" to the south.

He wants to introduce a new code of conduct for 11-16-year-olds who have free
travel, launch a strategic review of London's road networks, including a
[#xfffd]50bn "congestion-busting fund" to tackle black spots, and continue to
upgrade various tube lines in order to increase capacity. He also promises to
construct a new tunnel from Greenwich to Silvertown and to "examine the
feasibility" of a new pedestrian bridge between Vauxhall and Chelsea bridges.

Both Johnson and Livingstone have proposed that the mayor takes control of
National Rail services within London, and both have proposed returning the age
older people can get the Freedom Pass to 60.

Ken Livingstone

Livingstone's most high profile and radical policy as mayor concerned transport:
the congestion charge for vehicles entering the city centre. During his time in
office, he oversaw a modernisation of the transport system, especially the bus
network, and introduced the Oyster pre-pay travelcard. A two-tier payment system
evolved, with fares for those using Oyster kept relatively low while cash fares
increased hugely, in a move which targeted tourists instead of locals and pushed
more people into the arms of the quicker Oyster system.

Livingstone today says he would not bring back the western extension to the
congestion charge or allow drinking on public transport again, and announced in
his "transport manifesto" (read the full document here) that he would not bring
back the [#xfffd]25 a day "gas guzzler" charge for the most polluting vehicles
either, saying that would be too expensive to implement.

He would leave in place the existing eight new Routemasters introduced by
Johnson, "but we are not buying any more, not at [#xfffd]1.3m each", he told the
Guardian in January (that price had risen to [#xfffd]2m each by the time his
transport manifesto was published - see Johnson's view of their price above).

Livingstone also promises to "start preparatory work" on a cross-river tram
scheme originally planned to run from Camden in the north, across Waterloo
Bridge, to Peckham and Brixton in the south, which was cancelled by Johnson in
2008 due to lack of funding.

The Labour candidate also says he would roll out the cycle hire scheme "far more
widely", mentioning south London, altering it so it was "a far less expensive
scheme". He says he would review the contract with Barclays - which he calls
"the cheapest sponsorship deal ever" - and would require sponsors to make the
scheme more attractive to a wider range of Londoners. Staying with cycling, he
would review major junctions, trial a cyclists-only green traffic light phase,
redesign the cycle superhighways, expand the "Greenways" cycle routes, extend
the Freedom Pass to allow older people to use the cycle hire scheme for free,
and work with boroughs for consistent cycle lanes across the capital.

He promises better bus services in the suburbs, and says he will "get a grip" on
tube delays, freeze the congestion charge for the full four years of his term,
and "build the case" for Crossrail 2 and the South London line to Victoria, and
extensions to the Docklands Light Railway and Croydon tram. He would make a
third of all tube stations accessible to those who can't use steps by 2016,
start a campaign for more courtesy on public transport, including trialling
"keep your feet off" designs on buses, introduce a system to allow drivers to
get information on their phones about where the nearest parking spaces are,
campaign for rickshaws to be banned, and link up pedestrianised spaces in
central London so people can walk in a pleasant environment from Bank to Oxford
Street.

Livingstone would also campaign against the proposed route of High Speed 2, and
for a route "that doesn't demolish hundreds of London homes". And "if it is not
too late by May" he would negotiate with the International Olympic Committee to
ensure the maximum possible access for black cabs to the Olympic Route Network.
Livingstone says he will announce plans to cut air pollution separately at a
later date. His campaign has also focused heavily on the 7% fare cut discussed
above.

Brian Paddick

The Lib Dem candidate calls for a one-hour bus ticket, and discounted fares
before 7.30am. In a Q&A with Guardian readers he said "the congestion charge
doesn't work and the cycle hire scheme is costing millions of pounds in subsidy
because it's badly managed". He added: "I want all but those who have no choice
to use public transport or cycle." He also raised the prospect of
pedestrianising Oxford Street, with just one "shuttle bus" going along it, and
said he was "absolutely committed to making London's roads safer for all road
users particularly cyclists and pedestrians" and wanted to "enthusiastically
pursue" the Love London, Go Dutch approach which aims to make the capital's
streets as cycle- and pedestrian-friendly as Holland's.

Jenny Jones

Green party candidate Jenny Jones says [#xfffd]1bn a year could be raised for
public transport from a London-wide pay-as-you-go road-pricing scheme and
pledges to "research" this idea. She suggests new roads and river crossings
should only be for public transport, cycling and walking, and cyclists and
pedestrians should have priority at traffic lights. She also wants a 20mph limit
on residential streets, plus faster and safer cycle paths, the layout of
dangerous junctions changed, and the cycle hire scheme expanded. She calls for a
"very low emission zone" in central London and wants to make all buses "low
emission hybrids or better" by 2016. Jones says that if elected she would
increase the congestion charge to [#xfffd]15 for ordinary vehicles and
[#xfffd]40 for "gas guzzlers". And she promises to create a fund to help taxi
drivers clean up their vehicles, and to clamp down on illegal mincabs.

Post your questions for Tony Travers, Caroline Pidgeon, Rachel Holdsworth and
Annie Mole - or simply debate the issues - below.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Comment: The message from Bradford: Labour needs to get angrier: It's not only
in those areas feeling the most destructive cuts that voters are seeing the
damage around them

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1083 words


The establishment needs shock treatment from time to time: a whiff of revolution
from riot or electoral rebellion gives Westminster a defibrillator jump. Neither
riots nor George Galloway's return are welcome news, but rebellions are
reminders that people will burst out if pushed too far. And many are being
pushed too far, here and right across Europe. Expect the unpredictable.

YouGov reports its highest "none of the above" score, with 17% choosing small
parties; 68% think British politics is corrupt. The Westminster wars of "your
fault", "you did it", "you're worst" sound like wasps in a bottle to those who
say "they're all the same". One in nine who voted Tory last time would opt for
Ukip now. SNP success in Scotland is part rebellion against Labour hegemony. A
collapsing Lib Dem vote may turn to Labour - or skitter off to the Greens or
doctor candidates. Elections for mayors and police commissioners are an open
invitation to anti-establishment backlash, as in Doncaster or Hartlepool: the
new has a brief veneer of authenticity. The tightening tourniquet of austerity
round a stagnant economy must have political consequences.

Ed Miliband's bid to break out opened Labour's local election campaign yesterday
in Selly Oak with a speech my colleague Nicholas Watt (not given to hyperbole)
reported as "a bravura performance". Read it to see Miliband potting every ball,
though a blindfolded player could hardly miss: Osborne's catastrophic budget,
NHS dismemberment starting at full tilt, zero growth, a million young jobless -
and a £3bn tax cut for millionaires. On crime, he was refreshing, calling for
restorative justice - a well-researched evidence-based policy for criminals to
pay something back, devoid of New Labour's tendency to cheap and nasty
eye-catchers.

A steady 10-point lead suggests Labour would win most seats now, despite
gerrymandering and bad new rules for election registers knocking off poorer
Labour voters. No wonder the Daily Telegraph reports Tory backbench gnashing of
teeth, calling for Osborne's removal from strategy: Norman Tebbit castigates
Cameron's "government by chums". Good grief, Labour snatched council seats in
Tory Southfields and Sevenoaks last week. Tories can see that vital 7.5% lead to
form a majority next time is a horse galloping away from them over the Chipping
Sodbury horizon. It stretches credulity to imagine them doing any better than
their puny 36% last time, when Cameron was his most charming, the nasty party
least toxic, Gordon Brown in Downing Street and every European government
executed by voters. Ahead lies much worse - 88% of cuts still to come. Cameron's
-26 approval rating makes him less popular than Brown was before the 2010
election.

So if they are not going to win outright and escape coalition, what do they do
about the Lib Dems? Tories always were the stupid party: had they backed the AV
referendum, in a pact they could have named each other second choice in
elections to secure a centre-right coalition. As it is, the Lib Dems must either
merge so the Tories stand aside in some seats, or fight and lose most. Lib Dem
failure to denounce email snooping yesterday marked their demise: civil
liberties was their last USP.

But as Labour surveys the wreckage of Bradford West, ripples of alarm pulse
through "safe" seats: Tory unpopularity may not always mean Labour votes.
However, Labour has been spring-cleaning it roots, its website is alive with
campaigns it hosts, not all of its choosing, such as the Robin Hood tax. What
matters most is the big message so foghorn loud and heard so often that everyone
knows what Labour is for and why. That is what authenticity sounds like.

It's not quite there yet, with Labour still straddled between being a tarnished
government and an insurgent opposition. But since the budget, blame for the past
is receding; Tory finger-pointing is losing its poke. Labour's cautious tendency
tugs back towards the centre-ground "where elections are won", but Bradford West
shows over-caution has dangers too. What's it to be: a fiscal straitjacket or a
business-building, jobs-and-growth Keynesian answer to hyper-austerity? Some
blend of the two is cooking. Labour is now only four points behind the
government on trust to run the economy - though that post-budget fillip may dip
again: lost reputation for economic credibility is hardest to regain. Yesterday
Miliband's message was: "Labour is changing." How much change? Time now to draw
a line under much that went before. Get ahead fast with a fair party funding
offer this week.

Post office privatisation is a chance to say Labour was wrong to think of it,
because imprudent outsourcing wastes more money. As the NHS fragments to the
private sector and the work programme threatens to collapse under the weight of
companies struggling to profit from the unemployed, under-scrutinised taxpayer
billions are wasted with A4E, KPMG and the rest. Hurry forward with policies in
the making on house building, rent controls and universal childcare, with costs
accounted for. Labour shadow cabinet members each have their messages - usually
in threes: "Anger, credibility and hope," said one.

This is a week for white-hot anger: on Thursday, the new financial year, a most
devastating cut takes £74 a week in working tax credit from low-paid working
families on £17,000 a year. Watch them flock to Trussell Trust food banks, new
ones opening every week. Many won't know what's about to hit them. Lib Dems
boast of their minor £126 a year gained by taking the low paid out of income
tax, yet say not a word about this shocker. These are the "hard-working couples
playing by the rules" that politicians keep praising, striving but failing to
find longer working hours. With Liam Byrne off to bid for mayor of Birmingham,
it's time to bring back Douglas Alexander to the work and pensions job he held,
wasted in the wilderness as shadow foreign secretary. Labour needs to get brave
on welfare: the cuts are only popular because few know the savagery done in
their name under cover of "scrounger" anecdotes. Most would be shocked to know
two thirds of disabled children soon lose large sums in disability living
allowance.

If Bradford has a message, it's that Labour needs to get angrier: stricken towns
devastated by unemployment and hopelessness need Labour and Labour needs them.
But not just in those places. Enough voters everywhere see the damage done
around them - yes, even voting Labour in Sevenoaks.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2012



CORRECTION: * An article about Labour's electoral prospects said the party had
"snatched council seats in Tory Southfields and Sevenoaks" last month. That was
true in a byelection in Sevenoaks, but in Southfields the Labour candidate was
defeated by 330 votes (The message from Bradford: Labour needs to get angrier, 3
April, page 29).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

BIRTHDAYS

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 245 words


Alec Baldwin, actor, 54; Brendan Barber, general secretary, TUC, 61; Professor
Janet Bately, Emeritus Professor of English Language and Medieval Literature,
King's College, London, 80; Tony Benn, former MP and government minister, 87; Ed
Berman, writer, director, producer and social entrepreneur, 71; Sir Jeffery
Bowman, former chairman, Mid Essex Hospital Services, NHS Trust, 77; Rev Canon
Anthony Caesar, an Extra Chaplain to the Queen, 88; Doris Day, actress and
singer, 89; Ben Foster, England footballer, 29; Carol Dow, former chief medical
adviser, Foreign and Commonwealth Office, 71; Nigel Farage, MEP and leader,
UKIP, 48; William Gaunt, actor, 75; Sir Charles George, chairman, Stroke
Association, 71; Dame Jane Goodall, primatologist and scientific director, Gombe
Wildlife Research Institute, Tanzania, 78; Michael Grade, chairman,
Pinewood-Shepperton Ltd, 69; Jamie Hewlett, artist, 44; David Hyde Pierce,
actor, 53; Dr Helmut Kohl, former German Chancellor, 82; Tim Krul, Netherlands
footballer, 24; Leona Lewis, singer, 27; Jonathan Lynn, director, writer and
actor, 69; Will Mellor, actor, 36; Eddie Murphy, actor, 51; Tony Orlando,
singer, 68; Claire Perry MP, 48; Bjarne Riis, former Tour de France champion,
48; Marie O'Riordan, editor-in-chief, John Brown Media, 52; Andy Robinson,
Scotland coach and former England rugby union player, 48; Richard Thompson,
guitarist and songwriter, 63; Sally Thomsett, actress, 62; Sir Malcolm Thornton,
former MP, 73.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 3, 2012 Tuesday 2:37 PM GMT

Miliband 'will learn' from Galloway's surprise victory

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason

LENGTH: 511 words


ED MILIBAND has promised to "learn lessons" about his leadership of Labour after
George Galloway, the anti-war campaigner, dealt him a humiliating blow by
winning one of the party's safest seats.

Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, claimed to have begun a "Bradford Spring",
after securing a majority of more than 10,000 votes to become an MP for the
third time.

The leader and founder of the Respect Party said he appealed to a "tidal wave"
of disenchanted voters in the large Muslim community of Bradford West, building
on their anger about the Iraq war. After the surprise result, he claimed he was
the "real Labour" candidate ready to take the party back to its working-class
roots. "If Labour doesn't go back to being a Labour Party again, it will never
command the support - let alone the enthusiasm - of the kind of people who
supported it for at least 100 years," he said.

"We are Labour, we are real Labour."

Mr Miliband, who had been on the campaign trail in Bradford, said: "We've got to
understand the reasons why that happened. It reinforces something I've
emphasised throughout my leadership, which is that we need to be engaged and
rooted in every community of this country."

Mr Galloway has been a controversial figure since he was filmed in 1994 telling
the dictator Saddam Hussein: "I salute your courage, your strength, your
indefatigability." The MP was expelled from the Labour party in 2003 after he
accused Tony Blair and President George Bush of "acting like wolves" by invading
Iraq. He emerged as a threat to the party when he won the seat of Bethnal Green
and Bow from Labour in 2005.

He took revenge last Friday for a second time by winning the Bradford West seat
held by Labour for more than four decades, by 18,341 votes to Labour's 8,201.

The Conservatives saw their support drop by 22 per cent to 2,746, and the
Liberal Democrats received so few votes that they lost their deposit. Only one
in four people voted for a mainstream political party.

Mr Galloway's victory was also driven by young first-time voters. He appealed
directly to Islamic voters by emphasising that he was a non-drinker and had
"fought for Muslims at home and abroad".

Labour sources said the party was putting the defeat down to "local issues" and
"anti-politics" sentiment.

However, Baroness Warsi, the Conservative chairman, commented: "If Labour can't
win one of their safe seats in these tough economic times and in a tough week
for the Government, how can they win anywhere?"

George Galloway (Respect) 18,341 (55.89%, +52.83%); Imran Hussain (Lab) 8,201
(24.99%, -20.36%); Jackie Whiteley (Con) 2,746 (8.37%, -22.78%); Jeanette
Sunderland (LD) 1,505 (4.59%, -7.08%); Sonja McNally (Ukip) 1,085 (3.31%,
1.31%); Dawud Islam (Green) 481 (1.47%, -0.85%); Neil Craig (D Nats) 344
(1.05%); Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 111 (0.34%).

Respect maj 10,140 (30.90%). 36.59% swing Lab to Respect. Electorate 64,618.
Turnout 32,814 (50.78%, -14.12%). 2010 results: Lab maj 5,763 (14.20%). Turnout
40,576 (64.90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

Ashton's new look for £150k

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 123 words


SENIOR Eurocrat Baroness Ashton has hired a £150,000-a-year media adviser to try
to improve her disastrous public image, it emerged last night.

The EU foreign affairs supremo is understood to have recruited Danishborn
international relations expert Daniel Korski for the post.

But the move yesterday triggered fresh anger about the waste of taxpayers' cash
by Brussels.

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Paul Nuttall said: "This is a disgrace. The EU
already spends more than £8million a year on media relations."

Former Labour peer Baroness Ashton has suffered widespread criticism since being
appointed just over two years ago.

Many critics say the job - effectively the EU's foreign secretary - is
unnecessary and have questioned her competence.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

The Hungary question could strengthen the EU

BYLINE: Jan-Werner Muellerguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 909 words

ABSTRACT

Jan-Werner Mueller: Debate over Hungary's new constitution will revitalise EU
institutions - as long as it focuses on politics and law, not culture

FULL TEXT

The EU is currently engaged in an unprecedented conflict with a member state:
Brussels has started infringement proceedings against Hungary and is also
threatening to cut cohesion funds - essentially subsidies for infrastructure -
if the government of Victor Orbán does not respond properly to a range of
European criticisms of Hungary's new constitution.

Orbán in turn has charged that his country is becoming the victim of an
international leftwing conspiracy, led by the likes of Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the
Green politician who has fiercely attacked the Hungarian prime minister,
comparing him to Hugo Chávez. People like Cohn-Bendit, according to the
Hungarian government line, simply resent the values that the Hungarian right has
enshrined in its constitution: nation, family and, not least, Christianity.
Orbán - a man who thrives on conflict and polarisation - is trying to do for
Europe as a whole what he has already done within his own country: create a
fight that is not so much about liberal democracy or even economics, but about
cultural values.

Kulturkampf - the original 19th-century German expression, dating from
Bismarck's battle against Catholics in unified Germany - is a strategy that has
until recently worked well for the American right (it is not working so well for
Rick Santorum now). Would something similar be a disaster for European
integration? Or could conflict in the end create more cohesion?

In a recent interview Orbán claimed that there was a "hidden" or even "secret"
Europe; that is, forces fighting for his type of conservative values that do not
dare to speak their name. According to the Hungarian prime minister, the lack of
confidence of the right actually hastens the decline of Europe as a whole,
because only pride in history will enable the continent to compete with China
and other rising powers: the successful, according to Orbán, are not afraid to
affirm their "spiritual identity" (he mentioned Islam and east Asia); they
believe in family and having children.

In fact, that other Europe is not so hidden at all: Ukip, for instance, has been
championing the case of Hungary (putting a clip of a recent confrontation
between left-leaning MEPs and Hungarian government representatives on the web
with the scoreline Hungary 1: EU 0). And there are many inside the European
People's party (the association of Christian Democratic and conservative
European parties to which Orbán's party also belongs) who look favourably enough
on Budapest's line.

This conflict might further delegitimise the EU in the eyes of its critics (who
is Brussels to decide what counts as proper liberal democracy?) and deepen the
division between small states and large states, because only the former ever
seem to get criticised, while a big founding member of the EU such as Italy
under Berlusconi seemed to get away with everything, no matter how much
political bunga-bunga was going on).

But it could also have a different effect: those who want a genuine
transnational European politics (if they are serious - a big if), must accept
the possibility of such conflicts - after all, there is no politics without
conflict, even if in liberal democracies conflicts are always contained. In
fact, conflict is the only way forward, if European politics is not to be just
about nation states confronting each other, but about political and moral
allegiances trumping national ones. The crucial point, however, is that such
conflicts should precisely not become cultural - there is no need for Europeans
to agree entirely on moral questions that have proven infamously divisive in
American politics, such as abortion and same-sex marriage. The conflict is
political; the problems with Hungary's new regime are political and legal. And
culture is a distraction.

In fact, the necessity to think hard about the question of whether the Hungarian
constitution is or is not within the realm of shared European norms forces
everyone to get clearer on whether there really is such a shared understanding
of liberal democracy (I think there is, but that's for another occasion). It
will not do to just invoke the d-word in high-minded speeches on special
occasions - Europe's elites have to explain where exactly the line is drawn
vis-à-vis what some see as just a touch of illiberalism and others fear might
become a form of soft authoritarianism.

To be sure, one has to be careful with such arguments: they are reminiscent of
old communist claims that the worse things are the better, because every
disaster for capitalism and bourgeois democracy hastens the arrival of
revolution (never mind the victims on the way). In the same way, the meaning of
the troubles of ordinary Hungarians today is not that in the long run they might
advance some lofty ideal of European unity. Still, conflict over Orbán's
illiberal and undemocratic course has already re-animated the European
parliament, encouraged intellectuals from across the continent to join the fray,
and has made European citizens pay attention to a faraway country about which
they probably did not know much before. As long as the debate is about politics
and law - and does not get side-tracked into a sterile conflict about cultural
values - this might not be such a bad thing.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 2, 2012
                                 First Edition

Don't be tempted to shift left, Ed;
George Galloway's victory was spectacular - but misleading

BYLINE: My View Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 973 words


re we entering a new era of left-wing populism? "Stop this cuts madness!" cried
George Galloway's leaflets in the Bradford West byelection.

Ken Livingstone has a classic left-wing populist message for the voters of
London. And in France, François Hollande, the Socialist presidential candidate
who says the world of finance is his enemy, promises a 75 per cent tax on people
earning more than Euro 1m and a Euro 20bn boost in spending to create jobs.

Galloway won, against all expectations.

Hollande is ahead in the polls. If Livingstone and Hollande win too, Ed Miliband
will be under huge pressure to move his party to the left. And the argument - as
superficially attractive as it is wrong - will be harder than usual to resist.

People are angry - very angry.

They're scared too. If they are unemployed, they're in despair of getting back
to work. Even if they're still working, they're worried that they may lose their
jobs, and their spending power has been squeezed. It can only get worse, as most
of the cuts haven't yet hit. Times are extremely bleak.

What are politicians telling them? Conservatives and Liberal Democrats say, "We
understand your pain but there's no alternative, and it's going to have to get
worse." Labour says, "We understand your pain but we can only fiddle about at
the edges to help you." George Galloway says, "Stop this cuts madness!" Which do
you think is the most immediately appealing? If voters were rational automatons,
unencumbered by inconvenient emotions such as fear and anger, they might be
thrilled that the Coalition is tackling the deficit and reward them for it.
Theoretically, they do - at least, they say they trust David Cameron and George
Osborne more than the two Eds to run the economy. But when it comes to any
individual deficit-cutting measure, they oppose it. The Independent on Sunday's
ComRes poll yesterday showed 71 per cent disapproving of the pasty tax and 64
per cent against the granny tax.

You can see how seductive it is to hear a politician cooing, "It doesn't have to
be like this," whether he is Galloway, Livingstone or Hollande. Even Barack
Obama is likely to win this year's presidential election on a record of stimulus
rather than austerity.

What's more, it has been some time since Labour had to worry about a party to
the left of them. The Liberal Democrats filled that slot, up to a point, during
the Iraq war. But Labour has never really had the problem that the Tories have
with Ukip, which is that as soon as they move to the centre, they lose their
more hardline voters to the fringe. Now it does. A rush to the left is certainly
seductive, but so, for Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was a sex party full of
prostitutes. Both may be sweetly satisfying at the time, but they don't half
have the power to damage you later. For even if a leftwing, populist message
gets you into government, you then have the problem of governing on a manifesto
that wouldn't last a week in the bond markets.

It's also worth challenging the left's analysis of the Bradford West defeat. If
Labour had been less arrogant and complacent, it could easily have won. The
party assumed that the Asian block vote was as solid as the trade-union one. Yet
the Cantle report into the Bradford riots, published in 2001, specifically
identified the disaffection that Asian youths felt for their so-called community
leaders. Their votes couldn't be delivered en masse.

According to Sean Dolat, a young Labour activist in Bradford West, Galloway
trounced Labour in social media. On Twitter there were 10 pro-Galloway tweets by
young Asian voters for every pro-Labour one. Dolat's student friends were
inundated with emails and texts from the Galloway camp. "Their campaign was so
much better organised and so much more enthused," he writes. "I've never
witnessed anything like this in British politics, and I really don't say that
lightly. The communication between activists on the Galloway side was
phenomenal."

Not only was Labour lumbering and flat-footed against a campaign that ran at
Twitter's speed of light. It also identified the wrong opponent.

One Shadow Cabinet minister admitted to me yesterday that "because Bradford West
was a Tory target in 2010, we thought they were the enemy". So none of the many
damaging facts that could have been disseminated about Galloway made its way
into Labour's leaflets.

Instead Labour campaigned against national government policies, while Galloway
talked mainly about local concerns, such as the hole in the ground in Bradford
city centre that should have been a Westfield shopping mall. Labour's was a
classic mistake, particularly in a by-election. Potholes are always going to be
more potent than post-neoclassical endogenous growth theory or any other
Westminster waffle.

Labour should have known better.

Its most successful campaigners at the last general election - Gisela Stuart in
Birmingham and Margaret Hodge in Barking - won by listening attentively to their
constituents and addressing their local concerns. Voters hate being talked at or
taken for granted, as Labour did in Bradford West.

There is a bigger lesson for Ed Miliband, though, and it doesn't involve moving
to the left. What Bradford West and the recent elections in Scotland showed is
that the unpopularity of the Tories and Liberal Democrats doesn't automatically
translate into popularity for Labour.

Labour has to give voters reasons to vote for it, not just reasons to vote
against the Coalition. They don't have to be wildly left wing and populist. But
if all the party has to offer, in the words of another Labour MP, is "wonky
bureaucratic answers to problems, vacuous phrases and no coherent story", then
it mustn't be surprised if voters are lured instead by the empty promises of a
left-wing, populist candidate. Labour has to start telling its own story, fast.

i@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        April 2, 2012 Monday 1:27 AM GMT

Mary Ann Sieghart: Labour's wrong if it thinks it's time for a shift to the
left;
If Labour had been less arrogant and complacent in Bradford West, it could have
won

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1062 words


Are we entering a new era of left-wing populism? "Stop this cuts madness!" cried
George Galloway's leaflets in the Bradford West by-election. Ken Livingstone has
a classic left-wing populist message for the voters of London. And in France,
François Hollande, the Socialist presidential candidate who says the world of
finance is his enemy, promises a 75 per cent tax on people earning more than
(EURO)1m and a (EURO)20bn boost in spending to create jobs.

Galloway won, against all expectations. Hollande is ahead in the polls. If
Livingstone and Hollande win too, Ed Miliband will be under huge pressure to
move his party to the left. And the argument, which is as superficially
attractive as it is wrong, will be harder than usual to resist.

People are angry, very angry. They're scared too. If they are unemployed,
they're in despair of getting back to work. Even if they're still working,
they're worried that they may lose their jobs, and their spending power has been
squeezed.It can only get worse, as most of the cuts haven't yet hit. Times are
extremely bleak.

What are politicians telling them? Conservatives and Liberal Democrats say, "We
understand your pain but there's no alternative, and it's going to have to get
worse." Labour says, "We understand your pain but we can only fiddle about at
the edges to help you." George Galloway says, "Stop this cuts madness!" Which do
you think is more immediately appealing?

If voters were rational automatons, unencumbered by inconvenient emotions such
as fear and anger, they might be thrilled that the Coalition is tackling the
deficit and reward them for it. Theoretically, they do - at least, they say they
trust David Cameron and George Osborne more than the two Eds to run the economy.
But when it comes to any individual deficit-cutting measure, they oppose it. Our
ComRes poll yesterday showed 71 per cent disapproving of the "pasty tax" and 64
per cent against the "granny tax".

You can see how seductive it is to hear a politician cooing, "It doesn't have to
be like this," whether he is Galloway, Livingstone or Hollande. Even Barack
Obama is likely to win this year's presidential election on a record of stimulus
rather than austerity.

What's more, it has been some time since Labour had to worry about a party to
the left of them. The Lib Dems filled that slot, up to a point, during the Iraq
war. But Labour has never really had the problem that the Tories have with UKIP,
which is that as soon as they move to the centre, they lose their more hardline
voters to the fringe. Now it does.

A rush to the left is certainly seductive, but so, for Dominique Strauss-Kahn,
was a sex party full of prostitutes. Both may be sweetly satisfying at the time,
but they don't half have the power to damage you later. For even if a left-wing,
populist message gets you into government, you then have the problem of
governing on a manifesto that wouldn't last a week in the bond markets.

It's also questionable whether a left-wing, populist manifesto would get Labour
into government. It may not work for Livingstone - despite the cuts, Boris
Johnson now enjoys an eight-point lead over his Labour rival. It may not work
for Hollande either; and even if it does, the French and British electorates do
not usually march in step. And, however painful the austerity is, if voters
don't trust Labour to run the economy responsibly, they won't vote it in.
Labour's main opponent in 2015, after all, won't be George Galloway but George
Osborne.

It's also worth challenging the Left's analysis of the Bradford West defeat. If
Labour had been less arrogant and complacent, it could easily have won. The
party assumed that the Asian block vote was as solid as the trade union one. Yet
the Cantle report into the Bradford riots, published in 2001, specifically
identified the disaffection that Asian youth felt for their so-called community
leaders. Their votes couldn't be delivered en masse.

According to Sean Dolat, a young Labour activist in Bradford West, Galloway
trounced Labour in social media. On Twitter there were 10 pro-Galloway tweets by
young Asian voters for every pro-Labour one. Dolat's student friends were
inundated with emails and texts from the Galloway camp. "Their campaign was so
much better organised and so much more enthused," he writes. "I've never
witnessed anything like this in British politics. The communication between
activists on the Galloway side was phenomenal."

Not only was Labour lumbering and flat-footed against a campaign that ran at
Twitter's speed of light. It also identified the wrong opponent. One Shadow
Cabinet minister admitted to me yesterday that "because Bradford West was a Tory
target in 2010, we thought they were the enemy". So none of the many damaging
facts that could have been disseminated about Galloway made their way into
Labour's leaflets.

Instead Labour campaigned against national government policies, while Galloway
talked mainly about local concerns, such as the hole in the ground in Bradford
city centre that should have been a Westfield shopping mall. Labour's was a
classic mistake, particularly in a by-election. Potholes are always going to be
more potent than post-neoclassical endogenous growth theory or any other
Westminster waffle.

Labour should have known better. Its most successful campaigners at the last
general election - Gisela Stuart in Birmingham and Margaret Hodge in Barking -
won by listening attentively to their constituents and addressing their local
concerns. Voters hate being talked at or taken for granted, as Labour did in
Bradford West.

But there is a bigger lesson for Ed Miliband, and it doesn't involve moving to
the left. What Bradford West and the recent elections in Scotland showed is that
the unpopularity of the Tories and Lib Dems doesn't automatically translate into
popularity for Labour.

Labour has to give voters reasons to vote for it, not just reasons to vote
against the Coalition. They don't have to be wildly left-wing and populist. But
if all the party has to offer, in the words of another Labour MP, is "wonky
bureaucratic answers to problems, vacuous phrases and no coherent story", then
it mustn't be surprised if voters are lured instead by the empty promises of a
left-wing, populist candidate.Labour has to start telling its own story, fast.

m.sieghart@independent.co.uk / twitter.com/MASieghart

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        April 2, 2012 Monday 1:00 PM GMT

Crab House Café, Dorset, restaurant review;
Matthew Norman reviews the Crab House Café, Dorset.

BYLINE: By Matthew Norman

LENGTH: 879 words


Any of you planning to attend the Olympic regatta in the summer are hereby
excused from reading what follows. This is not an absolute let-off, sadly,
because you are on your honour to return to the page shortly. For now, you have
permission to glance at the score, pick up the phone, and book a table at the
Crab House Café.

The cause of the urgency is that between July 28-August 12, when the yachting
comes to Weymouth and Portland, this wooden shack and its courtyard will be
among the country's busiest restaurants. Speaking as a veteran of the Sydney
regatta in 2000, I'd say the allure of standing on a windy beach, gazing
perplexedly at the horizon for hours in the wildly optimistic hope of spotting a
vessel, is obscure. But to each his own and, come summertime, Jurassic Dorset
will teem with binocular-wielders pretending to grasp the finer nuances of a
sport impenetrable enough to make a Master's degree in quantum gravity from MIT
look like the five times table.

Then again, why wait? A pleasure deferred is no pleasure at all in this age of
instant gratification; and this is as pleasurable an alfresco outing as a
British spring can offer. "I really love it here," observed my wife as we sat in
the yard outside the shack on one of those balmy, hazy spring days that portend
a poisonously grey, wet summer to come. "If something can be bleakly beautiful,
this is."

The shingly vista of Chesil Bank on the other side of an inlet is not
chocolate-box picturesque. But beyond the scrubby rock garden, peppered with
miniature palm trees and adorned with lurid, fluffy parasols that look like
Hawaiian grass skirts, lie the restaurant's own oyster beds. The attached
ironmongery lends the view a peculiar charm for those with a taste for Derek
Jarmanesque post-apocalyptic chic.

This is not to suggest that the restaurant is a downer. Far from it: it bursts
with jollity. The interior is nautically merry, while the open-air bit buzzes
happily with Cuban dance music and the even more unfamiliar sound, in bucolic
Britain, of young families raucously enjoying themselves.

Before we go on, a word of praise for a dog that doesn't bark. While the daily
changing menu makes a play for the Ukip demographic with "all our fish is caught
in the English Channel by English fishermen" (do they check the passports?), it
eschews the word "sustainable". This is a rare omission in a seafood restaurant
today, and a joyous one. The Lord preserve us from proprietors parading their
phoney consciences in a misguided stab at ingratiation and the hope of
justifying outrageous charges.

But I digress. The prices here for both food and wine are ostentatiously fair,
and if the quality of our meal decrescendoed, or diminuendoed, this was almost
inevitable after the splendour of the starters. A pubescent boy of our
acquaintance raved about a large bowl of plump, sweet mussels, floating in a
luscious lemon and cream sauce infused with the home-grown thyme visible in a
herb-filled rowing boat in the garden. My wife was mad about her smoked cod
Caesar salad. "Totally delicious and fantastically fresh," she said. My Thai
fish chowder looked gorgeous, the lemon yellow broth studded with cockles,
mussels and chunks of cod, and with sprigs of dill floating on top, and the
delicacy of flavour survived the alluringly potent kick of bird's eye chilli.

We also shared a dozen Portland Royal oysters, baked with cream and crispy
bacon. I wish there were a useful synonym for "unbelievably fresh", though given
that these fat, juicy, subtly saline beauties had travelled but a few yards from
birth to plate, that might be taken as read.

One main course maintained the early form. All three looked wonderful in the
artless and colourful Mediterranean manner, but my whole roasted black bream
with a garlic, chilli and soy sauce, with preserved lemon- and coriander-infused
rice, was the clear winner. Roasted mackerel was a touch drab, and although the
missus liked the tomatoey zing of her mixed fish and mussel stew, she found it
under-seasoned and made barely a dent in it. It says something for the quality
of the service and professionalism that the cost was knocked off the menu, and
the chef came out to inquire (smilingly and charmingly; no sign of the cleaver)
after the problem.

Part of the problem was that we had stuffed ourselves with a freshly baked white
loaf (served with good butter), and olives dotted with bits of octopus (no cover
charge, impressively) - and on those starters. We should have confined ourselves
to sharing a couple of crabs, which are superb. But I was outvoted 2-1 by loved
ones who refused to countenance the risk of my deranged hammer-work blinding
nearby toddlers with ballistic shards of shell.

After a shared white chocolate mousse (marginally too sweet), the boy took the
dog that did bark for a walk on the beach, and we sat happily for an hour
basking in the warmth over the dregs of our albariño. "Well, that was a total
delight from start to finish," said my wife as we paid up. "This place never
lets you down. We always leave feeling a million times jollier than when we
arrived."

Rating 8/10

Ferrymans Way, Portland Rd, Wyke Regis, Dorset DT4 9YU (01305 788867;
crabhousecafe.co.uk ). Three courses with wine and coffee: £40-45 per head

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 2, 2012 Monday 12:50 PM GMT

Country diary: Democracy or shamocracy?;
The planning reforms might have been watered down, but I still want to stand for
the council again . says Robin Page.

BYLINE: By Robin Page

LENGTH: 1223 words


Any day now I expect to see one of my favourite little butterflies - the holly
blue. Its open wings are the same colour as open sky and the first brood flies
between the last days of March and the first days of June. It is a sure sign
that spring has sprung.

Oddly, I also associate the holly blue with May elections - I have stood in so
many, local and general - and one of the joys of canvassing (some would say the
only joy) is the sight of them fluttering over cottage gardens and along the
hedgerows.

I'm wondering if I should bite the bullet and stand for the local district
council as a (genuinely) independent candidate. Half of me says: been there,
done that, a complete waste of time. The other half believes that, despite last
week's announcement that the Government is to water down its planning reforms,
we're still in need of a dissident voice to try to restore an element of sanity
- and democracy - into proceedings. The Middle East has had its Arab Spring:
isn't it time we had our British Spring?

When I was 26 I was elected onto the local district council, where I stayed
representing my village and the village of Grantchester for 30-odd years. I
finally resigned as I saw democracy and free speech being steadily eroded. With
the politicising of local councils, most councillors had become little more than
party political nodding donkeys.

John Prescott restricted free speech even further when he was deputy prime
minister, with his English Standards Board and Standards Committees. What a joke
- John Prescott imposing standards of behaviour on other people, standards that
in his political life he seemed to ignore completely.

Indeed, he seemed to be one of that growing band of MPs who regard Parliament as
a branch of showbusiness. As this paper revealed, a good few are nothing short
of petty criminals.

Thanks to Prescott, virtually every time anybody on the council tried to raise
serious issues about planning abuses or travellers, they would be immediately
reported to the "monitoring officer" by the politically correct for showing "a
lack of respect". How 1984 is that? Most of those who did the complaining were
Lib Dimocrats, also known as Dimoprats, some of whom don't seem to understand
the words "liberal" or "democrat". Incidentally, what is the collective noun for
a bunch of Liberal Dimocrats? Bearing in mind the job-lot that arrived from
Westminster School in the form of Messrs Clegg and Huhne, I think it has to be
"Cluhne" - a "Cluhne" of Lib-Dims.

On one occasion, after I had ticked off a councillor for attending a "soirée"
hosted by a developer, I was reported to the Standards Board for England and had
to attend a kangaroo court with bigwig lawyers who, for a full day, discussed
the meaning of the word "soirée". They decided after six or seven hours that the
councillor had not indeed been to a soirée, but had enjoyed tea and biscuits.

The incident must have cost the council £5,000 at least and I received a mild
reprimand. What a waste of time and money. Shortly afterwards I resigned, as far
as I was concerned local democracy had become local "shamocracy".

But what should I do now? Each week I get emails, letters and telephone calls
from people in a state of outrage as their local countryside is threatened by
the concrete mixers of our current Conservative prime minister. Around me in
south Cambridgeshire the countryside is being stolen by a prime minister who
boasts, when it suits him, that he is a countryman. Ho, ho. And who are the
houses for? Nobody will tell me. Certainly most of the houses currently being
built are neither "social" nor "affordable", and with Cambridge station being
expanded and another new station being built, the occupants will clearly not be
local as they will be commuting daily to London.

The truth is that the nodding donkeys (councillors) should be refusing to comply
with the Government's "top-down" housing edicts - not simply nodding them
through. Remember all that stuff at the general election about "localism", local
referendums and "giving power back to the people in the Big Society"? What a
load of old baloney that's turned out to be.

Surely it is time for local councillors to stand up and be counted? Remember,
even before the Government's much-flaunted planning reforms, a process was
already under way throughout England called the "strategic housing land
availability assessments", calling for sites where developers and landowners
want to build, both inside and outside the green belt. Remember too, that under
our old planning regulations there's a system called "planning gain" whereby a
developer offers bucketloads of money to local communities and councils in
return for being granted planning permission. In the Third World this is known
as a "bribe".

In addition the Government pays councils a "New Homes Bonus" annually for six
years for each house built; another instance in which cash-strapped councils are
already being paid to grant planning permissions. Some of the permissions are a
disgrace; to make matters worse, many of the landowners seeking planning
permissions seem to regard development as their right, regardless of any
environmental or social considerations. Their attitudes are remarkably similar
to those of the travellers at Dale Farm.

Some of the oddest and most unsustainable development near me (in my view of
course) is taking place just south of Cambridge. All that increased "run-off" or
"surface" water from the roofs, roads and impenetrable surfaces of new
developments has to flow north, via the River Cam, through the heart of the city
of Cambridge. I can't wait for a wet winter. If Cambridge is not flooded I shall
buy some Worcestershire sauce and eat my new computer.

The other side of the water issue is simple: south Cambridgeshire is an area of
low annual rainfall: one of the driest parts of Britain. So where is the water
coming from for all the thousands of extra taps, showers, washing machines,
loos? To me it is Third World planning at its worst. And what does the
Government do? It backs an environmentally damaging high-speed rail link through
the heart of England instead of using all that money to create a national water
network. I wish Parliament didn't offer work experience to so many people who
have never done a proper job.

So there it is. Should an angry old peasant stand for election, or should I just
let the shamocrats get on with it? Of course there's every chance that if I
stood I would fail to be elected. My proudest political failure is supporting
the late Jimmy Goldsmith in his opposition to the euro. Without his intervention
we would now certainly be in the eurozone and bankrupt like Greece. When is the
BBC (the Brussels Broadcasting Corporation) going to admit that its "experts"
have all been wrong about the euro, and that Jimmy Goldsmith was right? And when
is Boris Johnson going to erect a statue in honour of the great man on a plinth
in Trafalgar Square? Sadly there seems to be no sensible anti-EU party at the
moment. After my experiences with Ukip, if I had a choice of voting for Ukip or
Mickey Mouse, I'd choose Mickey Mouse.

Lulu has given my idea to stand for the local district council the thumbs down.
She thinks I have enough to do with the farm, the CRT, this column and various
books that are behind schedule. But what do readers think?

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 2, 2012 Monday 11:25 AM GMT

Miliband 'will learn' from Galloway's surprise victory

LENGTH: 501 words


By Rowena Mason

ED MILIBAND has promised to "learn lessons" about his leadership of Labour after
George Galloway, the anti-war campaigner, dealt him a humiliating blow by
winning one of the party's safest seats.

Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, claimed to have begun a "Bradford Spring",
after securing a majority of more than 10,000 votes to become an MP for the
third time.

The leader and founder of the Respect Party said he appealed to a "tidal wave"
of disenchanted voters in the large Muslim community of Bradford West, building
on their anger about the Iraq war. After the surprise result, he claimed he was
the "real Labour" candidate ready to take the party back to its working-class
roots. "If Labour doesn't go back to being a Labour Party again, it will never
command the support - let alone the enthusiasm - of the kind of people who
supported it for at least 100 years," he said.

"We are Labour, we are real Labour."

Mr Miliband, who had been on the campaign trail in Bradford, said: "We've got to
understand the reasons why that happened. It reinforces something I've
emphasised throughout my leadership, which is that we need to be engaged and
rooted in every community of this country."

Mr Galloway has been a controversial figure since he was filmed in 1994 telling
the dictator Saddam Hussein: "I salute your courage, your strength, your
indefatigability." The MP was expelled from the Labour party in 2003 after he
accused Tony Blair and President George Bush of "acting like wolves" by invading
Iraq. He emerged as a threat to the party when he won the seat of Bethnal Green
and Bow from Labour in 2005.

He took revenge last Friday for a second time by winning the Bradford West seat
held by Labour for more than four decades, by 18,341 votes to Labour's 8,201.

The Conservatives saw their support drop by 22 per cent to 2,746, and the
Liberal Democrats received so few votes that they lost their deposit. Only one
in four people voted for a mainstream political party.

Mr Galloway's victory was also driven by young first-time voters. He appealed
directly to Islamic voters by emphasising that he was a non-drinker and had
"fought for Muslims at home and abroad".

Labour sources said the party was putting the defeat down to "local issues" and
"anti-politics" sentiment.

However, Baroness Warsi, the Conservative chairman, commented: "If Labour can't
win one of their safe seats in these tough economic times and in a tough week
for the Government, how can they win anywhere?"

George Galloway (Respect) 18,341 (55.89%, +52.83%); Imran Hussain (Lab)

8,201 (24.99%, -20.36%); Jackie Whiteley (Con) 2,746 (8.37%, -22.78%); Jeanette
Sunderland (LD) 1,505 (4.59%, -7.08%); Sonja McNally (Ukip)1,085 (3.31%, 1.31%);

Dawud Islam (Green) 481 (1.47%, -0.85%);

Neil Craig (D Nats) 344 (1.05%); Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 111 (0.34%). Respect
maj 10,140 (30.90%). 36.59% swing Lab to Respect. Electorate 64,618. Turnout
32,814 (50.78%, -14.12%). 2010: Lab maj 5,763 (14.20%). Turnout 40,576 (64.90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                 April 1, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHILE the Tories and [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 71 words


WHILE the Tories and Labour have been warring, Nick Clegg's Lib Dems were
staying out of the firing line until by-election voters pushed them into fourth
place with the added humiliation of losing their deposit. By-election surprises
used to be their best trick. With more pencilled in it could get embarrassingly
expensive for Clegg's party, especially as eurosceptic UKIP increased their
share of the vote and are on the rise.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 1, 2012 Sunday 12:02 AM GMT

Murdoch's Yard man 'involved in plot to destroy Sky rival' and alleged links to
killer Noye

BYLINE: IAN GALLAGHER and ALLAN HALL

LENGTH: 788 words



     ·    Former police chief was investigated over relationships with criminals
     ·    Ray Adams headed Met department before working for media mogul Rupert
          Murdoch
     ·    He was in charge of security for Murdoch's pay-TV empire


A former police commander embroiled in an alleged plot to destroy Sky's biggest
rival was once investigated over his links to one of Britain's most notorious
criminals.

Ray Adams, who headed a secretive security unit at a company controlled by
Rupert Murdoch, faced an inquiry over corruption allegations and his
relationship with killer Kenneth Noye.

Last week Mr Adams was under fire again after Panorama claimed he used a hacker
to undermine the business of ITV-owned ONdigital, an allegation he denies.

Is is understood he ran Noye as an informant for many years.

Noye was cleared of murdering a police officer in 1985 but was later convicted
of the 1996 road-rage killing of Stephen Cameron.

He fled the country after stabbing Mr Cameron at a junction of the M25 but was
eventually tracked down in Spain  and convicted in 2000.

HACK INVESTIGATION SLAMMED BY 'VICTIM'

A former Minister has criticised the police's phone-hacking inquiry after he was
contacted about being a potential victim.

Lord Hesketh said that he 'burst out laughing' when he was rung by an officer
about a possible breach of privacy.

The peer, 61, said it was 'remarkable' that Scotland Yard thought he was a
target simply because a News of the World reporter had his phone number  in a
diary - as it had been in the  public telephone directory for 'many years'.

He has dismissed the inquiry as 'a waste of police time'.

Hesketh, a junior Minister under Margaret Thatcher and John Major who defected
to UKIP last year, was told his name and number were on a list found in a diary
belonging to Clive Goodman, former Royal editor of the News of the World, who
was jailed in 2007 for intercepting voicemails.

He said: 'It was my old home telephone number and it had been in the local
directory for many years, which leads me to believe that Mr Goodman probably
only had to call directory enquiries to obtain it. My experience illustrates
very well that this inquiry has gone far too far.

'I don't have much confidence in where this vastly expensive police operation is
going. This is public money. It's wasting police time,  too, and it is political
correctness running riot.'

Mr Adams headed the Met's criminal intelligence department SO11 before retiring
prematurely from Scotland Yard in 1993 with back problems. He later joined NDS,
a subsidiary of News Corporation, and was responsible for the security of
Murdoch's pay-TV empire.

The Mail on Sunday has learned that while in this role he tried unsuccessfully
to recruit brilliant German computer hacker Boris Floricic, 26, who died in
mysterious circumstances in 1998.

In 1987 the corruption investigation examined claims that Mr Adams and other
officers had taken bribes and had improper relations with criminal informants.
Three years after the investigation began the Director of Public Prosecutions
announced there was no evidence to justify charges against Mr Adams and cleared
him of any wrongdoing.

However, the link to Noye resurfaced after Stephen Lawrence was stabbed to death
in 1993 - three years before the road-rage killing. One of Mr Adams's last acts
before leaving the Met was to write to the lawyer acting for Stephen's parents.

The letter formed the basis of two days of hearings in Sir William Macpherson's
public inquiry into the case in 1998. The main allegation against Mr Adams was
that he had links with Noye, who in turn had links with Clifford Norris, a
criminal whose son David was this year found guilty of Stephen's murder.

It was suggested that he tried to impede the arrest of the suspects. The
Macpherson report found no evidence of any dishonesty, collusion or corruption
by Mr Adams but noted that there were 'strange features' to his evidence.

Meanwhile Panorama claimed last week that NDS stole secret codes from ONdigital
before passing them to hacker Lee Gibling. His website shared the details,
resulting in counterfeit viewing cards that allowed widespread free access.

Mr Gibling said he was given the information by Mr Adams, who paid him £60,000 a
year. But Mr Adams denied all the claims.

Around the same time Mr Adams tried to hire Mr Floricic, who turned him down.
Four months later he was found hanged, but his corpse was standing with both
feet on the ground.

Yesterday an NDS spokeswoman said: 'NDS uses industry contacts to catch both
hackers and pirates. All NDS staff and their contacts operate under a clear code
of conduct.'

Mr Adams could not be contacted.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              April 1, 2012 Sunday

HACK PROBE SLAMMED

LENGTH: 212 words


'VICTIM'

A FORMER Minister has criticised the police's phone-hacking inquiry after he was
contacted about being a potential victim.

Lord Hesketh said that he 'burst out laughing' when he was rung by an officer
about a possible breach of privacy.

The peer, 61, said it was 'remarkable' that Scotland Yard thought he was a
target simply because a News of the World reporter had his phone number in a
diary Ð as it had been in the public telephone directory for 'many years'.

He has dismissed the inquiry as 'a waste of police time'.

Hesketh, a junior Minister under Margaret Thatcher and John Major who defected
to UKIP last year, was told his name and number were on a list found in a diary
belonging to Clive Goodman, former Royal editor of the News of the World, who
was jailed in 2007 for intercepting voicemails.

He said: 'It was my old home telephone number and it had been in the local
directory for many years, which leads me to believe that Mr Goodman probably
only had to call directory enquiries to obtain it. My experience illustrates
very well that this inquiry has gone far too far.

'I don't have much confidence in where this vastly expensive police operation is
going. This is public money. It's wasting police time, too, and it is political
correctness running riot.'

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 1, 2012

It's two fingers to Westminster, but don't expect a revolution: The shock
Bradford West result is a symptom of a deeper and wider disaffection with the
main parties

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1503 words


With that blushing modesty which makes him such an appealing character, George
Galloway celebrated his triumph in the Bradford West byelection by tweeting that
he had won "the most sensational victory in British political history",
relegating as also-rans the Liberal landslide of 1906, the Labour landslide of
1945 as well as the general election hat-tricks won by Margaret Thatcher and
Tony Blair.

More grotesquely, ungorgeous George proclaims himself to be the herald of a
"Bradford Spring". It is a very advanced form of narcissism to view a byelection
upset in a parliamentary democracy as the equivalent of the moral courage
displayed by those who have risked their lives in uprisings against entrenched
tyrannies. This bilge is especially nauseating when it flows from the same lips
which once offered their owner's warm salutations to Saddam Hussein.

It is nevertheless undeniable that he has delivered a jolt to the main parties,
the voltage of the shock being that much greater because so few had seen it
coming. The Conservatives have been rather gleeful about the result, glad as
they are to have any distraction from the scandal of the Tory fundraiser who
offered to flog dinner with the Camerons for £ 250,000, a revelation which
compounded the reputational damage done by the budget, and desperate as they are
for any diversion from the shambles that they have made of pasty taxes and
petrol shortages. They are wrong to be pleased by a byelection which was
dreadful for them. In a seat which the Conservatives targeted as winnable at the
last general election, the Tory vote crashed, another warning to David Cameron
of the extent to which he has failed in his ambition to rebuild his party in the
north of England.

As for the Lib Dems, they lost their deposit when in times past they might have
expected to be the ones claiming a famous byelection victory. The biggest bout
of anxious soul-searching is in the Labour party which is writhing with the
embarrassment which comes from suffering the first loss of a seat by an
opposition party at a byelection in a dozen years. A few members of Ed
Miliband's team began to have jitters about what was going on in Yorkshire on
Wednesday when it was reported that the bookies, who had made Mr Galloway a
200/1 outsider at the outset of the campaign, were refusing to take any more
bets on him. But so certain did Labour remain of victory that, as late as 10.30
on Thursday night, they were finalising plans to dispatch Ed Miliband to
Bradford to do a victory tour of the city. Only as the votes were counted did
they realise that it had all gone horribly wrong.

Low turn-out can't be blamed. At a touch under 51%, turn-out was good for a
byelection in this sort of seat. A more plausible explanation for Labour's
humiliation was suggested by Harriet Harman when she remarked that there were
"specific issues" in this constituency. Mr Galloway, who declined to offer his
fusion of Marxism and Islamism to voters at the five previous byelections of
this parliament, did not choose this seat at random. He took his unique brand of
politics to Bradford West because it looked like a promising place to get
himself back into the Commons. "All praise to Allah!" he yelled as he made a
victory lap of the constituency. There was a substantial and disaffected Muslim
vote, among whom anger with the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq burns strongly.

A key factor in his victory appears to have been resentment with the clan
politics of "Bradreeism". He galvanised a revolt, especially among younger
voters, against supporting the Labour candidate just because their elders told
them to. Nor is this the first time that this seat has bucked the national
trend. When Tony Blair won his 1997 landslide with massive gains across the rest
of the country, Labour's share of the vote slumped in Bradford West, a result
that is probably best explained by the fact that the Conservatives nominated a
Muslim candidate. There are few other seats where Mr Galloway could have won in
this fashion and the far left has no one else like him anyway.

This particular victory by a one-off politician in an untypical place is
probably sui generis. Yet that does not mean that the main parties would be wise
to just shrug it off. Though I very much doubt that this is the harbinger of
sweeping gains for Respect, it is a symptom of a wider voter disaffection with
the main parties which goes well beyond the specific circumstances of Bradford.
This pattern can also be seen in the rise of the Scottish Nationalists at the
expense of Labour; the failure of the Tories to secure a clean victory at the
last general election even against a prime minister as unpopular as Gordon
Brown; and weariness with the blue-red duopoly which manifested itself in the
spasm of "Cleggmania" during the 2010 campaign and the first hung parliament in
36 years.

Behind this lies an even deeper trend of rejection of the big beasts of British
politics. At the general election of 1951, the combined vote of Labour and the
Conservatives was a whopping 97%. Only a tiny minority of voters didn't plump
for one or other of them at what turned out to be the high-water mark of
two-party politics. By the general election of 1997, the combined vote of red
and blue had fallen to 74%. At the last election, it was down still further to
65%. More than a third of those who voted wanted something different.

This rejection of the two biggest parties is amplified during periods, such as
the present one, when the party of government is not liked and the party of
opposition is not trusted. The polls suggest that many voters continue to blame
the last Labour government for the state of the economy and at the same time are
sceptical that the coalition will return Britain to prosperity. The regular
eruption of scandals about party funding - "Cash for Cameron" being the latest
in a long and sleazy sequence from which prime ministers never learn - compounds
that disaffection with the Westminster establishment.

In the past, various minor parties have profited from voter rebellions against
the big boys. In the 1980s, the Greens briefly enjoyed a surge, peaking at 14%
in a Euro-election only then to fade away. In 2004, Robert Kilroy-Silk, the
tangerine-skinned Europhobe, led Ukip to a 16% score at Euro-elections. A
significant number of Conservative MPs are jumpy about Ukip, fearing that Nigel
Farage's party is well placed to profit at their expense. At last year's
Barnsley byelection, Ukip won 12% cent of the vote, which they could almost
certainly improve upon at another time in another place. At a future byelection,
it is more than possible that Ukip will do to the Tories what Respect has just
done to Labour.

For most of the time since 1945, the protest vote has manifested itself in
surges for the Lib Dems or their forebears at byelections and local elections.
That was before the Lib Dems became a party of government themselves. Voters who
want to thrust two fingers at the Westminster establishment now look elsewhere
for vehicles to express their anger and alienation. So it is highly likely that
we will see more "sensational byelection upsets" over the course of this
parliament and very possible that the next general election will produce a
record vote for minority parties.

One way to adjust to this would be to accept that the old blue-red duopoly is
bust and adapt to a multiparty politics by reforming how we vote for
Westminster. But that option for change was swept off the table by the decisive
rejection of electoral reform, even in the modest form of the alternative vote,
when it was proposed in last year's referendum. That leaves the larger parties
with the challenge of trying to make themselves more appealing to those they
have turned off. But this presents big, and often insoluble, dilemmas for both
Labour and the Tories. "You could draw all sorts of conclusions from the
Bradford result," says one senior Labour figure. "You could conclude that we
should adopt a Respect agenda - and you'd be wrong." Something tells me that
trying to mimic George Galloway is not the surest route for Labour to win itself
a parliamentary majority at the next general election.

In a mirroring dilemma for David Cameron, he could follow the advice of those of
his MPs who think he needs to lean to the right to woo Ukip supporters. But
chasing after people he once called "fruitcakes" would repel the centrist voters
that the Tories need to win the next election.

So what the big parties will actually do in response to this trend is probably
not much. They will continue to rely on the assumption that, when it comes to a
general election, a majority of voters, if nothing like as big a majority as in
the past, will still regard it as a blue-red choice. In the meantime, we will
see more shock byelection results, more victors proclaiming themselves to be the
most sensational winners in British political history, and more anguished but
inconclusive inquests by the big parties into what has gone wrong.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 1, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's No 10 meeting 'broke ministerial code'

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS; MILES GOSLETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 826 words


DAVID CAMERON faces questions today over a possible breach of the ministerial
code after it emerged that he held a meeting with members of a Conservative
Party fundraising group at 10 Downing Street.

The Prime Minister, Lord Feldman, the party chairman, and another senior Tory
met to discuss the leadership of the Conservative Foundation, which allows
people to leave tax-free legacies to the party.

Details of the meeting emerged a week after Mr Cameron was forced to disclose
the names of donors he had entertained in his Downing Street flat and at
Chequers, his country retreat. The Downing Street gathering on Jan 11 last year
has been disclosed by Lord Hesketh, who was sacked as chairman of the foundation
at the same meeting.

"It was in a ground-floor office," said the peer, who previously served as
Conservative Party treasurer and as a Tory minister in the 1980s and 1990s.

A Conservative Party spokesman acknowledged that the meeting had taken place,
but denied that fundraising had been discussed.

The sole purpose of the meeting was to discuss Lord Hesketh's successor as
chairman of the foundation, he said. "No meeting of the Conservative Foundation
has ever been held at Downing Street," the spokesman said.

"All board meetings of the foundation are held either in the private offices of
board members or at Conservative Party headquarters."

A Tory source added: "This was not a meeting of the Conservative Foundation - it
was a meeting to discuss Lord Hesketh's replacement."

Nevertheless, the meeting could be judged as a breach of the ministerial code,
which states: "Facilities provided to ministers at government expense to enable
them to carry out their official duties should not be used for party or
constituency work."

The Conservative Foundation was set up in 2005 and launched by Baroness Thatcher
and Sir John Major. The foundation's website describes it as "an integral part
of the Conservative family".

It is a separate company with a board of directors, including Michael Spencer,
the former party treasurer, Lord Feldman and other Tory grandees, including Lord
Saatchi and Lord Fink.

Its accounts show that the foundation received income of £497,307 in 2010, much
of which came from the estates of deceased supporters. In the same year the
foundation paid salaries of £219,557 to its three staff - equivalent to more
than £73,000 each.

Lord Hesketh told The Sunday Telegraph that he was "wholly unaware" of any rule
that forbade ministers from using government buildings for party business.

He even sought to defend the Prime Minister's use of Downing Street for a party
meeting.

"David Cameron is very busy," said the peer, who last year defected to the UK
Independence Party.

"He can't be expected to move from building to building to discuss different
matters.

"It may have been a massive piece of misjudgement from Lord Feldman. He was the
person who told me to come to the meeting."

However, Sir Alistair Graham, who was chairman of the Committee on Standards in
Public Life between 2003 and 2007, said the meeting represented a clear breach
of the ministerial code.

"It really is unfortunate that the Prime Minister is setting a bad example for
his colleagues if, in a cavalier fashion, he is using government resources for
party ends," Sir Alistair said.

"It does throw up a question mark about his credibility in terms of the regular
statements he's making about what is unacceptable.

"The ministerial code is there to ensure that when you're involved in your
public duty you don't easily confuse what are party political matters and what
are essential to carrying out your public office."

While in Opposition, the Conservative Party attacked Labour for allowing the
Smith Institute, a Labour-leaning think tank, to holding functions in Downing
Street. Labour last night called for an investigation into the Conservative
Foundation meeting and urged ministers to disclose all cases when party matters
may have been discussed at No10.

Michael Dugher, the shadow minister without portfolio, also said this
represented a breach of the ministerial code. "This is further evidence that
David Cameron is using Government buildings as his own personal fiefdom," he
said. "This should be investigated and we will certainly be following this up."

Lord Hesketh said he was "shocked" by the way the Prime Minister's staff behaved
while he was in Downing Street.

"People were walking around with no ties, wearing trainers," he said. "I put the
rot down to Alastair Campbell moving the whips' office from 12 Downing Street.

"Modern government has suffered appallingly as a result.

"In 1997 sofa government came in and all of these infectious bad habits came
with it. The civil service should have been monitoring this sort of thing. It's
part of this very casual attitude. This is about a collapse in standards. It's
about principles, judgments and common sense."

"It really is unfortunate that the Prime Minister is setting a bad example for
his colleagues

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron was said to have met Lord Feldman, left top, and Lord
Hesketh, left bottom, in Downing Street
STEVE BELL/REX FEATURES, STEVE BACK & CLAIRE LIM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 288 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 1, 2012 Sunday 10:47 PM GMT

Why the major parties can't just blame George Galloway for their shocking
performances in Bradford

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1107 words


It would be all too easy for the major parties to react to the result of the
Bradford West by election by just pulling the bedcovers over their heads and
telling themselves that it will all go away if we pretend that it had not
happened. But it did, and there was something very ugly about it.

Mr Galloway fought his campaign on an unashamed pitch for votes from a minority
religous group. There was a high turn-out for a by election in what should have
been a safe Labour seat and a very high, perhaps suspiciously high, number of
postal votes. No doubt it would be possible to construct some criticisms of such
matters, but that is not at the centre of things.

The result was appallingly bad for Labour, Conservatives and the Lib Dems alike.
Labour lost over 10,000 of its voters at the last election. The Conservatives
lost almost 10,000 of theirs, falling from a respectable (for Bradford) 12,638
to a miserable 2,746. The Lib Dems were down more than 3,000, from 4,732 to only
1,505.

Amongst the 'also rans' the Greens saw their vote all but halved as UKIP
leap-frogged them into fifth place adding 270 votes to score 1,085, the only
party apart from Respect to gain in strength.

The sensation of course was the leap of over 17,000 to take Respect from fourth
place to win with 18,401 votes.

I have tediously set out the numbers, because the way in which the media mostly
reported the gains and losses in terms of percentage shares of the vote does not
do justice to the reality of the humiliation of the major parties.

There is something which makes me uneasy about the way in which so many
commentators have attributed Galloway's victory to his rabble-raising oratory
and the shortcomings of his more sober mainstream party opponents. I am sure
that is what they said in the Weimar Republic's days about that young Hitler
fellow, but I find it deeply disturbing that we have here voters who buy so
easily into the role of victimhood and belief in conspiracies to deny them their
dues.

Having said that, not all Labour's 10,000 defectors were Muslims, nor was
Galloways vote drawn entirely from Muslims. Ed Milliband, who must have been on
a high having seen Labour's poll ratings soar to a 10-point lead over the
Conservatives, has a lot of thinking to do.

It is a little less difficult for the Lib Dems. Their voters do not like the
Coalition. I doubt if many voted for Respect, the Tories, Labour or UKIP. I
suspect they stayed at home.The Prime Minister should be as worried as Ed
Miliband. The Conservative vote just collapsed. I doubt if it went to Mr
Galloway. It could not have gone to Labour or the Lib Dems and before UKIP gets
too excited they should ask themselves why more of the stay-at-home Tories did
not come out to support them. All in all it was a depressing night for anyone
with an atatchment to reality in politics.

More than ever before the mainstream party leaders need to be asking themselves
why their one time voters have joined the ranks of the 'None of The Above'
moment and why in Bradford so many former 'none of the abovers' responded to the
toxic vapourings of Mr Galloway. Ethnic and religous voting has had a
regrettable boost from the ineptitude of Labour and Conservatives alike.____

I was pleased that so many of you found yourselves in general agreement with my
blog post last week on the need for the Conservative Party to seek out the
common ground rather than to move steadily Leftwards towards Labour in search of
the middle ground. Unhappily the Conservative Central Office brief supplied to
Amos 47 did notunderstand the difference betwen 'middle' and 'common', which
made it difficult to follow his argument. At one point he claimed that there was
a move to the common ground after Michael Howard's 'rightwing campaign' and at
another that the Government had 'moved to the right' and even challenged tanuki
to name a promise broken. The word 'referendum' came to my mind and to that of
bill prendergast too.

I can forgive Amos 47 for all that, but not for his unprovoked and ill-mannered
sneers at olcrom. I have plenty of disagreements with olcrom but respect his
military service and respectable hard working life. I am always pleased when we
find common ground on which to stand, as last week on wlefare scroungers.

Then grimble said he disagreed with my geometry, seeking to think that moving to
the Left need not entail a move to the Left. He also said that I was saying
'follow the polls'. Oh Dear. MT Bucket and Lord Bone put him right, but let me
say it again. The common ground is where voters of all persausions find
themselves. Very often that is on issues which are central to Conservative
philosophy. Those issues should be emphasised by the Tories to pull Labour
voters towards them, or as neilcraig put it these are the issues where the
Tories are, or hould be, on the same side as most people.

I was particularly encouraged that Laveen Ladharam, from a younger generation
and different background to mine, followed through my reasoning and was in broad
agreement. Then jambio asked a good question. Are there any examples of left
wing common ground policies? I would say probably the NHS principle of treatment
regardless of ability to pay, and that of help for those truly in need.

There were numerous comments on the importance of my first principle of the need
of a clear and compelling vision, notably from cmack3000 and dunroamin, Quinx,
evil tory and Richard LTFC. As usual, UKIP supporters spoke up, some like
Cyplopean Tyrant who will vote UKIP until the Tories change, others like
durnovia, who see it as the new Conservative Party.

There was an odd contribution from Robert Boogie who dismissed Thatcher's three
election wins as being due to the weakness of the opposition. Come off it! Was
Brown ever a likely election-winner for the worst government in living memory?
If Cameron had scored as many votes as Thatcher (13.7m in 79, then 13.1m in 83
and 13.8m in 87) he would have had a good majority in 2010, but he could only
manage 10.7 million.

Sadly immanuel cant was still banging on about my record on the issues of
Europe. He simply refuses to read what I have written more than once. I was also
sorry that Darkseid is still too upset with by our recent disagreement to give
much thought to what I wrote last week. Again my thanks to that great majority
of you who endorsed my 'common ground' concept and particularly to mike stallard
for his kind personal remarks and to olcrom and mrsmo for their birthday wishes.

Lastly, I did enjoy alhamilton's thought that perhaps the Prime Minister has
stumbled not onto the common ground but into no-man's land. He might well be
right.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
