
                               1 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday

THE WEEK POLITICS ALL BUT DIED OF SHAME

LENGTH: 2023 words


Could there be any greater indictment of our political class than the election
of George Galloway? After a terrible week for all parties, this collapse in
trust between voters and MPs should terrify us all

BY MAX HASTINGS

George Galloway is the sort of politician who gives mavericks, exhibitionists
and charlatans a bad name.

In his years as a Labour and later independent MP, he was seldom out of trouble
about women, money and the means by which he got his hands on it, or his support
for off-the-wall causes and personalities, Iraq's Saddam Hussein foremost among
them.

When in 2010 he lost his battle for the Poplar and Limehouse seat after being
Respect MP for neighbouring Bethnal Green and Bow since 2005, the whole House of
Commons heaved a sigh of relief at witnessing an end to 23 years of
embarrassments Gorgeous George' had inflicted on the British body politic.

Yet today, heaven help us, he is back on the public payroll, strutting his stuff
as Respect MP for Bradford West, where he has achieved a stunning upset
by-election victory in a safe Labour seat.

What goes on? How is it possible for such a man with such a history to be given
a ticket to resume his half-comic, half-deplorable, entirely cringe-making
political career?

The immediate answer is that he fought Bradford West as standard-bearer for
British Muslims in a constituency with a large Muslim population. Next,
confidence in the Labour Party, usual holders of the Bradford seat, has hit rock
bottom.

Ed Miliband is regarded by most of his Shadow Cabinet colleagues, never mind
Labour voters at large, as less credible than a Greek economic bailout. Indeed,
you would find a lot more Labour voters willing to put their savings into
drachmas than to believe Miliband will ever be Prime Minister.

But beyond this partisan issue, almost everybody interested in British politics
agrees that there is a much more deeply-rooted malaise, afflicting every party
and indeed almost every institution in Britain.

There is a collapse of trust in those in charge, and especially in our
politicians, which should thoroughly alarm all who care about democracy.

Voters look at Westminster, and see government in the hands of people who seem
to care nothing about their opinions, their troubles, their hopes and fears.
They are wholly uninterested in representing their constituents' wishes and
hopes only in their own advancement.

Government after government fails abysmally to address passionate public
sentiment about human rights legislation, unrestricted immigration, a justice
system that seems skewed in favour of offenders at the expense of their victims,
a financial services industry that enriches itself while impoverishing those who
trust their money to it, the ludicrous excesses of Health and Safety, and the
terrifying growth in youth unemployment.

The inadequacy of the Commons is embodied by its Speaker, John Bercow, a
vertically disadvantaged clown with an ego that makes George Galloway appear
modest. And MPs chose this man to be their figurehead.

The consequence is reflected in a YouGov poll months ago, which shows public
contempt for our politicians at rock bottom. Just 24 per cent of respondents
believe MPs are capable of debating issues of public concern in a sensible and
considered way'.

Worse, only 15 per cent see Parliament as representing the interests and wishes
of people like me'. Barely one-tenth of voters (12 per cent) think our
politicians capable of understanding their own daily lives. They believe the
Commons fails to hold ministers to account.

Peter Kellner, of YouGov, says of the poll: What emerges is a picture of massive
discontent that goes far beyond a dislike of particular politicians, parties and
policies. This is very dangerous for our system.'

The poll shows that a majority of voters think Britain's political system is now
fundamentally flawed'.

Italy and Greece have responded to their economic catastrophes by summarily
nominating technocrats to govern them people who are thought capable of getting
things done which elected party leaders cannot.

A large proportion of British voters quizzed in the YouGov poll 38 per cent
thought that if the same happened here, it would be a jolly good thing, with
ministers replaced by non-political experts who know how to run large
organisations'.

I do not myself agree with that particular proposition. But we should be shocked
that so many British voters support it.

Here is an illustration of the huge disillusionment which enabled George
Galloway to get elected on Thursday. A lot of voters in Bradford West thought:
He's not one of them' meaning the Westminster establishment. He might just be
one of us.'

Consider London's current mayoral election campaign. The two rival candidates
have much in common: Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone are both outsiders,
feared and mistrusted by their party hierarchies. Both are egomaniacs,
concealing ruthless ambition beneath rival barrages of wisecracks.

Boris Johnson today appears much preferable as Mayor of London, especially after
Ken Livingstone's alleged run-in with Jewish voters.

But my point here is that the public respond to both men because they are cheeky
chappies' who profess to treat politics as a bit of a lark. I complained to a
friend of mine that although I am in no doubt Boris is very clever, I cannot
regard him as a serious person.

My friend responded: But don't you see that's why so many people, and especially
the young, adore him. It's because he's funny and makes a giggle of government
and sticks it up Cameron that he is the most popular Tory in Britain.'

My friend is almost certainly right. It is widely said at Westminster that
nobody is more fearful of Boris failing to get re-elected as London's Mayor than
David Cameron. If Johnson finds himself out of a job, he will snatch a safe Tory
seat within six months, and be back in the Commons.

Even if he cannot immediately wrest the premiership from Cameron, he will become
the rallying figure for all the Tory disaffected.

It is not just Galloway, Livingstone, Johnson and the man in a monkey costume
elected mayor of Hartlepool a few years back: everywhere on the political
fringes we see outsiders prospering in public regard.

UKIP and the British National Party command steady mercifully modest support
among voters alienated by the coalition Government's indifference to their
passionately-held views, some of which deserve more respect from ministers than
they get, notably on Europe and immigration.

And in Scotland, nothing seems impossible for that supremely wily nationalist
Alex Salmond. He could well lead his country to independence, because of Scots'
deep disgust with the corruption and inadequacy of the Labour Party north of the
border, which in the past has been most Scots' natural political home.

In fairness to our own politicians, none of this represents an exclusively
British phenomenon. The rise of the Tea Party in the United States reflects a
tide of popular disgust with the Washington establishment. The French
presidential contest between President Sarkozy and his socialist rival Francois
Hollande suggests a death grapple between midgets. A couple of weeks ago, I
attended an Anglo-German conference about Europe. The German delegates, many of
whom were elected members of the Bundestag or European parliament, expressed
near-unanimity that political integration is the only way forward for the EU;
that the debt crisis is almost solved; and that German taxpayers are happy to
bail out southern Europe.

Almost any German man-in-the-street would howl in outrage about most or all of
such views, but the country's political class is a law unto itself. It is not
that the politicians are stupid people far from it but that they inhabit a
different universe from ordinary voters who passionately and justly resent the
notion that, having worked hard all their lives, they must now see their money
squandered on futile efforts to keep Greece and its neighbours afloat in the
eurozone.

The least bad thing we can say about our own political system is that other
nations are being governed equally badly. But for most of us, that knowledge is
not enough to stifle frustration and anger. For centuries, we have cherished
pride in our politics. The Westminster brand of democracy has been admired and
emulated all over the world as the American system never has been.

Yet now, Britain's parliament has become a chronically sick institution. I have
a smidgin of sympathy for the Coalition Government, which must sell the
inescapably unwelcome message to voters that the long Labour spending party is
over; that in future almost all of us will have less of things and especially
state-provided things than we have had in the past.

But the huge issue which politicians can and must address is loss of trust in
themselves, individually and collectively.

It was utterly trivial that David Cameron claimed to have bought a pasty at a
place and time which a cursory check showed to have been impossible (because the
shop had closed five years ago); but the revelation of his tiny fib dealt a
telling blow to his image as a man to believe.

No Chancellor of Exchequer remains popular for long, and George Osborne has been
justly praised for showing himself willing to do unpopular things to reduce the
appalling national debt. But his Budget last week was disastrous political
theatre and theatre is what Budgets are about because it appeared to punish the
deserving and profit the undeserving.

Disraeli made a politician in one of his novels say: All power is a trust. We
are accountable for its exercise that, from the people and for the people, all
springs.' I am naïve enough to admit, as perhaps some readers will do also, that
I really try to trust our leaders.

I hoped for the best from John Major, and even supported his protestations that
the Maastricht Treaty was harmless for Britain.

I hoped and even believed for a time that Tony Blair was something new a sincere
Prime Minister. I refused at first to join the onslaught on Gordon Brown's
premiership, clinging to pathetic hopes that he might not be as psychologically
unsuited as he proved. I greeted David Cameron's ascent to power with
enthusiasm, and hoped for the best from his coalition.

I am unashamed of any of this, because people in my trade are often and justly
accused of being down on everybody. But today, it is very hard to resist joining
the exclamations of bewilderment and dismay at the conduct of our Government in
recent weeks.

The Budget, the latest political donor scandal, a minister's crass jerry-can
advice, combine to create an overriding sense of incompetence and shoddiness.

One insider remarked to me yesterday that scarcely one LibDem minister is fit
for any government office, from the absurd Nick Clegg to Danny Alexander the
Treasury Chief Secretary, who learned how to run our affairs as public relations
officer for the Cairngorms National Park.

Matters are no better on the other side of the House: it is a scandal that the
Labour Party should depend for major funding on the Unite union, which is
supporting £45,000-a-year petrol tanker drivers in threatening strike action.

The chief reason Cameron's Downing Street is not today collapsing into panic is
that its occupants know that voters would rather trust George Galloway to run
the country than Ed Miliband.

There is no hope for our political system until our MPs of all parties
acknowledge the depth of the country's sense of betrayal at their hands. Until
they can learn to tell the truth whether about pensions, donations, energy
policy or pasties, the compact between the rulers and ruled will never be
repaired.

This week's West Bradford by-election result should be a wake-up call to every
MP in the Commons. But it is hard be optimistic it will prove so.

The worst of it all is our fear that our politicians are doing the best they are
capable of. We are now governed by men and women whose almost uniform
characteristic, across the parties, is that too many of them have never held a
real job or participated in real life.

They play fantasy football with us all, because it is the only game they know.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Democracy or shamocracy?;
Country dairy The planning reforms might have been watered down, but I still
want to stand for the council again

BYLINE: Robin Page

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1233 words


Any day now I expect to see one of my favourite little butterflies - the holly
blue. Its open wings are the same colour as open sky and the first brood flies
between the last days of March and the first days of June. It is a sure sign
that spring has sprung.

Oddly, I also associate the holly blue with May elections - I have stood in so
many, local and general - and one of the joys of canvassing (some would say the
only joy) is the sight of them fluttering over cottage gardens and along the
hedgerows.

I'm wondering if I should bite the bullet and stand for the local district
council as a (genuinely) independent candidate. Half of me says: been there,
done that, a complete waste of time. The other half believes that, despite last
week's announcement that the Government is to water down its planning reforms,
we're still in need of a dissident voice to try to restore an element of sanity
- and democracy - into proceedings. The Middle East has had its Arab Spring:
isn't it time we had our British Spring?

When I was 26 I was elected onto the local district council, where I stayed
representing my village and the village of Grantchester for 30-odd years. I
finally resigned as I saw democracy and free speech being steadily eroded. With
the politicising of local councils, most councillors had become little more than
party political nodding donkeys.

John Prescott restricted free speech even further when he was deputy prime
minister, with his English Standards Board and Standards Committees. What a joke
- John Prescott imposing standards of behaviour on other people, standards that
in his political life he seemed to ignore completely.

Indeed, he seemed to be one of that growing band of MPs who regard Parliament as
a branch of showbusiness. As this paper revealed, a good few are nothing short
of petty criminals.

Thanks to Prescott, virtually every time anybody on the council tried to raise
serious issues about planning abuses or travellers, they would be immediately
reported to the "monitoring officer" by the politically correct for showing "a
lack of respect". How 1984 is that? Most of those who did the complaining were
Lib Dimocrats, also known as Dimoprats, some of whom don't seem to understand
the words "liberal" or "democrat". Incidentally, what is the collective noun for
a bunch of Liberal Dimocrats? Bearing in mind the job-lot that arrived from
Westminster School in the form of Messrs Clegg and Huhne, I think it has to be
"Cluhne" - a "Cluhne" of Lib-Dims.

On one occasion, after I had ticked off a councillor for attending a "soirée"
hosted by a developer, I was reported to the Standards Board for England and had
to attend a kangaroo court with bigwig lawyers who, for a full day, discussed
the meaning of the word "soirée". They decided after six or seven hours that the
councillor had not indeed been to a soirée, but had enjoyed tea and biscuits.

The incident must have cost the council £5,000 at least and I received a mild
reprimand. What a waste of time and money. Shortly afterwards I resigned, as far
as I was concerned local democracy had become local "shamocracy".

But what should I do now? Each week I get emails, letters and telephone calls
from people in a state of outrage as their local countryside is threatened by
the concrete mixers of our current Conservative prime minister. Around me in
south Cambridgeshire the countryside is being stolen by a prime minister who
boasts, when it suits him, that he is a countryman. Ho, ho. And who are the
houses for? Nobody will tell me. Certainly most of the houses currently being
built are neither "social" nor "affordable", and with Cambridge station being
expanded and another new station being built, the occupants will clearly not be
local as they will be commuting daily to London.

The truth is that the nodding donkeys (councillors) should be refusing to comply
with the Government's "top-down" housing edicts - not simply nodding them
through. Remember all that stuff at the general election about "localism", local
referendums and "giving power back to the people in the Big Society"? What a
load of old baloney that's turned out to be.

Surely it is time for local councillors to stand up and be counted? Remember,
even before the Government's much-flaunted planning reforms, a process was
already under way throughout England called the "strategic housing land
availability assessments", calling for sites where developers and landowners
want to build, both inside and outside the green belt. Remember too, that under
our old planning regulations there's a system called "planning gain" whereby a
developer offers bucketloads of money to local communities and councils in
return for being granted planning permission. In the Third World this is known
as a "bribe".

In addition the Government pays councils a "New Homes Bonus" annually for six
years for each house built; another instance in which cashstrapped councils are
already being paid to grant planning permissions.

Some of the permissions are spring: the has arrived a disgrace; to make matters
worse, many of the landowners seeking planning permissions seem to regard
development as their right, regardless of any environmental or social
considerations. Their attitudes are remarkably similar to those of the
travellers at Dale Farm.

Some of the oddest and most unsustainable development near me (in my view of
course) is taking place just south of Cambridge. All that increased "run-off" or
"surface" water from the roofs, roads and impenetrable surfaces of new
developments has to flow north, via the River Cam, through the heart of the city
of Cambridge. I can't wait for a wet winter. If Cambridge is not flooded I shall
buy some Worcestershire sauce and eat my new computer.

The other side of the water issue is simple: south Cambridgeshire is an area of
low annual rainfall: one of the driest parts of Britain. So where is the water
coming from for all the thousands of extra taps, showers, washing machines,
loos? To me it is Third World planning at its worst. And what does the
Government do? It backs an environmentally damaging high-speed rail link through
the heart of England instead of using all that money to create a national water
network. I wish Parliament didn't offer work experience to so many people who
have never done a proper job.

So there it is. Should an angry old peasant stand for election, or should I just
let the shamocrats get on with it? Of course there's every chance that if I
stood I would fail to be elected. My proudest political failure is supporting
the late Jimmy Goldsmith in his opposition to the euro.

Without his intervention we would now certainly be in the eurozone and bankrupt
like Greece. When is the BBC (the Brussels Broadcasting Corporation) going to
admit that its "experts" have all been wrong about the euro, and that Jimmy
Goldsmith was right? And when is Boris Johnson going to erect a statue in honour
of the great man on a plinth in Trafalgar Square? Sadly there seems to be no
sensible anti-EU party at the moment. After my experiences with Ukip, if I had a
choice of voting for Ukip or Mickey Mouse, I'd choose Mickey Mouse.

Lulu has given my idea to stand for the local district council the thumbs down.
She thinks I have enough to do with the farm, the CRT, this column and various
books that are behind schedule. But what do readers think?

'It's open wings are the same colour as open sky'

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A vote for spring: the holly blue has arrived
Thirsty: all new homes will rely on the River Cam, yet south Cambridgeshire is
one of the driest parts of Britain
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Post-apocalyptic chic meets alfresco perfection;
This week: Crab House Caf?, Dorset

BYLINE: Matthew Norman

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 877 words


T RATING 8/10

Ferrymans Way, Portland Rd, Wyke Regis, Dorset DT4 9YU (01305 788867;
crabhousecafe.co.uk) Three courses with wine and coffee: £40-45 per head

Any of you planning to attend the Olympic regatta in the summer are hereby
excused from reading what follows. This is not an absolute let-off, sadly,
because you are on your honour to return to the page shortly. For now, you have
permission to glance at the score, pick up the phone, and book a table at the
Crab House Café.

The cause of the urgency is that between July 28-August 12, when the yachting
comes to Weymouth and Portland, this wooden shack and its courtyard will be
among the country's busiest restaurants. Speaking as a veteran of the Sydney
regatta in 2000, I'd say the allure of standing on a windy beach, gazing
perplexedly at the horizon for hours in the wildly optimistic hope of spotting a
vessel, is obscure. But to each his own and, come summertime, Jurassic Dorset
will teem with binocular-wielders pretending to grasp the finer nuances of a
sport impenetrable enough to make a Master's degree in quantum gravity from MIT
look like the five times table.

Then again, why wait? A pleasure deferred is no pleasure at all in this age of
instant gratification; and this is as pleasurable an alfresco outing as a
British spring can offer. "I really love it here," observed my wife as we sat in
the yard outside the shack on one of those balmy, hazy spring days that portend
a poisonously grey, wet summer to come. "If something can be bleakly beautiful,
this is."

The shingly vista of Chesil Bank on the other side of an inlet is not
chocolate-box picturesque. But beyond the scrubby rock garden, peppered with
miniature palm trees and adorned with lurid, fluffy parasols that look like
Hawaiian grass skirts, lie the restaurant's own oyster beds. The attached
ironmongery lends the view a peculiar charm for those with a taste for Derek
Jarmanesque post-apocalyptic chic.

This is not to suggest that the restaurant is a downer. Far from it: it bursts
with jollity. The interior is nautically merry, while the open-air bit buzzes
happily with Cuban dance music and the even more unfamiliar sound, in bucolic
Britain, of young families raucously enjoying themselves.

Before we go on, a word of praise for a dog that doesn't bark. While the daily
changing menu makes a play for the Ukip demographic with "all our fish is caught
in the English Channel by English fishermen" (do they check the passports?), it
eschews the word "sustainable". This is a rare omission in a seafood restaurant
today, and a joyous one. The Lord preserve us from proprietors parading their
phoney consciences in a misguided stab at ingratiation and the hope of
justifying outrageous charges.

But I digress. The prices here for both food and wine are ostentatiously fair,
and if the quality of our meal decrescendoed, or diminuendoed, this was almost
inevitable after the splendour of the starters. A pubescent boy of our
acquaintance raved about a large bowl of plump, sweet mussels, floating in a
luscious lemon and cream sauce infused with the home-grown thyme visible in a
herb-filled rowing boat in the garden.

My wife was mad about her smoked cod Caesar salad. "Totally delicious and
fantastically fresh," she said. My Thai fish chowder looked gorgeous, the lemon
yellow broth studded with cockles, mussels and chunks of cod, and with sprigs of
dill floating on top, and the delicacy of flavour survived the alluringly potent
kick of bird's eye chilli.

We also shared a dozen Portland Royal oysters, baked with cream and crispy
bacon. I wish there were a useful synonym for "unbelievably fresh", though given
that these fat, juicy, subtly saline beauties had travelled but a few yards from
birth to plate, that might be taken as read.

One main course maintained the early form. All three looked wonderful in the
artless and colourful Mediterranean manner, but my whole roasted black bream
with a garlic, chilli and soy sauce, with preserved lemon- and coriander-infused
rice, was the clear winner. Roasted mackerel was a touch drab, and although the
missus liked the tomatoey zing of her mixed fish and mussel stew, she found it
under-seasoned and made barely a dent in it. It says something for the quality
of the service and professionalism that the cost was knocked off the menu, and
the chef came out to inquire (smilingly and charmingly; no sign of the cleaver)
after the problem.

Part of the problem was that we had stuffed ourselves with a freshly baked white
loaf (served with good butter), and olives dotted with bits of octopus (no cover
charge, impressively) - and on those starters. We should have confined ourselves
to sharing a couple of crabs, which are superb. But I was outvoted 2-1 by loved
ones who refused to countenance the risk of my deranged hammer-work blinding
nearby toddlers with ballistic shards of shell.

After a shared white chocolate mousse (marginally too sweet), the boy took the
dog that did bark for a walk on the beach, and we sat happily for an hour
basking in the warmth over the dregs of our albariño. "Well, that was a total
delight from start to finish," said my wife as we paid up. "This place never
lets you down. We always leave feeling a million times jollier than when we
arrived."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHRISTOPHER JONES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Miliband promises to learn from galloway's humiliating 'bradford spring'

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 545 words


ED MILIBAND has promised to "learn lessons" about his leadership of Labour after
George Galloway, the anti-war campaigner, dealt him a humiliating blow by
winning one of the party's safest seats.

Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, claimed to have begun a "Bradford Spring",
after securing a majority of more than 10,000 votes to become an MP for the
third time.

The leader and founder of the Respect Party said he appealed to a "tidal wave"
of disenchanted voters in the large Muslim community of Bradford West, building
on their anger about the Iraq War. After the surprise result, he claimed he was
the "real Labour" candidate ready to take the party back to its working-class
roots.

"If Labour doesn't go back to being a Labour Party again, it will never command
the support - let alone the enthusiasm - of the kind of people who supported it
for at least 100 years," he said.

"We are Labour, we are real Labour."

Mr Miliband, who had been on the campaign trail in Bradford, said: "We've got to
understand the reasons why that happened. It reinforces something I've
emphasised throughout my leadership, which is that we need to be engaged and
rooted in every community of this country."

Mr Galloway has been a controversial figure since he was filmed in 1994 telling
the dictator Saddam Hussain: "I salute your courage, your strength, your
indefatigability." The MP was expelled from the Labour party in 2003 after he
accused Tony Blair and the US President George Bush of "acting like wolves" by
invading Iraq. He emerged as a threat to the party when he won the seat of
Bethnal Green and Bow from Labour in 2005.

Yesterday, he took revenge for a second time by winning the Bradford West seat
held by Labour for more than four decades by 18,341 votes to Labour's 8,201.

The Conservatives saw their support drop by 22 per cent to 2,746, and the
Liberal Democrats received so few votes they lost their deposit. Only one in
four people voted for a mainstream political party.

Mr Galloway's victory was also driven by young first-time voters. He appealed
directly to Islamic voters by emphasising that he was a non-drinker and "fought
for Muslims at home and abroad". However, his victory was not without
controversy, after he was pelted with eggs at his campaign headquarters
yesterday.

Labour sources said the party was putting the defeat down to "local issues" and
"anti-politics" sentiment. However, many in the party are said to be furious
with Mr Miliband for failing to capitalise on a bad week for the Conservatives.

Yesterday, Baroness Warsi, the Tory chairman, said: "If Labour can't win one of
their safe seats in these tough economic times and in a tough week for the
Government, how can they win anywhere?"

Andrew Gilligan: Page 27

By-election Voters desert the mainstream parties

George Galloway (Respect) 18,341 (55.89%, +52.83%)

Imran Hussain (Lab) 8,201 (24.99%, -20.36%)

Jackie Whiteley (Con) 2,746 (8.37%, -22.78%)

Jeanette Sunderland (LD) 1,505 (4.59%, -7.08%)

Sonja McNally (Ukip) 1,085 (3.31%, +1.31%)

Dawud Islam (Green) 481 (1.47%, -0.85%)

Neil Craig (D Nats) 344 (1.05%)

Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 111 (0.34%) Respect maj 10,140 (30.90%) 36.59% swing
Lab to Respect Electorate 64,618 Turnout 32,814 (50.78%, - 14.12%) 2010: Lab maj
5,763 (14.20%) Turnout 40,576 (64.90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

cameron plots a fake referendum on the eU

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 832 words


YOU MIGHT be under the impression that the issue of Europe has gone slightly off
the boil. It is several weeks since a Greek riot made the television news
(though Spanish demonstrations are now threatening to take their place) and
nothing above the surface at Westminster indicates that a referendum on getting
Britain out of the European Union is on the cards.

But let me assure you that slightly under the surface big things are happening.
I was this week reliably informed that David Cameron is very seriously thinking
about pledging to hold a EU referendum, either on the day of the next election
or soon after it. That's the good news.

But the bad news is that he does not wish to hold the referendum the Daily
Express and so many of its readers have been crusading for since November 2010.
You see, Mr Cameron does not envisage anything so vulgar as a straight question
about whether Britain should stay in the EU or leave. Such a stark choice would,
after all, mean him having to implement faithfully the result.

Instead he is mulling over holding an "indicative" referendum in which the
people of Britain get to tell him their preferred "direction of travel" on
matters European then leave him to sort out the details on their behalf.

One suggestion for the referendum question runs along the lines of: "Would you
like to see sovereign powers returned to Britain from Brussels?" It does not
take a genius to work out that such a question would attract a landslide "Yes"
vote. But neither does it take a genius to work out that such a vote would leave
our slippery politicians with acres of wriggle room.

fOR instance, if the promise to hold such a referendum were included in the next
Tory manifesto then it could be abandoned in any negotiations to form a new
coalition - just like George Osborne abandoned the flagship Tory promise of an
inheritance tax cut straight after the last election.

But if such a referendum took place on polling day and Mr Cameron won the
election he could spend the next five years soft-pedalling negotiations for the
return of the most marginal powers from Brussels. By the time of the 2020
election he would probably be stepping down anyway and we would be no nearer to
getting our democracy back. He would have succeeded in kicking Europe into grass
sufficiently long to see out his political career without the issue coming to a
head. As one Eurosceptic Tory MP explains: "One idea is to neutralise the threat
from UKIP and get our own voters out on polling day by holding a referendum on
the EU at the same time as the general election.

"But to be frank I can't see many voters being gullible enough to swallow
anything short of an In/Out vote. Plenty of people remember Mr Cameron's
'cast-iron' promise of a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty and look what happened
to that."

Another Tory source reveals that Downing Street has finally awoken to the danger
of losing support to UKIP - one poll this week had UKIP on seven per cent to the
Conservative 33 per cent, with Labour way ahead on 43 per cent.

"Cameron's chief pollster Andrew Cooper has realised, after a decade of advising
there should be no talk about Europe or immigration, that these issues are
important to voters after all and especially to potential Tory voters," says the
source. "But what is so frustrating is that instead of seizing the moment and
contemplating an exciting global trading future for Britain outside the EU, the
tacticians are simply working out how to tame public opinion so they do not have
to make such a choice."

Several Tories who do wish to see Britain leave the EU privately rejoice at
UKIP's recent strong showing, knowing it makes the case eloquently that the
Conservatives could rescue their standing in the polls by taking a more
explicitly anti-Brussels position.

"I'm happy with the idea of UKIP eating away at our poll rating and even of UKIP
winning the European elections in 2014. Frankly I think that is the best thing
that could happen to our party. It might snap the Cabinet out of their
complacency," mutters one.

When the Tory Mayor of London Boris Johnson signed up last Sunday to a campaign
for an In/Out referendum, it showed that he too has realised the tectonic plates
are shifting.

Instead of Euroscepticism being a divisive force inside the Tory Party, as it
was in the days when Ken Clarke and Michael Heseltine represented a large
Europhile faction, it is now a unifying one.

Not only do the party's grassroots members overwhelmingly wish for an In/Out
referendum but so do most voters at large. When Mr Cameron stood up to Brussels
before Christmas his own poll ratings and those of his party soared. But when he
backed down again at the end of January his recent slump began.

Millions of anti-EU voters are looking for a signal from Mr Cameron that he will
give them their referendum.

But it must be a genuine In/Out vote and not a political-class con job. At this
stage of the crusade, Mr Cameron, we insist on the real thing. We won't be
fooled again.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLAGGING: The Prime Minister is trying to find a way to dodge pressure
for Britain to leave the European Union
Picture: Philippe Wojazer/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Galloway victory stuns Labour;
Leadership crisis as defeat puts spotlight on Miliband

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 494 words


LABOUR was engulfed in a renewed leadership crisis last night after a shock
by-election defeat yesterday at the hands of socialist firebrand George
Galloway.

Posing like Winston Churchill with a cigar and V for Victory sign, he toured on
an open-topped bus to celebrate his sensational poll win.

Nothing was going to spoil his day. Even eggs thrown at him by a protester
missed.

Meanwhile, searching questions were being asked among MPs and grassroots
activists about Ed Miliband's future.

Landslide Hard-Left Respect party candidate Mr Galloway trounced Labour in a
spectacular landslide victory in Bradford West.

The outspoken former MP, who was expelled from Labour in 2003, beat his Labour
rival Imran Hussain with a majority of more than 10,000.

In one of the most spectacular byelection results in history, Respect won a 56
per cent share of the vote in a constituency that has consistently backed Labour
since 1974.

Labour chiefs claimed that local issues and lingering anti-Iraq War sentiment in
a constituency with a large Pakistani Muslim population were to blame while some
activists complained that the campaign was marred by dirty tricks.

But many Labour MPs were once again asking whether Mr Miliband was up to the job
of leadership after the party failed to win in heartland territory despite a
dreadful week of headlines for the Coalition.

Labour frontbencher Diane Abbott wrote on the Twitter website: "Westminster was
wittering on about pasty tax. Meanwhile, back in the real world, George Galloway
was going door to door in Bradford."

Mr Galloway won 18,341 votes in the by-election, compared with 8,201 for Labour,
2,746 for the Tories, 1,505 for the Lib Dems and 1,085 for the UK Independence
Party.

Mr Miliband was forced to cancel a planned "victory parade" tour of Bradford but
vowed to visit the city soon to investigate what went wrong.

Mr Galloway said Respect had taken many traditional Labour votes. "If Labour
doesn't go back to being a Labour Party again, it will never command the support
- let alone the enthusiasm - of the kind of people who supported it for at least
100 years," he said.

COMMENT & OPINION: PAGE 16 FROM LAUGHING STOCK TO THE CAT WHO GOT THE CREAM
GEORGE Galloway's poll triumph is the most spectacular stunt yet in a career
dedicated to cocking a snook at the political establishment.

The 57-year-old former tyre factory worker from Dundee has proved himself to be
the comeback kid of the radical Left.

Eight years ago he was a laughing stock who appeared to be finished in politics
after cavorting in a Lycra leotard and impersonating a cat on Celebrity Big
Brother. But yesterday he was purring with delight.

He has backed unfashionable causes. He was once nicknamed Gorgeous George for
boasting about his sexual conquests. And many critics have mocked him for his
love of Cuban cigars and his holiday home in the Algarve.

But few have denied his talent for capturing the limelight and getting up the
nose of the political elite.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Galloway on Big Brother
Lone protester Thomas Johnson, 26, hurling eggs at Galloway yesterday as he was
preparing to board a victory tour bus. They missed
George Galloway in Churchillian mood yesterday after his landslide victory
Picture: DARREN STAPLES/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday

National: Bradford West byelection: Reaction: We must learn lessons, says
shell-shocked Miliband

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 681 words


Ed Miliband was facing renewed criticism of his leadership of the Labour party
last night after George Galloway swept back into parliament, achieving one of
the greatest byelection upsets in recent history.

As Miliband said he would learn the lessons from the defeat in Bradford West,
the shadow public health minister, Diane Abbott, said Labour had underestimated
Galloway's popularity and that the Iraq war remained "unforgotten and
unforgiven".

John Mann, the Labour MP who embarrassed George Osborne earlier in the week over
pasties, said Labour's failure in Bradford West highlighted fundamental flaws.
"We had no game plan. No strategy," Mann wrote on the LabourList website.

Galloway will return to parliament after an absence of two years following his
decisive victory, which he captured from Labour with a swing of 36.59%. On a
turnout of 50.78%, Galloway secured 55.89% of the vote, an increase of 52.83
percentage points, as Labour slumped into second place with its vote falling by
20.86 percentage points.

The re-elected Respect MP, who said that a "Bradford spring" had created the
"most sensational victory in British political history", claimed that his
victory showed that a new generation of voters are alienated from Britain's main
parties.

In a Guardian article, Galloway wrote: "This peaceful, democratic uprising comes
from the same wellspring of discontent and alienation that fuelled disturbances
in British cities last summer. But it is a positive counterpoint - bringing
forth a new generation of political leaders, not another cohort trapped in the
criminal justice system. Every politician should take notice, as they did not
last summer."

Miliband said he would listen carefully to the voters of Bradford West. "It was
an incredibly disappointing result for Labour and I am determined that we learn
lessons of what happened," he said. "I'm going to be going back to the
constituency in the coming weeks to talk to people there about why this result
happened."

Miliband, whose party has won five of the six byelections since 2010, chose his
words with care. "Clearly there were local factors, but I also say only four out
of 10 people voted for the three mainstream political parties. We've got to
understand the reasons why that happened."

The Labour left warned of lessons for the party. Abbott said: "Most Labour
people hate Galloway so much they completely underestimate him. He knows how to
campaign on the ground. Galloway understands that, outside the Westminster
bubble, there are those for whom the Iraq war remains unforgotten and
unforgiven."

Jeremy Corbyn, the veteran leftwinger, congratulated Galloway for his
"astonishing" win. "Big message here on opposition to wars and austerity," he
said on Twitter.

Mann, a more mainstream Labour figure, said the party had failed to prepare for
a campaign that needed to target Muslim voters: "It was clear something was
significantly wrong. Households had been marked off as Labour - households, not
individuals. What was particularly disconcerting was having no Muslim
doorknockers, no Urdu speaker, no hijab-wearing woman talking to Muslim women."

Labour MPs said they would fight off any attempt to blame Toby Perkins, the
shadow minister for business who helped run the campaign. "People from all
sections of the party will be dismayed and disappointed if Labour figures
attempt to scapegoat a bright young MP to try to avoid responsibility for their
own mistakes," one shadow minister said.

Labour sources said no blame was attached to Perkins and Jon Ashworth, Labour MP
for Leicester South, who ran the campaign. One source said Perkins had
"shouldered a heavy load" and had "done a great job".

Result

George Galloway Respect

18,341 (55.89%, party percentage change since 2010: +52.83%)

Imran Hussain Labour

8,201 (24.99%, -20.36%)

Jackie Whiteley Conservative

2,746 (8.37%, -22.78%)

Jeanette Sunderland Liberal Democrat

1,505 (4.59%, -7.08%)

Sonja McNally Ukip

1,085 (3.31%, +1.31%)

Dawud Islam Green

481 (1.47%, -0.85%)

Neil Craig, Democratic Nationalists

344 (1.05%)

Howling Laud Hope Monster Raving Loony Party

111 (0.34%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday

Letter: Galloways win and Labours lesson

BYLINE: Ken Baldry

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 57 words


* Let's not get too excited about the Respect victory in the Bradford West
byelection. Whatever one thinks of George Galloway, he is on the left. If you
tot up all the leftwing votes (Respect, Labour and Green), as against the
right-wing ones (Tory, Lib Dem and Ukip), this is a massive swing against a
Little Rich Boy government.

Ken Baldry

London

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 31, 2012 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

John Curtice: Was this the biggest shock in by-election history? Not quite...;


BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: COMMENTATORS

LENGTH: 575 words


"The most sensational result in British by-election history, bar none," was
George Galloway's proud boast on being declared Bradford West's new MP. Well
almost, and, perhaps more importantly, maybe not the most significant
by-election success ever.

Click HERE to view 'In numbers: Bradford West' graphic

At 36.6 per cent, the swing from Labour to Respect was enormous. But it did not
quite match Labour's worst-ever drubbing, the 44.2 per cent swing it suffered at
the hands of Simon Hughes in Bermondsey in 1983. Indeed, the 20.4 point drop in
Labour's own vote was quite modest by the standards of previous disasters,
including the party's first ever defeat at the hands of the Scottish National
Party in Hamilton in 1967 (-29.7) and its equally unexpected loss of Brent East
(-29.4) to the Liberal Democrats shortly after the 2003 Iraq war.

Moreover, this was not the first time that someone other than a Conservative,
Labour or Liberal Democrat managed to win an English post-war by-election. That
accolade was claimed nearly 40 years ago by Dick Taverne when, following
deselection, Lincoln's sitting Labour MP opted to resign his seat and defend it
as "Democratic Labour". At 58.2 per cent, Mr Taverne's share of the vote was
even slightly bigger than Mr Galloway's 55.9 per cent.

This was not the first time either that Bradford West's substantial Muslim
population - second only in size to that in Bethnal Green and Bow - where Mr
Galloway was elected for Respect in 2005 - has behaved unexpectedly. On the
occasion of Labour's nationwide victory in 1997, the party's share of the vote
fell in the constituency by nearly 12 points, seemingly because the
Conservatives had nominated a Muslim candidate.

In truth, there are few other places where Mr Galloway's distinctive stance on
Iraq, Afghanistan and the politics of the Arab world could have been expected to
secure such a favourable reception. Equally, there are no other candidates on
the far left with the charisma of Mr Galloway and who are likely to be capable
of repeating his feat.

Even if both man and constituency are unique, the result still raises an
intriguing question. Voters throughout Britain are showing an increasing
willingness to vote for smaller parties. A record 10 per cent did so in 2010. In
the Barnsley by-election last year, Ukip won 12 per cent and second place. Now
that the Liberal Democrats are in no position to garner the protest vote,
perhaps this is all disillusioned voters can do?

John Curtice is Professor of Politics, Strathclyde University

Great by-election upsets

Hamilton (Nov 1967)

A milestone defeat for Labour saw the charismatic Winnie Ewing capture the
Lanarkshire constituency for the Scottish National Party. The SNP had firmly
arrived on the political map.

Lincoln (March 1973)

Labour's Dick Taverne forced this by-election when he quit the party over its
anti-Common Market stance and contested it under the label Democratic Labour. He
stormed home with 58 per cent support.

Bermondsey (Feb 1983)

At the depth of its fortunes, Labour chose the hard-Left, gay Peter Tatchell to
defend its former south London stronghold. Liberal Simon Hughes won with a 44
per cent swing - and has held the seat ever since.

Brent East (Sept 2003)

Liberal Democrat Sarah Teather (now an Education minister) exploited anger in
the multi-ethnic north-west London seat over the Iraq war to seize it from
Labour with a 29 per cent swing.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

THE CAT WHO GOT A DREAM

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 205 words


GEORGE Galloway is the cat who got the cream. The Celebrity Big Brother moggy's
victory is the mother of all comebacks.

From nowhere he polled more votes than Labour, the Cons, Libs, Greens and UKIP
combined.

He's one of the most charismatic figures in British politics; an electrifying
speaker, tough, brave and a formidable campaigner. I'll readily admit, however,
that I never thought he'd do it.

Nor did Labour, which thought it would hold the West Yorkshire seat.

Galloway's victory has thrown a spanner into Westminster politics. Cameron's
Coalition is on the ropes. Ed Miliband put in a couple of good shifts attacking
the Cons, yet people in the wool city have turned their backs on mainstream
parties - especially Labour.

The inquests started before a nervous looking Galloway was carried shoulder
high.

Yes, the new MP is a lone wolf and there's nobody else like him. Yes, the seat
has a significant minority of Muslim voters who rallied with an anti-war
message. The scale of Galloway's victory, however, suggested support too among
the traditional white working class.

This is a seat the Cons hoped to win in 2010 as the Lib Dems lost their deposit.
But Galloway's revenge was on the party that wrongly expelled him over Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

THE CAT WHO GOT A DREAM

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 240 words


GEORGE Galloway is the cat who got the cream. The Celebrity Big Brother moggy's
victory is the mother of all comebacks.

From nowhere he polled more votes than Labour, the Cons, Libs, Greens and UKIP
combined.

He's one of the most charismatic figures in British politics; an electrifying
speaker, tough, brave and a formidable campaigner. I'll readily admit, however,
that I never thought he'd do it.

Nor did Labour, which thought it would hold the West Yorkshire seat.

Galloway's victory has thrown a spanner into Westminster politics. Cameron's
Coalition is on the ropes. Ed Miliband put in a couple of good shifts attacking
the Cons, yet people in the wool city have turned their backs on mainstream
parties - especially Labour.

The inquests started before a nervous looking Galloway was carried shoulder
high.

Yes, the new MP is a lone wolf and there's nobody else like him. Yes, the seat
has a significant minority of Muslim voters who rallied with an anti-war
message. The scale of Galloway's victory, however, suggested support too among
the traditional white working class.

This is a seat the Cons hoped to win in 2010 as the Lib Dems lost their deposit.
But Galloway's revenge was on the party that wrongly expelled him over Iraq.

The big loser in Bradford West was Labour - and the biggest Labour loser was Ed
Miliband, whose good week ended on a sour note. It was back to the future last
night as muttering resumed about Miliband's leadership.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAT THAT CREAMED LABOUR;
MILIBAND IN CRISIS AS 'JOKE' GEORGE WINS Big Bro moggy's poll revenge

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN; STEPHEN MOYES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 960 words


ED Miliband was last night warned to learn quickly from George Galloway's shock
Respect by-election victory - or face a thrashing at the polls in 2015.

Galloway - ridiculed for his creepy cat impression on Celebrity Big Brother in
2006 - snatched Labour's safe seat of Bradford West with a huge 36 per cent
swing on Thursday night.

The 57-year-old former pal of Iraq tyrant Saddam Hussein won more than half of
all the votes cast - after telling Muslim voters he was more devout than
Labour's Muslim candidate.

Gutted Mr Miliband was embarrassingly forced to abandon a longplanned victory
visit to the city yesterday. The hapless Labour leader admitted it was "an
incredibly disappointing result".

Seeking to calm party anger, he vowed: "I'm going to go back to the constituency
in the coming weeks to talk to people there about why this result happened."

But critics were furious at the ballot-box battering, which came despite a
ten-point opinion poll lead and after David Cameron's worst week in power.

Ex-Labour Home Secretary David Blunkett told The Sun: "The inquest will throw up
a number of lessons that must be taken on board now, not in three years' time.
We fail to learn them at our peril."

He added: "It's astonishing anyone could cast a vote for someone who has gone on
Big Brother and got down on his hands and knees to lick milk like a cat.

"Is our political system letting people down so badly they'll vote for any
buffoon?"

With local and London mayor elections just over a month away on May 3, another
senior party figure, who didn't want to be named, said: "Bradford West is a
wake-up call for Red Ed. He needs to change tack and show the party he can
deliver in elections." Labour campaign chiefs also came under fire.

Labour MP John Mann fumed: "We had no game plan, no strategy. But what was
particularly disconcerting was having no Muslim doorknockers, no Urdu speaker,
no hijab-wearing woman talking to Muslim women voters."

Senior Labour sources blamed "local factors" - but refused to say whether that
meant ethnic issues or dirty campaigning.

Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi also waded in to the row, saying the result cast
a shadow over Labour's chances at the next election.

She said: "This tells you everything you need to know about Ed Miliband's weak
leadership."

The Tory vote was also badly slashed in Bradford West - while the Lib Dems got
so few votes they lost their £500 deposit.

Galloway boasted it was "the most sensational victory in British political
history" and dubbed it "the Bradford Uprising - just like the Cairo Spring". But
there were fears it would split Bradford's mixed community along ethnic lines.

Protester Thomas Johnson, 26, pelted eggs at the newly elected MP as he toured
Bradford yesterday, sparking a scuffle. Mr Johnson shouted: "He's a sycophant, a
parasite on this city." But Galloway crowed: "He didn't get me."

Galloway won despite hardly ever setting foot in Bradford West. It came after
the Catholic-born Scot wrote to all Muslim voters - claiming to be more
religious that his "moderate Muslim" Labour rival. He poured doubt on the faith
of barrister Imran Hussain, 33, by suggesting he drinks alcohol.

Galloway also astonishingly claimed to have saved the people of Palestine and
Iraq, and to be single-handedly fighting to free those of Afghanistan and Iran.
The anti-war veteran, standing for the left-wing Respect Party, wrote: "You
should vote for him because he is a 'Muslim', they say, and because he is of
Pakistani background ... God knows who is a Muslim. And he knows who is not.
Instinctively, so do you."

In the same letter he claimed: "I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and
never have.

"Ask yourself if the other candidate in this election can say that." He said he
had been given "Pakistan's highest civil awards for services to democracy and
for my work for the freedom of Kashmir". There was no mention of his visit to
Saddam Hussein when he told the despot: "Sir, I salute your courage, your
strength, your indefatigability."

Nor did he talk of pretending to be a cat licking milk from actress Rula
Lenska's hands in Big Brother. He claimed his letter was a response to the
Labour campaign, "which consisted of a claim that people should vote for him
because he was a Pakistani Muslim".

Galloway was expelled from Labour in 2003 after urging UK troops to disobey
"illegal" orders to invade Iraq.

The by-election was sparked after Labour's Marsha Singh stepped down due to ill
health. Galloway returns to the Commons after failing to win in Limehouse and
Poplar in East London in 2010.

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

It's Red face Ed

my View

By TOM NEWTON DUNN Political Editor

GEORGE Galloway's victory stopped Ed Miliband's revival in its tracks yesterday,
like a .45 calibre bullet.

The rookie Labour leader was viewed by Westminster as having finally turned a
corner in the last two weeks.

Some decent Despatch Box performances capitalising on Cameron and Osborne's
shambolic collapse gave him a golden opportunity to be heard. Bradford West may
have ended that for good.

The worst thing for Labour about the jumbo drubbing is that its arrogant
campaign chiefs had no clue it was coming - even as the polls closed on
Thursday, Ed's aides were bragging to journalists about a comfortable win.

The party's ten-point lead in the polls is revealed to be as soft as French
cheese.

There is a lesson today too for the Tories. As long as the bungling PM and his
ministers are even more unpopular than Ed, they look extremely silly when they
gloat.

18,341 8,2012,746 RESULTS GEORGE GALLOWAY (RESPECT) Imran Hussain (Lab) Jackie
Whiteley (Con) Jeanette Sunderland Lib Dem) McNally (Ukip) Islam (Green) Craig
(Dem Nat) Laud Hope Monster Raving Loony Party) 1,505 1,085 481 344 111

Dirty

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mocked . . Galloway in CBB, 2006
Beaten . . Miliband yesterday
Bradford Spring . . Galloway with supporters after thrashing Labour

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CAT THAT CREAMED LABOUR

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN; STEPHEN MOYES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 980 words


MILIBAND IN CRISIS AS 'JOKE' GEORGE WINS MILIBAND IN CRISIS AS 'JOKE' GEORGE
WINS Big Bro moggy's poll revenge ED Miliband was last night warned to learn
quickly from George Galloway's shock Respect by-election victory - or face a
thrashing at the polls in 2015. Galloway - ridiculed for his creepy cat
impression on Celebrity Big Brother in 2006 - snatched Labour's safe seat of
Bradford West with a huge 36 per cent swing on Thursday night. The 57-year-old
former pal of Iraq tyrant Saddam Hussein won more than half of all the votes
cast - after telling Muslim voters he was more devout than Labour's Muslim
candidate. Gutted Mr Miliband was embarrassingly forced to abandon a longplanned
victory visit to the city yesterday.

The hapless Labour leader admitted it was "an incredibly disappointing result".

Seeking to calm party anger, he vowed: "I'm going to go back to the constituency
in the coming weeks to talk to people there about why this result happened." But
critics were furious at the ballot-box battering, which came despite a ten-point
opinion poll lead and after David Cameron's worst week in power. Ex-Labour Home
Secretary David Blunkett told The Sun: "The inquest will throw up a number of
lessons that must be taken on board now, not in three years' time. We fail to
learn them at our peril." He added: "It's astonishing anyone could cast a vote
for someone who has gone on Big Brother and got down on his hands and knees to
lick milk like a cat. "Is our political system letting people down so badly
they'll vote for any buffoon?" With local and London mayor elections just over a
month away on May 3, another senior party figure, who didn't want to be named,
said: "Bradford West is a wake-up call for Red Ed.

He needs to change tack and show the party he can deliver in elections." Labour
campaign chiefs also came under fire.

Labour MP John Mann fumed: "We had no game plan, no strategy.

But what was particularly disconcerting was having no Muslim doorknockers, no
Urdu speaker, no hijab-wearing woman talking to Muslim women voters."

Dirty Senior Labour sources blamed "local factors" - but refused to say whether
that meant ethnic issues or dirty campaigning. Tory co-chairman Baroness Warsi
also waded in to the row, saying the result cast a shadow over Labour's chances
at the next election. She said: "This tells you everything you need to know
about Ed Miliband's weak leadership." The Tory vote was also badly slashed in
Bradford West - while the Lib Dems got so few votes they lost their £500
deposit. Galloway boasted it was "the most sensational victory in British
political history" and dubbed it "the Bradford Uprising - just like the Cairo
Spring".

But there were fears it would split Bradford's mixed community along ethnic
lines. Protester Thomas Johnson, 26, pelted eggs at the newly elected MP as he
toured Bradford yesterday, sparking a scuffle.

Mr Johnson shouted: "He's a sycophant, a parasite on this city."

But Galloway crowed: "He didn't get me." Galloway won despite hardly ever
setting foot in Bradford West.

It came after the Catholic-born Scot wrote to all Muslim voters - claiming to be
more religious that his "moderate Muslim" Labour rival.

He poured doubt on the faith of barrister Imran Hussain, 33, by suggesting he
drinks alcohol. Galloway also astonishingly claimed to have saved the people of
Palestine and Iraq, and to be single-handedly fighting to free those of
Afghanistan and Iran.

The anti-war veteran, standing for the left-wing Respect Party, wrote: "You
should vote for him because he is a 'Muslim', they say, and because he is of
Pakistani background ... God knows who is a Muslim. And he knows who is not.

Instinctively, so do you." In the same letter he claimed: "I, George Galloway,
do not drink alcohol and never have. "Ask yourself if the other candidate in
this election can say that."

He said he had been given "Pakistan's highest civil awards for services to
democracy and for my work for the freedom of Kashmir".

There was no mention of his visit to Saddam Hussein when he told the despot:
"Sir, I salute your courage, your strength, your indefatigability."

Nor did he talk of pretending to be a cat licking milk from actress Rula
Lenska's hands in Big Brother.

He claimed his letter was a response to the Labour campaign, "which consisted of
a claim that people should vote for him because he was a Pakistani Muslim".
Galloway was expelled from Labour in 2003 after urging UK troops to disobey
"illegal" orders to invade Iraq. The by-election was sparked after Labour's
Marsha Singh stepped down due to ill health.

Galloway returns to the Commons after failing to win in Limehouse and Poplar in
East London in 2010. t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk The Sun Says - Page Eight It's
Red face Ed myView By TOM NEWTON DUNN Political Editor GEORGE Galloway's victory
stopped Ed Miliband's revival in its tracks yesterday, like a .45 calibre
bullet.

The rookie Labour leader was viewed by Westminster as having finally turned a
corner in the last two weeks. Some decent Despatch Box performances capitalising
on Cameron and Osborne's shambolic collapse gave him a golden opportunity to be
heard. Bradford West may have ended that for good.

The worst thing for Labour about the jumbo drubbing is that its arrogant
campaign chiefs had no clue it was coming - even as the polls closed on
Thursday, Ed's aides were bragging to journalists about a comfortable win. The
party's ten-point lead in the polls is revealed to be as soft as French cheese.

There is a lesson today too for the Tories. As long as the bungling PM and his
ministers are even more unpopular than Ed, they look extremely silly when they
gloat.

18,341 8,2012,746 RESULTS GEORGE GALLOWAY (RESPECT) Imran Hussain (Lab) Jackie
Whiteley (Con) Jeanette Sunderland Lib Dem) McNally (Ukip) Islam (Green) Craig
(Dem Nat) Laud Hope Monster Raving Loony Party) 1,505 1,085 481 344 111

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mocked . . Galloway in CBB, 2006
Beaten . . Miliband yesterday
Bradford Spring . . Galloway with supporters after thrashing Labour

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 31, 2012 Saturday 8:40 PM GMT

David Cameron to face questions over meetings with fund raising group at Downing
Street;
David Cameron faces questions over a possible breach of the ministerial code
after it emerged that he held a meeting with members of a Conservative Party
fund-raising group at 10 Downing Street.

BYLINE: By Robert Watts and Miles Goslett

LENGTH: 782 words


The Prime Minister, the party's chairman Lord Feldman and another senior Tory
met to discuss the leadership of the Conservative Foundation, which allows
people to leave tax-free legacies to the party.

Details of the meeting emerge a week after the Prime Minister was forced to
disclose the names of donors who he had entertained in his Downing Street flat
and at Chequers, his country retreat.

The Downing Street gathering on January 11 last year has been revealed by Lord
Hesketh, who was sacked as chairman of the foundation at the same meeting. "It
was in a ground floor office," said the peer, who previously served as
Conservative party treasurer and as a Tory minister in the 1980s and 1990s.

A Conservative Party spokesman acknowledged the meeting had taken place, but
denied that fund-raising had been discussed. The sole purpose of the meeting was
to discuss Lord Hesketh's successor as chairman of the foundation, the spokesman
said.

"No meeting of the Conservative Foundation has ever been held at Downing
Street," he said. "All board meeting of the foundation are held either in the
private offices of board members or at Conservative Party Headquarters."

A Tory source added: "This was not a meeting of the Conservative Foundation - it
was a meeting to discuss Lord Hesketh's replacement."

Nevertheless, the meeting could be judged as a breach of the Ministerial Code,
which states: "Facilities provided to ministers at government expense to enable
them to carry out their official duties should not be used for Party or
constituency work."

The Conservative Foundation was set up in 2005 and launched by Lady Thatcher and
Sir John Major. The foundation's website describes it as "an integral part of
the Conservative family".

It is a separate company with a board of directors, including Michael Spencer,
the former party treasurer, Lord Feldman and other Tory grandees, including Lord
Saatchi and Lord Fink.

Its accounts show that the foundation received income of £497,307 in 2010, much
of which came from the estates of deceased supporters. In the same year the
foundation paid salaries of £219,557 to its three staff - equivalent to more
than £73,000 each.

Lord Hesketh told The Sunday Telegraph that he was "wholly unaware" of any rule
that forbade ministers from using government buildings for party business. He
even sought to defend the Prime Minister's use of Downing Street for a party
meeting.

"David Cameron is very busy," said the peer, who last year defected to the UK
Independence Party. "He can't be expected to move from building to building to
discuss different matters.

"It may have been a massive piece of misjudgement from Lord Feldman. He was the
person who told me to come to the meeting."

However, Sir Alistair Graham, who was chairman of the Committee on Standards in
Public Life between 2003 and 2007, said the meeting represented a clear breach
of the ministerial code.

"It really is unfortunate that the Prime Minister is setting a bad example for
his colleagues if, in a cavalier fashion, he is using government resources for
party ends," Sir Alistair said.

"It does throw up a question mark about his credibility in terms of the regular
statements he's making about what is unacceptable."

He added: "The ministerial code is there to ensure that when you're involved in
your public duty you don't easily confuse what are party political matters and
what are essential to carrying out your public office."

While in opposition, the Conservative Party attacked Labour for allowing the
Smith Institute, a Labour-leaning think tank, to holding functions in Downing
Street.

Labour last night called for an investigation into the meeting and urged
ministers to disclose all cases when party matters have been discussed at Number
Ten.

Michael Dugher, the shadow minister without portfolio, also said this
represented a breach of the ministerial code. "This is further evidence that
David Cameron is using Government buildings as his own personal fiefdom," he
said. "This should be investigated and we will certainly be following this up."

Lord Hesketh said he was "shocked" by the way the Prime Minister's staff behaved
while he was in Downing Street. "People were walking around with no ties,
wearing trainers," the peer said. "I put the whole of the rot down to Alastair
Campbell moving the whips' office from 12 Downing Street. Modern government has
suffered appallingly as a result.

"In 1997 sofa government came in and all of these infectious bad habits came
with it. The civil service should have been monitoring this sort of thing. It's
part of this very casual attitude. This is about a collapse in standards. It's
about principles, judgments and common sense."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Galloway bounces back with shock by-election win in 'Bradford Spring'

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1251 words


The message to the people of Bradford was simple: George Galloway was opposed to
the mainstream parties and wanted an end to the Afghanistan war. Voters were
told to head to a polling station, give their name and address, and cross box
two.

The effect was one of the most remarkable by-election results in history, with
the former Labour maverick overturning a majority of more than 5,000 in a
supposedly "safe" seat held by Labour for nearly 40 years.

The shock result - the first loss by an opposition party in a mid-term poll
since 2000 - stunned the Labour leadership, which was left groping for
explanations for what had gone wrong in a seat whose large British-Pakistani
community was largely assumed to be behind it. It also marked a return to
Parliament for Mr Galloway, who last stole a seat from Labour in the general
election of 2005.

In the past fortnight, the Respect Party candidate had trooped up and down the
heavily Muslim areas of Manningham Lane, Great Horton Road and Oak Lane in
Bradford West. Crucially, he won the support of young, first-time voters who
then mobilised their friends and family to support him.

Some of those surrounding Mr Galloway as he celebrated victory yesterday were
not even old enough to vote. But his straightforward, anti-Establishment,
anti-war message had energised them into agitating for an unlikely victory that
culminated in a colossal 37 per cent swing from Labour.

While not a Muslim himself, he made "no apologies" for referring heavily to his
quasi-Islamic values in his campaign literature. One leaflet proclaimed that
"God KNOWS who is a Muslim and he KNOWS who is not".

"I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and never have," it stated. "I, George
Galloway, have fought for Muslims at home and abroad, all of my life." Mr
Galloway claimed that he was forced to issue the material because Labour had
been urging voters to back their man, Imran Hussain, because he was a Muslim.

He was challenged about his religious literature, his drinking habits and his
belief in a Bradford "uprising". During a series of increasingly ill-tempered
interviews he eventually walked out of one with Channel 4. While Mr Galloway
worked the streets and held a wildly successful rally last weekend, Mr Hussain
assumed he should be pursuing the wider community. Meanwhile, those who watched
the by-election closely said that many young people in the British Pakistani
community shunned the way in which Bradford had been run by a small clique.

Mohammed Shafiq, the chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation, said at the
Victor St mosque last week that young Muslims responded angrily when the mosque
president endorsed the Labour candidate.

The way Mr Galloway divides opinion was evident yesterday as he took a
two-and-a-half hour tour of his constituency on an open-top bus. By the time he
had boarded, he had been the target of an egg-throwing incident by someone
calling him a "parasite" on Bradford. Mr Galloway was not playing down his win.
"This will be talked about in social science lectures for years to come," he
said.

"They tried to say I was an outsider because I was white and had blue eyes. This
is the most sensational victory in British political history. It is part of the
Bradford Spring ... the town hall will be the next to fall.

"I'm going to bring change here - they're very unhappy with the mainstream
parties that have caused a kind of alienation among young people," he told The
Times. "I am nothing if not unorthodox.

We brought people into the political process and it was decisive."

He said he would focus on Afghanistan on his return to Westminster, adding that
he believed the lives of British soldiers killed there had been wasted. "It's a
demand from the people to withdraw the soldiers from Afghanistan," he said. "Not
because we hate the troops but because we don't hate them. [Their lives] are
being wasted by a political class who knows this war is going nowhere and could
have been ended on the same terms last year, or the year before, or any other
year."

Labour MPs also had questions about the "complete failure" of party intelligence
to detect the problem earlier. Ed Miliband's team began what appeared to be the
usual pre-election exercise in expectation management on Thursday, warning that
the race would be made difficult by Mr Galloway's involvement.

But at that point, any serious prospect of defeat was not on their minds. When
the no-nonsense John Mann, the Labour MP for Bassetlaw, loyally headed the
campaign in Bradford West on Thursday morning, it did not take long to detect
that his party faced an uphill struggle.

Cars honking in support of Mr Galloway or bearing the slogan of Respect were out
in force in the crucial Toller ward. Mr Mann's team had been told that the
ward's heavily British-Pakistani community were "solid" supporters. Labour's
candidate, Mr Hussain, was already its representative on Bradford council.

Hours of door-knocking confirmed that the ward was solid in its support for Mr
Galloway. The name of the Labour candidate did not come up once in more than
four hours of canvassing, Mr Mann said.

"This is a one-off in terms of the Galloway effect and Respect. But this kind of
issue is not a one-off," said Mr Mann. "Labour was fighting a twodimensional
campaign, thinking it was us against the Tories. That wasn't true here and it
wasn't true in Scotland or in mayoral elections either."

The Conservatives, with 2,746 votes, also saw support slump. The Liberal
Democrats lost their deposit.

Mr Miliband said he would return to Bradford to learn lessons about why the
electorate so overwhelmingly rejected his party.

The bookmakers took their biggest hit on a by-election as Mr Galloway's
supporters backed him down from 33/1. Many Labour MPs questioned the timing of
the by-election yesterday. "Many of us thought it was mad that the party had
called the election so quickly - we couldn't understand why they didn't wait
until the local elections when the vote would be stronger," said a senior Labour
MP. "It made it susceptible to a demagogue like Galloway." Leading article, page
2 David Aaronovitch, page 19 My Week, page 12 Bradford West results George
Galloway (Respect) 55.89% Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 0.34% Neil Craig (D Nats)
1.05% Dawud Islam (Green) 1.47% Sonja McNally (UKIP) 3.31% Jeanette Sunderland
(LD) 4.59% Jackie Whiteley (Con) 8.37% Imran Hussain (Lab) 24.99% Respect
majority 10,140 30.90% Electorate 64,618; Turnout 32,814 50.78% Analysis of an
unexpected victory A very high proportion of the vote in wards that are
traditionally Labour - City, Toller and Manningham - helped George Galloway to
victory.

He drew huge numbers of Muslims and first-time voters. His Respect Party knew
many voters had been alienated by both main parties, the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, and being taken for granted.Labour campaigners found that Respect
campaigned in Urdu at times, repeating the simple message to "cross box two".

Mr Galloway also says he secured 60 per cent of postal votes and his team claims
that he won 85 per cent of votes in the university's ward.

A major contribution to his win was the defection to his team of Naweed Hussain,
former campaign manager for the previous Labour MP, Marsha Singh. Mr Hussain had
crucial insights into Labour weaknesses.

Labour argued that the collapse of the Tory vote contributed to its defeat. The
Tories did suffer a huge 22 per cent dent in vote share. The Lib Dems also had a
terrible night, losing their deposit with just 4.59 per cent of votes.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Galloway celebrates his win
George Galloway, above, in Bradford city centre after a man, bottom left, throws
eggs in his direction and a Respect supporter remonstrates with him
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, AZADOUR GUZELIAN; DAVE THOMPSON / PA; DARREN STAPLES /
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 485 words


COLUMN

BY

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who is said to enjoy a drink, met the thirsty
commentator Toby Young recently at London's Groucho Club. Young reports: All I
can say is that his reputation is thoroughly deserved. After God knows how many
vodka shots - I lost count after number six - Nigel was his usual dapper self,
whereas I was lurching around like an OAP on roller skates. I believe I broke a
glass, though I have no recollection of it, and the hour between 10pm and 11pm
is now a black hole.' Good-humoured Farage drinks, smokes Rothmans and has
survived a light aircraft crash. Might he be the man we're looking for in these
joyless political times?

Jane Fonda, pictured, will play Nancy Reagan in a new movie, The Butler, about
the late Eugene Allen, a black White House servant for over 30 years, from Harry
Truman to Ronald Reagan. The Reagans appear to have been Allen's favourite First
Couple. Their photo had prominence among those of the other presidents in his
home. They invited him and his wife to a state banquet for Germany's Helmut
Kohl, an unprecedented gesture.

The controversial jobs firm A4e, which is in danger of losing £400million-worth
of Government contracts, has employed lobbyist George Bridges, a personal friend
of Chancellor George Osborne. Old Etonian Bridges helped Osborne run the
Conservatives' election campaign in 2010

. Employment Minister Chris Grayling threatens to remove their contracts if A4e
is found guilty of systemic fraud'. Its multi-millionaire owner, Emma Harrison,
has resigned as an adviser to David Cameron. Who better than well-connected
Bridges to save her lucrative business?

Referring to his bête noir, David Cameron, who snatched the Tory leadership from
him in 2005, Tory MP David Davis tells the BBC (as reported left): Look at the
front bench - all very well turned out, well-fed, they look like they're in a
completely different world... it's an unfair allegation, but it works...' Or, to
put it another way, it's an unfair allegation, but worth repeating'.

Sir Elton John, 65, claims he was a victim of bullying after becoming a global
star. He says those responsible were important people in my career and in my
personal life... It was about control and them being able to keep me under their
thumb. One was violent and the other two were mentally violent'. So why not name
them? It would be a pity if people thought no doubt wrongly that he was
referring to his diminutive ex-manager and lover, John Reid.

Fifty years after the arrival on TV of the police series Z Cars, its
stentorian-voiced star Brian Blessed, 75, who played PC Fancy' Smith, recalls:
We used to receive 27,000 letters a week. We were on a constant knife-edge,
because we knew we'd been performing live in front of 24million viewers. It was
easily the most exciting thing I've ever done as an actor.' Imagine the tears
and tantrums if today's soap stars had to perform live.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Pope, the euro, divine intervention and a clumsy April Fool joke

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 324 words


THE best hope for saving the euro is for the Pope to pray for divine
intervention, according to an email written in the office of Herman Van Rompuy,
the man charged with preserving the currency.

The message was an April Fool's Day joke that was intended for internal
consumption only, but was leaked, as are most genuine documents on the euro's
survival. New talks were needed, the "communique" said, and should include
Benedict XVI, as sovereign of the Vatican City, which uses the euro.

"The presence of His Holiness the Pope affords an opportunity to pray for divine
intervention to save the euro. This is now seen as the most credible strategy,"
concluded the spoof press release, crafted by one of Mr Van Rompuy's aides. The
press office of the Council of the European Union, whose official letterhead was
used, is said to be not amused after receiving calls asking about the "April 1
summit". One official said: "I'm glad someone thinks this is a laughing matter,
but it's no joke for us."

EU officials are working on proposals aimed at averting a new phase of the
eurozone crisis. They will be discussed by finance ministers in Copenhagen today
amid a row over increasing the size of the eurozone bailout fund to
(EURO)1trillion. The extra cash, fiercely resisted by Germany, is needed because
of a growing risk that Spain, one of the euro's biggest economies, will suffer a
Greek-style debt crisis this summer. Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said:
"Divine intervention might be more effective than the intervention of the
European Central Bank, but an all-seeing, all-knowing God would be wise to keep
out of the euro."

The reference to the Pope and the power of prayer has entertained Mr Van
Rompuy's staff. The president of the European Council is a Catholic who goes on
retreat to a Trappist monastery where his brother-in-law is a monk. "It's just a
joke," said the aide. "He doesn't know about it. Although he might now."

Business: B5

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

Leading Article: The week in politics: Perception and reality

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 687 words


Midterm wobbles are the stuff of democratic politics. All governments have bad
weeks. Often they survive them. The sequence of disasters that has befallen the
coalition since the budget 10 days ago may only be unusual because it has had so
many episodes. But maybe not. There is a thread that links cutting the 50p tax
rate with private dinners for rich donors and pricier pasties and the attempt to
make political profit from the petrol tanker drivers that just might, in time,
undermine the coalition's claim to power. It is beginning to look less like a
run of bad luck and more like a story that is greater than its parts.

On the surface, it is about perception. In particular, it is about the damage
done to what has been a remarkably successful claim for the Tory leadership -
the claim that, despite its unique privileges, it is still in touch with the
concerns of ordinary voters. One keystone of that perception was retaining the
50p top tax rate. The chancellor gambled on sacrificing that, a move that seems
to have had more to do with his own reputation within the Conservative party
than the wider standing of the government. But he will struggle to claim to be
the chancellor (let alone the leader) of the party of aspiration if earnings
stagnate and unemployment steadily rises, as is widely forecast. Mr Osborne
acknowledges his original plan is off course, but he is counting on things
beginning to look up by the time of an election. Yesterday, however, the OECD
forecast a return to recession. To have any chance of surviving amid a sustained
slump, the coalition must cling on to its broader reputation for competence.

That is why the real damage of the past week is not the revelations about
dinners for donors (that is bad for politics, full stop), nor the foolish
sleight of hand with the granny tax, and certainly not the unsurprising
discovery that neither the prime minister nor the chancellor often eats pasties.
But what might come to be seen as a turning point in this parliament is that Mr
Osborne managed to construct a situation where ambient temperature related to
VAT liability. This is a damaging blunder for that most precious of assets for
any chancellor, capability in the job. Worse, the damage quickly spread. The
cabinet office minister Francis Maude advises voters to stockpile jerry cans of
petrol and, in the course of single interview, turns the potential problem of a
tanker drivers' strike at some future date into a full-blown panic before the
union and employers have even gathered at Acas - which they now appear set to do
on Monday. Then his advice is first contradicted and, soon after, rescinded,
only for new advice on filling up while petrol is still available to be issued.
This clumsy attempt to revive the brief Tory bounce of the 2000 petrol dispute
instead alienated Ukip-leaning support in the shires, the very folk who might
otherwise have been appeased by the one political success of the week, the
reworking of the new planning regime in a way that was cheered by both the
National Trust and the Federation of Master Builders.

Competence is what the coalition has had, so far, over Labour. Competence has
underpinned it, even after the original appeal to solidarity in the face of
austerity proved threadbare. In the polling records, the 10-point lead Labour
emerged with after the weekend is easily eclipsed by the midterm gloom of many
previous governments. What has always marked out the survivors is their ability
to hang on to their reputation for good management.

So far, the coalition has achieved that, and thrived even as the perception of
unfairness took hold. Now, as the parliament approaches its halfway mark,
competence will become even more central. Next week, Iain Duncan Smith's welfare
reforms start to bite. The health bill is now an act. Michael Gove's education
revolution is in play. The coalition can no longer make a pitch in terms of the
broad-brush rhetoric of reform; it must show a grasp of detail and delivery,
efficiency and good management. Competence matters. This past week may yet be
seen as the moment the wheels started to wobble.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 9:12 AM GMT

Respect celebrates while Labour reflects after shocking Bradford result;


BYLINE: Steve Anderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 681 words


George Galloway and the Respect Party were celebrating an astounding victory
this morning after taking the seat of Bradford West in a by-election last night,
beating Labour by over 10,000 votes.

Supporters mobbed the anti-war campaigner as he left the sports hall in West
Bradford where results were announced, causing him to initially retreat back
inside. Chants of "Respect" and "we love you George" greeted him as he
reappeared.

In what he described on stage as "the most sensational result in British
by-election history bar none" Mr Galloway received 55.89 per cent of the vote
with 18,341, compared to Labour's Imran Hussain, who won 8,201 votes - a 24.99
per cent share. Conservatives secured just 8.37 per cent, with 2,746 votes.

Labour were initial favourites in the contest, which was sparked by the health
problems and subsequent resignation of former Labour MP Marsha Singh, but by
yesterday many bookmakers were closing stopping bets due to a late flurry of
support for Mr Galloway.

A Labour source told the Press Association that Mr Galloway's victory over his
former party was down to such a "late surge" and that prior to this the contest
had been "neck and neck".

According to Ladbrokes, Mr Galloway's victory has sparked the biggest ever
bookies' by-election payout in history, with some punters cashing in bets of
£100,000 after beating odds of 33/1.

Voter turnout was higher than expected for such a by-election, with just over 50
per cent of the electorate making their way to polling stations.

In similar scenes to 2005's general election, when he dramatically swiped the
east London seat of Bethnal Green and Bow from Labour, Galloway targeted votes
from the large Asian community in Bradford West. However, he was also successful
in areas without large Asian populations.

Unlike in 2005, when Galloway said he only intended to serve one term, he said
he hopes to be MP for Bradford for the long term.

West Bradford has been a Labour stronghold since 1983, and the party secured an
increased majority of 5,763 in the seat in 2010, making this mid-term reverse
the first for an Opposition since May 2000 when the Liberal Democrats took
Romsey from the Tories.

After a week in which the Tories have come under fire for their handling of
'pasty tax' and fuel panics, Galloway's win is likely to shift some attention
back to Mr Miliband's party.

Mr Galloway told Sky News: "It is a very comprehensive defeat for New Labour, it
is a pathetic performance by the Government parties.

"The big three political parties have had a very salutary, unkind lesson this
evening and I hope that they all take note.

"The people of Bradford have spoken this evening for people in inner cities
everywhere in the United Kingdom."

Labour MP Toby Perkins called the result "desperately disappointing" and
attributed part of Mr Galloway's win to his celebrity status - he appeared on
Celebrity Big Brother in 2006. Mr Perkins did concede, however, that his party
had lessons to learn from the way in which Mr Galloway recaptured the mood of
the electorate, especially youths in the area.

He told the Press Association: "I think his celebrity was a very significant
factor. There was a great deal of people, who in this city, voted for the Labour
Party 18 months ago. A tiny number at that time were voting for Respect. Now
since then, we have seen the Labour Party get more popular in the national
polls, yet in the space of three weeks George Galloway was clearly able to
capture the mood, particularly of the younger voters.

""We need to learn from that. It's a desperately disappointing result for us.
Bradford is an important city for the party and it has come as a big shock the
way that things have changed over the past few weeks."

Bradford West by-election full results

George Galloway (Respect) 18,341 (55.89%, +52.83%)

Imran Hussain (Lab) 8,201 (24.99%, -20.36%)

Jackie Whiteley (C) 2,746 (8.37%, -22.78%)

Jeanette Sunderland (LD) 1,505 (4.59%, -7.08%)

Sonja McNally (UKIP) 1,085 (3.31%, +1.31%)

Dawud Islam (Green) 481 (1.47%, -0.85%)

Neil Craig (D Nats) 344 (1.05%)

Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 111 (0.34%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 7:42 AM GMT

Galloway claims stunning poll win;


BYLINE: Steve Anderson

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 645 words


George Galloway and the Respect Party were celebrating anastounding victory this
morning after taking the seat of Bradford West in aby-election last night,
beating Labour by over 10,000 votes.

Supporters mobbed the anti-war campaigner as he left thesports hall in West
Bradford where results were announced, causing him toinitially retreat back
inside. Chants of "Respect" and "we love you George"greeted him as he
reappeared.

In what he described on stage as "the mostsensational result in British
by-election history bar none" Mr Gallowayreceived 55.89 per cent of the vote
with 18,341, compared to Labour's ImranHussain, who won 8,201 votes - a 24.99
per cent share. Conservatives secured just8.37 per cent, with 2,746 votes.

Labour were initial favourites in the contest, which was sparkedby the health
problems and subsequent resignation of former Labour MP MarshaSingh, but by
yesterday many bookmakers were closing stopping bets due to a lateflurry of
support for Mr Galloway.

A Labour source told the Press Association that Mr Galloway'svictory over his
former party was down to such a "late surge" and that prior tothis the contest
had been "neck and neck".

Voter turnout was higher than expected for such aby-election, with just over 50
per cent of the electorate making their way topolling stations.

In similar scenes to 2005's general election, when hedramatically swiped the
east London seat of Bethnal Green and Bow from Labour, Gallowaytargeted votes
from the large Asian community in Bradford West. However, he wasalso successful
in areas without large Asian populations.

Unlike in 2005, when Galloway said he only intended to serveone term, he said he
hopes to be MP for Bradford for the long term.

West Bradford has been a Labour stronghold since 1983, andthe party secured an
increased majority of 5,763 in the seat in 2010, makingthis reverse the first
for an Opposition since May 2000 when the LiberalDemocrats took Romsey from the
Tories.

After a week in which the Tories have come under fire for their handling of
'pastytax' and fuel panics, Galloway's win is likely to shift some attention
back toMr Miliband's party.

Mr Galloway told Sky News: "It is a very comprehensive defeat for NewLabour, it
is a pathetic performance by the Government parties.

"The big three political parties have had a very salutary, unkindlesson this
evening and I hope that they all take note.

"The people of Bradford have spoken this evening for people in innercities
everywhere in the United Kingdom."

Labour MP Toby Perkins called the result "desperately disappointing" and
attributed part of Mr Galloway's win to his celebrity status - he appeared on
Celebrity Big Brother in 2006. Mr Perkins did concede, however, that his party
had lessons to learn from the way in which Mr Galloway recaptured the mood of
the electorate, especially youths in the area.

He told the Press Association: "I think his celebrity was a very significant
factor. There was a great deal of people, who in this city, voted for the Labour
Party 18 months ago. A tiny number at that time were voting for Respect. Now
since then, we have seen the Labour Party get more popular in the national
polls, yet in the space of three weeks George Galloway was clearly able to
capture the mood, particularly of the younger voters.

""We need to learn from that. It's a desperately disappointing result for us.
Bradford is an important city for the party and it has come as a big shock the
way that things have changed over the past few weeks."

Bradford West by-election full results

George Galloway (Respect) 18,341 (55.89%, +52.83%)

Imran Hussain (Lab) 8,201 (24.99%, -20.36%)

Jackie Whiteley (C) 2,746 (8.37%, -22.78%)

Jeanette Sunderland (LD) 1,505 (4.59%, -7.08%)

Sonja McNally (UKIP) 1,085 (3.31%, +1.31%)

Dawud Islam (Green) 481 (1.47%, -0.85%)

Neil Craig (D Nats) 344 (1.05%)

Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 111 (0.34%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 11:48 PM GMT

The week politics all but died of shame

BYLINE: MAX HASTINGS

LENGTH: 2036 words


Could there be any greater indictment of our political class than the election
of George Galloway? After a terrible week for all parties, this collapse in
trust between voters and MPs should terrify us all

George Galloway is the sort of politician who gives mavericks, exhibitionists
and charlatans a bad name.

In his years as a Labour and later independent MP, he was seldom out of trouble
about women, money and the means by which he got his hands on it, or his support
for off-the-wall causes and personalities, Iraq's Saddam Hussein foremost among
them.

When in 2010 he lost his battle for the Poplar and Limehouse seat after being
Respect MP for neighbouring Bethnal Green and Bow since 2005, the whole House of
Commons heaved a sigh of relief at witnessing an end to 23 years of
embarrassments 'Gorgeous George' had inflicted on the British body politic.

Yet today, heaven help us, he is back on the public payroll, strutting his stuff
as Respect MP for Bradford West, where he has achieved a stunning upset
by-election victory in a safe Labour seat.

What goes on? How is it possible for such a man with such a history to be given
a ticket to resume his half-comic, half-deplorable, entirely cringe-making
political career?

The immediate answer is that he fought Bradford West as standard-bearer for
British Muslims in a constituency with a large Muslim population. Next,
confidence in the Labour Party, usual holders of the Bradford seat, has hit rock
bottom.

Ed Miliband is regarded by most of his Shadow Cabinet colleagues, never mind
Labour voters at large, as less credible than a Greek economic bailout. Indeed,
you would find a lot more Labour voters willing to put their savings into
drachmas than to believe Miliband will ever be Prime Minister.

But beyond this partisan issue, almost everybody interested in British politics
agrees that there is a much more deeply-rooted malaise, afflicting every party
and indeed almost every institution in Britain.

There is a collapse of trust in those in charge, and especially in our
politicians, which should thoroughly alarm all who care about democracy.

Voters look at Westminster, and see government in the hands of people who seem
to care nothing about their opinions, their troubles, their hopes and fears.
They are wholly uninterested in representing their constituents' wishes and
hopes - only in their own advancement.

Government after government fails abysmally to address passionate public
sentiment about human rights legislation, unrestricted immigration, a justice
system that seems skewed in favour of offenders at the expense of their victims,
a financial services industry that enriches itself while impoverishing those who
trust their money to it, the ludicrous excesses of Health and Safety, and the
terrifying growth in youth unemployment.

The inadequacy of the Commons is embodied by its Speaker, John Bercow, a
vertically disadvantaged clown with an ego that makes George Galloway appear
modest. And MPs chose this man to be their figurehead.

The consequence is reflected in a YouGov poll months ago, which shows public
contempt for our politicians at rock bottom. Just 24 per cent of respondents
believe MPs are capable of 'debating issues of public concern in a sensible and
considered way'.

Worse, only 15 per cent see Parliament as 'representing the interests and wishes
of people like me'. Barely one-tenth of voters (12 per cent) think our
politicians capable of understanding their own daily lives. They believe the
Commons fails to hold ministers to account.

Peter Kellner, of YouGov, says of the poll: 'What emerges is a picture of
massive discontent that goes far beyond a dislike of particular politicians,
parties and policies. This is very dangerous for our system.'

The poll shows that a majority of voters think Britain's political system is now
'fundamentally flawed'.

Italy and Greece have responded to their economic catastrophes by summarily
nominating technocrats to govern them - people who are thought capable of
getting things done which elected party leaders cannot.

A large proportion of British voters quizzed in the YouGov poll - 38 per cent -
thought that if the same happened here, it would be a jolly good thing, with
ministers replaced by 'non-political experts who know how to run large
organisations'.

I do not myself agree with that particular proposition. But we should be shocked
that so many British voters support it.

Here is an illustration of the huge disillusionment which enabled George
Galloway to get elected on Thursday. A lot of voters in Bradford West thought:
'He's not one of them' - meaning the Westminster establishment. 'He might just
be one of us.'

Consider London's current mayoral election campaign. The two rival candidates
have much in common: Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone are both outsiders,
feared and mistrusted by their party hierarchies. Both are egomaniacs,
concealing ruthless ambition beneath rival barrages of wisecracks.

Boris Johnson today appears much preferable as Mayor of London, especially after
Ken Livingstone's alleged run-in with Jewish voters.

But my point here is that the public respond to both men because they are
'cheeky chappies' who profess to treat politics as a bit of a lark. I complained
to a friend of mine that although I am in no doubt Boris is very clever, I
cannot regard him as a serious person.

My friend responded: 'But don't you see - that's why so many people, and
especially the young, adore him. It's because he's funny and makes a giggle of
government and sticks it up Cameron that he is the most popular Tory in
Britain.'

My friend is almost certainly right. It is widely said at Westminster that
nobody is more fearful of Boris failing to get  re-elected as London's Mayor
than David Cameron. If Johnson finds himself out of a job, he will snatch a safe
Tory seat within six months, and be back in the Commons.

Even if he cannot immediately wrest the premiership from Cameron, he will become
the rallying figure for all the Tory disaffected.

It is not just Galloway, Livingstone, Johnson and the man in a monkey costume
elected mayor of Hartlepool a few years back: everywhere on the political
fringes we see outsiders prospering in public regard.

UKIP and the British National Party command steady - mercifully modest - support
among voters alienated by the coalition Government's indifference to their
passionately-held views, some of which deserve more respect from ministers than
they get, notably on Europe and immigration.

And in Scotland, nothing seems impossible for that supremely wily nationalist
Alex Salmond. He could well lead his country to independence, because of Scots'
deep disgust with the corruption and inadequacy of the Labour Party north of the
border, which in the past has been most Scots' natural political home.

In fairness to our own politicians, none of this represents an exclusively
British phenomenon. The rise of the Tea Party in the United States reflects a
tide of popular disgust with the Washington establishment. The French
presidential contest between President Sarkozy and his socialist rival Francois
Hollande suggests a death grapple between midgets. A couple of weeks ago, I
attended an Anglo-German conference about Europe. The German delegates, many of
whom were elected members of the Bundestag or European parliament, expressed
near-unanimity that political integration is the only way forward for the EU;
that the debt crisis is almost solved; and that German taxpayers are happy to
bail out southern Europe.

Almost any German man-in-the-street would howl in outrage about most or all of
such views, but the country's political class is a law unto itself. It is not
that the politicians are stupid people - far from it - but that they inhabit a
different universe from ordinary voters who passionately and justly resent the
notion that, having worked hard all their lives, they must now see their money
squandered on futile efforts to keep Greece and its neighbours afloat in the
eurozone.

The least bad thing we can say about our own political system is that other
nations are being governed equally badly. But for most of us, that knowledge is
not enough to stifle frustration and anger. For centuries, we have cherished
pride in our politics. The Westminster brand of democracy has been admired and
emulated all over the world - as the American system never has been.

Yet now, Britain's parliament has become a chronically sick institution. I have
a smidgin of sympathy for the Coalition Government, which must sell the
inescapably unwelcome message to voters that the long Labour spending party is
over; that in future almost all of us will have less of things - and especially
state-provided things - than we have had in the past.

But the huge issue which politicians can and must address is loss of trust in
themselves, individually and collectively.

It was utterly trivial that David Cameron claimed to have bought a pasty at a
place and time which a cursory check showed to have been impossible (because the
shop had closed five years ago); but the revelation of his tiny fib dealt a
telling blow to his image as a man to believe.

No Chancellor of Exchequer remains popular for long, and George Osborne has been
justly praised for showing himself willing to do unpopular things to reduce the
appalling national debt. But his Budget last week was disastrous political
theatre - and theatre is what Budgets are about - because it appeared to punish
the deserving and profit the undeserving.

Disraeli made a politician in one of his novels say: 'All power is a trust. We
are accountable for its exercise - that, from the people and for the people, all
springs.' I am naïve enough to admit, as perhaps some readers will do also, that
I really try to trust our leaders.

I hoped for the best from John Major, and even supported his protestations that
the Maastricht Treaty was harmless for Britain.

I hoped and even believed for a time that Tony Blair was something new - a
sincere Prime Minister. I refused at first to join the onslaught on Gordon
Brown's premiership, clinging to pathetic hopes that he might not be as
psychologically unsuited as he proved. I greeted David Cameron's ascent to power
with enthusiasm, and hoped for the best from his coalition.

I am unashamed of any of this, because people in my trade are often and justly
accused of being down on everybody. But today, it is very hard to resist joining
the exclamations of bewilderment and dismay at the conduct of our  Government in
recent weeks.

The Budget, the latest political donor scandal, a minister's crass jerry-can
advice, combine to create an overriding sense of incompetence and shoddiness.

One insider remarked to me yesterday that scarcely one LibDem minister is fit
for any government office, from the absurd Nick Clegg to Danny Alexander the
Treasury Chief Secretary, who learned how to run our affairs as public relations
officer for the Cairngorms National Park.

Matters are no better on the other side of the House: it is a scandal that the
Labour Party should depend for major funding on the Unite union, which is
supporting £45,000-a-year petrol tanker drivers in threatening strike action.

The chief reason Cameron's Downing Street is not today collapsing into panic is
that its occupants know that voters would rather trust George Galloway to run
the country than Ed Miliband.

There is no hope for our political system until our MPs of all parties
acknowledge the depth of the country's sense of betrayal at their hands. Until
they can learn to tell the truth - whether about pensions, donations, energy
policy or pasties, the compact between the rulers and ruled will never be
repaired.

This week's West Bradford by-election result should be a wake-up call to every
MP in the Commons. But it is hard be optimistic it will prove so.

The worst of it all is our fear that our politicians are doing the best they are
capable of. We are now governed by men and women whose almost uniform
characteristic, across the parties, is that too many of them have never held a
real job or participated in real life.

They play fantasy football with us all, because it is the only game they know.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 10:11 PM GMT

Respect? You're joking! Galloway's gets egged as he goes on triumphant open top
bus tour of Bradford after his election win

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV, SUZANNAH HILLS and MARTIN ROBINSON

LENGTH: 4132 words



     ·    Protester Thomas Johnson hurls up to a dozen eggs at Mr Galloway while
          shouting insults
     ·    The Respect founder secured 18,341 votes - a majority of 10,140
     ·    The Labour party was knocked into second place with just 8,201 votes
     ·    Bookies slash odds of Ed Miliband being sacked as leader after the
          embarrassing loss
     ·    'I'm going back to the constituency to talk to people there about why
          this result happened,' the under pressure leader said this morning
     ·    Deputy leader Harriet Harman admits Labour has failed to connect with
          people in Bradford
     ·    Result is so bad for the Lib Dems they lose their election deposit


George Galloway's triumphal open bus tour to celebrate his landslide by-election
win in Bradford West has been disrupted today after he was attacked with eggs.

Lone protester Thomas Johnson, 26, who lives in the city, yelled out that Mr
Galloway was a 'parasite' as he pelted the Respect MP as he left his campaign
headquarters.

Mr Galloway said it was too early for protests as Johnson shouted: 'He's a
sycophant, he's a greedy leech, he's a parasite on this city.'

Eggs exploded on the windows of the Chambers Solicitors office, where the
campaign was based, and showered those standing below with yolks, egg whites and
fragments of shell.

When asked why he was protesting, Mr Johnson shouted: 'Why would any city want a
politician that got kicked out of two constituencies? Who hasn't got the common
sense not to act like a submissive cat on television?'

He added: 'I wanted to insult him.'

The attack happened as the MP left his party's west Bradford headquarters and
prepared to board his open-top bus.

Mr Galloway said the eggs had not hit him and said it would not tarnish his huge
win.

'He wasn't very good,' he said, adding, 'Was he protesting? Against me? The man
who got chosen by 56% of the people yesterday?

'I've only just been elected. Unless he was protesting against the democratic
process of the election.'

George Galloway's victory delivered a humiliating blow to Labour by snatching
the Bradford West seat that the party had held for nearly four decades.

He scored a dramatic victory with a 10,000-plus majority in what he called a
'massive rejection' of mainstream parties.

Respect swept from fifth place at the 2010 general election to a commanding
victory for the ex-Labour anti-war campaigner against his former party on a
swing of 36.59 per cent.

And Labour has this morning started an urgent inquest into Mr Galloway's
sensational victory, which has left Ed Miliband reeling.

Bookies have now cut the odds on him not leading the party at the next General
Election from 5/2 to 9/4 with William Hill saying the result was 'potentially a
disaster for Labour.'

The defeat is a major disappointment for the Opposition leader, who has failed
to fully capitalise on what has been a shambolic week for his coalition foes.

The Government's handling of the budget and the potential fuel strike has sent
their popularity sharply downwards but Labour still failed to win.

Ed Miliband pledged today to learn lessons from Labour's shock by-election loss,
which has raised questions about his future.

'It was an incredibly disappointing result for Labour in Bradford West and I am
determined that we learn lessons of what happened,' he said.

'I'm going to lead that. I'm going to be going back to the constituency in the
coming weeks to talk to people there about why this result happened.

'Clearly there were local factors, but I also say only four out of 10 people
voted for the three mainstream political parties.

'We've got to understand the reasons why that happened in Bradford.

'Above all it reinforces for me something that I've emphasised throughout my
leadership which is that we need to be engaged and rooted in every community of
this country.

'We need to show to people that our politics, that Labour politics, can make a
difference to people's lives.'

Scroll down to see interviews with George Galloway and Ed Miliband

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls took to the airwaves to defend his leader, claiming
the party was 'winning back our heartland voters'.

Mr Balls took part in a phone-in on BBC Radio Leeds where a caller named Jamie
accused Labour of fielding an Asian candidate to appeal to Asian voters, saying:
'People see through that now.

'You have to put good candidates up if you want to get votes.

'You can't just rely on putting a Pakistani candidate up, thinking you're going
to get all the votes.'

But Mr Balls said Mr Husain was chosen through a proper selection process,
adding: 'The reality is he lost, George Galloway won and we are a democracy and
in politics the voters choose.'

Labour was predicted to hold on to the contest, sparked by the resignation due
to ill-health of Marsha Singh.

Turnout in the poll was just over 50% - considered high for such an election,
especially in an urban area.

George Galloway said he was not surprised he had won as he arrived at his
party's headquarters to cheers and applause today.

Speaking outside Chambers Solicitors, in Bradford, where the Respect Party based
its campaign, Mr Galloway said the win meant 'the world' to him.

And he promised to provide his constituency with 'a strong voice and a change'.

Wearing a long coat and sunglasses, Mr Galloway said voters wanted someone who
would follow through on their promises.

Speaking ahead of a celebratory open-top bus tour around his new constituency,
he said: 'I think Bradford needs a change. Anybody who knows the city and loves
it knows it's not what it was.'

He added: 'This is the Bradford Spring, just like the Cairo Spring and the
Tunisian Spring.

'This is a rejection of the mainstream parties with their Tweedledee,
Tweedledum, Tweedledee-and-a-half approach.

'It was people saying they want political leaders they can believe in, who say
what they mean, do what they say and don't lie to people.

'We don't say one thing to one set of people and something else to another.
Neither do we say one thing before an election and something different after.'

Describing his reaction to his victory, Mr Galloway said: 'I was maybe the only
person in the country who wasn't surprised.

'If I believed in gambling, which I don't, I could have made myself a half a
millionaire. When I arrived here, I was 200-1.'

Speaking to the Sky News Boulton & Co programme this lunchtime, Mr Galloway
denied exploiting ethnic tensions to boost his electoral prospects and that
warned Labour had been the biggest loser of the campaign.

'I think there is a tidal wave waiting to break across many parts of the country
and last night it broke in Bradford. It's a wave of alienation towards the
mainstream political parties and their leaders,' he said.

'People have dropped out of politics, people have become anti-politics - but if
a politician is believed... people don't have to agree with me but I think most
people believe I believe what I believe. I'm not saying it for effect.

'Undoubtedly the Labour Party (should be most worried). This kind of thing can
happen and we intend to try and make it happen in the local elections in just
five weeks' time where we will be fielding candidates in every seat in this city
and other cities in this region.

'I'm afraid this Labour leadership and the policies they annunciate - their
continued support for the war in Afghanistan and so on - they are not capable of
mobilising people whose fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers,
supported Labour loyally for the best part of 100 years.'

Asked about a letter addressed to the Muslim community during the campaign, and
pressed if he is himself a Muslim, Mr Galloway said: 'That letter is a response
to the campaign of Labour which consisted of a claim that people should vote for
him because he was a Pakistani Muslim.

'I challenged not just his credentials as a Pakistani and as a Muslim but the
efficacy of the deputy leader of Bradford City Council introducing such a pitch
into an election campaign in a city like this in the first place.

'I would never have brought anyone's religion into the campaign, still less the
fact I don't approve of alcohol or gambling, but I was responding to their
campaign.'

And he added later: 'There were no Asian voters in the election yesterday. There
were British voters who have suntans like you (Adam Boulton) and I aspire to
every summer. That's all.

Mr Galloway urged a withdrawal from Afghanistan, claiming that the six soldiers
who died in a single incident earlier this month had been killed 'pointlessly'.

He said: 'Most people agree with me, those six soldiers, five of them aged under
21, who came back stiff and cold in boxes to Yorkshire... they died in vain.
Their deaths were, I'm sorry to say, pointless.

'The war will end on the same terms it could have last week or last year or any
year in the last 10 years.

'We don't have the blood to spare and we certainly don't have the treasure to
spare in Britain to be going around the world occupying other people's countries
and having our young men coming home in boxes.'

Last night Mr Galloway tweeted: 'By the Grace of God we have won the most
sensational victory in British political history.'

After securing his victory, he said: 'It is a very comprehensive defeat for new
Labour. It's a miserable, pathetic performance by the Government and the
parties. The big three political parties have had a very salutary, unkind lesson
this evening and I hope that they all take note.

'The people of Bradford have spoken this evening for people in inner cities
everywhere in the United Kingdom.'

Labour is thought to have suffered the biggest ever swing against it with Mr
Galloway's Respect party coming back from fifth place in the last general
election.

Labour's deputy leader Harriet Harman said this morning: 'It is a very bad
result, there's no denying it.'

But she told Sky News: 'I don't think it's true to say this is a case of us
taking a constituency for granted, that's not what happened here.

'I think we are going to have to learn lessons. We are going to have to have
very, very thorough discussions with all the local Labour people and the local
community up in Bradford so we can learn lessons and we have to rebuild from
here.'

Ms Harman later told BBC Radio 4's Today: 'There were twice as many people who
voted for Respect as voted for Labour. People who a week ago said they would
support us but when it came to the vote they voted for Respect.

'There is a particular problem in Bradford. I don't think we can jump to any
conclusions. It was a last minute phenomenon I think. We have got to discuss it
with people locally and rebuild those strong underlying links in Bradford.

'I think we have got to have a proper inquiry into it [why they lost].

'I do not think there is a more widespread problem.  I am not minimising the
problem, it is very disappointing.

'We are changing the party and one of the things we are really thinking about is
how we engage with people in a really substantial, meaningful way and really
listen to them.

BOOKIES LOSE OUT IN GALLOWAY ROUT

George Galloway's unlikely victory has sparked the biggest ever bookies'
by-election payout in history, a leading firm said today.

Ladbrokes said punters were walking away with up to £100,000 after the new
Respect MP beat odds of up 33/1.

Mr Galloway ripped up the form book as the Labour candidate went down to a heavy
loss - despite being quoted as the heavy 1/50 favourite by the firm at the
outset of the campaign.

Alex Donohue, of Ladbrokes, said: 'Galloway has hit us for six. His supporters
have pulled off a political gamble of epic proportions.

'We naively assumed the money at big prices was an attempt to slash the odds for
the campaign. We couldn't have been more wrong.'

Mr Galloway's odds were brought in over the course of the campaign, rating 20/1,
10/1 and then 5/1. Betting was briefly suspended as money piled on the Respect
campaign.

Ladbrokes said it was not offering 'specials' on Mr Galloway - including 25/1 he
does a cat impression as the Bradford West MP in Parliament, a reference to his
appearance on Celebrity Big Brother in 2006.

'Obviously our relationship with people in Bradford was not sufficiently strong
that it was unable to withstand the George Galloway/Respect bandwagon, and we
have to understand that.'

Labour health spokeswoman Diane Abbott suggested that Mr Galloway was helped by
Westminster's concentration on peripheral issues like the imposition of VAT on
hot takeaway food.

'Most Labour people hate Galloway so much they completely underestimate him. He
knows how to campaign on the ground,' she said.

'Galloway understands that, outside Westminster bubble, there are those for whom
Iraq war remains unforgotten and unforgiven.

'Westminster was wittering on about pasty tax. Meanwhile, back in the real
world, George Galloway was going door to door in Bradford.'

Mr Galloway said it was 'the most sensational result in British by-election
history bar none' after being declared the victor with well over half the total
votes.

He secured a total of 18,341 votes - easily knocking Labour into second place
with just 8,201.

The Conservatives took third place after a disastrous week for the Government
with 2,746 votes, followed by the Liberal Democrats with just 1.505, and other
candidates jointly taking 2,021 ballots.

The Lib Dem result was so poor they lost their election deposit.

The Tories have used the result to attack Labour,

Party chairman Baroness Warsi said: 'If Labour can't win one of their safe seats
in these tough economic times and in a tough week for the Government, how can
they win anywhere?

'Not in half a century has an Opposition come back from such an appalling result
to win a majority at the next general election.

'This tells you everything you need to know about Ed Miliband's weak
leadership.'

A slump in the Tory vote, and an increase in support for the anti-EU UK
Independence Party, appeared to have helped hand the maverick politician
victory. But the focus will be on Mr Miliband and questions about his fitness to
lead his party.

He will now face an anxious period as he waits to see whether the crushing
result helps fuel another leadership crisis.

THE MANY ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF 'GORGEOUS' GEORGE

'Gorgeous' George Galloway's victory in Bradford West is the latest chapter in
the career of one of the country's most controversial politicians.

Mr Galloway was born on August 16 1954 in, to use his own words, 'an attic in a
slum tenement in the Irish quarter of Dundee which is known as Tipperary'.

In 1977, he was appointed a Labour Party organiser and at the age of 26 he
became chairman of the Scottish Labour Party, one of the youngest in history.

Mr Galloway won Glasgow Hillhead - ousting one of the new Social Democrat
Party's Gang of Four Roy Jenkins - in 1987 but faced an almost immediate
scandal.

He was asked about a conference in Mykonos in Greece and replied: 'I travelled
and spent lots of time with people in Greece, many of whom were women, some of
whom were known carnally to me. I actually had sexual intercourse with some of
the people in Greece.'

The story was splashed all over the front pages and earned him the moniker
'Gorgeous George'.

The executive committee of his local party passed a vote of no confidence in him
in February 1988 and he only narrowly survived to win reselection the following
year.

In 1994, Mr Galloway caused outrage when he was filmed telling Saddam Hussein:
'Sir, I salute your courage, your strength, your indefatigability.' He claimed
that the praise was intended for the Iraqi people collectively.

His contacts with Saddam Hussein, which earned him the nickname 'the honourable
member for Baghdad Central', was a constant source of embarrassment for Labour.

After publicly accusing Tony Blair and President George W Bush of acting 'like
wolves' in invading Iraq, Mr Galloway was expelled from the party in 2003.

He then founded the Respect party and won the former Labour stronghold of
Bethnal Green and Bow in London's East End, another constituency with a high
Muslim population, in 2005.

He achieved notoriety for his conduct in the the Celebrity Big Brother house in
2006, where he demonstrated his ability to change from a roaring political tiger
to timid domestic cat, by pretending to purr and lick cream from actress Rula
Lenska's hands on the show.

But in the following general election of 2010 he failed to win the seat of
Poplar and Limehouse.

In 2011 he said he might end his political career in Scotland if he secured a
seat in that year's Scottish Parliament election. But his bid failed, leading
him to Bradford.

His notoriety brought him to the attention of the tabloids and earlier this year
he accepted £25,000 in damages from News Group Newspapers after it admitted that
private investigator Glenn Mulcaire intercepted messages left on his mobile
phone.

Respect leader Salma Yaqoob said the victory of Mr Galloway reflected people's
desire for an alternative to the Government's 'ideological' cuts.

She said: 'I think this has been a resounding rejection of the politics of
austerity and the policies the mainstream parties are offering.

'The Conservatives are aligned with the Lib Dems saying austerity is the only
way and Labour have also bought into that, saying austerity-light.

'There is an alternative. If President Obama in America can say investment, not
cuts, then surely in Britain we can follow. The economy in America is picking
up, so it is a lie - the Westminster bubble lies there is not an alternative.

'If this Government can say to the richest people at this time "we are now going
to reduce your taxes"

'it's not about austerity, it's about a political ideology which favours the few
and makes the rest of us pay.'

Ms Yaqoob said places like Bradford needed investment from the Government and
said Mr Galloway would fight for the city.

She said: 'George is a huge personality, he has fantastic charisma but it is
because he encapsulates those values. Values that people hold in their heart,
wanting someone to represent them.

'When George came along and people know he has got that voice, speaks plainly,
speaks the truth - he is uncompromising in that.'

Asked about Mr Galloway's voting record in Parliament the last time he was an
MP, Ms Yaqoob added: 'The people of Tower Hamlets resoundingly have supported
George Galloway. He was a constituency MP who championed the local issues and
put Tower Hamlets on the map.'

Activists were last night aghast at the prospect of failing to hold on to a seat
following one of the worst weeks to date for the Tory-led coalition government.

Mid-term is normally the most difficult period for governing parties, and an
opposition on course for victory would be expected to snatch safe seats from
other parties, let alone hold its own.

Mr Miliband visited the constituency once during the contest: party leaders
traditionally steer clear of by election contests for fear of jinxing them.

BY-ELECTION BREAKDOWN


     ·    George Galloway, with the Respect party, won an overwhelming majority
          with 18,341 votes - 55.89 per cent - and a majority of 10,140 ballots.
     ·    Labour's Imran Hussain, who went into the by-election as a firm
          favourite, secured just 8,201 - 24.99 per cent.
     ·    While the Conservatives' Jackie Whiteley came in third as predicted
          with 2,746, just 8.37 per cent of the vote.
     ·    Jeanette Sunderland, of the Liberal Democrats, came in fourth with
          1,505 (4.59 per cent).
     ·    UKIP's Sonja McNally closely followed in fifth place with 1,085 - 3.31
          per cent of the vote.
     ·    Dawud Islam, of the Green party, received 481 votes - 1.47 per cent.
     ·    The Democratic Nationalist party's Neil Craig took 344 votes - 1.05
          per cent  - while Howling Laud Hope, of the Loony party received 111 -
          just 0.34 per cent


Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, secured his shock victory by courting the
constituency's large Muslim population. It is understood that young Muslim women
voters in particular had backed him.

At one point he threatened to sue Labour for libel over allegedly defamatory
material.

The Scottish-born Roman Catholic was himself accused of resorting to desperate
measures after issuing a letter calling for Muslims to vote for him because he
had never consumed alcohol and had always fought for Muslims at home and abroad.

Using his typically, dramatic prose, Mr Galloway wrote: 'I, George Galloway have
fought for Muslims at home and abroad, all of my life.'

The letter also said: 'I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and never have.'

Earlier this week he predicted that support for him had blossomed like
'daffodils in spring'.

Labour had criticised Mr Galloway for parachuting into the northern constituency
from London for a few weeks.

But he hit back, saying it was an advantage not to be a local politician in an
area which had suffered such severe economic decline under successive
governments.

'The city centre is filled with pound shops, pawn shops and payday loan shops,'
he said. 'There is mass unemployment. Somebody coming from outside and offering
a new start is an electoral plus.'

Mr Galloway joined the anti-war Respect Party after being expelled from Labour
in 2003.

He beat Labour candidate Oona King for the Bethnal Green and Bow seat in East
London in the 2005 general election after wooing the Bangledeshi community but
made a failed attempt to win a neighbouring seat in the capital in 2010.

Mr Galloway has long been a controversial figure. He paid tribute to the late
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, telling him: 'Sir, I salute your courage, your
strength, your indefatigability.'

Despite a scrape with the Charity Commission over a fund he ran called the
Miriam Appeal and a humiliating, Lycra-clad appearance on Celebrity Big Brother
in which he pretended to be a cat, Mr Galloway has again defied his critics.

The final result for Bradford West was announced at around 2.30am this morning.

Mr Galloway will take over from Labour MP Marsha Singh who retired because of
ill health.

The coalition parties expected dismal results, with the Tories bracing
themselves for third place after the fuel fiasco, panic over pasties and granny
tax in the budget.

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats' best hopes were for an embarrassing fourth
place.

AS GALLOWAY CLAIMS THE 'MOST SENSATIONAL IN BRITISH POLITICAL HISTORY', HERE ARE
SOME OTHER NOTABLE BY-ELECTION SHOCKS:

1966: Gwynfor Evans gave Plaid Cymru its first seat when he took Carmarthen from
Labour on an 18 per cent swing.

1968: Tories chalked up a 21.1 per cent swing to take Dudley on March 28 from
Labour as well as marginal Meriden and Acton. This was possibly the first time
in history that a party lost three seats at by-elections on the same day.

1969: Liberals captured Ladywood, their first Birmingham seat for 83 years, from
Labour on a 32 per cent swing.

1977: The Conservatives toppled Labour in its Ashfield mining stronghold on a
20.8 per cent swing.

1983: Liberal Simon Hughes gained the highest swing since the Second Word War -
44.2 per cent - when he won Bermondsey from Labour.

1989: Labour's John Smith took the Vale of Glamorgan from the Tories on a 12.4
per cent switch - giving the party its most dramatic by-election win for more
than half a century.

1993: The first by-election of the new parliament saw Liberal Democrats capture
Newbury from Tories with 22,055 majority on a 28.4 per cent swing. This was
followed by the Christchurch contest which brought the biggest recorded swing
against a Government - 35.4 per cent from Conservative to Liberal Democrats.

1997: With the General Election barely two months away, Conservatives lost to
Labour at Wirral South on a 17.2 per cent swing. Tories failed to win a single
by-election between William Hague's victory at Richmond, Yorks, in 1989 and
their success in the first contest of the new 1997 Parliament at Uxbridge.

2003: Labour suffered its first Commons by-election loss since it returned to
power in 1997 when Liberal Democrats snatched Brent East, north London on a 29
per cent swing.

2009: Tory Chloe Smith became the youngest MP when she snatched Norwich North
from Labour on a 16.5 per cent swing.

VIDEO: Polls apart. Both Labour leader Ed Miliband and Respect leader Salma
Yaqoob admit the result was a surprise

[item name=video id=17963 style=2 /]

VIDEO: It's a Bradford Spring claims new Bradford West MP George Galloway

[item name=video id=17965 style=2 /]

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 5:27 PM GMT

Mr Galloway beat his ex party New Labour to take Bradford West - but is this
really a victory for Old Labour?

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

LENGTH: 525 words


Politics work differently in West Yorkshire.

I stood there as a Conservative Parliamentary candidate in 2010. The Muslim vote
is very loyal to Labour. I know my messages resonated with many Muslim voters
but scaremongering at the last minute with Labour rattled, my Muslim Labour
switch vote changed at the polling stations.

Labour's henchmen were touring the polling stations saying, 'If you vote for
that woman then that lets in the BNP'. That's scaremongering but that's
politics.

The BNP would not have gained a seat but that type of politics, along with the
Conservative party refusing to talk about immigration, gained the BNP 4,500
votes. I would say New Labour met its match in tactics from George.

Harriet Harman admitted that her party's awful result was particular to
Bradford. Decoding the rhetoric, what she means is that the Labour party had
worked the area well but their usual tactics did not work. What she also means
without actually saying it is that the Muslim vote avalanched away from Labour
to George.

I understand from the UKIP team - who, along with Respect - were the only party
to increase their support, that the George affect was quite a phenomenon.

He hit the town in a rather messianic way. The first week's message was vote
Respect. That quickly changed to vote for George. He had ad vans, a stretch
limo, an open top bus, loud speakers - politics as it used to be.

He didn't offer anything other than promising to represent them in Parliament
but his anti-establishment message works. He's a great campaigner, charismatic
and an excellent speaker. Perhaps the other parties need to heed the message
here, don't select boring apparatchik party clones - Ed Miliband springs to
mind.

One MP said this morning that Westminster had been concentrating on peripheral
issues such as pasty taxes and the fuel debacle. She is right.  This played into
George's hands. The refusal of Miliband to condemn the fuel tankers' strike and
the Conservative toffs using language such as Jerry cans, supper and sending out
confusing messages from Number 10 on whether we should be stock-piling fuel is a
joke. This is Captain Mainwaring politics and this played into Galloway's hands.

And what of the Conservatives? They were hardly seen on the streets and they
have a fully staffed Yorkshire HQ. Labour and others report only seeing a
handful of them out. Their party chairman, Sayeeda Warsi, was on the radio this
morning being quizzed about their result.

She couldn't even remember the percentage they lost by, being reminded by the
interviewer. This is her heartland, this is where she grew up and still lives.
Poor result Ms Warsi for you personally and your party.

We live in a democracy but I worry about Respect getting a hold back in
Parliament. George's party leader, Salma Yaqoob, was interviewed this morning on
the Today programme. She was quizzed on her alleged support for Respect's call
to attack British and NATO soldiers in Afghanistan. She was repeatedly asked to
deny the accusation and she failed. Are these the type of people we want in
politics? It will certainly be more colourful on the floor of the House next
week.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 10:42 AM GMT

'We have won the most sensational victory': George Galloway secures landslide in
Bradford West by-election as Labour admits they didn't see shock defeat coming

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV, SUZANNAH HILLS and MARTIN ROBINSON

LENGTH: 2773 words



     ·    The Respect founder secured 18,341 votes - a majority of 10,140
     ·    The Labour party was knocked into second place with just 8,201 votes
     ·    Bookies slash odds of Ed Miliband being sacked as leader after the
          embarrassing loss
     ·    Deputy leader Harriet Harman admits Labour has failed to connect with
          people in Bradford
     ·    Shock win means punters walk away with up to £100,000 in the biggest
          ever bookies' by-election payout in history
     ·    Result is so bad for the Lib Dems they lose their election deposit


George Galloway has delivered a humiliating blow to Labour by snatching the
Bradford West seat that the party had held for nearly four decades.

He scored a dramatic victory with a 10,000-plus majority in what he called a
'massive rejection' of mainstream parties.

Respect swept from fifth place at the 2010 general election to a commanding
victory for the ex-Labour anti-war campaigner against his former party on a
swing of 36.59 per cent.

And Labour has this morning started an urgent inquest into Mr Galloway's
sensational victory, which has left Ed Miliband reeling.

Bookies have now cut the odds on him not leading the party at the next General
Election from 5/2 to 9/4 with William Hill saying the result was 'potentially a
disaster for Labour.'

The defeat is a major disappointment for the Opposition leader, who has failed
to fully capitalise on what has been a shambolic week for his coalition foes.

The Government's handling of the budget and the potential fuel strike has sent
their popularity sharply downwards but Labour still failed to win.

Labour's deputy leader Harriet Harman said this morning: 'It is a very bad
result, there's no denying it.'

But she told Sky News: 'I don't think it's true to say this is a case of us
taking a constituency for granted, that's not what happened here.

'I think we are going to have to learn lessons. We are going to have to have
very, very thorough discussions with all the local Labour people and the local
community up in Bradford so we can learn lessons and we have to rebuild from
here.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Ms Harman later told BBC Radio 4's Today: 'There were twice as many people who
voted for Respect as voted for Labour. People who a week ago said they would
support us but when it came to the vote they voted for Respect.

'There is a particular problem in Bradford. I don't think we can jump to any
conclusions. It was a last minute phenomenon I think. We have got to discuss it
with people locally and rebuild those strong underlying links in Bradford.

'I think we have got to have a proper inquiry into it [why they lost].

'I do not think there is a more widespread problem.  I am not minimising the
problem, it is very disappointing.

'We are changing the party and one of the things we are really thinking about is
how we engage with people in a really substantial, meaningful way and really
listen to them.

BOOKIES LOSE OUT IN GALLOWAY ROUT

George Galloway's unlikely victory has sparked the biggest ever bookies'
by-election payout in history, a leading firm said today.

Ladbrokes said punters were walking away with up to £100,000 after the new
Respect MP beat odds of up 33/1.

Mr Galloway ripped up the form book as the Labour candidate went down to a heavy
loss - despite being quoted as the heavy 1/50 favourite by the firm at the
outset of the campaign.

Alex Donohue, of Ladbrokes, said: 'Galloway has hit us for six. His supporters
have pulled off a political gamble of epic proportions.

'We naively assumed the money at big prices was an attempt to slash the odds for
the campaign. We couldn't have been more wrong.'

Mr Galloway's odds were brought in over the course of the campaign, rating 20/1,
10/1 and then 5/1. Betting was briefly suspended as money piled on the Respect
campaign.

Ladbrokes said it was not offering 'specials' on Mr Galloway - including 25/1 he
does a cat impression as the Bradford West MP in Parliament, a reference to his
appearance on Celebrity Big Brother in 2006.

'Obviously our relationship with people in Bradford was not sufficiently strong
that it was unable to withstand the George Galloway/Respect bandwagon, and we
have to understand that.'

Labour health spokeswoman Diane Abbott suggested that Mr Galloway was helped by
Westminster's concentration on peripheral issues like the imposition of VAT on
hot takeaway food.

'Most Labour people hate Galloway so much they completely underestimate him. He
knows how to campaign on the ground,' she said.

'Galloway understands that, outside Westminster bubble, there are those for whom
Iraq war remains unforgotten and unforgiven.

'Westminster was wittering on about pasty tax. Meanwhile, back in the real
world, George Galloway was going door to door in Bradford.'

Mr Galloway said it was 'the most sensational result in British by-election
history bar none' after being declared the victor with well over half the total
votes.

He secured a total of 18,341 votes - easily knocking Labour into second place
with just 8,201.

The Conservatives took third place after a disastrous week for the Government
with 2,746 votes, followed by the Liberal Democrats with just 1.505, and other
candidates jointly taking 2,021 ballots.

The Lib Dem result was so poor they lost their election deposit.

Last night Mr Galloway tweeted: 'By the Grace of God we have won the most
sensational victory in British political history.'

After securing his victory, he said: 'It is a very comprehensive defeat for new
Labour. It's a miserable, pathetic performance by the Government and the
parties. The big three political parties have had a very salutary, unkind lesson
this evening and I hope that they all take note.

'The people of Bradford have spoken this evening for people in inner cities
everywhere in the United Kingdom.'

Labour is thought to have suffered the biggest ever swing against it with Mr
Galloway's Respect party coming back from fifth place in the last general
election.

A slump in the Tory vote, and an increase in support for the anti-EU UK
Independence Party, appeared to have helped hand the maverick politician
victory. But the focus will be on Mr Miliband and questions about his fitness to
lead his party.

He will now face an anxious period as he waits to see whether the crushing
result helps fuel another leadership crisis.

THE MANY ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF 'GORGEOUS' GEORGE

'Gorgeous' George Galloway's victory in Bradford West is the latest chapter in
the career of one of the country's most controversial politicians.

Mr Galloway was born on August 16 1954 in, to use his own words, 'an attic in a
slum tenement in the Irish quarter of Dundee which is known as Tipperary'.

In 1977, he was appointed a Labour Party organiser and at the age of 26 he
became chairman of the Scottish Labour Party, one of the youngest in history.

Mr Galloway won Glasgow Hillhead - ousting one of the new Social Democrat
Party's Gang of Four Roy Jenkins - in 1987 but faced an almost immediate
scandal.

He was asked about a conference in Mykonos in Greece and replied: 'I travelled
and spent lots of time with people in Greece, many of whom were women, some of
whom were known carnally to me. I actually had sexual intercourse with some of
the people in Greece.'

The story was splashed all over the front pages and earned him the moniker
'Gorgeous George'.

The executive committee of his local party passed a vote of no confidence in him
in February 1988 and he only narrowly survived to win reselection the following
year.

In 1994, Mr Galloway caused outrage when he was filmed telling Saddam Hussein:
'Sir, I salute your courage, your strength, your indefatigability.' He claimed
that the praise was intended for the Iraqi people collectively.

His contacts with Saddam Hussein, which earned him the nickname 'the honourable
member for Baghdad Central', was a constant source of embarrassment for Labour.

After publicly accusing Tony Blair and President George W Bush of acting 'like
wolves' in invading Iraq, Mr Galloway was expelled from the party in 2003.

He then founded the Respect party and won the former Labour stronghold of
Bethnal Green and Bow in London's East End, another constituency with a high
Muslim population, in 2005.

He achieved notoriety for his conduct in the the Celebrity Big Brother house in
2006, where he demonstrated his ability to change from a roaring political tiger
to timid domestic cat, by pretending to purr and lick cream from actress Rula
Lenska's hands on the show.

But in the following general election of 2010 he failed to win the seat of
Poplar and Limehouse.

In 2011 he said he might end his political career in Scotland if he secured a
seat in that year's Scottish Parliament election. But his bid failed, leading
him to Bradford.

His notoriety brought him to the attention of the tabloids and earlier this year
he accepted £25,000 in damages from News Group Newspapers after it admitted that
private investigator Glenn Mulcaire intercepted messages left on his mobile
phone.

Respect leader Salma Yaqoob said the victory of Mr Galloway reflected people's
desire for an alternative to the Government's 'ideological' cuts.

She said: 'I think this has been a resounding rejection of the politics of
austerity and the policies the mainstream parties are offering.

'The Conservatives are aligned with the Lib Dems saying austerity is the only
way and Labour have also bought into that, saying austerity-light.

'There is an alternative. If President Obama in America can say investment, not
cuts, then surely in Britain we can follow. The economy in America is picking
up, so it is a lie - the Westminster bubble lies there is not an alternative.

'If this Government can say to the richest people at this time "we are now going
to reduce your taxes"

'it's not about austerity, it's about a political ideology which favours the few
and makes the rest of us pay.'

Ms Yaqoob said places like Bradford needed investment from the Government and
said Mr Galloway would fight for the city.

She said: 'George is a huge personality, he has fantastic charisma but it is
because he encapsulates those values. Values that people hold in their heart,
wanting someone to represent them.

'When George came along and people know he has got that voice, speaks plainly,
speaks the truth - he is uncompromising in that.'

Asked about Mr Galloway's voting record in Parliament the last time he was an
MP, Ms Yaqoob added: 'The people of Tower Hamlets resoundingly have supported
George Galloway. He was a constituency MP who championed the local issues and
put Tower Hamlets on the map.'

Activists were last night aghast at the prospect of failing to hold on to a seat
following one of the worst weeks to date for the Tory-led coalition government.

Mid-term is normally the most difficult period for governing parties, and an
opposition on course for victory would be expected to snatch safe seats from
other parties, let alone hold its own.

Mr Miliband visited the constituency once during the contest: party leaders
traditionally steer clear of by election contests for fear of jinxing them.

BY-ELECTION BREAKDOWN


     ·    George Galloway, with the Respect party, won an overwhelming majority
          with 18,341 votes - 55.89 per cent - and a majority of 10,140 ballots.
     ·    Labour's Imran Hussain, who went into the by-election as a firm
          favourite, secured just 8,201 - 24.99 per cent.
     ·    While the Conservatives' Jackie Whiteley came in third as predicted
          with 2,746, just 8.37 per cent of the vote.
     ·    Jeanette Sunderland, of the Liberal Democrats, came in fourth with
          1,505 (4.59 per cent).
     ·    UKIP's Sonja McNally closely followed in fifth place with 1,085 - 3.31
          per cent of the vote.
     ·    Dawud Islam, of the Green party, received 481 votes - 1.47 per cent.
     ·    The Democratic Nationalist party's Neil Craig took 344 votes - 1.05
          per cent  - while Howling Laud Hope, of the Loony party received 111 -
          just 0.34 per cent


Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, secured his shock victory by courting the
constituency's large Muslim population. It is understood that young Muslim women
voters in particular had backed him.

At one point he threatened to sue Labour for libel over allegedly defamatory
material.

The Scottish-born Roman Catholic was himself accused of resorting to desperate
measures after issuing a letter calling for Muslims to vote for him because he
had never consumed alcohol and had always fought for Muslims at home and abroad.

Using his typically, dramatic prose, Mr Galloway wrote: 'I, George Galloway have
fought for Muslims at home and abroad, all of my life.'

The letter also said: 'I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and never have.'

Earlier this week he predicted that support for him had blossomed like
'daffodils in spring'.

Labour had criticised Mr Galloway for parachuting into the northern constituency
from London for a few weeks.

But he hit back, saying it was an advantage not to be a local politician in an
area which had suffered such severe economic decline under successive
governments.

'The city centre is filled with pound shops, pawn shops and payday loan shops,'
he said. 'There is mass unemployment. Somebody coming from outside and offering
a new start is an electoral plus.'

Mr Galloway joined the anti-war Respect Party after being expelled from Labour
in 2003.

He beat Labour candidate Oona King for the Bethnal Green and Bow seat in East
London in the 2005 general election after wooing the Bangledeshi community but
made a failed attempt to win a neighbouring seat in the capital in 2010.

Mr Galloway has long been a controversial figure. He paid tribute to the late
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, telling him: 'Sir, I salute your courage, your
strength, your indefatigability.'

Despite a scrape with the Charity Commission over a fund he ran called the
Miriam Appeal and a humiliating, Lycra-clad appearance on Celebrity Big Brother
in which he pretended to be a cat, Mr Galloway has again defied his critics.

The final result for Bradford West was announced at around 2.30am this morning.

Mr Galloway will take over from Labour MP Marsha Singh who retired because of
ill health.

The coalition parties expected dismal results, with the Tories bracing
themselves for third place after the fuel fiasco, panic over pasties and granny
tax in the budget.

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats' best hopes were for an embarrassing fourth
place.

AS GALLOWAY CLAIMS THE 'MOST SENSATIONAL IN BRITISH POLITICAL HISTORY', HERE ARE
SOME OTHER NOTABLE BY-ELECTION SHOCKS:

1966: Gwynfor Evans gave Plaid Cymru its first seat when he took Carmarthen from
Labour on an 18 per cent swing.

1968: Tories chalked up a 21.1 per cent swing to take Dudley on March 28 from
Labour as well as marginal Meriden and Acton. This was possibly the first time
in history that a party lost three seats at by-elections on the same day.

1969: Liberals captured Ladywood, their first Birmingham seat for 83 years, from
Labour on a 32 per cent swing.

1977: The Conservatives toppled Labour in its Ashfield mining stronghold on a
20.8 per cent swing.

1983: Liberal Simon Hughes gained the highest swing since the Second Word War -
44.2 per cent - when he won Bermondsey from Labour.

1989: Labour's John Smith took the Vale of Glamorgan from the Tories on a 12.4
per cent switch - giving the party its most dramatic by-election win for more
than half a century.

1993: The first by-election of the new parliament saw Liberal Democrats capture
Newbury from Tories with 22,055 majority on a 28.4 per cent swing. This was
followed by the Christchurch contest which brought the biggest recorded swing
against a Government - 35.4 per cent from Conservative to Liberal Democrats.

1997: With the General Election barely two months away, Conservatives lost to
Labour at Wirral South on a 17.2 per cent swing. Tories failed to win a single
by-election between William Hague's victory at Richmond, Yorks, in 1989 and
their success in the first contest of the new 1997 Parliament at Uxbridge.

2003: Labour suffered its first Commons by-election loss since it returned to
power in 1997 when Liberal Democrats snatched Brent East, north London on a 29
per cent swing.

2009: Tory Chloe Smith became the youngest MP when she snatched Norwich North
from Labour on a 16.5 per cent swing.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 8:38 AM GMT

'We have won the most sensational victory': George Galloway secures landslide in
Bradford West by-election

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV, SUZANNAH HILLS and MARTIN ROBINSON

LENGTH: 1829 words



     ·    The Respect founder secured 18,341 votes - a majority of 10,140
     ·    The Labour party was knocked into second place with just 8,201 votes


George Galloway has delivered a humiliating blow to Labour by snatching the
Bradford West seat that the party had held for nearly four decades.

He scored a dramatic victory with a 10,000-plus majority in what he called a
'massive rejection' of mainstream parties.

Respect swept from fifth place at the 2010 general election to a commanding
victory for the ex-Labour anti-war campaigner against his former party on a
swing of 36.59 per cent.

It was 'the most sensational result in British by-election history bar none', he
said on stage after being declared the victor with well over half the total
votes.

He secured a total of 18,341 votes - easily knocking Labour into second place
with just 8,201.

The Conservatives took third place after a disastrous week for the Government
with 2,746 votes, followed by the Liberal Democrats with just 1.505, and other
candidates jointly taking 2,021 ballots.

Last night Mr Galloway tweeted: 'By the Grace of God we have won the most
sensational victory in British political history.'

After securing his victory, he said: 'It is a very comprehensive defeat for new
Labour. It's a miserable, pathetic performance by the Government and the
parties. The big three political parties have had a very salutary, unkind lesson
this evening and I hope that they all take note.

'The people of Bradford have spoken this evening for people in inner cities
everywhere in the United Kingdom.'

Losing the seat is a major disappointment for Opposition leader Ed Miliband, who
has failed to fully capitalise on what has been a shambolic week for his
coalition foes.

Labour is thought to have suffered the biggest ever swing against it with Mr
Galloway's Respect party coming back from fifth place in the last general
election.

A slump in the Tory vote, and an increase in support for the anti-EU UK
Independence Party, appeared to have helped hand the maverick politician
victory. But the focus will be on Mr Miliband and questions about his fitness to
lead his party.

He will now face an anxious period as he waits to see whether the crushing
result helps fuel another leadership crisis.

THE MANY ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF 'GORGEOUS' GEORGE

'Gorgeous' George Galloway's victory in Bradford West is the latest chapter in
the career of one of the country's most controversial politicians.

Mr Galloway was born on August 16 1954 in, to use his own words, 'an attic in a
slum tenement in the Irish quarter of Dundee which is known as Tipperary'.

In 1977, he was appointed a Labour Party organiser and at the age of 26 he
became chairman of the Scottish Labour Party, one of the youngest in history.

Mr Galloway won Glasgow Hillhead - ousting one of the new Social Democrat
Party's Gang of Four Roy Jenkins - in 1987 but faced an almost immediate
scandal.

He was asked about a conference in Mykonos in Greece and replied: 'I travelled
and spent lots of time with people in Greece, many of whom were women, some of
whom were known carnally to me. I actually had sexual intercourse with some of
the people in Greece.'

The story was splashed all over the front pages and earned him the moniker
'Gorgeous George'.

The executive committee of his local party passed a vote of no confidence in him
in February 1988 and he only narrowly survived to win reselection the following
year.

In 1994, Mr Galloway caused outrage when he was filmed telling Saddam Hussein:
'Sir, I salute your courage, your strength, your indefatigability.' He claimed
that the praise was intended for the Iraqi people collectively.

His contacts with Saddam Hussein, which earned him the nickname 'the honourable
member for Baghdad Central', was a constant source of embarrassment for Labour.

After publicly accusing Tony Blair and President George W Bush of acting 'like
wolves' in invading Iraq, Mr Galloway was expelled from the party in 2003.

He then founded the Respect party and won the former Labour stronghold of
Bethnal Green and Bow in London's East End, another constituency with a high
Muslim population, in 2005.

He achieved notoriety for his conduct in the the Celebrity Big Brother house in
2006, where he demonstrated his ability to change from a roaring political tiger
to timid domestic cat, by pretending to purr and lick cream from actress Rula
Lenska's hands on the show.

But in the following general election of 2010 he failed to win the seat of
Poplar and Limehouse.

In 2011 he said he might end his political career in Scotland if he secured a
seat in that year's Scottish Parliament election. But his bid failed, leading
him to Bradford.

His notoriety brought him to the attention of the tabloids and earlier this year
he accepted £25,000 in damages from News Group Newspapers after it admitted that
private investigator Glenn Mulcaire intercepted messages left on his mobile
phone.

Activists were last night aghast at the prospect of failing to hold on to a seat
following one of the worst weeks to date for the Tory-led coalition government.

Mid-term is normally the most difficult period for governing parties, and an
opposition on course for victory would be expected to snatch safe seats from
other parties, let alone hold its own.

Mr Miliband visited the constituency once during the contest: party leaders
traditionally steer clear of by election contests for fear of jinxing them.

BY-ELECTION BREAKDOWN


     ·    George Galloway, with the Respect party, won an overwhelming majority
          with 18,341 votes - 55.89 per cent - and a majority of 10,140 ballots.
     ·    Labour's Imran Hussain, who went into the by-election as a firm
          favourite, secured just 8,201 - 24.99 per cent.
     ·    While the Conservatives' Jackie Whiteley came in third as predicted
          with 2,746, just 8.37 per cent of the vote.
     ·    Jeanette Sunderland, of the Liberal Democrats, came in fourth with
          1,505 (4.59 per cent).
     ·    UKIP's Sonja McNally closely followed in fifth place with 1,085 - 3.31
          per cent of the vote.
     ·    Dawud Islam, of the Green party, received 481 votes - 1.47 per cent.
     ·    The Democratic Nationalist party's Neil Craig took 344 votes - 1.05
          per cent  - while Howling Laud Hope, of the Loony party received 111 -
          just 0.34 per cent


Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, secured his shock victory by courting the
constituency's large Muslim population. It is understood that young Muslim women
voters in particular had backed him.

At one point he threatened to sue Labour for libel over allegedly defamatory
material.

The Scottish-born Roman Catholic was himself accused of resorting to desperate
measures after issuing a letter calling for Muslims to vote for him because he
had never consumed alcohol and had always fought for Muslims at home and abroad.

Using his typically, dramatic prose, Mr Galloway wrote: 'I, George Galloway have
fought for Muslims at home and abroad, all of my life.'

The letter also said: 'I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and never have.'

Earlier this week he predicted that support for him had blossomed like
'daffodils in spring'.

Labour had criticised Mr Galloway for parachuting into the northern constituency
from London for a few weeks.

But he hit back, saying it was an advantage not to be a local politician in an
area which had suffered such severe economic decline under successive
governments.

'The city centre is filled with pound shops, pawn shops and payday loan shops,'
he said. 'There is mass unemployment. Somebody coming from outside and offering
a new start is an electoral plus.'

Mr Galloway joined the anti-war Respect Party after being expelled from Labour
in 2003.

He beat Labour candidate Oona King for the Bethnal Green and Bow seat in East
London in the 2005 general election after wooing the Bangledeshi community but
made a failed attempt to win a neighbouring seat in the capital in 2010.

Mr Galloway has long been a controversial figure. He paid tribute to the late
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, telling him: 'Sir, I salute your courage, your
strength, your indefatigability.'

Despite a scrape with the Charity Commission over a fund he ran called the
Miriam Appeal and a humiliating, Lycra-clad appearance on Celebrity Big Brother
in which he pretended to be a cat, Mr Galloway has again defied his critics.

The final result for Bradford West was announced at around 2.30am this morning.

Mr Galloway will take over from Labour MP Marsha Singh who retired because of
ill health.

The coalition parties expected dismal results, with the Tories bracing
themselves for third place after the fuel fiasco, panic over pasties and granny
tax in the budget.

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats' best hopes were for an embarrassing fourth
place.

AS GALLOWAY CLAIMS THE 'MOST SENSATIONAL IN BRITISH POLITICAL HISTORY', HERE ARE
SOME OTHER NOTABLE BY-ELECTION SHOCKS:

1966: Gwynfor Evans gave Plaid Cymru its first seat when he took Carmarthen from
Labour on an 18 per cent swing.

1968: Tories chalked up a 21.1 per cent swing to take Dudley on March 28 from
Labour as well as marginal Meriden and Acton. This was possibly the first time
in history that a party lost three seats at by-elections on the same day.

1969: Liberals captured Ladywood, their first Birmingham seat for 83 years, from
Labour on a 32 per cent swing.

1977: The Conservatives toppled Labour in its Ashfield mining stronghold on a
20.8 per cent swing.

1983: Liberal Simon Hughes gained the highest swing since the Second Word War -
44.2 per cent - when he won Bermondsey from Labour.

1989: Labour's John Smith took the Vale of Glamorgan from the Tories on a 12.4
per cent switch - giving the party its most dramatic by-election win for more
than half a century.

1993: The first by-election of the new parliament saw Liberal Democrats capture
Newbury from Tories with 22,055 majority on a 28.4 per cent swing. This was
followed by the Christchurch contest which brought the biggest recorded swing
against a Government - 35.4 per cent from Conservative to Liberal Democrats.

1997: With the General Election barely two months away, Conservatives lost to
Labour at Wirral South on a 17.2 per cent swing. Tories failed to win a single
by-election between William Hague's victory at Richmond, Yorks, in 1989 and
their success in the first contest of the new 1997 Parliament at Uxbridge.

2003: Labour suffered its first Commons by-election loss since it returned to
power in 1997 when Liberal Democrats snatched Brent East, north London on a 29
per cent swing.

2009: Tory Chloe Smith became the youngest MP when she snatched Norwich North
from Labour on a 16.5 per cent swing.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 8:32 AM GMT

Labour starts urgent inquest as George Galloway secures landslide in Bradford
West seat Miliband's party held for almost 40 years

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV, SUZANNAH HILLS and MARTIN ROBINSON

LENGTH: 1995 words



     ·    The Respect founder secured 18,341 votes - a majority of 10,140
     ·    The Labour party was knocked into second place with just 8,201 votes
     ·    Ed Miliband's party were huge favourites to win but ended up 10,000
          votes behind


Labour today denied it had neglected northern voters as the urgent inquest into
George Galloway's sensational by-election victory in Bradford West began.

Respect candidate Mr Galloway swept to a dramatic win in the poll yesterday,
securing a 10,000-plus majority in a seat held by Ed Miliband's party for nearly
four decades.

The new MP said the result is a 'massive rejection' of mainstream parties and
Labour's leadership is reeling after a hammering in their usual stronghold.

Losing the seat is a major disappointment for Opposition leader Ed Miliband, who
has failed to fully capitalise on what has been a shambolic week for his
coalition foes.

The Government's handling of the budget and the potential fuel strike has sent
their popularity sharply downwards but the Labour party still failed to win.

Labour's deputy leader Harriet Harman said today: 'It is a very bad result,
there's no denying it.'

But she told Sky News: 'I don't think it's true to say this is a case of us
taking a constituency for granted, that's not what happened here.

'I think we are going to have to learn lessons. We are going to have to have
very, very thorough discussions with all the local Labour people and the local
community up in Bradford so we can learn lessons and we have to rebuild from
here.'

George Galloway scored a dramatic victory with a 10,000-plus majority and swept
from fifth place at the 2010 general election to a commanding victory for the
ex-Labour anti-war campaigner against his former party on a swing of 36.59 per
cent.

It was 'the most sensational result in British by-election history bar none', he
said on stage after being declared the victor with well over half the total
votes.

He secured a total of 18,341 votes - easily knocking Labour into second place
with just 8,201.

The Conservatives took third place after a disastrous week for the Government
with 2,746 votes, followed by the Liberal Democrats with just 1.505, and other
candidates jointly taking 2,021 ballots.

Last night Mr Galloway tweeted: 'By the Grace of God we have won the most
sensational victory in British political history.'

After securing his victory, he said: 'It is a very comprehensive defeat for new
Labour. It's a miserable, pathetic performance by the Government and the
parties. The big three political parties have had a very salutary, unkind lesson
this evening and I hope that they all take note.

'The people of Bradford have spoken this evening for people in inner cities
everywhere in the United Kingdom.'

Labour is thought to have suffered the biggest ever swing against it with Mr
Galloway's Respect party coming back from fifth place in the last general
election.

A slump in the Tory vote, and an increase in support for the anti-EU UK
Independence Party, appeared to have helped hand the maverick politician
victory. But the focus will be on Mr Miliband and questions about his fitness to
lead his party.

He will now face an anxious period as he waits to see whether the crushing
result helps fuel another leadership crisis.

THE MANY ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF 'GORGEOUS' GEORGE

'Gorgeous' George Galloway's victory in Bradford West is the latest chapter in
the career of one of the country's most controversial politicians.

Mr Galloway was born on August 16 1954 in, to use his own words, 'an attic in a
slum tenement in the Irish quarter of Dundee which is known as Tipperary'.

In 1977, he was appointed a Labour Party organiser and at the age of 26 he
became chairman of the Scottish Labour Party, one of the youngest in history.

Mr Galloway won Glasgow Hillhead - ousting one of the new Social Democrat
Party's Gang of Four Roy Jenkins - in 1987 but faced an almost immediate
scandal.

He was asked about a conference in Mykonos in Greece and replied: 'I travelled
and spent lots of time with people in Greece, many of whom were women, some of
whom were known carnally to me. I actually had sexual intercourse with some of
the people in Greece.'

The story was splashed all over the front pages and earned him the moniker
'Gorgeous George'.

The executive committee of his local party passed a vote of no confidence in him
in February 1988 and he only narrowly survived to win reselection the following
year.

In 1994, Mr Galloway caused outrage when he was filmed telling Saddam Hussein:
'Sir, I salute your courage, your strength, your indefatigability.' He claimed
that the praise was intended for the Iraqi people collectively.

His contacts with Saddam Hussein, which earned him the nickname 'the honourable
member for Baghdad Central', was a constant source of embarrassment for Labour.

After publicly accusing Tony Blair and President George W Bush of acting 'like
wolves' in invading Iraq, Mr Galloway was expelled from the party in 2003.

He then founded the Respect party and won the former Labour stronghold of
Bethnal Green and Bow in London's East End, another constituency with a high
Muslim population, in 2005.

He achieved notoriety for his conduct in the the Celebrity Big Brother house in
2006, where he demonstrated his ability to change from a roaring political tiger
to timid domestic cat, by pretending to purr and lick cream from actress Rula
Lenska's hands on the show.

But in the following general election of 2010 he failed to win the seat of
Poplar and Limehouse.

In 2011 he said he might end his political career in Scotland if he secured a
seat in that year's Scottish Parliament election. But his bid failed, leading
him to Bradford.

His notoriety brought him to the attention of the tabloids and earlier this year
he accepted £25,000 in damages from News Group Newspapers after it admitted that
private investigator Glenn Mulcaire intercepted messages left on his mobile
phone.

Activists were last night aghast at the prospect of failing to hold on to a seat
following one of the worst weeks to date for the Tory-led coalition government.

Mid-term is normally the most difficult period for governing parties, and an
opposition on course for victory would be expected to snatch safe seats from
other parties, let alone hold its own.

Mr Miliband visited the constituency once during the contest: party leaders
traditionally steer clear of by election contests for fear of jinxing them.

BY-ELECTION BREAKDOWN


     ·    George Galloway, with the Respect party, won an overwhelming majority
          with 18,341 votes - 55.89 per cent - and a majority of 10,140 ballots.
     ·    Labour's Imran Hussain, who went into the by-election as a firm
          favourite, secured just 8,201 - 24.99 per cent.
     ·    While the Conservatives' Jackie Whiteley came in third as predicted
          with 2,746, just 8.37 per cent of the vote.
     ·    Jeanette Sunderland, of the Liberal Democrats, came in fourth with
          1,505 (4.59 per cent).
     ·    UKIP's Sonja McNally closely followed in fifth place with 1,085 - 3.31
          per cent of the vote.
     ·    Dawud Islam, of the Green party, received 481 votes - 1.47 per cent.
     ·    The Democratic Nationalist party's Neil Craig took 344 votes - 1.05
          per cent  - while Howling Laud Hope, of the Loony party received 111 -
          just 0.34 per cent


Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, secured his shock victory by courting the
constituency's large Muslim population. It is understood that young Muslim women
voters in particular had backed him.

At one point he threatened to sue Labour for libel over allegedly defamatory
material.

The Scottish-born Roman Catholic was himself accused of resorting to desperate
measures after issuing a letter calling for Muslims to vote for him because he
had never consumed alcohol and had always fought for Muslims at home and abroad.

Using his typically, dramatic prose, Mr Galloway wrote: 'I, George Galloway have
fought for Muslims at home and abroad, all of my life.'

The letter also said: 'I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and never have.'

Earlier this week he predicted that support for him had blossomed like
'daffodils in spring'.

Labour had criticised Mr Galloway for parachuting into the northern constituency
from London for a few weeks.

But he hit back, saying it was an advantage not to be a local politician in an
area which had suffered such severe economic decline under successive
governments.

'The city centre is filled with pound shops, pawn shops and payday loan shops,'
he said. 'There is mass unemployment. Somebody coming from outside and offering
a new start is an electoral plus.'

Mr Galloway joined the anti-war Respect Party after being expelled from Labour
in 2003.

He beat Labour candidate Oona King for the Bethnal Green and Bow seat in East
London in the 2005 general election after wooing the Bangledeshi community but
made a failed attempt to win a neighbouring seat in the capital in 2010.

Mr Galloway has long been a controversial figure. He paid tribute to the late
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, telling him: 'Sir, I salute your courage, your
strength, your indefatigability.'

Despite a scrape with the Charity Commission over a fund he ran called the
Miriam Appeal and a humiliating, Lycra-clad appearance on Celebrity Big Brother
in which he pretended to be a cat, Mr Galloway has again defied his critics.

The final result for Bradford West was announced at around 2.30am this morning.

Mr Galloway will take over from Labour MP Marsha Singh who retired because of
ill health.

The coalition parties expected dismal results, with the Tories bracing
themselves for third place after the fuel fiasco, panic over pasties and granny
tax in the budget.

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats' best hopes were for an embarrassing fourth
place.

AS GALLOWAY CLAIMS THE 'MOST SENSATIONAL IN BRITISH POLITICAL HISTORY', HERE ARE
SOME OTHER NOTABLE BY-ELECTION SHOCKS:

1966: Gwynfor Evans gave Plaid Cymru its first seat when he took Carmarthen from
Labour on an 18 per cent swing.

1968: Tories chalked up a 21.1 per cent swing to take Dudley on March 28 from
Labour as well as marginal Meriden and Acton. This was possibly the first time
in history that a party lost three seats at by-elections on the same day.

1969: Liberals captured Ladywood, their first Birmingham seat for 83 years, from
Labour on a 32 per cent swing.

1977: The Conservatives toppled Labour in its Ashfield mining stronghold on a
20.8 per cent swing.

1983: Liberal Simon Hughes gained the highest swing since the Second Word War -
44.2 per cent - when he won Bermondsey from Labour.

1989: Labour's John Smith took the Vale of Glamorgan from the Tories on a 12.4
per cent switch - giving the party its most dramatic by-election win for more
than half a century.

1993: The first by-election of the new parliament saw Liberal Democrats capture
Newbury from Tories with 22,055 majority on a 28.4 per cent swing. This was
followed by the Christchurch contest which brought the biggest recorded swing
against a Government - 35.4 per cent from Conservative to Liberal Democrats.

1997: With the General Election barely two months away, Conservatives lost to
Labour at Wirral South on a 17.2 per cent swing. Tories failed to win a single
by-election between William Hague's victory at Richmond, Yorks, in 1989 and
their success in the first contest of the new 1997 Parliament at Uxbridge.

2003: Labour suffered its first Commons by-election loss since it returned to
power in 1997 when Liberal Democrats snatched Brent East, north London on a 29
per cent swing.

2009: Tory Chloe Smith became the youngest MP when she snatched Norwich North
from Labour on a 16.5 per cent swing.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 2:34 AM GMT

'We have won the most sensational victory': George Galloway secures shock
victory in Bradford West by-election

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV

LENGTH: 712 words


George Galloway has delivered a humiliating blow to Labour last night by
snatching the Bradford West seat that the party had held for nearly four
decades.

Labour had been hopeful of retaining the West Yorkshire seat in a bitterly
fought by-election last night, with the Tories expected to be knocked into third
place after a disastrous week for the Government.

Last night Mr Galloway tweeted: 'By the Grace of God we have won the most
sensational victory in British political history.'

He said: 'It is a very comprehensive defeat for new Labour. It's a miserable,
pathetic performance by the Government and the parties.'

Losing the seat would be a major disappointment for Opposition leader Ed
Miliband, who has failed to fully capitalise on what has been a shambolic week
for his coalition foes.

Labour is thought to have suffered the biggest ever swing against it with Mr
Galloway's Respect party coming back from fifth place in the last general
election.

A slump in the Tory vote, and an increase in support for the anti-EU UK
Independence Party, appeared to have helped hand the maverick politician
victory. But the focus will be on Mr Miliband and questions about his fitness to
lead his party.

He will now face an anxious period as he waits to see whether the crushing
result helps fuel another leadership crisis.

Activists were last night aghast at the prospect of failing to hold on to a seat
following one of the worst weeks to date for the Tory-led coalition government.

Mid-term is normally the most difficult period for governing parties, and an
opposition on course for victory would be expected to snatch safe seats from
other parties, let alone hold its own.

Mr Miliband visited the constituency once during the contest: party leaders
traditionally steer clear of by election contests for fear of jinxing them.

Mr Galloway, a former Labour MP, secured his shock 'victory' by courting the
constituency's large Muslim population. It is understood that young Muslim women
voters in particular had backed him.

At one point he threatened to sue Labour for libel over allegedly defamatory
material.

The Scottish-born Roman Catholic was himself accused of resorting to desperate
measures after issuing a letter calling for Muslims to vote for him because he
had never consumed alcohol and had always fought for Muslims at home and abroad.

Using his typically, dramatic prose, Mr Galloway wrote: 'I, George Galloway have
fought for Muslims at home and abroad, all of my life.'

The letter also said: 'I, George Galloway, do not drink alcohol and never have.'

Earlier this week he predicted that support for him had blossomed like
'daffodils in spring'.

Labour had criticised Mr Galloway for parachuting into the northern constituency
from London for a few weeks.

But he hit back, saying it was an advantage not to be a local politician in an
area which had suffered such severe economic decline under successive
governments.

'The city centre is filled with pound shops, pawn shops and payday loan shops,'
he said. 'There is mass unemployment. Somebody coming from outside and offering
a new start is an electoral plus.'

Mr Galloway joined the anti-war Respect Party after being expelled from Labour
in 2003.

He beat Labour candidate Oona King for the Bethnal Green and Bow seat in East
London in the 2005 general election after wooing the Bangledeshi community but
made a failed attempt to win a neighbouring seat in the capital in 2010.

Mr Galloway has long been a controversial figure. He paid tribute to the late
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, telling him: 'Sir, I salute your courage, your
strength, your indefatigability.'

Despite a scrape with the Charity Commission over a fund he ran called the
Miriam Appeal and a humiliating, Lycra-clad appearance on Celebrity Big Brother
in which he pretended to be a cat, Mr Galloway has again defied his critics.

The final result for Bradford West was expected in the early hours of this
morning.

The victor will take over from Labour MP Marsha Singh who retired because of ill
health.

The coalition parties expected dismal results, with the Tories bracing
themselves for third place after the fuel fiasco, panic over pasties and granny
tax in the budget.

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats' best hopes were for an embarrassing fourth
place.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 2:00 AM GMT

UKIP leader Farage living up to his notorious reputation

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 537 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who is said to enjoy a drink, met the thirsty
commentator Toby Young recently at London's Groucho Club.

Young reports: 'All I can say is that his reputation is thoroughly deserved.

'After God knows how many vodka shots - I lost count after number six - Nigel
was his usual dapper self, whereas I was lurching around like an OAP on roller
skates.

'I believe I broke a glass, though I have no recollection of it, and the hour
between 10pm and 11pm is now a black hole.'

Good-humoured Farage drinks, smokes Rothmans and has survived a light aircraft
crash.

Might he be the man we're looking for in these joyless political times?

The controversial jobs firm A4e, which is in danger of losing £400million-worth
of Government contracts, has employed lobbyist George Bridges, a personal friend
of Chancellor George Osborne.

Old Etonian Bridges helped Osborne run the Conservatives' election campaign in
2010. Employment Minister Chris Grayling threatens to remove their contracts if
A4e is found guilty of 'systemic fraud'.

Its multi-millionaire owner, Emma Harrison, has resigned as an adviser to David
Cameron. Who better than well-connected Bridges to save her lucrative business?

Referring to his bête noir, David Cameron, who snatched the Tory leadership from
him in 2005, Tory MP David Davis tells the BBC (as reported left): 'Look at the
front bench - all very well turned out, well-fed, they look like they're in a
completely different world... it's an unfair allegation, but it works...' Or, to
put it another way, 'it's an unfair allegation, but worth repeating'.

Jane Fonda, right, will play Nancy Reagan in a new movie, The Butler, about the
late Eugene Allen, a black White House servant for over 30 years, from Harry
Truman to Ronald Reagan.

The Reagans appear to have been Allen's favourite First Couple. Their photo had
prominence among those of the other presidents in his home.

They invited him and his wife to a state banquet for Germany's Helmut Kohl, an
unprecedented gesture.

Sir Elton John, 65, claims he was a victim of bullying after becoming a global
star. He says those responsible 'were important people in my career and in my
personal life... It was about control and them being able to keep me under their
thumb.

One was violent and the other two were mentally violent'. So why not name them?
It would be a pity if people thought no doubt wrongly that he was referring to
his diminutive ex-manager and lover, John Reid.

Fifty years after the arrival on TV of the police series Z Cars, its
stentorian-voiced star Brian Blessed, 75, who played PC 'Fancy' Smith, recalls:
'We used to receive 27,000 letters a week. We were on a constant knife-edge,
because we knew we'd been performing live in front of 24million viewers.

It was easily the most exciting thing I've ever done as an actor.' Imagine the
tears and tantrums if today's soap stars had to perform live.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

IMRAN RACES TO VICTORY

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 86 words


BY the time you read this, Imran Hussain will have been declared Labour MP for
Bradford West.

People are still voting as I write, but I would put my best shirt on a win for
Ed Miliband's candidate in the by-election. Local boy Imran will make a good MP.

And I would put my second-best shirt on the Tories coming third behind either
UKIP or Respect, with the Lib Dems no -where. These are real votes, cast by real
people who have considered Osborne's Budget and the scandal of cash for access
to No10. Their verdict counts.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 9:45 AM GMT

George Galloway's victory confirms the demise of the radical Left, not its
resurgence

BYLINE: By Brendan O'Neill

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 762 words


George Galloway has described his victory in Bradford West as "sensational" and
even as a "Bradford Spring". It was certainly sensational, but not for the
reasons Galloway and his Left-wing cheerleaders believe. This stunning
by-election turnaround was less a revolutionary-style "spring" and more an
expression of the rot at the heart of mainstream British politics. Traditional
politics is now so bereft of meaning and substance, so lacking in moral
purchase, that voters are willing to vote for a helicoptered-in, ideas-lite
maverick rather than any of the parties that have been around for eons. This was
less a vote for Galloway than it was a two-fingered salute to the political
class.

Galloway and his dwindling online fanclub would haveus believe that this was a
vote for a clear, Left-wing, anti-war agenda. It wasn't. It was not any
political virtues on the part of Galloway that won him the election but rather
the absence of virtue, and of vision, amongst today's mainstream parties,
particularly Labour. Galloway is merely a beneficiary of the decay of politics
as we knew it, which means that, far from representing a surge in radical
Left-wing sentiment, his victory isn't that different to when a member of the
BNP wins a seat on a local council or some UKIP suit gets sent to Brussels. In
all these cases, the vote tends to be less a positive endorsement of any
clear-eyed political agenda than simply a "screw you" to the three big parties
which once claimed to represent the political spectrum.

Indeed, Galloway's victory points to the further denigration of radical
Left-wing politics rather than its meaningful revival. It shows how far the
radical Left has been "Islamicised", where, having utterly abandoned the
allegedly feckless and thick working classes, the radical Left has become
increasingly reliant upon alienated Muslim communities for support. From the
anti-war movement to Ken Livingstone to Galloway, as all the big players on the
modern Left have drifted away from their traditional constituency - the working
class - so they have ended up "speaking for" Muslims. It is a rather sad,
somewhat unholy marriage of convenience, where Muslims who are not represented
by the political mainstream feel flattered by the attentions of old Leftists,
while old leftists who feel (and are) unloved by the masses exploit the
alienation of Muslim communities in order to cultivate new constituencies for
themselves.

Galloway's victory also shows how unsubstantial and apolitical anti-war
sentiment is these days. Galloway sought support, and seems to have won it,
largely on the basis of his opposition to "illegal, bloody, costly foreign
wars". Yet this was not any old-fashioned, positive anti-war sentiment, driven
by firm convictions about the rights of foreign peoples, so much as it was yet
another expression of suspicion of "Them" who rule over us. Today, being
anti-war is really just another way of being anti-politics, another way of
expressing your belief that all politicians are liars, that they never listen to
us, and that they're rotten, oil-grabbing bastards.

Galloway's surge to victory on a tidal wave of anti-party feeling and anti-war
sentiment shows how far the anti-war outlook has been emptied of principle and
meaning, and is now just another mechanism for say "meh" to the political class.

But probably the most worrying thing about Galloway's victory is that it
confirms the further splintering of Britain into "identities", where people no
longer conceive of themselves as belonging to a class or a political set but
rather to a fixed, culturally determined "identity". Muslims vote one way, the
white working classes vote another, and so on. What is remotely positive about
the demise of an old politics that was at least based on the idea of shared
interests and its replacement by a new politics based on shared cultural
characteristics? In going for "the Muslim vote", just as Livingstone recently
did in a speech at North London Central Mosque, Galloway actually further
exposed the dearth of principle on the modern Left.

Where once the Left saw it as its mission to unite people who had more in common
than they thought they did (remember "workers of the world unite"?), now it
happily feeds off community disintegration and even segregation for short-term
political gain. If it helps to get them into power, it seems radical Leftists
don't have a problem with the political ghettoisation of certain communities in
Britain, or with the further tearing-apart of man from fellow man that is at the
heart of identity politics.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 8:52 AM GMT

George Galloway back in Parliament: this is desperate news for Labour - and all
the big parties

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 170 words


Good God. George Galloway is back in the Commons.

Quick thoughts, late at night.

1. Identity politics is alive and well - a symptom of a wider malaise. Hatred of
Westminster lies behind this result.

2. Further evidence that Muslims feel alienated from mainstream politics, so
they align themselves with a maverick. Effectively, an ethnic minority has
elected its first MP.

3. Galloway wasn't elected by "extremists" - this result was brought about by
the votes of ordinary Muslims, who voted for an extremist. Big difference.

4. Desperate news for Labour, just desperate. The worst week for the Coalition
for ages, and this happens.

5. Ed Miliband will not be Prime Minister. I've been saying this for ages and
here's the proof. Under a stronger leader this would not have happened - or
Galloway's margin of victory would have been much smaller.

6. Could this pave the way for a Ukip seat? All three major parties are
despised. Watch out for cunning footwork by minority parties. After all, we
already have, God help us, a Green MP.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2012 Friday 1:20 AM GMT

George Galloway back in Parliament? This is desperate news for Labour - and all
the big parties

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 239 words


Good God. George Galloway back in the Commons, according to Sky News:

Respect party politician George Galloway has told Sky News he has won a "big
victory" in what may be a sensational upset in a Bradford West by-election.

Mr Galloway told Sky News' Jon Craig that he had won the by-election, dealing
the Labour party a blow. The results have not been officially confirmed, but Mr
Galloway has declared victory anyway. "The mood has changed dramatically. There
is Labour dismay," Craig says. The indications are that Mr Galloway may have
just pulled off a "sensational win", he said.  Labour went into the day as
overwhelming favourite to retain a seat that Marsha Singh - who has stood down
due to ill-health - held with an increased majority of 5,763 when the party lost
power in 2010.

Quick thoughts, late at night.

1. Identity politics is alive and well - a symptom of a wider malaise.

2. Further evidence that Muslims feel alienated from mainstream politics, so
they align themselves with a maverick.

3. Galloway wasn't elected by "extremists" - this result was brought about by
the votes of ordinary Muslims.

4. Desperate news for Labour, just desperate. The worst week for the Coalition
for ages, and this happens.

5. Ed Miliband will not be Prime Minister.

6. Could this pave the way for Ukip? All three major parties are despised. Watch
out for cunning footwork by minority parties. After all, we already have, God
help us, a Green MP.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fury at 24 weeks holiday for EU's pampered staff

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 698 words


UNDER-FIRE Brussels chief Baroness Ashton sparked fresh outrage yesterday after
it emerged her army of foreign diplomats are entitled to an amazing 24 weeks
holiday a year.

The officials who boost the EU's profile around the world in far-flung
destinations like Fiji get a minimum of 83 days annual leave - four times the
holiday allowance enjoyed by most British workers.

On top of that, additional "special leave" entitlements mean that diplomats
working in 30 delegations in the Far East, Asia and Africa can leave their desks
unfilled for between 21 to 24 weeks, up to half the working year.

The generous holiday and flexitime arrangements are also topped up with two
weeks off for "professional training in Brussels" to add to the basic 19 weeks
leave.

The extraordinary holiday entitlements come with other lavish pay and perks
including salaries of up to £188,000 as well as bumper expenses for chauffeurs,
homes and children.

They add further weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the
EU and wrestle back power from the organisation.

The Daily Express revealed last year how Lady Ashton's European External Action
Service delegation in Fiji alone cost £2.6million in 2011.

The service cost £330million to run last year in total, of which £54million is
from British taxpayers, proving that the EU juggernaut of excess shows no sign
of slowing despite the financial crisis crippling European economies.

The details, which come as pressure mounts on the European Commission to
overhaul Brussels' staffing regulations, was met with fury.

Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "It's sickening
to see overpaid EU flunkies working for a pointless Brussels bureaucracy
enjoying frankly excessive amounts of time off. While hardpressed British
taxpayers tighten their own belts they're paying for European diplomats to spend
an unheard of amount of time on holiday."

Baroness Ashton, the world's highest paid female politician earning £230,000 a
year, was plucked from obscurity by former PM Gordon Brown to be Europe's first
"foreign minister".

She has been criticised for squandering vast sums of taxpayers' cash on an army
of pen-pushers around the world.

She created the European External Action Service at the beginning of 2010 but
has sparked anger for demanding a budget rise of almost six per cent and has
been accused of failing to provide leadership on the world stage in a string of
crises.

The EU has separate representation even in Vanuatu, the Solomon Islands and
Papua New Guinea.

Diplomats in Barbados also cover other Caribbean nations such as the British
Virgin Islands and St Lucia.

Their main tasks are to manage aid programmes and handle trade issues, largely
concerned with bananas.

One British diplomat said yesterday: "The package for EEAS staff serving
overseas is very generous, as it is for all staff working in the Brussels
institutions. Cuts need to be made." OPINION: PAGE 12 COMMENTARY WILLIAM
DARTMOUTH UKIP Euro MP WHY are we paying for the European Union to have its own
diplomatic service when we have a perfectly functional diplomatic corps of our
own? The surplus-to-requirement organisation cost more than £330million last
year, with massive cost overruns. It is presided over by Gordon Brown's fourth
choice, former CND treasurer Baroness Cathy Ashton, who is paid £230,000 a year
plus lavish expenses.

Now we discover that many of the staff, who have free accommodation and travel,
are gifted 19 weeks holiday a year.

This means that despite paying over the odds for the 1,000-odd staff, we are
paying for them not to go to work.

This is classic Brussels. Create an eye-wateringly expensive operation which
duplicates something we have already, pay its staff vast salaries then ensure
they are able to avoid doing the little work they set themselves.

But these holidays only scratch the surface of what is wrong with the European
Diplomatic Service.

We are paying for something that is often at odds with our interests as a
nation.

The push for Baroness Ashton to have a speaking role at the UN, representing the
whole of Europe and outranking our own ambassador, has brought Britain's seat on
the Security Council into question.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lady Ashton, under attack for EU excess

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 29, 2012 Thursday 12:51 PM GMT

Seven candidates nominated to become Mayor of London;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 163 words


Seven candidates have thrown their hats into the ring in the May 3 fight to be
mayor of London, it was announced today.

Contenders include incumbent Tory Boris Johnson, Labour former mayor Ken
Livingstone and Liberal Democrat Brian Paddick, ex-Metropolitan Police deputy
assistant commissioner.

All three stood in the 2008 election when Mr Johnson narrowly ousted Mr
Livingstone after eight years in office.

The Green candidate is the party's London Assembly group leader Jenny Jones.

Standing for Ukip under the slogan of "fresh choice for London" is Lawrence
Webb, its former chairman in the capital.

The British National Party is fielding Carlos Cortiglia, described on the BNP's
website as "born in Uruguay of Italian and Spanish ancestry".

Also standing is former senior civil servant and independent Siobhan Benita.

The full list:

* Boris Johnson (C)

* Ken Livingstone Lab)

* Brian Paddick (LD)

* Jenny Jones (Green)

* Carlos Cortiglia (BNP)

* Siobhan Benita (Ind)

* Lawrence Webb (Ukip)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 29, 2012 Thursday 11:59 PM GMT

Divine intervention is needed to save the euro, EU officials joke;
The best hope for saving the euro is for the Pope to pray for divine
intervention, according to an email written in the office of Herman Van Rompuy,
the man charged with preserving the European Union's single currency.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 318 words


The message was an April Fool's day joke that was intended for internal
consumption only but was leaked yesterday, as are most genuine documents on the
euro's survival.

New talks were needed, the "communique" said, and should include Pope Benedict
XVI, as Sovereign of the Vatican City State, which uses the euro.

"The presence of His Holiness the Pope affords an opportunity to pray for divine
intervention to save the euro. This is now seen as the most credible strategy,"
concluded the spoof press release, crafted by one of Mr Van Rompuy's aides.

The press office of the Council of EU, whose official letterhead was used for
the joke statement, is not said to be amused after receiving calls asking about
the "April 1 summit".

"I glad someone thinks this is a laughing matter, but it's no joke for us," said
one official.

EU officials are working on proposals aimed at averting a new phase of the
eurozone crisis. They will be discussed by finance ministers in Copenhagen today
amid a row over increasing the size of the eurozone bailout fund to 1 trillion
euros.

The extra cash, fiercely resisted by Germany, is needed because of a growing
risk that Spain, one the euro's biggest economies, will suffer a Greek-style
debt crisis this summer.

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said: "Divine intervention might be more
effective that the intervention of the European Central Bank, but an all seeing,
all knowing God would be wise to keep out of the euro."

Officials who circulated the spoof email did not intend their work to become
public, or to be seen by their boss, Mr Van Rompuy, the president of European
Councils.

The reference to the Pope and the power of prayer has entertained Mr Van
Rompuy's staff because he is an austere Catholic who goes on retreat to a
Trappist monastery where his brother-in-law is a monk.

"It's just a little joke," said the aide. "He doesn't know about it. Although he
might now."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 29, 2012 Thursday 12:24 PM GMT

Poll reveals few know local council leader;
Only eight per cent of people can correctly name the leader of their local
council, according to a new poll.

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

LENGTH: 726 words


Just five weeks before ten cities take part in a referendum to decide whether or
not they want to be governed by elected mayors, the research suggests that 38
per cent will vote for change.

A quarter of respondents said they would prefer not to have a mayor while 37 per
cent said they either did not mind or did not know.

While 15 per cent claimed to know the name of their local council leader,
previous polls suggest that 57 per cent of those living in places with a mayor
are able to name him or her.

Participants in the survey, which polled 2,300 adults on behalf of the pro-mayor
think tank, the Institute for Government, were asked the same question that will
be asked of voters on May 3: how would you like your council to be run? By a
leader who is an elected councillor chosen by a vote of the other elected
councillors - this is how the council is run now; or by a mayor who is elected
by voters - this would be a change from how the council is run now.

The survey was released as Birmingham prepared to host a debate on the subject
involving Lord Adonis, the former transport minister under Gordon Brown, Greg
Clark, the cities minister and Lord Heseltine, the former deputy prime minister.

The government is backing the change, which could see mayors elected in
Birmingham, Manchester, Bristol, Newcastle, Leeds, Sheffield, Nottingham,
Coventry, Wakefield and Bradford.

It claims that elected leaders would drive economic growth and boost employment
and has promised to give more power to cities with strong governance structures.

Mr Clark said at a national campaign launch in January: "I'm convinced that the
battle for Britain's prosperity will be won or lost in Britain's cities ... but
I believe the evidence also shows that some forms of leadership are better
suited than others in helping cities reach their full potential in an
increasingly competitive international environment.

"The world's great cities have mayors who lead their city on the international
stage, attracting investment and jobs."

A new report, What can elected mayors do for our cities? published by the
Institute for Government, suggests that elected mayors bring significant
benefits including increased visibility, increased stability and clout.

It points to successes achieved by the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, in
negotiations with Whitehall and Westminster in drawing infrastructure investment
and spending powers away from central Government.

However, it states that the introduction of mayors in places with underlying
problems in the local political system will not provide a solution.

It also warns that existing mayors have not increased diversity in local
politics. Of 22 people to have held mayoral office in the UK so far, only two
have been women, Dorothy Thornhill in Watford and Linda Arkley in North
Tyneside, and only one from an ethnic minority group, Lutfur Rahman in the
London borough of Tower Hamlets.

The report concedes that some local authorities cover areas too small for the
devolution of significant powers.

Sam Sims, lead researcher at the Institute for Government, has previously
admitted that elected mayors in England have not boosted turnout and
participation in local democracy, even if they do have a stronger mandate from
voters.

Either way, campaigners certainly face an uphill struggle. When the government
held a public consultation asking mayoral referendum cities which powers they
would like to be devolved, it received 58 responses, of which just 19 were from
the general public.

Meanwhile, Seven candidates have thrown their hats into the ring in the May 3
fight to be Mayor of London, it was announced today.

Contenders include incumbent Tory Boris Johnson, Labour former mayor Ken
Livingstone and Liberal Democrats' Brian Paddick, ex-Metropolitan Police deputy
assistant commissioner.

All three stood in the previous 2008 election when Mr Johnson narrowly ousted Mr
Livingstone after eight years in office.

The Green candidate is the party's London Assembly group leader Jenny Jones.

Standing for Ukip under the slogan of " fresh choice for London" is Lawrence
Webb, its former chairman in the capital.

The British National Party is fielding Carlos Cortiglia, who the BNP's website
describes as "born in Uruguay of Italian and Spanish ancestry".

Also standing is former senior civil servant independent Siobhan Benita.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 28, 2012 Wednesday 2:29 PM GMT

The EU is forcing the closure of British industries and sending much needed jobs
across the channel

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

LENGTH: 582 words


Two weeks ago I was invited to visit the iconic Tate and Lyle factory in
Silvertown, East London, home of the blue and white packs of sugar and Golden
Syrup, as the company is threatened with closure and the redundancy of its 850
staff.

Is this a result of the recession? No. Is it a result of company restructuring
and looking to take its business elsewhere because of lower labour costs?

No. It is because of restrictive EU trade barriers. These skilled jobs will go
to French and German sugar beet producers as they are protected.

In this poor area of East London skilled people will be laid off all because we
belong to a restrictive regime run by a Franco/German protectorate.  It is
already operating at only 60% production and shutting down production at the
weekend, losing shift work for its employees and for the first time in 134 years
faces closure. This not only affects UK employees of Tate and Lyle but their
refinery in Portugal too which employs 1200 people.

Tate and Lyle have been desperately lobbying the Government and MEPs to make the
EU see sense. Finally, the UKIP delegation who attended the meeting immediately
raised a number of questions with Dacian Ciolos (a Romanian) - the Commissioner
for agriculture and rural development and requested an urgent meeting.  Despite
the company's repeated attempts to speak to the UK Labour MEP delegation about
job losses in one of its heartlands, the request has fallen on deaf ears.

Finally, UKIP raised this in the Parliament yesterday. There is a lot of sugar
in the world the company could buy, but the EU tariff regime prevents them
buying this sugar economically. There is a tariff free cane quota but this is
far too small for Tate and Lyle who support Commonwealth countries and
development in third world countries such as Fiji. Stuart Agnew MEP, a farmer
himself, appealed to Commission Colios to show compassion and common-sense and
to save British jobs.  No such luck and sadly, no surprise.

Mr Colios's outrageous but predictable response was (and I paraphrase) - Tate &
Lyle's problems are the result of their business strategy.  They took a bet on
enough cane sugar being available and it is not and that is their problem.  I am
not responsible for their business strategy and I do not have the time to visit
all the companies that would like to see me as I would then not have time to do
my job of reforming the CAP.

By this intransigence and scant regard to jobs in the UK, Europe will forego a
critical component of its food security by losing its ability to manufacture
refined sugar from cane and would be entirely reliant on the domestic beet
harvest.

Consumer choice will be restricted meaning that the cost of your bag of Tate and
Lyle and Golden Syrup will rise, along with those companies that buy bulk sugar
from the factory such as Coca Cola and confectionery manufacturers.  It will
also mean job losses and factory closures in some of the world's poorest
countries.

Whichever way you look at it, it is a no win situation for Britain - skilled job
losses, a rise in the cost of sugar based products and the loss of a great
iconic company. Why would any company such as this now US owned company want to
invest here? They have the most efficient and productive refinery in the world
but the EU doesn't want to know and neither does our Government.

The voters have a choice in this impoverished part of London.  They should use
their vote on 3rd May to stand up for Londoners' jobs before it's too late.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     March 28, 2012 Wednesday 10:02 AM GMT

Cash for access: David Cameron facing questions over donations from firm owned
by Palestinian billionaire;
David Cameron faced fresh questions about political donations last night after
it emerged that a British subsidiary of a company owned by a Palestinian
billionaire had given £173,500 to the Conservative Party.

BYLINE: By Cal Flyn and Gordon Rayner

LENGTH: 706 words


Between Oct 2009 and May last year the Tories accepted five separate donations
from CC Property, whose sole income is from rent paid to it by another Tory
donor, Consolidated Contractors International (UK).

Both companies are owned by Said Khoury, a construction magnate based in Athens.

A director of the companies disclosed yesterday that he had met David Cameron,
while another director is a close friend of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's son and
one-time heir Saif al-Islam.

Electoral law states that political parties can only be funded by people
registered to vote in this country, or by British companies.

Jack Straw, the former home secretary, has written to the Electoral Commission
calling for an investigation into allegations that the Conservative Party is
prepared to accept donations from companies based overseas.

How should political parties be funded?

It comes after a newspaper sting at the weekend showed Peter Cruddas, the Tory
party co-treasurer, who has since resigned, encouraging potential foreign donors
to "set up a company, employ some people to work here" as a way to circumvent
those rules.

Mr Straw said "The principle is very clear and in addition to this, new laws I
introduced in 2009 ensured that you can't use front organisations to disguise
the original source of the donation."

Mr Khoury, who is worth an estimated £4 billion, is the ultimate owner of CC
Property Company and Consolidated Contractors International (UK).

CCI (UK) is also a Tory donor, having given £8,500 in August last year.

Antoine Mattar, a British accountant, is a director of both UK companies.

He told The Daily Telegraph he had been introduced to David Cameron, but it was
at a party "for four or five hundred people" at The Carlton Club in London, an
elite gentlemen's club for Conservative supporters.

He denied that the company was created to funnel foreign money into the Tory
party or that Mr Khoury gained access to Conservative ministers.

He said: "We have the same philosophy as [the Conservative Party]. We don't ask
for anything in return."

He said Mr Khoury had never met Mr Cameron, "and if you asked him, he wouldn't
know who the [British] prime minister is".

Mr Mattar admitted that CC Property's only income came from CCI (UK), the
British arm of Mr Khoury's construction group, which shares the same
Knightsbridge address.

But he insisted: "The money is not coming in from overseas - the money that
comes out from our company here is nothing to do with who the ultimate owner
is."

Asked if CC Property had any other activities than renting space to CCI, he
said: "We're in the process of buying other property."

Another director of both companies is Marwan Salloum, a Lebanese solicitor who
was photographed on holiday with Saif Gaddafi in 2010, before the Libyan
uprising. He was photographed sailing on a yacht off the Brazilian coast with
Gaddafi and several bikini-clad women.

As well as donating money to the Conservative Party, CC Property gave £17,076 to
the Conservative Middle East Council last October.

Meanwhile CCI (UK) actively lobbies MPs and has flown MPs from both main parties
to countries where it has commercial interests.

Bob Spink, the former Tory and UKIP MP, took three trips to Kazakhstan, between
2002 and 2004, partly funded by Consolidated Contractors International, which
donated £3,000 towards his travel costs.

John Mann, Labour MP and Secretary of British Kazakhstan All-Party Parliamentary
Group, joined Mr Spink on the two of those visits and Linda Gilroy, former
Labour MP, also went on two of the same trips.

Both Fraser Kemp, the former Labour MP and Tim Loughton, a Tory, were given
flights worth £1408 to and from Tajikistan in 2009.

All of the donations and foreign trips were cleared by the Electoral Commission,
which polices political donations.

Michael Dugher, the shadow minister without portfolio, said: "Day by day the
questions for David Cameron over cash for access seem to be mounting."

A Conservative party spokesman said "All donations to the Conservative Party
comply fully with Electoral Commission rules. There is no question of
individuals either influencing policy or gaining an unfair advantage by virtue
of their financial contributions to the Conservative Party."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 27, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£1.4m from anti-EU campaigner;
Private banker

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 291 words


A Swiss-born banker who helps to fund a series of groups that campaign for
Britain's withdrawal from the EU was among the Tory party donors invited to
dinner at Downing Street.

Henry Angest and his wife Dorothy were one of three couples at a meal for
"strong and long-term supporters of the party" on Nov 2 last year.

Mr Angest, pictured, has given £1.4million to the Conservative Party since David
Cameron became leader in 2005. But his name does not appear on a list of
"premier league" donors volunteered by the party yesterday because he has never
given a donation of more than £250,000 at any one time.

In the months before the general election, Arbuthnot Latham, a private bank in
which Mr Angest is the majority stakeholder, lent the party a further £5million.

Mr Angest, 70, maintains a low public profile and has made his donations to the
Tories through a company called Flowidea, which also funds eurosceptic groups.

In 2008 it donated £10,000 to Global Britain, a think tank run by Lord Pearson,
the former leader of the UK Independence Party. Global Britain believes the EU
is "a bad idea, like slavery, communism and high-rise flats".

Flowidea has also donated £2,000 to the Freedom Association, which campaigns for
the UK's withdrawal from the EU and attacks climate change "alarmism".

In 2007, Flowidea also gave £1,000 to The Atlantic Bridge, the organisation set
up by Dr Liam Fox, the former defence secretary, which was run by his friend
Adam Werritty.

Mr Angest has in the past urged politicians against overreacting to the banking
crisis and described the introduction of a tax on bankers' bonuses as "grossly
unfair".

Mr Angest, who began his career as a lawyer before switching to finance, became
a British citizen in 1985.

Gordon Rayner

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 27, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

letters@the-sun.co.uk;
The page where you tell Britain what you think

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 418 words


SPORT Relief - what a great country we live in. In difficult times the British
public once more show their amazing generosity.

Let's see this same spirit shown by billionaires, millionaires, bankers and
business directors donating their bonuses. What a massive difference it all
could make.

VICKI EDWARDS

Lincoln

I AGREE with Lorraine Kelly, pictured, that the British Olympic kit, is ghastly.
There should have been a competition to design the outfits. Students would have
loved the chance. What an opportunity missed.

AMANDA BLACK

Exeter

HOW can the Olympic team hope to "fly the flag" for the UK without the essential
colour from the Cross Of St George being prominently displayed on their kit?

MARTYN INGHAM

Birmingham

WHAT a hypocrite Theresa May is. The plebs can't be trusted with reasonably
priced booze.

Wonder if she and the rest of the hypocrites thought of that over a subsidised
glass or ten in the Parliament bar?

PETER McCREEDY

Market Weighton, E Yorks

I'M very angry that the Government keep changing the State pension rules.

I'm 57 and my generation is getting a raw deal. I received a statement saying
I'd get my pension at 64, now they've changed it to 66 - and I have to continue
paying NI.

All this also means the older generation aren't available as free childcare for
their grandchildren, so more Government funds will be used to subsidise that.

There are e-petitions on the Government website. I urge women to sign them.

SUE HOOPER

Frinton-on-Sea, Essex

LET'S have another election. Perhaps the outcome would be a Coalition between
the Conservatives and UKIP.

That would get rid of the liberals and hopefully get us out of the EU and solve
all the UK's financial problems.

MIKE BRUNT

Brighton, E Sussex

THIS nasty Government state voluntary services are the backbone of England - so
why are they so mean in not allocating some Diamond Jubilee Medals to them?

PHILIP PEARCE-SMITH

Southampton

WATCHING a re-run of Jonathan Creek, I saw a petrol station in a scene where the
price for a litre of unleaded was 77.1p.

I thought it may have been filmed in the early 1990s, but I was shocked to find
out that it was in fact 1999.

Depressing.

JUSTIN KNAVES

Faversham, Kent

HOW insulting that Prime Minister David Cameron greeted Judith Tebbutt,
pictured, the hostage released by Somali pirates, effectively using a script.

This goes to show how insincere he is, for he is unable to use his own words in
a moving situation.

I wouldn't even shake his hand and certainly would not believe a word he says in
future.

TREVOR PAYNE

By email

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 27, 2012 Tuesday 8:30 PM GMT

17 weeks holiday a year for Ashton's EU bureaucrats;
Diplomats working in Baroness Ashton's EU foreign service are entitled to 83
days or almost 17 weeks holiday a year, entitlements more than four times the
holiday allowance enjoyed by most British workers.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 757 words


Pressure is growing on the European Commission to overhaul Brussels staffing
regulations that leave overseas EU leaving embassies and delegations empty for
"many months" a year.

Generous holiday and flexitime are also topped up with two weeks off for
"professional training in Brussels", meaning that overseas diplomats,
representing 60 per cent of the EU's foreign service, can be out of the office
for 19 weeks, nearly five working months, a year.

On top of that, additional "special leave" entitlements mean that diplomats
working in 30 EU delegations in the Far-east, Asia and Africa can have their
desks unfilled for between 21 to 24 weeks, up to half the working year due to
time-off for officials.

This group of EU officials are also entitled to "two days travelling time and a
paid business-class journey to Brussels or Phuket for the official and his/her
family".

A "working document" produced by Ingeborg Graessle, a German Christian Democrat
MEP, has concluded that time-off is so liberal for staff that for much of the
year the European foreign service is on holiday rather than being at work in the
EU's 130 delegations across the world.

"The offices of EU staff members are empty for many months of the year - a state
of affairs which must be seen in the context of very high net salaries and the
provision of accommodation free of charge," she concluded.

"Given the lengthy periods of absence from work for whatever reason, some posts
in third countries are effectively half-time posts for which a full salary is
paid."

Mrs Graessle is pushing for a rule change meaning that annual leave and
flexitime given to EU diplomats may not exceed 49 days, a reduction of 34 days
or seven weeks. The maximum period of rest or special leave, for officials in
countries such as Iraq, would be reduced to 15 working days from 25.

An EU diplomat working in Sri Lanka is entitled to almost 19 weeks off, 46 days
more than their colleagues working in Colombo's German embassy. EU officials in
Washington or New York are entitled to over seven weeks more time-off than
German diplomats.

The current situation is frustrating for Lady Ashton, who created the European
External Action Service (EEAS) at the beginning of 2010, because she inherited
rigid Commission staffing rules, drawn up for a predominantly Brussels-based
bureaucracy not for an overseas foreign service.

EEAS sources have told The Daily Telegraph that senior diplomats working
overseas have constantly raised the time-off issue as a problem that has leaves
front line EU delegations empty or short-staffed for long periods.

"Cathy Ashton supports change. We have held several meetings with the Commission
to look at the issues of revising rules on annual leave and public holidays,"
said her spokesman.

Britain is supporting reform to bring entitlements for the expanding EU
diplomatic corps, which had a 5.8 per cent budget increase this year, into line
with national foreign services, which have faced cuts.

"The package for EEAS staff serving overseas is very generous, as is the package
for all staff working in the institutions in Brussels. Cuts need to be made,"
said a British diplomat.

William Dartmouth, a Ukip MEP on the parliament foreign affairs committee said:
"It is about time that the British taxpayer got a long vacation from paying for
the greedy, grasping, and guzzling bureaucrats of Brussels."

:: The British head of the EU's environment agency has come under fire for
spending over £250,000 to decorate her Copenhagen headquarters with plants and
for holding staff training trips worth £28,000 in the Caribbean or
Mediterranean.

Jacqueline McGlade, an environmental scientist who has headed the agency since
2003, has been accused of a conflict of interest for booking bio-diversity
training courses run by an NGO that she had close links to.

The agency defended high-carbon impact trips to locations such as the Caribbean
as "in line with a priority to raise awareness of environmental issues and
develop expertise".

Agency staff also complained to the European Parliament about expenditure on a
"green faÃ§ade", spending that officials alleged came at the price of cancelling
environmental projects.

"The only legal way to erect such a facade was to appropriate funds approved for
other scientific purposes," said an email leaked by the Brussels website
EUObserver.

Katja Rosenbohm, a spokesman for the EU environment agency, insisted that the
flowering faÃ§ade had been funded from PR budgets "for public outreach
purposes". We had 18,000 hits on our website," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 26, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

NOW EU BANS PLASTIC BAGS;
Shoppers will be forced to pay new Brussels tax A tax on plastic bags will hit
shoppers hard

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 635 words


MEDDLING EU bureaucrats sparked fury last night over a plan to ban plastic
shopping bags in Britain.

Brussels commissars want to outlaw shops from stocking them or impose a
wallet-busting tax on shoppers to dramatically reduce their use.

The controversial measure, the latest in a long line interfering legislation
from the EU, is being driven by so-called fi ght against pollution.

The European Commission will take the fi rst step to total ban next month by
publishing a report on plastic packaging.

One of the key proposals will be a recommendation for mandatory charging for
plastic shopping bags.

The proposals were met with fury last night by retailers and politicians and
added to the growing support for our crusade to get Britain out of the EU.

Writing in the Daily Express today, UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall said it would alienate
consumers and do little to boost the EU's stuttering economic growth.

"Whether anybody in Brussels has noticed or not, the economy, both here in the
UK and across the continent, is hardly surging forward," he says. "Millions have
lost their jobs and millions have never had a job. Businesses are closing down
and those lucky enough to be in work are having to tighten their belts as prices
rise and salaries stagnate. So you would think that now would not be the time to
introduce a new tax on commerce."

Retail groups insisted any extra costs would be felt by shoppers.

Sarah Cordey, of the British Retail Consortium, said: "Enforcing a charge to use
carrier bags hits consumers in the pocket, particularly during hard times. It
also doesn't take into account the good work in Britain to reduce bag
consumption. It is wrong for the EU to put the emphasis on carrier bags in OF
THE EU put the emphasis on carrier bags in tackling pollution. It is proven that
they have a minor effect on the environment when compared to other things such
as the transporting of goods."

If the EU goes down the route of charging for carrier bags instead of an
outright ban, it would follow moves already taken by Ireland and Italy where
levies have been introduced.

So far, most large retailers in Britain have relied on customers to reduce their
usage voluntarily.

The average family uses 12 plastic carriers for the weekly food shop, while 46
per cent take home up to 10 from each visit. But a ban would require people to
remember to take their own To the Prime Minister bags each time they go
shopping. Unplanned trips would be almost wiped out if they were unavailable to
buy.

Last year, Britain's large retailers handed out 6.4 billion carrier bags, 333
million more than the previous year.

Most are used just once and end up in landfill sites where they can take between
100 and 1,000 years to rot.

In 2008 there were 3.4 million tons of plastic bags produced in Europe and only
6 per cent were recycled, the Commission claims.

European environment commissioner Janez Potocnik said: "Fifty years ago, the
single-use plastic bag was almost unheard of. Now we use them for a few minutes
and they pollute our environment for decades.

"But social attitudes are evolving and there is a widespread desire for change."

In 2008, Marks & Spencer became the first big high street chain to make
customers pay for carrier bags. Within a few months of imposing a 5p charge, the
company saw an 80 per cent fall to a level that has since been maintained.

Last October, Wales imposed a 5p charge and shops that provide free bags face a
fine of up to £5,000.

However, big retailers are reluctant to impose a charge. Sainsbury's tried but
it quickly provoked an uproar and it now says free bags are "critical" to its
customers. Boots has also ruled out removing them from its stores.

But some experts question their environmental impact. According to packaging
pressure group Wrap, they make up less than 1 per cent of home waste.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Change in store...Britons may be walloped with a bag charge on each
shopping trip GET US OUT OF THE EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 26, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

Police warning as flood of illegal immigrants doubles in just a year

BYLINE: ANIL DAWAR

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 567 words


THE number of illegal immigrants caught crossing into the EU across Greece's
border with Turkey has almost doubled in 12 months.

Nearly 3,000 people, mainly Afghanis and Pakistanis heading for the UK, were
picked up by Greek police in January and February this year - up from 1,600
caught in the same period in 2011.

The astonishing rise comes as Greek government contractors move on the EU's
busiest illegal crossing point to build an eight-mile border fence.

But the local police chief has warned that the 13ft-high razor wire barrier will
do little more than redirect the illegal traffic around it.

Brigadier Georgios Salamangas, of the Orestiada Police Directorate, said the
migrants do not want to stay in Greece but use it as a stepping stone to the UK
and other European countries.

"The fence is very important because once it is built no one will pass at this
point. But the traffickers will send them around it and we will have to move to
other areas.

"The traffickers are always changing their tactics. We had very bad weather
conditions but even so we had bigger numbers than in 2011. The traffickers have
changed the way they traffick. They will always adapt their methods to get
around what we do," he said.

Work on the £2.5million fence should be completed by August - the height of the
illegal immigration season. It will run close to the Turkish city of Edirne, the
only section of land border between the two countries. The River Evros makes up
the rest of the 128-mile dividing line.

Almost 90 per cent of all illegal immigration into the EU comes through the
agricultural and impoverished area.

In 2009, just 8,800 people were registered as illegal immigrants by Greek
police. In 2010 that number shot up to 49,000, prompting the EU's border agency,
Frontex, to send a contingent of border guards to help the Greek authorities
spot and process the migrants.

But instead of stemming the tide, news of the specialist operation seems to have
attracted more illegals who cross the border, wait for the police to pick them
up and then claim asylum, knowing they will be treated more humanely with the EU
watching.

Last year, 56,000 "irregular migrants", mainly from Afghanistan, Pakistan,
Bangladesh and Algeria, were picked up in the Evros region at a rate of 155
every day of the year. With Greece in economic meltdown there is little
incentive for the migrants to stay in the country, said the policeman.

And because of the EU's passport-free Schengen zone, for anyone trying to get to
the UK illegally the Greek border is the biggest obstacle before reaching the
English Channel. Mr Salamangas, 55, said: "This is not just a problem for
Greece. These borders are not only Greek borders, they are European borders,
British, German, Italian borders.

"These people don't want to stay in Greece, they want to go to other countries
where they can work or where their families are already living. Most of them are
from Afghanistan with small children.

"We take their photographs and fingerprints and let them go the same day. They
have to get back to their country in 30 days - we can't take them back, so we
have to let them go. They continue to find ways to get into Europe."

Euro MP Gerard Batten, home affairs spokesman for Ukip, said: "The people who
really want to get into the EU will not be deterred by a 13ft fence. If people
could cross the Berlin Wall they can cross this."

LEO MCKINSTRY: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrants, above, try to cross River Evros, the border between Greece
and Turkey. Police chief Georgios Salamangas, left, and Frontex guard Jan,
centre, with two of his colleagues
Picture: KEN MCKAY / ITV AND DAVID VENNI / BBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 26, 2012 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Matthew Norman on Monday: Forget about Ken for London Mayor, vote for Eddie
Izzard;


BYLINE: Matthew Norman

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 674 words


Every now and then in the life of a blighted political campaign, a comical
fiasco extinguishes the flickering flame of hope. For Ken Livingstone Inc
(company mission statement: pay tax as I say, not as I do), it surely arrived
when Bob "Carrion" Crow dipped his beak into the decaying flesh of his mayoral
ambitions.

What possessed the RMT leader to threaten Boris Johnson with a libel writ for
placing his name alongside a picture of Ken, on a campaign poster is hard to be
sure. The heart says Bob truly believes that for the RMT to be associated with
Ken, whom Bob recently called "a good bloke" without apparent ironic intent, is
defamatory.

The head wonders about rancor engendered by Ken declining Bob's offer to fund
his campaign. Whatever the truth, the falling-out of brothers, to general
amusement, is never good news, as Ed Miliband will agree, and this one seems
poorly designed to reverse Ken's tax avoidance-inspired collapse in the polls.
With six weeks until the vote, Little Ed must be fantasising about inveigling
Ken to stand aside for a viable candidate.

One name springs to mind. Eddie has spoken of his dream to be Labour's Mayor of
London for ages (since taking umbrage with Dick Whittington, in fact, for
proposing a cross-dressing tax), and one cannot put these things off forever. I
would vote for him, early and often, and you would too. Who doesn't love Eddie
Izzard? He'd be a dead cert to bury Boris beneath a landslide on the "You've had
four years of an amateur comedian... now it's time for a pro!" ticket.

Oy vey! What will they think of next?

Bracing to note Channel 4's canny response to criticism of its penchant for lazy
stereotyping. Following Big Fat Gypsy Wedding, stand by for the autumnal ratings
banker Jewish Mum Of The Year. Among the gruelling tasks facing the candidates
will be cooking, knowledge of their children (technically, interfering in their
lives), and of course matchmaking. Contestants are advised to moan "already 23,
and does she show any sign of settling down?" every two minutes, and to patrol
the sitting room kvetching at Hymie for sitting on the sofa when they've only
just finished plumping up the cushions. "The winner is out there somewhere in
the land of the Jewish princesses and pampered Bar Mitzvah boys," reads a
cliche-busting press release, "and no strudel will be left unturned in this
quest..." On the strength of this masterstoke, C4 boss David Abraham must be on
the short-list.

D-G must have dart at Jocky mystery

Whoever becomes D-G must announce an enquiry into the greatest conundrum in Beeb
history: the mystery of whether that giant photo of Jocky Wilson, left, which
appeared behind Dexy's Midnight Runners, as they performed "Jackie Wilson Said"
on Top of the Pops, was cock up or conspiracy. Jocky will be remembered as much
for his unwitting role in that as for his toothless grin and the majesty of his
darts.

Another soul for Sentamu to save

John Sentamu steps up his mission to save Sun readers' souls. Not content with
his riveting Sunday Service column, on Wednesday the Archbishop of York chipped
in a piece sourcing Fabrice Muamba's survival to the power of prayer, and
relating how a word of his in the Almighty's shell-like sent a cancer-stricken
parishioner with three weeks to live into spontaneous remission. As he
prosecutes his studiedly unpopulist campaign for Canterbury, we remind Sentamu
that Dick Cheney is a hero of Rupert Murdoch's. Nothing would delight the papal
knight like a prayer in the next column for the adorable Cheney's heart not to
reject him.

The latest political potty mouth

Hallelujah! A worthy rival at last to Nadine Dorries' title of Most
Gravitas-Laden Tory MP. Claire Perry, the potty-mouthed member for Devizes who
enlivened a debate by advising her Europhobic colleague Douglas Carswell to
"f*** off and join UKIP", explains herself to the Sunday Times.

"My feeling is always, if you've got something to say," she remarks of her
rebuke to Douglas for chivvying the government, "say it in private". Definitely
one to watch.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 26, 2012 Monday 3:03 PM GMT

This is simply how UK politics is done: Dave and co are just carrying on the
legacy left by Labour to access and influence policy

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

LENGTH: 610 words


Is anyone surprised at the latest fundraising scandal to hit Downing Street?
Dave and co are just carrying on the legacy left by Labour to access and
influence policy.  If you just bung us some cash, no questions asked, guv'nor
(if you're a Labour union bunger or 'dear boy' if you're a Tory donor).

On the Today programme this morning we heard the self-righteous Lord Levy - he
of 'cash for honours' fame - (although cleared of any wrong doing) saying that
he found is astonishing that this practice was happening in Downing Street and
that the Prime Minister should declare who he had had to private dinners in the
private flat provided for the PM.

Dear old Evan Davies in his quietly persisting manner then got Levy to admit
that the exact same thing happened when he was Tony Blair's personal fundraiser.

  The hyprocrisy is astounding.

Scroll down for video

At least Francis Maude, the Tory moderniser and close Cameron aide, had the
decency to admit that there were levels of access to the PM depending on how
much you gave.

This is politics in the UK.  To run a General Election campaign costs tens of
millions. A poster campaign can cost upwards of £20m, then there are the
leaflets, the telephone canvassing, the party machines. The public regularly
argues that they have had too much paper through their doors but in another
breath say they don't know what your policies are. The LibDems and Christopher
Kelly, the chairman of the Standards in Public Life, would put a cap on
donations. The last thing that the taxpayer and politics needs is state assisted
funding of political parties as those on the left and democracy industry would
impose upon us. Politics is made up of vested interests and that develops
policy.The LibDems have their individual donors who buy seats in the House of
Lords or Parliament as they cannot find individual donors to pay them cash
because they do not merit the money.

If you are a union leader then your cash will help to develop vested policy
interests.  If you are a Conservative leaning business person then you may seek
to influence the way business policy is developed. If you believe all our woes
are the root of evil that is the EU then you will give money to UKIP.  I'm not
qualified to say why you would give money to the LibDems as they're policies are
totally unfathomable.

If you are 'Red Len' McCluskey this morning, leader of the Unite union and
Labour's largest donor, you will be rubbing your hands together. His union is
about to ballot his 2000 members for a strike over fuel tanker drivers'
benefits. This is driven less by his members' concerns over their jobs but more
of a 1970/80s Conservative/union confrontation, which is ideologically and
politically driven, rather than concern for his members' benefits in a time of a
flat-lining economy.  However much Ed Miliband will apply weasel words in the
House of Commons and through the media to weakly condemn the proposed strike
action, he will be secretly rubbing his hands together and patting the cash in
his back pocket from 'Red Len' because it is in his financial interests to do
so.

Cameron should not have to publish who he has to dinner in his flat. Donations
are readily available and published by the main parties. Ninety per cent of
Labour's money comes from the unions, that's where their vested interests are.
Although I couldn't imagine anything worse than being holed up in a flat for
dinner with Mr and Mrs Milipede, or having to listen to Chris Huhne drone on.

VIDEO: David Cameron reveals details of 'dinners for donors'

[item name=video id=17797 style=2 /]

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 25, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

I'm a breath of blue air;
CLAIRE PERRY The Tory MP has shocked some with her salty language but her blunt
manner and role as a 'critical friend' of ministers is winning fans

BYLINE: MARGARETTE DRISCOLL

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1308 words


It sounds a most unparliamentary exchange. Taking umbrage at a question from
Tory rightwinger Douglas Carswell about child benefit, the government loyalist
and new girl Claire Perry - elected in 2010 - was reported last weekend to have
leant across the back benches in exasperation and said: "Why don't you f*** off
and join UKIP?" Carswell, the MP for Clacton, was not surprisingly said to be
shocked. As was Perry's 15-year-old daughter, Sophie. "She rang up and said,
'Oh, Mummy, what have you been saying?' " laughs Perry. "I told her, don't
believe everything you read."

Perry, the MP for Devizes, is unwrapping a Tesco sandwich in her office in
Westminster, having spent what should have been lunchtime running the gauntlet
of protesters outside the Commons after George Osborne's budget speech.

In navy A-line skirt and oversized pearls, she looks every inch the demure
shires lady, but Tory women are traditionally made of stern stuff, not least
this one.

"I have this reputation for being argumentative but, really, it's just speaking
my mind," she says. "I am part of a group who came into the House in our
forties, having had successful careers [she worked as a trader in the City and
on Wall Street] and the idea that you just sit and listen to people pontificate
because they've been here a bit longer than you ... Well, that doesn't appeal."

For the record, she admits to being annoyed by the kind of question Carswell was
asking - "My feeling is always if you've got something to say, say it in
private. When you express a blue-on-blue [Tory on Tory] or a blue-on-yellow
[Tory on Liberal Democrat] anti thing, all you're doing is helping the
opposition."

But she denies using the kind of "salty, Anglo-Saxon word" attributed to her: "I
would not use language like that in the House of Commons."

She does admit, though - a little sheepishly - that she did once walk into the
MPs' tea room, having failed to catch the eye of John Bercow in a debate, and
complain: "What have I got to do to be called by Mr Speaker - give him a blow
job?" ("But it was a private conversation, never meant to be reported!") She is
also given to more than the odd salty, Anglo-Saxon epithet outside the chamber:
"Part of the legacy of working on a trading floor is that you swear more than is
necessary and I'm working hard to cut down on it."

Enough with the mea culpa. While some have been shocked by Perry's forthright
manner, as many if not more find it refreshing. She may have terrified some of
the men (asking on International Women's Day, when there were a number of female
visitors, whether they could "cope with all the oestrogen" in the House) but her
warmth and ready laughter have proved a magnet for women of all political
stripes.

Having come into politics as an adviser to the chancellor, a member of the
so-called "Giddy's gang" (Osborne was christened Gideon but opted for George as
a teenager), Perry has widened her reach into a number of areas, most notably
setting up the Forum, a group of 40 or so Conservative MPs who act as "critical
friends" on government policy, and campaigning to introduce controls on
pornographic material on the internet. She led a parliamentary inquiry on the
subject (working with the likes of Fiona Mactaggart, a Labour MP, and Jo
Swinson, a Lib Dem MP) which will publish its findings shortly.

Perry, 47, does not want to ban porn but to change the "opt-out" facility - that
some internet service providers (ISPs) are offering new customers - to an
"opt-in" system whereby the default setting for all households would be "no
porn" unless they request otherwise.

"Porn is not what we grew up with - it's not like the magazine you found in the
builders' hut - there's a lot of very violent, extreme porn out there, very
easily available to children," she says. "There's lots of anecdotal evidence
that boys have changing views about what constitutes consent, girls are changing
the way they groom themselves and it's families with older children who use
filters the least because the parents don't understand technology. We'll be
recommending an opt-in and we'll see what the government says."

TalkTalk is the only ISP so far to agree to an opt-in system, but the company is
unwilling to proceed on the change on its own. The "corporate foot-dragging"
from the others has been hugely frustrating.

"We're talking household names here: BT, Sky, Virgin," says Perry. "Initially
they said there was nothing that could be done, then it was too expensive, then
technically too difficult ... We said: oh really? "As a Conservative I don't
like a lot of government regulation but this is so important we may have to ask
the government to step in. It's like: come on, guys, get your act together,
where's your sense of social responsibility?" A comprehensive school pupil, she
was the first in her family to stay on in education past 16. "Education unlocked
my life," she says. "When I was a teenager a light went on. I just loved
learning. My biology teacher said, 'You ought to sit the Oxbridge papers', and I
was so ignorant I thought he meant the A-level syllabus."

She still has the train ticket from the day she went for interview at Brasenose
College, Oxford. "It was a bit like coming to Westminster for the first time. I
just did not know such places existed," she says.

She read geography, then studied at Harvard Business School and worked for
McKinsey and Bank of America. She met her husband Clayton, a fund manager, in
New York and all went swimmingly until she had her second daughter, Eliza, now
13, and began to pine for home: "I had this thing that I really wanted to bring
the children to England. I wanted them to grow up with the health service and
green fields."

They relocated to Wiltshire ("My husband is a New Zealander, keen on rugby and
beer, so he fitted in perfectly") and she became a stay-athome mother, having a
third child, Hector, now nine.

In 2005 Osborne came to a fundraising dinner. "I plonked myself down beside him
and said, 'Hi, I used to be quite switched on, can I come and do work
experience, volunteer for a few months?'" Osborne agreed and in 2008 she was
formally hired as a policy adviser. Her nervousness at rejoining the working
fray - and trying to juggle family commitments around a job - made her painfully
aware of the struggle that many women, most of them less privileged than
herself, have in getting back to work after having a family.

"I was basically unemployed for seven years and going back, even voluntarily,
was the hardest thing I've ever done," she says. "Once you're out of the
workforce you lose your confidence.

"I've heard lots of women say the same thing. That's a huge loss to business. I
think companies could be a lot better at keeping in touch with talented women.
They're missing a trick in not being flexible enough to think: we've got people
out there who know us and could do things for us. Clever companies know women's
careers may not be linear but with help they can be long."

Careers may be short or long at Westminster but they always involve gruelling
hours. Perry says she has never had as little control over her life as in the
past two years: "In most jobs you can schedule things, you can control your
diary and work out when you can leave the office. Here, you get these emails
saying 'we could be voting until 4am', but that's the system."

She chose to make it work by putting all three children in boarding schools. She
lives in a flat in London during the week.

"It's odd because for years I was the Delia Smith mother, cooking and making
play dough. Now I open the fridge and there's a pint of milk - off - a packet of
turkey - off - and an apple, maybe. I've resigned myself to the fact that as a
woman you'll always feel guilty about something."

Best just to plunge in and get on with it, she says. You can always get the
pinny out at weekends.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRANCESCO GUIDICINI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 25, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't tell Allah, but he's voting for Ken

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 119 words


Ken Livingstone has announced that he wishes London to be "a beacon that
demonstrates the meaning of the words of the prophet" to the world. This was his
mayoral pitch to a bunch of Muslim voters last week.

My guess is that when he next addresses a group of gay voters he may nuance that
message a little, perhaps shift the emphasis. Though maybe I'm wrong and he'll
denounce them as sodomites heading for the pit of infernal torment. Who knows?

Exciting though it might be to have our capital city as a sort of gigantic Radio
Islam, would Allah himself like to be co-opted into Ken's campaign? I always
imagine him as a disillusioned former Tory voter who now tends towards UKIP. But
I may be wrong about that, too.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 24, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cowie's blog week

SECTION: YOUR MONEY;FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 468 words


Millions of public sector pensioners lose fight to escapean equity of misery

Tuesday, Narch 20: Posted by Ian Cowie

Comment on this at telegraph.co.uk/blogs

Public sector pensioners are entitled to resent a ruling by the Court of Appeal
on indexlinking because it will almost certainly reduce the real value or
purchasing power of their pensions in retirement.

The Government is undoubtedly guilty of doubledealing in the different ways it
measures inflation. It uses the higher retail prices index (RPI) to determine
rail fare increases and how much interest graduates must pay on their debts.
Then it switches to the lower consumer prices index (CPI) to calculate how much
compensation state pensioners and other people living on fixed incomes require
for the way quantitative easing and negative real interest rates are shrinking
the pounds in their pockets.

Indexation was originally intended to preserve the real value of pensions
against insidious erosion by inflation. While many utilities and basic foods are
seeing double-digit price increases, it is difficult to see how CPI will achieve
that aim. If it continues to fall short of the real cost of living, perhaps it
will come to be known as the cutting pensions index.

But it will narrow the gap between private sector and public sector retirement
provision; 95pc of savers in the private sector with defined contribution
pensions cannot afford any form of inflation protection at all.

So today's decision goes some way to imposing an equality of misery on private
and public sector pensioners. But the latter still have a good deal for which to
be grateful: pensions that most of their counterparts outside the government
payroll could never afford.

You said

I am sick of people berating the pensions of nurses/teachers etc.

All of us should have decent pensions but oh no ... let's berate the public
sector so we all get NO pensions.

bella 21/03/2012 at 12.09

This effect is a consequence of too much government spending, for any and all
reasons, and the natural increase in inflation.

ryck 21/03/2012 at 06.07

The fact that inflation on some items of expenditure is higher than CPI is
neither here nor there. Life goes round and one must take the rough with the
smooth (that includes me). When the country is broke, we have to accept some
reduction in our generally reasonable lifestyle.

davidofkent 20/03/2012 at 03:24

Sounds like a very just judgment, one that will help those who have to work hard
to pay for the pensions of others, though it would be far better for the UK
economy if a cut in those pensions, which come on top of the state pension, were
engineered.

nettle 20/03/2012 at 01.49

Roll on the next election when we pensioners will be voting ... Me, I'm voting
Ukip 'cos it's a slap for Camerloon and the Clegg person.

bryan_stives 20/03/2012 at 12.10

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK to stump up another £1.8bn for EU

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 339 words


BRITISH taxpayers will have to stump up a further £1.8billion to bolster the
EU's bloated coffers.

It means the UK will hand the European Commission a colossal £33.1billion by the
end of 2014.

The huge rise adds further weight to the Daily Express Crusade to get Britain
out of the European Union.

Brussels wants to increase the EU's budget for seven years covering 2014-2020 to
one trillion euros (£898 billion).

The proposed increase would raise Britain's annual EU contribution to nearly
£10billion a year, equivalent to more than £400 for every household in the
country. A spokesman for Think tank Open Europe said: "It is deeply concerning
that the Government has managed to grossly underestimate the UK's net
contribution, especially when it means that taxpayers are paying in even more to
what is a flawed and wasteful EU budget.

"The EU budget urgently needs to be cut and spent far better."

Britain is understood to have received lower-than-expected funds from the EU in
subsidies and regional spending during 2010/11 and projected for 2011/12.

Forecasts released by the Office for Budget Responsibility predict the eurozone
will be in recession this year and in each of the next four years it will
deliver growth at less than half the rate of the world as a whole.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage warned that by being a member of the EU, the UK's
economy is chained to the slowcoach of the world economy. "It is disgraceful
that many of the country's pensioners will lose out due to these tax changes,
yet the amount of money we give to the EU continues to spiral out of control,"
he said. "The Government has got its priorities wrong and these figures speak
for themselves."

Robert Oxley, of the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "It's scandalous that British
taxpayers are being asked to stump up even more cash for the Eurocrats while
they waste money like there's no tomorrow.

"If the Government can't even accurately work out how much money we hand to the
EU, then it can't be trusted to get a good deal from Britain's membership."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Yet more taxpayers' cash will go to the EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 23, 2012 Friday 10:53 AM GMT

Tories and Lib Dems score by-election victories in marginals;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 305 words


Coalition Government parties triumphed in two marginal wards in the latest
council by-elections - the first voting test after Chancellor George Osborne's
Budget statement.

There was a much-needed boost for Liberal Democrats at north west London's Brent
Borough ahead of May's mayoral and assembly polls in the capital.

They held on to a knife-edge marginal Dollis Hill seat with just a 0.5% net
swing to Labour since the last main council polls on the same day as the 2010
general election.

Lib Dems were clearly helped by Tory tactical voting.

The ward is in the area of the former Brent East constituency represented in the
Commons by Labour mayoral candidate Ken Livingstone until 2001.

This is the first of five London borough by-elections in the run-up to May 3.

Tories increased their majority at Hertfordshire County Council's Waltham Cross
division compared with the 2009 contest when Labour was trailing nationwide.

However they lost to independent Jeff Moody at Tavistock North, West Devon
Borough.

RESULTS

Brent London Borough - Dollis Hill: Lib Dem 1205, Lab 1168, C 140, Green 79.
(May 2010 - Three seats Lib Dem 1914, 1885, 1833, Lab 1806, 1792, 1705, C 878,
804, 649, Green 203, 179, 161). Lib Dem hold. Swing 0.5% Lib Dem to Lab.

Hertfordshire County - Waltham Cross: C 1389, Lab 837, Ukip 159, Lib Dem 76.
(June 2009 - C 1476, Lab 955, BNP 615, Lib Dem 479). C hold. Swing 3.8% Lab to
C.

Tendring District - St Bartholomews: Holland-on-Sea Residents Association 1087,
C 289, Lab 120. (May 2011 - Two seats Holland-on-Sea Residents Association 1341,
1278, C 527, 428). Residents hold..

West Devon Borough - Tavistock North: Ind 407, C 256, Lib Dem 225, Lab 125, Ukip
78, Ind 57. (May 2011 - Three seats C 706, 592, 584, Ind 583, 576, Lib Dem 490,
406, Ind 369, Lab 367, Lib Dem 248). Ind gain from C. Swing 5.2% C to Lib Dem.

PA

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday

Phone hacking: David Beckham's father among those suing News International

BYLINE: Jason Deansguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 317 words

ABSTRACT

Ted Beckham joins host of public figures making claims over alleged actions by
News of the World and Glenn Mulcaire. By Jason Deans

FULL TEXT

David Beckham's father is among the individuals suing News International over
alleged phone hacking by the News of the World.

Ted Beckham has joined a string of public figures suing News Group Newspaper,
the News International subsidiary that published the News of the World, and
private investigator Glenn Mulcaire, who used to work for the paper.

He has issued a claim form in his full name of David Edward Alan Beckham at the
Royal Courts of Justice in London.

News International has settled 55 out of 60 initial civil claims for invasion of
privacy from phone-hacking victims including Charlotte Church, Jude Law, Sienna
Miller, former Labour cabinet minister Tessa Jowell and the son of the serial
killer Harold Shipman.

However, the publisher could face up to 200 more civil actions, with figures
including Cherie Blair, the wife of the former Labour prime minister, singer
James Blunt, Ukip leader Nigel Farage, and Alex Best, the wife of the
ex-Manchester United footballer George Best, having already filed.

Others who have filed claims include Colin Stagg, the man wrongly accused of
murdering Rachel Nickell, TV personalities Jamie Theakston and Jeff Brazier,
former boxer Chris Eubank and footballers Peter Crouch, Kieron Dyer and Jermaine
Jenas.

The publisher has also received almost 50 inquiries regarding the compensation
scheme it set up last year for victims of phone-hacking.

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 22, 2012 Thursday 3:30 PM GMT

Gay marriage: this is a battle the Churches will lose - and it will be a messy
business

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1146 words


Dr Rowan Williams is getting out in the nick of time. Let's be clear about this:
the Churches will lose their fight against gay marriage becoming part of the law
of the land - and it'll be a messy business. This week various bishops have
pointed out, quite correctly, that giving heterosexual and same-sex marriages
the same legal status means redefining a concept that lies at the heart of
religious life. Admittedly, there's a clause in the Coalition's "consultation"
that bans gay church weddings, but that doesn't represent any sort of solution.

Take the case of the Church of England. Lots of trendy clergy will ask to
solemnise gay weddings. Happy couple, beaming vicar, chirpy guests, organist
belting out show tunes - who's going to call the police? Not the bishop, who'll
be terrified of being grilled by the right-on BBC.

For Roman Catholics the prospect is a very bleak one. Even if a liberal priest
wanted to do the honours, he'd incur automatic excommunication and be out of a
job. The "wedding" would be a parody of the sacrament. So a legal ban would save
a lot of awkwardness.

But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Are we sure there's going to be a ban
against gay church weddings? Human rights judges will wipe it off the statute
book at the first opportunity - which is why it may well be smothered during the
consultation process. And in the absence of an exemption, what are Catholic
dioceses going to do? Padlock the church door? It could come to that.

Newsnight on Thursday told me all I needed to know. First we had a filmed report
on gay marriage that gave opponents of the measure the sort of "fair hearing"
reserved for members of Ukip. In the studio discussion afterwards, Tory minister
Nick Herbert and dreary comedian Rhona Cameron found themselves on the same side
of the argument. Cameron was her usual humourless Spartist self, but far more
striking was Herbert's blank-eyed inflexibility. The critics of gay marriage
ranged against them were wasting their breath. The ruling class has chattered,
and the verdict is in.

The passing of this legislation will mark a significant moment in Britain's
history: its emergence as a post-Christian society along the lines of
Scandinavia or France.

The traditional definition of marriage is a cornerstone of Church teaching. The
fact thatthe Rev Giles Fraser (inevitably) wants to remove it is evidence of
secularisation from within.

But the secularisation that really matters comes from the majority of young
British citizens who are atheists or agnostics. David Cameron isn't in favour of
gay marriage because he's a Conservative: that's just cute sophistry. He's in
favour of it because he represents, and earnestly desires the votes of,
Britain's fast-growing post-Christian electorate.

As for the Anglican and Catholic hierarchies, part of me is looking forward to
watching them lose this battle. For decades, bishops have made damn sure they're
on the liberal side of every controversy: against nuclear weapons, against
government cuts, hysterical proponents of the global warming scare, etc. Now
they're being forced to take a reactionary line againstpolitically correct
members of the Tory party. Quelle horreur!

Archbishop Vincent Nichols, leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales,
has really drawn the short straw here. He was also on Newsnight, in a
pre-recorded interview with Jeremy Paxman. Although he argued his corner with
skill, his expression said: get me out of here. But, thanks to a "conservative"
prime minister, that's no longer anoption.

I don't like to criticise, but...

Paul Taylor, The Independent's theatre critic, certainly has a way with words.
Here he is on Shivered at the Southwark Playhouse: "A tragicomic reveling in the
destructive element but bravura, abundant, tonally varied (there are always some
great joles [sic]) tours de foce [sic] of the dramatic and narrative arts. His
invigorated manner and visionary verve incorporate - without resort to
moralising speeches - the resilient, healthy values that are like a built-in
antidote to the sick situations he (so often clairvoyantly) depicts." Yikes.
IthinkI preferred Johann Hari. At least his interviews were written in English -
albeit someone else's English.

Dave carries the weight of office

I keep chuckling over historian Niall Ferguson's sycophantic interview with
David Cameron, published in Newsweek before the PM's tripto Washington.

Niall found Dave "disarmingly free of snobbery", which is a bit like being
bowled over by the monastic asceticism of Silvio Berlusconi.Also, gushed the
prof, Dave is the first prime minister actually to look younger after taking
office. As a result, he predicted, Obama would seem really old in comparison.

I don't know about you, but what I saw on television was a lean and fit
president next to a chubby chap with shiny cheeks bulging like sausages waiting
to be pricked.Not to be rude, Prime Minister, but that personal trainer really
owes you a refund.

Honours lose their lustre

Anthony Bailey, PR man and former New Labour donor, loves to drape himself in
exotic honours: the Order of the Madara Horseman (Bulgaria), Knight Grand Cross
of the Order of Juan Mora Fernandez (Costa Rica), Grand Officer of the Most
Devoted Royal Household (Tonga). Etc.

Well, whatever turns you on. But I wonder if Bailey is still proud of his Syrian
Orderof Outstanding Merit, awarded by the butcher Assad in recognition of
Bailey's status as delegate of the grandly named Catholic "Sacred Military
Constantinian Order of St George". The Constantinians have also made Assad a
Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Francis, much to the disgust of many
Catholics.

It also appears that the Constantinians are a client of Bailey's company, Eligo.
I rang Eligo to check. "Can't help you on that," said an apologetic spokesman.
So I rang the Sacred Military Order. The same man answered the phone, but still
couldn't help. How very odd.

[Update: The Order has now announced that Assad is no longerKnight Grand Cross
of the Order of St Francis.]

Musical genius that never ends

Next week sees the start of one of Radio 3's exercises in total immersion: eight
days of Schubert from Friday onwards. A highlight will be Brian Newbould's
completion of an unfinished Schubert symphony - not the Unfinished Symphony, but
a fragment from 1821 that contains some of his most adventurous modulations.
Sorry, but I'm sceptical. The reconstructed Elgar Third and Mahler Tenth may
work as symphonies, but to me they're not quite the real thing. And as for the
unfinished final fugue in Bach's Art of Fugue, which ends tantalisingly in mid
air, the fact that no one has ever completed it convincingly is, for me, the
ultimate proof of the composer's genius.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 21, 2012 Wednesday 2:21 PM GMT

Britain stood back and watched as an EU Police State grew up - and now it can't
protect its own citizens

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

LENGTH: 806 words


"In Germany they came first for the Communists, and I didn't speak up because I
wasn't a Communist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn't speak up because I
wasn't a Jew. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I didn't speak up
because I wasn't a trade unionist. Then they came for the Catholics, and I
didn't speak up because I was a Protestant. Then they came for me, and by that
time no one was left to speak up."

- Martin Niemöller, prominent German anti-Nazi theologian

We should be afraid - very afraid - that our current Government (and Labour
before them) have failed to stop the creation of an EU Super Police State by
allowing the European Arrest Warrant jurisdiction in the UK, and for failing to
stop the US abusing extradition laws.

This week saw Portugal using the new powers to intimidate a photographer from
Canterbury, Graham Mitchell, who was arrested by British police at his home
after Portuguese authorities issued a European Arrest Warrant.

This comes despite the fact he was tried and acquitted of attempted murder in
the Algarve in 1995. After spending a night at Wandsworth Prison in London, he
appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court where he was told his initial
acquittal was being challenged and that he was being accused of first degree
murder - even though 'victim' is still alive.

The court has granted Mr Mitchell conditional bail and ordered that he surrender
his passport. He was also made to pay a £5,000 surety and must report to police
every day.

This comes after the arrest and removal under extradition laws with the United
States of Kent businessman Christopher Tappin,

Mr Tappin, who fought extradition to the USA for two years now faces the
prospect of waiting for years in a violent American prison and being forced into
a plea bargain.

He is accused of selling missile parts to Iran. The shipping transaction to
Iran, which was undertaken on behalf of a U.S. government front company, made
Mr.Tappin $500 - a normal shipping fee. It is impossible to believe that a
wealthy man, on the verge of retirement, would have risked everything for such a
paltry sum.

No British court has ever been allowed to examine the evidence against Mr Tappin
and I believe this Treaty, signed in the wake of the September 11 attacks, needs
to be amended.

For what it is worth, there is a No.10 petition set up where you can record your
opposition to Mr Tappin's extradition.  http://www.ukip.
org/content/latest-news/2622-ukip-epetition-supports-chris-tappin

In addition, there are other high profile cases such as that of Richard O'Dwyer,
the 23 year-old creator of the TVShack website which enabled users to watch
films and television show for free. This is similar to the case of Gary
McKinnon, the Briton accused by the US authorities of hacking into Pentagon
computers in 2002. Both of them have been extradited to the U.S. to face trial.

Emotional: O'Dwyer's mother Julia, broke down in tears, vowing to appeal the
court's decision

Attorney General Dominic Grieve said last month that Tappin's extradition had
highlighted problems with the treaty between the UK and the United States which
are not 'readily curable'. That's comforting for the victims and their relatives
when they see Cameron and Obama having a love-in on Airforce One.

My friend, the MEP Gerard Batten, demonstrates in a new book how a new European
Union system of criminal law is being created.

The booklet has a particular focus on the controversial European Arrest Warrant
(EAW) which has seen the lives of Britons such Andrew Symeou were ripped apart
as they were extradited to another European country and later found innocent.

This far-reaching piece of EU legislation enables British citizens to be
arrested and transported to any corner of the EU on the basis of increasingly
ill-defined accusations.

Those extradited from Britain can languish for months or years in foreign
prisons without an English or Scottish court having the power to prevent it.

Gerard's booklet 'Freedom, Security and Justice or The Creation of an EU
Superstate' documents the development of the EU's single system of criminal law
over the last decade or so and how this is being created by stealth. Gerard
demonstrates how this heralds the creation of an EU police state.

It also details the legal instruments and institutions in place that have
created a system which takes away the rights of the British people to be
protected by a British court.

Little by little, an EU Superstate is being created by the back door which
should concern everybody in this country. It is truly frightening how far it has
gone and how few rights we have as individuals.

This article seeks to demonstrate the sinister EU situation and how we should
all be very worried about our Government's cosy relationship with the U.S. In
doing nothing, they are failing our citizens.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     March 21, 2012 Wednesday 11:13 AM GMT

'Stoning and whipping will happen in the UK if we allow sharia law to thrive',
warns peer

BYLINE: TOM GARDNER

LENGTH: 581 words



     ·    Around 85 Sharia courts operating in Britain, study says
     ·    British Muslims settling disputes in Sharia tribunals will boost
          far-right support, Baroness fears


Brutal punishments including whipping and stoning could become widespread in the
UK if Islamic Sharia law is allowed to thrive, a peer has warned.

Outspoken Baroness Cox said a growing number of British Muslims are shunning the
official court system in favour of Sharia councils to settle legal disputes.

She told a House of Lords conference this could even lead to the destruction of
democracy and fuel support for far-right groups like the British National Party.

She said: 'We do not at the moment have the most brutal punishments, but there
are those in this country who would like to bring them in.

'Many Sharia courts are an institutional means of intimidation backed by death
threats.'

Lady Cox has previously caused controversy and inflamed tensions when in
February 2009 she and UKIP peer Lord Pearson invited Dutch far-right Freedom
Party leader Geert Wilders to show the anti-Islam film Fitna before the House of
Lords.

A Home Office spokesman said at the time: 'The Government regrets the decision
by Baroness Cox and Lord Pearson to invite Geert Wilders to the House of Lords
for a private showing of his film Fitna.'

Wilders was eventually banned from the country amid fears his presence would
endanger public security.

But Baroness Cox has been one of the most outspoken campaigners against the
growth of Islamic law in this country.

British Muslims have been able to turn to Sharia courts since 1982.

RELIGIOUS LAW IN BRITAIN


     ·    Sharia law is a set of religious principles based on the Koran, by
          which Muslims are required to live.
     ·    It has four parts: Worship, commerce, crime and punishment, marriage
          and divorce.
     ·    Banned behaviour - drink, drugs, adultery - should be punished.
     ·    Scholars say the Koran sets sanctions such as lashes of stoning for
          adultery.
     ·    Sharia law permits behaviour banned by English law, for example,
          polygamy.
     ·    Othodox Jews operate Beth Din courts, which decide issues according to
          Jewish law.
     ·    Only religious courts in England with full legal status are Church of
          England consistory courts and tribunals.


A study estimated that at least 85 Islamic sharia courts were operating in
Britain.

The figures surprised many as the it was 17 times higher than previously
accepted.

The tribunals, working mainly from mosques, lay down judgments which can be
given full legal status if approved in national law courts

They operate behind doors that are closed to independent observers and their
decisions are likely to be unfair to women and backed by intimidation, the
report by independent think-tank Civitas said in 2009.

Sharia law courts are run by the Muslim Arbitration Tribunal, a body whose
rulings are enforced through the state courts under the 1996 Arbitration Act.

The spread of sharia law has become increasingly controversial since its role
was backed by Archbishop of Canterbury Dr Rowan Williams and Lord Phillips, a
former Lord Chief Justice.

Dr Williams said a recognised role for sharia law seemed 'unavoidable' and Lord
Phillips said there was no reason why decisions made on sharia principles should
not be recognised by the national courts.

But the Civitas report said the principles on which sharia courts work are
indicated by the fatwas - religious decrees - set out on websites run by British
mosques.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday

London mayoral election live blog day one - cycling

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4372 words

ABSTRACT

In the first of the Guardian's live blogs covering the London mayoral election,
Christopher Peck of the CTC, Mike Cavenett of the London Cycling Campaign, and
transport commentator Christian Wolmar discuss bikes in London. Post your
questions for them below

FULL TEXT

3.30pm: I love this comment from CalvinTucker on traffic lights, especially the
gleeful last line:

If a light-bulb designed for motorists orders me, a cyclist, to go to my death,
my answer is: "Sorry Mr Light-bulb, but I prefer to live." Which is what I would
also tell a policeman, if he can catch me.

2.03pm: Many thanks to our guests, Christopher Peck of the CTC, Mike Cavenett of
the London Cycling Campaign, and transport commentator Christian Wolmar. It's
been a great debate below the line so far - please keep the comments coming.

1.55pm: In the comments, BarryVK writes:

So Boris wants to create more Cycle Superhighways - which would be great if the
ones we already had were "Super". But they aren't and wasting money splashing
yet more blue paint around won't change that or radically increase the number of
people who commute by bike. I use CS2 every weekday and aside from 100 meters
which are segregated it's NOT anything like a superhighway. It's pretty much
been a complete waste of money and hasn't made cycling into London any safer. At
Bow Flyover (where 2 cyclists died in a period of 3 weeks after "improvements")
it's positively lethal. We need a proper cycling infrastructure plan that will
provide segregated cycle paths into the city and enforced 20MPH speed limits
across the city. But we'll just get more blue paint ... and increased obesity,
oil dependency, polluted air, health problems etc.

Mike Cavenett of the LCC responds:

The failure of the Cycling Superhighways to provide a real safety benefit has
been a wake up call for all politicians, not just in London. We, people who
cycle, have an opportunity to demand politicians do better. The should realise
that investment in attractive, safe cycling infrastructure is far better value
than building new roads bringing even more cars into the city

Christopher Peck of the CTC adds:

I'd agree that so far the Cycle Superhighways project has been an expensive and,
in the case of Bow Roundabout, downright dangerous exercise in bad cycle
facility design. This is precisely why CTC doesn't advocate putting all our eggs
in an infrastructure basket. Sure, good facilities are vital to making London
more cycle friendly, but if we can't make sure the standard of the facility is
good then we should think again - in some cases lower speed limits and
restrictions on traffic may be better.

1.43pm: The Boris Johnson team has just released a statement attacking Ken
Livingstone for "breaking another promise" - drawing attention to the fact that
he said in 1998 that he would only serve one term as mayor. In the event he
served two, stood for a third time in 2008, and is now of course standing again.

But it is hardly news that Livingstone changed his mind about this (or "broke
his promise") a long time ago. In 2003, as a local reporter for the Kilburn
Times, I interviewed Livingstone and asked him how long he would like to stay in
power. He told me then:

It would be wonderful to drive the [2012] Olympics through, and Crossrail. These
things only happen if you have constant and unrelenting pressure. I'd be in
favour of staying at the helm as long as possible.

(In the same interview he gave me a great quote about the congestion charge. He
said he had looked out of his office at a deserted Tower Bridge on the first day
of the scheme and thought: "Oh no, I've gone too far ... ")

1.18pm:Christian Wolmar gets in on the same debate about Boris's attitude to
cycling:

I would go a bit further. I think Boris is unable to understand the issues
around cycling because he is wedded to the notion that cars are the best ever
invention. He does not understand their limitations in central city areas.

1.11pm: Both Christopher Peck of the CTC and Mike Cavenett of the London Cycling
Campaign have responded to the idea that despite his pro-cycling rhetoric Boris
Johnson's policies are not particularly good for cyclists.

Peck writes:

Yes, but I think in his defence he really is passionate about bikes, he's just
unwilling to make things harder for anyone else. If he jumps in a cab he will
tell the cabbie that cabs are the best, when he's launching his new bus he will
say that buses are the future, the same for underground, trains and, of course,
private cars. He's a "more of everything" type. If he and the other candidates
are serious about cycling then they must give it competitive advantage (in
addition to making it safer and more pleasant).

Cavenett writes:

Boris's enthusiasm for cycling is real but he is tied into a pro-car mentality.
He has yet to realise that car use is falling in London, fewer young people
learn to drive they are looking for more efficient ways to travel - especially
cycling.

1.07pm:SusannaRustin asked:

Does panel think there are too many cars and lorries on London's roads?

Christopher Peck responds:

Absolutely. A very significant way of increasing cycle use is to restrict the
movement (and speed) of motor vehicles. There is no doubt that the reduction in
traffic following the congestion charge gave cycling an immediate boost.

Lorries are of course not just a congestion problem, but a very serious safety
problem. Half of all the cyclists killed in London [are killed in crashes
involving] lorries. Not only do we need to ensure that the lorries and their
drivers are safe, we should be allowing more unloading during the night.
Presently lorry movements are greatly restricted at night and so they have to
drive around in the rush hour - which is when most of the deaths of cyclists
occur.

This is temporal segregation, not physical, but could be a simple, temporary
stop gap.

12.56pm: Our third guest, Mike Cavenett of the London Cycling Campaign, has now
begun posting (as LCCmike). He writes:

London is experiencing a cycling revolution. Already one in 12 of trips to work
by people in inner London are made by bike. The next mayor needs to make a step
change in policy to provide attractive, effective cycling infrastructure. There
needs to be an end to prioritising motor traffic flows over the safety of people
who cycle or walk in London. London Cycling Campaign is asking every mayoral
candidate to sign up to our Love London - Go Dutch pledge. We want cycling in
London to be as safe and attractive as it is in the Netherlands.

12.46pm: Another of our guests, Christopher Peck from CTC, the national
cyclists' organisation, has now started posting. He writes:

Whoever wins the election will inherit what seems at face value to be a good
news story when it comes to cycling: cycle use is booming and the cycle hire
scheme is generally considered a great success.

But the perception that it is a risky activity remains, despite figures that
show it is actually pretty safe (1 death per ~12 million trips). Less traffic,
moving slower and of course better facilities are all needed to overcome the
concerns of the many Londoners who don't currently cycle. As Christian says -
what's needed is a multi-decade plan on a range of different policies.

12.28pm: One of our guests, transport commentator Christian Wolmar, has now
started contributing to the debate below the line.

Wolmar writes that he feels neither of the two main candidates "gets" cycling.

Johnson thinks its a "jolly bit of fun" and jumps on his bike when he can't be
bothered to take a taxi. Livingstone thinks that its about spending money and
putting in better infrastructure. What neither understands is that with the
right policies it would be possible to change the very nature of the city over
the next 10 or 20 years through the encouragement of cycling. London would
become a true cycling city. It is not a matter of introducing a bit of new
infrastructure, or extending the cycle hire scheme. It's a matter of
implementing the whole panoply of cycling measures which all transport
professionals already know about.

Wolmar also has his say on the debate about some cyclists' failure to follow the
rules of the road, which he finds "tedious and ill-thought out".

For every incident of a cyclist going through a red light or going on the
pavement, there must be 100 instances of motorists speeding or breaking the law
in other ways - it's just more covert (no one can assess whether a car is going
at 35 or 30mph) Moreover, even when it is possible to see the law being broken,
nothing is done about. The key point is that cyclists very very rarely hurt
pedestrians, whereas drivers do daily in London. That should put the issue in
perspective.

And he puts forward the idea that all cyclists should be allowed to ride on
pavements and go through red lights, "but only if they treat pedestrians as a
priority, just as they expect to be treated by motorists".

To ensure good behaviour, I suggest that there would be '"cycling confiscation
officers" who would simply impound misbehaving cyclists' bikes for the rest of
the day. That would satisfy the hang 'em and flog 'em brigade, and improve
cyclists' behaviour no end. And while we are at it, they could do the same for
motorists - "Excuse me sir, you were speeding, so I'm afraid you are going to
lose the use of your car today" ...

11.54am: I was hoping that Boris Johnson's press conference launching his
campaign would be broadcast on one of the 24-hour news channels and I could
report it here. But unfortunately it has clashed with coverage of the Queen's
speech marking her diamond jubilee and the unveiling of a stained glass window
to celebrate.

Nevertheless Boris's campaign has just released details of what he said.

Johnson plans to create 201,300 jobs over the next four years if he is
re-elected.

He claims that his plan to create 32,300 of these jobs "as a result of the vital
investment he has secured in London's transport infrastructure" would be put at
risk by Ken Livingstone's plan to cut fares by 7%. The other jobs would be
created in housing (104,000), the Greenwich Peninsula and Royal Docks (5,500)
and "through a variety of initiatives launched by Boris Johnson" (59,500).

Boris is quoted as saying:

What Londoners need, above all, are jobs. Because that's the real answer to the
rising cost of living and the uncertainty we all face. We need those in a job to
feel secure in it. And we need those without a job to stand a much better chance
of landing one.

Through working hard to cut waste in the GLA, freeing up [#xfffd]3.5bn for
services and securing a better deal for London from No 10, we will directly
create 200,000 jobs for Londoners. We will deliver this by investing. Investing
in transport infrastructure, local high streets, house-building and a true
Olympic legacy.

But these are only happening because I made the right arguments and took the
difficult decisions. Cutting investment now, including pulling [#xfffd]1bn of
out London's transport budget would be devastating for London's economy and
Londoners job prospects.

11.50am: Alongside our live blog coverage of the London mayoral campaign we're
also asking for readers to help us keep track of candidates' activity, writes
Hannah Waldram.

Our communities team is launching the London #Mayor2012 project - which aims to
create to picture of what the key candidates' are up to, generated by reports
from across London of their campaign activity.

Help us track the candidates by submitting a report whenever you see a candidate
out campaigning in your area, have a leaflet through the door from their party,
or see other campaign literature such as billboards or placards in your area.

You can also use this form to tell us about stories from the local campaign
trails which we might have missed.

Head over tothis post to find out more, submit a report and comment with your
suggestions on the #Mayor2012 project.

11.42am: My colleague Dave Hill points out that the MayorWatch website has
reported figures showing that the taxpayer is the biggest funder of the London
cycle hire scheme, paying [#xfffd]67.8m, almost [#xfffd]18m more than the
maximum amount to be contributed by Barclays, the sponsors whose branding is all
over the bikes.

Caroline Pidgeon, the Liberal Democrat chair of the London assembly transport
committee, who will be appearing on this blog in two weeks' time, asked Johnson
for figures on the cost of the scheme.

Johnson confirmed that the cost of the scheme's current two phases was
[#xfffd]119.8m.

Of this Barclays was contributing "up to [#xfffd]50m", Tower Hamlets council
[#xfffd]2m, and Transport for London the remainder.

11.24am: Commenters are posting questions to the panel below the line and some
themes are arising - particularly on the idea of segregated cycle lanes and the
priorities for the new mayor.

drprl writes:

Where traffic volume and speed can be reduced sufficiently and police are
prepared to prosecute bullying dangerous driving before collisions occur, shared
space is most flexible. For high speed, high volume corridors, segregation is
needed, especially at junctions.

fred2006 writes:

The Netherlands have lots of segregated infrastructure on busy roads. They also
have less than 1/3 of the KSIs per kilometre cycled we have in the UK.

The easy answer to your question is that segregated infrastructure should be
well-constructed (and signalised where necessary), and placed where it's needed
- where there's heavy multi-lane traffic, and/or many HGVs - and sharing the
roads should be the solution where there's only light , low-speed traffic.

And P0kerFace makes a strong point:

To the panel:

Time and time again polls have shown that cycling will not become a majority
transport choice while people don't feel safe on the road. We know, however,
that cycling is, relatively speaking, a safe means of transport. One can only
conclude then, that the roads are intimidating. Big junctions, fast cars, HGVs,
white vans and an almost universal belief that cyclists don't have rights to the
road.

I've looked through the campaigns of cycling campaigners and mayoral candidates
alike to see what they are pushing for to change this, and bring about the
cycling revolution, but I am always underwhelmed. The proposals are so limited.
There is so much more in a true vision of a cycling city than anything here
proposed.

Why are cycling campaigners and mayoral candidates alike so conservative on the
changes they intend to introduce? Is the strength of the car lobby or other
campaigning groups preventing progression? Are power, influence or resource
shortages causing us to focus on limited, more "achievable" goals? How do we
tackle these route cause problems to accelerate the rate at which we become a
cycling city?

11.10am: At his campaign launch today, Boris Johnson is focusing on his plan to
create 200,000 jobs over the next four years, in housing, the tube, Crossrail,
the Olympics, and other areas, one of the points of his nine-point plan for
London.

He will visit a small business in Crayford, Bexley, a street in West Wickham,
Bromley, and the Pop in Parlour, a drop-in centre for elderly people in West
Wickham.

11.01am: My colleague Hugh Muir points out that this is not the first time Boris
Johnson has had trouble with London locations. In November last year he was late
to an event in East Croydon because he got on a train instead to East Dulwich,
six or seven miles north.

10.42am: H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland has just been in touch to report an
interesting start to the Boris campaign. Johnson's staff sent an email out to
journalists telling them that the launch was in Dartford - but actually it's in
Crayford, Bexley. It's particularly intriguing given criticisms that Johnson
concentrates on the suburbs rather than inner London, given that Dartford is not
actually in Greater London at all.

10.06am: I have just been speaking to my colleague H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne
Mulholland, who is on her way to Dartford, where Boris Johnson will be launching
his mayoral campaign in about an hour and a half an hour's time. We'll have more
from her afterwards.

The BBC has today published an Ipsos Mori poll showing that jobs, growth and the
economy are the most important issues for Londoners in the mayoral election.

The economy was the top issue for 59% of respondents, followed by crime (49%),
public transport (38%) and building cheap homes (37%).

Asked which candidate had the best ideas on the economy, Johnson and Ken
Livingstone were neck and neck, with both on 27%. One per cent of respondents
said Brian Paddick had the best ideas, and 40% said they did not know.

The poll was not of voting intentions, but it did ask which candidate
respondents liked best. The results: Boris 43%, Ken 35%. Johnson was seen as a
better ambassador for London, while Livingstone was seen as understanding the
concerns of ordinary Londoners and being better in a crisis.

Despite Livingstone's focus on his pledge to cut transport fares by 7%, Johnson
was seen as having the better ideas on transport.

Fully 82% said they supported Livingstone's policy of a fares cut. Responding to
this, Livingstone said: "After years of rising train, bus and tube fares under
the Tory mayor this poll shows Londoners want a mayor who will cut the fares and
make them better off. It's remarkable that with 82% of Londoners saying they
want a fares cut, Boris Johnson wants to continue his policy of above inflation
fare increases."

Paddick and Jenny Jones, the Green candidate, barely got a look-in in the poll.
Tony Travers of the London School of Economics told the BBC:

Brian Paddick is a perfectly respectable candidate - but he is being terribly
squeezed in this epic struggle between the two big beasts. Neither is Jenny
Jones a bad candidate for that matter, but she has the same problem.

The full results are here.

9.13am: Today campaigning officially begins and nominations open in the London
mayoral election, and the Guardian will be covering the road to election day,
Thursday 3 May, here on this new live blog.

Over the next few weeks, all the main candidates for mayor will be online for
live Q&As - including Tory Boris Johnson, Lib Dem Brian Paddick, the Green
party's Jenny Jones, Ukip's Lawrence Webb, and independent Siobhan Benita.

First up will be Labour's Ken Livingstone next Monday.

Today election organisers released a map showing that voters in the suburbs are
more likely to vote than those in the inner city - something expected to benefit
Johnson, who won in all the outer London boroughs except Waltham Forest in 2008
while Livingstone won in the inner city, with the exception of the City and the
south-west.

Yesterday the main candidates continued their attacks on one another, with
Johnson characterising Livingstone's record as "loony left" and Paddick accusing
Johnson of being "all talk no action" on small businesses. Meanwhile, the
TaxPayers' Alliance pressure group announced that it had lodged a complaint with
HM Revenue & Customs about Livingstone's tax arrangements (more details here).

Each week on the London mayoral election live blog experts on London will come
online to examine and debate the key policy areas involved in the election, from
the environment to policing, housing and the Olympics - with your help.

Today we begin with one of the most emblematic issues of Johnson's time in
office - cycling and the bike hire scheme (wider transport issues will be
covered separately at a later date). Appearing online to answer your questions
from 1-2pm will be:

[#xfffd] Christopher Peck of the CTC, the national cyclists' organisation
formally known as Cyclists' Touring Club

[#xfffd] Mike Cavenett of the London Cycling Campaign

[#xfffd] Christian Wolmar, transport commentator

Post your questions for Christopher, Mike and Christian in the comments below.

Although proposed during the last months of Livingstone's time as mayor in 2008,
the cycle hire scheme launched two years ago has become one of the most visible
symbols of Johnson's mayoralty, and he was presumably delighted when the
bicycles - which share some qualities with the mayor, being chunky, unwieldy,
fun and blue - quickly became known as "Boris bikes".

The scheme allows Londoners and tourists to hire bikes cheaply across a swath of
central and east London, and the bikes can now be found as far south-east as the
tip of the Isle of Dogs and as far north as Camden Town.

But the cycle hire scheme has not been without controversy, as my colleague Dave
Hill reported earlier this month. Johnson promised in 2008 that the scheme would
be set up "at no cost to the taxpayer" through a deal with a private company.

But, as Dave reported, the cost of installing the first phase of the scheme was
[#xfffd]79.5m, with [#xfffd]25m promised from Barclays, the sponsor, over the
first five years, and only [#xfffd]3.4m of that received by the end of 2010.

Johnson has said the anticipated cost of the scheme over the next five years
will be [#xfffd]140.5m. Last July he said Barclays would contribute another
[#xfffd]25m from now until 2018, although in November he said that over the life
of the contract with Barclays there was "a potential" of [#xfffd]50m in
sponsorship. London boroughs are now being required to contribute somewhat to
the scheme's cost.

Transport for London puts annual operating costs at [#xfffd]15m a year, rising
to [#xfffd]20m in the second phase of the scheme. TfL forecasts [#xfffd]7m
income from those hiring the bikes by the end of this financial year. The
process by which Barclays was selected as sponsor has also been criticised, with
the London assembly transport committee calling it "almost totally opaque".

The cycle hire scheme raises other interesting issues. Should Londoners be able
to pay for bike hire with their Oyster travelcards? Do the bikes encourage
cyclists not to wear a helmet? Is that a good or a bad thing? (Research by the
University of Bath has shown that drivers are more likely to get closer to a
cyclist wearing a helmet than one without - although please ignore the slightly
eccentric bit where the researcher claims female cyclists are in less danger
than men because when he wore a "long wig" lorries gave him a wide berth.)

Johnson has also launched a series of cycle "superhighways" - souped-up cycle
routes from the suburbs to central London. Are these useful? Are they safe?
Would it be better to build cycle routes that were segregated from the main
traffic with barriers, as the cycle path just south of Euston Road is? Or by
contrast would "shared space" that forces all road users to take more notice of
each other - such as Kensington's Exhibition Road - increase safety? Should the
mayor be concentrating on improving the design of "mega-roundabouts" such as
those at Parliament Square and Old Street to improve cyclists' safety, or
dangerous junctions such as those at Blackfriars Bridge and King's Cross?

According to Transport for London, cycling on London's major roads has increased
by 150% over the past decade and increased by 15% between 2009-10 and 2010-11,
with about half a million cycle journeys currently made per day (although
contrary to popular belief TfL says there was no significant increase linked to
the bombings of 7 July 2005).

But as Dave Hill pointed out when he called for contributions to his Manifesto
for a model mayor last week, a December 2010 TfL report said the growth in cycle
travel between 2001 and 2008 was largely caused by cyclists increasing their
cycle trip-making. "There is no evidence of a net increase in the number of
cyclists overall," the report stated.

Has the relationship between drivers and cyclists got better or worse since more
cyclists took to the roads? What can or should the mayor do about this?

What about cyclists' own behaviour? Should there be more official pressure for
them to fully obey the rules of the road - not running red lights, riding on the
pavements or riding the wrong way down one-way streets? Or is there an argument
that some of the Highway Code, at least, should not apply to cyclists - should
they be allowed to turn left at a red light if no one is crossing, for example
(as Johnson has suggested)?

Dave's piece also included this video of Londoners talking about cycling in the
capital.

Here are some of the proposals on cycling already set out by the candidates:

Ken Livingstone

[#xfffd] Livingstone has pledged to give older people free use of the cycle hire
scheme.

[#xfffd] He has said the next mayor must introduce new safety measures at
dangerous areas such as Bow roundabout and King's Cross.

[#xfffd] He has called for the introduction of an online tool to enable cyclists
to report concerns about safety to TfL.

[#xfffd] He has said he would give cyclists a five-second head start at
dangerous junctions.

Boris Johnson

Johnson has not yet set out his policy proposals for the next election on
cycling, but his nine-point plan for London includes opening four more cycle
superhighways in 2013 and four more by 2015 and continuing to extend the bike
hire scheme.

Brian Paddick

[#xfffd] Paddick says the mayor should make junctions more cycle-friendly -
especially on the cycle superhighways. He would carry out a road safety review
and fund improvement work on the most dangerous junctions.

[#xfffd] He calls for barriers between bikes and cars "wherever possible" and
priority to be given to cyclists at junctions

[#xfffd] He wants more large "Trixi" mirrors at road junctions to help lorry
drivers see cyclists.

Jenny Jones

[#xfffd] The Green party candidate proposes a scheme where drivers trade their
car in and get the value plus a bonus on an Oyster card, car club credits and
bike shop vouchers.

[#xfffd] She suggests new roads and river crossings should only be for public
transport, cycling and walking, and cyclists and pedestrians to have priority at
traffic lights. She would also introduce countdown signs and "Trixi" mirrors at
junctions.

[#xfffd] She wants a 20mph limit on residential streets, training for new
cyclists, and additional cycle parking space.

[#xfffd] She wants faster and safer cycle paths, the layout of the most
dangerous junctions changed, and lorries banned from narrow main roads.

[#xfffd] Jones proposes the cycle hire scheme be expanded north and south to
cover the whole of inner London, if there is demand.

Post your questions for Christopher Peck of the CTC (Cyclists' Touring Club),
Mike Cavenett of the London Cycling Campaign and transport commentator Christian
Wolmar below, and they will begin answering them at about 1pm.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 19, 2012 Monday

PETER MACKAY COLUMN

LENGTH: 1556 words


IT'S MAKE OR BREAK WEEK FOR WANNABE PM GEORGE

Chancellor George Osborne said yesterday he'll `come down like a tonne of
bricks' on tax avoiders, like those who dodge stamp duty by registering their UK
homes abroad.

Will this -- and other soak-the-rich measures -- help solve our huge debt
problems?

No, say bean counters. But it might appease Liberal Democrat members of the
Coalition when Osborne reduces the 50p top rate of tax, as expected, in his
Budget on Wednesday.

Why reduce the top rate of tax when our national debt is historically high?
Because it's believed this will result in greater tax revenue, not less. Past
experience indicates that fewer high earners bother avoiding tax if it's set at
a lower rate.

The successful businessman Lord Jacobs, 80 -- a former Liberal Democrat
treasurer -- has, with co-author Richard Teather, sent all MPs and ministers a
report on how the tax system could be reformed to abolish anomalies and increase
revenue.

He says: `Our income tax, inheritance tax and capital gains tax are among the
highest in the Western world, and look where it's got us. Even people earning
the minimum wage are paying a combined income tax and employees' national
insurance of 32pc.'

Osborne looks and sounds confident. He has the bright-eyed, bushy-tailed air of
a man entering a new phase in his career. His Budget is written, his coalition
partners squared.

It's now-or-never time for growth, which, if it comes, would improve the Tory
chances of an overall majority victory in 2015 -- or sooner, if the Coalition
government is dissolved.

The Chancellor is his party's chief strategist. If he is successful, he can
expect to be considered a successor to David Cameron. And when might that be?

We've lived through this story before, with Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In
2008, Blair was finally pushed out of No 10 by Brown, who had plotted against
him since Labour's 1997 win.

An overall Tory majority at the next general election should -- in theory --
mean a Cameron government until 2020. (Unless Dave considers delivering a Tory
government with an overall majority a job done, and retires.)

Otherwise, Cameron has the immediate prospect of ten years in No 10, admittedly
the first five being shared with Lib Dem squatters.

Would he seek to go `on and on' -- as was Margaret Thatcher's expressed wish
after two terms? Probably not. He'll be 54 in October 2020 -- young enough to
embrace some less stressful but more lucrative career.

Osborne will be 49 in May 2020. As Chancellor, his qualifications to be
Cameron's successor then are strong, as they'd be if Cameron decided not to
stand at the next general election, or if there's a dissolution of the
government before then.

But nothing is sure in politics at this level. `Events, dear boy, events' --
Harold Macmillan's description of what drives political weather -- could render
Osborne and/or the Tories unelectable at the next general election.

So this is a big week for Chancellor Osborne, who -- all Budget details done and
dusted, he advises -- tagged along last week on Cameron's strange, male-bonding
exercise with U.S. President Barack Obama.

Osborne's wealthy, privileged background suggests he is a Right-winger at heart.
But that might limit his prime ministerial ambitions. So he is comfortable now
with the Left wing-owned language of 'fairness'.

The Budget on Wednesday will be for `working people', he says. He'll be `very
aggressive' at `clamping down on tax avoiders'. (Tax avoidance used to be
regarded as respectable by those paying the top rate, while tax evasion --
simply not paying taxes due -- was and is illegal. Osborne appears to have
abolished any distinction, in his mind at least.)

You might think a Tory chancellor, faced with a debt mountain bequeathed to him
by Labour, would prioritise an attack on public expenditure rather than further
demonise those who make adjustments to how they are employed, or where their
main home is, to avoid paying tax.

But for now he is tethered to the Lib Dems, who need to focus on `fairness' --
even if it's illusory -- in order to survive as a party. His challenge is to
produce a Budget which will increase growth, restore Conservative electoral
support and enhance his own credentials as a future Tory leader.

Having to have it rubber-stamped by the Liberal Democrats might seem an
additional burden, but it's an advantage, too.

The `fairness' provisions insisted on by the Lib Dems might not make much
difference in the grand scheme of things. As such, they would have been ignored
by a Tory chancellor normally for fear of angering his base supporters. But they
might help to broaden the party's support, as well as limit Labour's ability to
oppose the package as a whole.

The first German chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, once remarked: `Die Politik ist
die Kunst des M^fglichen' -- `Politics is the art of the possible.'

As he studies himself in the bathroom mirror this morning, does George Gideon
Oliver Osborne wonder: `Is it possible I will have removed all obstacles to my
succeeding Cameron this week?' The 60th birthday party in Mexico of billionaire
Topshop tycoon Sir Philip Green sounds fun. He flew 150 friends there in private
jets, including the actor Leonardo DiCaprio and model Naomi Campbell. For his
50th, Sir Philip, above, took 200 guests to Cyprus, at an estimated cost of _65
million. The Mexico jaunt sounds even more expensive. In Budget week, I wonder
if it's tax-deductible as a business expense. Having achieved Top Gun status on
Apache helicopter gunships and enjoyed a successful official visit to Jamaica
and Brazil, down-to-earth Prince Harry was not allowed to bask for long in the
nation's gratitude. Embarrassingly, he is reported to have his own coterie of
followers, the BBB Crew -- `Blue-Blooded and Blonde aristocratic childhood
chums, their equally well-bred, mostly blonde girlfriends, and party-loving
socialites, mostly blonde'.

They include duke's daughter Lady Melissa Percy, 24, pictured. The group are
`closely linked, whether romantically, or by shared schooling, or simply a deep
bond of friendship'. And Harry `trusts each one of them implicitly to be the
gatekeepers of his secrets'.

Pass the Downton Abbey-sized sickbag!

THE MASSACRE OF JUSTICE?

Accused of murdering 16 Afghan villagers -- including nine children -- Sgt
Robert Bales is flown back to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, to be assessed by
military prosecutors.

If it's any guide, in 1968 Lt William Calley led a platoon that killed more than
500 villagers in South Vietnam. He ended up serving three years under house
arrest -- and he didn't have the wealth of post-traumatic stress experts who
will be available to Sgt Bales.

Shouldn't Bales be prosecuted by military authorities in Afghanistan, where the
crime was committed, local witnesses can be called and justice seen to be done?

WOOING OF CAMERON

What can explain President Barack Obama's fondness for our PM, David Cameron
(aside from Dave's irresistible charm)?

Monarchists say Obama's state visit here last May changed his view of us. He was
charmed by the Queen.

But having seen (on Have I Got News For You) the film clip in which the prez
speaks over the national anthem -- Her Maj giving him the evil eye -- I rather
doubt that.

I suspect that those who really run America -- the U.S. military -- do value
Britain's unflinching support, and presidents have to toe the line. Besides, I
expect Cameron (like most of our rising politicos) was cultivated by the CIA.
Rolls-Royce is advertising its new Ghost model, promising `effortless business
performance'. It does at best 20 miles to the gallon, although makers' figures
are usually optimistic. Cost? _62,995 a month over the three-year contract hire
period plus an _618,000 deposit. In other words, _6126,000 and you still don't
own the motor. We can't be as hard up as we think. Tory MP Claire Perry, 48, a
member of `Giddy's Gang' -- admirers of George Gideon Osborne -- is reported to
have advised a colleague, Douglas Carswell MP, during a Commons debate: `Why
don't you **** off and join UKIP?' Contacted by the Mail on Sunday, she
dismisses the story as `misogynist nonsense'. Last year, she was reported to be
cross over not being called to speak in the Commons, reportedly declaring in the
tearoom: `What have I got to do to be called by the Speaker? Give him a b***
***?' It's possible Ms Perry has been misquoted on both occasions. Or, as she
suggests, she's a victim of women haters. But I think she should make a public
effort to prove her niceness. Giddy would surely appreciate it at the moment.

ED'S VERDICT

* Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls, is on a charm offensive, boasting about his
cooking skills and running down the behaviour of his former mentor, Gordon
Brown.

He tells Parliamentary writer Ann Treneman: `I was the person who was willing to
stand up to Gordon Brown and tell him when he was
wronga€[0/00].a€[0/00].a€[0/00]. Gordon ended up seeing the difficulties of any
situation rather than the opportunitiesa€[0/00].a€[0/00].a€[0/00]. nobody is
going to look back at any point in history and say Gordon Brown was a great
Prime Ministera€[0/00].a€[0/00].a€[0/00].'

Will voters appreciate the candour of Balls (above)? Brown was clearly a
difficult man, obsessed with acquiring power. But he hasn't disparaged his
ex-colleagues publicly and -- considering what several now say about him -- you
have to respect him for that.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 19, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Thames airport;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 341 words


SIR - We believe that plans for an airport on or near the Thames Estuary should
be grounded. The airport would cost up to £70 billion. Proponents say foreign
backers would pay for this, but they go quiet when asked who would foot the bill
for the road and rail links to London.

Aircraft using this airport would be 12 times more at risk of bird strike than
at any other major UK airport. The airport would also be close to Thamesport,
where huge container ships unload one fifth of the UK's liquid natural gas
supplies, as well as the proposed London Array wind farm and the wreck of SS
Richard Montgomery, which is still packed with 1,400 tonnes of explosives.

The airport would also destroy an area used by 300,000 migrating birds every
year, and would devastate the ecosystem of the Thames Estuary, which is of
worldwide scientific importance. Great swaths of the countryside would have to
be developed to make way for new roads, rail links, industrial estates, depots
and hotels. Some have pointed to the economic benefits to north Kent and south
Essex of such an airport, but the airport is still decades away and most of the
jobs would be low paid.

Finally, this airport would have a drastic economic effect on our existing
airports. Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has admitted to MPs that the
Government would have to legislate to force airlines to move from Heathrow. We
believe there are better solutions to the UK's aviation needs than an airport in
the Thames Estuary. Prof Germaine Greer

Chris Corrigan Director (South East England), RSPB Cllr Rodney Chambers (Con)
Cllr Nigel Holdcroft (Con) Gordon Henderson MP (Con) Gareth Johnson MP (Con)
Cllr John Kent (Lab) Cllr Andrew Bowles (Con) Graham Stringer MP (Lab) Dr Julian
Huppert MP (Lib Dem) Cllr John Burden (Lab) Cllr Alan Jarrett (Con) Tracey
Crouch MP (Con) Mark Reckless MP (Con) Rehman Chishti MP (Con) Stephen Metcalfe
MP (Con) Nigel Farage MEP (Ukip) Lord Bradshaw (Lib Dem) Caroline Pidgeon AM
(Lib Dem) Murad Qureshi AM (Lab) Darren Johnson AM (Green) Nicky Gavron AM (Lab)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 19, 2012 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

TORY'S 'SLAP';
ELECTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words


A TORY councillor faces a police quiz over claims she slapped an elderly rival
at a poll count, breaking his dental bridge.

Ukip candidate Mike Beggs, 72, says Penny Jackman, 47, hit him over comments he
made in his by-election leaflets.

He called in police when he got no apology or compensation after the row in
Lymington, Hants. He said: "I'm sorry it's come to this."

Ms Jackman declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 6:13 PM GMT

Briton 'knew Iran deal was illegal in the United States'

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner and Robert Winnett

LENGTH: 702 words


A BRITISH businessman extradited to the US for alleged arms dealing agreed to
buy missile batteries using false invoices despite knowing it was illegal to
sell them to Iran, according to US court papers.

Details of the papers emerged before David Cameron's meeting with President
Barack Obama last week. Mr Cameron is "not particularly sympathetic" to the
plight of Christopher Tappin and is reluctant to intervene because of mounting
prima facie evidence against the businessman, who is accused of plotting to sell
missile parts to Iran.

The Prime Minister believes Mr Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in jail if he is
tried and convicted of selling arms to a rogue state, has serious questions to
answer.

The court papers allege that Mr Tappin "discussed the specifics of the plot"
with undercover federal agents, and talked about using false invoices to
disguise the military use of the components.

Mr Tappin, 65, from Orpington, in south London, claims he thought the batteries
he arranged to buy from America were for use in the car industry and had no idea
they were for Hawk surface-to-air missiles. An alleged co-conspirator, who was
convicted of a part in the "plot", told a court that Mr Tappin had told him of
the batteries' military application.

Mr Tappin is being held on remand in a jail in New Mexico after being denied
bail after his extradition to the United States last month. His family and
friends, who include Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, have gathered a
4,000-signature petition demanding that Mr Cameron debates the US-UK extradition
treaty with Mr Obama.

Sources said last week that Mr Tappin's case would not be on the main agenda
during Mr Cameron's two-day trip to America.

Mr Cameron's stance over Mr Tappin contrasts with his views on Gary McKinnon,
where the Government believes there is a genuine issue. Mr McKinnon suffers from
Asperger's syndrome and is fighting extradition for allegedly hacking US
military computers.

Mr Tappin, who is president of the Kent Golf Society, came to the attention of
US authorities in 2007 after the US Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement set up a fake company, Mercury Global, in El Paso, Texas.

According to court papers relating to an unsuccessful appeal by Robert Caldwell,
one of the co-accused, Mr Tappin contacted Mercury in December 2005 through an
intermediary in the US "seeking the unlicensed export" of a camera and Hawk
missile batteries - both appear on the US Munitions List as defence articles.

Mr Tappin agreed to pay $5,000 each for 50 batteries, according to the court
papers. The normal retail price was $2,000. "During these negotiations, Tappin
and the undercover agents discussed the specifics of the plot, including the use
of double (ie false) invoices." The papers state: "Caldwell testified and
admitted that Tappin told him of the batteries' military application."

Agents sent Caldwell two sets of invoices - a false set, disguising the nature
of the batteries, and the true invoices, with a note saying: "Export of the
commodities described herein is strictly prohibited without a valid export
licence issued by the US State Department, Office of Defense Trade Controls,
prescribed in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations."

Caldwell faxed the invoice to Mr Tappin with an asterisk and a note telling him
"please see detail below", it is claimed.

Caldwell was jailed for 20 months in 2007 after being convicted of charges
relating to the sale. Mr Tappin denies any wrongdoing, saying the batteries were
destined for the Netherlands to be used for electroplating cars.

He claims his commission on the deal was £320, but prosecutors say he stood to
make £96,000 if other deals he set up had gone ahead.

They also claim to have recovered 16,000 documents from another co-defendant,
who was jailed for 24 months in 2007, which show that Mr Tappin had conducted
business with Iran before.

Karen Todner, Mr Tappin's British solicitor, said: "If there is evidence against
Mr Tappin we don't know about it because he was extradited without knowing the
evidence against him.

"It's not for Mr Cameron to judge someone's innocence or guilt. If there is
evidence against him or he is guilty, then let him stand trial in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 11:24 AM GMT

Gay marriage won't win Cameron the next election

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1146 words


I am afraid that the affair of the Prime Minister's gift to President Obama of a

 Chinese-made table tennis table, although in itself trivial, is yet another
example of the lack of good staff work and planning which is endemic in the
Coalition Government. A Prime Minister is surely entitled to assume  that
anything he asks his staff to purchase as a gift to a foreign head of state
would be made in Britain. Unhappily, there is a track record of sloppy staff
work and poorly thought through decision-making, leading to rather more serious
errors than this particular embarrassment.

I can only hope that the measures to be proposed by Chancellor Osborne will have
been subject to some hard and critical consideration before they are launched in
the Budget on Wednesday.

Certainly, no one seems to have thought through the massive legislative
ramifications of the Prime Minister's latest attempt to distance himself from
that toxic Thatcherite Tory Party which kept winning elections. If one says it
quickly and doesn't think too much about it, moving on from civil partnership to

 "gay marriage" sound like a pretty straightforward bit of legislation.

However, as Charles Moore writing in The Spectator has said, after a little more
thought it looks more complex. Was anyone asked to check in how many pieces of
legislation the words "husband" or "wife" appear? Are they to be replaced by
some suitable non-discriminatory new word or words? Then what about the grounds
for divorce? How will adultery be redefined? Exactly what kind of sexual acts
outside marriage will constitute grounds for divorce? What will amount to the
consummation of a marriage?

What fun will be had amongst our legislators as they grapple with the question
of the appropriate titles for the "partners" of those who receive the honour of
knighthoods, or are made Dames, Barons or Baronesses. At present we live happily
with the inequity of husbands receiving no title when their wives are honoured,
but surely that cannot continues under the politically correct new order.

Within the can of worms that Mr Cameron is determined to open there are several
nests of snakes. Why should a marriage be confined to just two persons? What is
the barrier to the marriage of sisters, brothers or even parents and children?

Mr Cameron's justification for all this is that he believes in it "because he is
a Conservative" is absurd. Conservatives do not turn over long-standing (several
thousands of years across widely different cultures all over the world, in this
case) with so little thought. He did not mention it when he set out his stall in
the Conservative Party leadership election not long ago. Did he believe it then?

Perhaps it is another contagion from his Lib Dem partners.  Surely it cannot be
to gain votes. Not only would that be unworthy, but he must know that the pink
vote is substantially less than the UKIP vote. Indeed most of the homosexuals
that I know cast their votes on very much the same issues as the rest of us.
They are not a separate species. They pay taxes, have mortgages, battle with EU
laws which destroy jobs, have concerns about the price of petrol, crime,
immigration, the cruel delusion of multi culturalism and  the dangers of
instability in the Middle East, just like heterosexuals.

I doubt if Mr Cameron's new-found enthusiasm for "gay marriage" will make it any
more likely that he will lead the Conservative Party to a majority in 2015 or
add greatly to the sum total of happiness and contentment in our society. I
wonder just when the implications of it was discussed in detail by a Cabinet
Committee? Why cannot we have some rather better staff work before great policy
initiatives are announced?

____

Although I do not suppose it will worry him, David Cameron did not find many
friends amongst those who commented on my blog contemplating the election in
2015. Darkseid did stand up for him but rather spoiled it by adding the comment
that "the last thing in the world I wish to see is a strong Tory government".
The last thing! So even a Labour government would would better than a "strong
Tory government" for Darkseid.

To be fair, david in rome was also a Cameron supporter, but far more of you,
boudiccca, george204, alhamilton, Delboy 36, knoweuro, harmonicaman and
henrietta amongst them, took the view that Cameron would scupper (or is it
scuttle?) himself even without any help from the Lib Dems.

There was a lot of argument over the role and influence of UKIP in all this. I
think rastusctastey was right to say that in 2010 people were reluctant to vote
UKIP lest it let Labour back in, but they could no longer see much difference
between Cameron and Miliband. His answer to the problem was an independent Tory
Party led by Farage and he was kind enough to suggest that I might be its father
figure. That I think very unlikely!

The Lib Dems did not find many friends either with avataruk saying that their
conference showed them to be unfit for power.  There is little doubt that bob3
hit the nail on the head saying that their first objective is to scupper the
Tories. Clearly that is right, as if the Tories had a clear majority they would
not need the Lib Dems.

There was a shrewd comment from Jeffersonian, saying that the Tories should try
governing rather than just being in office and johnmcevoy made the same point -
but, as nogoodboyo said, the reason for the coalition was for Cameron to live in
No 10, not to govern.

I thought oldcodger was wrong to suggest that the redistribution of
Parliamentary constituencies amounted to gerrymandering. It is not. It is a
perfectly proper effort to ensure that all constituencies have about the same
number of electors.

I fear that zeusgoose misunderstood why in my comments on "puttting the clock
back" I had made no reference to immigration. Well, that blog post was about the
state of the country, not about the causes of its ills. My aim was to force
people to ask themselves why these things had happened.

There was not much light on such matters generated by the long sprawling
argument between abritabroad, who found our national problems "all so funny" as
they did not affect him, Bill Etheridge, prettypolly, david in rome and a few
others over exactly how many votes had been, or will be polled by UKIP. That
remains to be seen, but abritabroad could not have been more wrong when he
declared that "no one voted for a Conservative majority an no one voted for a
Labour Majority.  The electorate voted for "none of the above". Come off it.
That is simply not true, but it does shed a light into the darker corners of a
distorted imagination.

All in all, it was no wonder that Adrian asked, "Any chance of a military coup?"

 Even setting aside the possibility that before long the British Army might be
outnumbered by the Salvation Army, I think mrsmo was right to say we are too
stable for that.

I hope it stays that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 11:24 AM GMT

Gay marriage won't win Cameron the next election

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1146 words


I am afraid that the affair of the Prime Minister's gift to President Obama of a

 Chinese-made table tennis table, although in itself trivial, is yet another
example of the lack of good staff work and planning which is endemic in the
Coalition Government. A Prime Minister is surely entitled to assume  that
anything he asks his staff to purchase as a gift to a foreign head of state
would be made in Britain. Unhappily, there is a track record of sloppy staff
work and poorly thought through decision-making, leading to rather more serious
errors than this particular embarrassment.

I can only hope that the measures to be proposed by Chancellor Osborne will have
been subject to some hard and critical consideration before they are launched in
the Budget on Wednesday.

Certainly, no one seems to have thought through the massive legislative
ramifications of the Prime Minister's latest attempt to distance himself from
that toxic Thatcherite Tory Party which kept winning elections. If one says it
quickly and doesn't think too much about it, moving on from civil partnership to

 "gay marriage" sound like a pretty straightforward bit of legislation.

However, as Charles Moore writing in The Spectator has said, after a little more
thought it looks more complex. Was anyone asked to check in how many pieces of
legislation the words "husband" or "wife" appear? Are they to be replaced by
some suitable non-discriminatory new word or words? Then what about the grounds
for divorce? How will adultery be redefined? Exactly what kind of sexual acts
outside marriage will constitute grounds for divorce? What will amount to the
consummation of a marriage?

What fun will be had amongst our legislators as they grapple with the question
of the appropriate titles for the "partners" of those who receive the honour of
knighthoods, or are made Dames, Barons or Baronesses. At present we live happily
with the inequity of husbands receiving no title when their wives are honoured,
but surely that cannot continues under the politically correct new order.

Within the can of worms that Mr Cameron is determined to open there are several
nests of snakes. Why should a marriage be confined to just two persons? What is
the barrier to the marriage of sisters, brothers or even parents and children?

Mr Cameron's justification for all this is that he believes in it "because he is
a Conservative" is absurd. Conservatives do not turn over long-standing (several
thousands of years across widely different cultures all over the world, in this
case) with so little thought. He did not mention it when he set out his stall in
the Conservative Party leadership election not long ago. Did he believe it then?

Perhaps it is another contagion from his Lib Dem partners.  Surely it cannot be
to gain votes. Not only would that be unworthy, but he must know that the pink
vote is substantially less than the UKIP vote. Indeed most of the homosexuals
that I know cast their votes on very much the same issues as the rest of us.
They are not a separate species. They pay taxes, have mortgages, battle with EU
laws which destroy jobs, have concerns about the price of petrol, crime,
immigration, the cruel delusion of multi culturalism and  the dangers of
instability in the Middle East, just like heterosexuals.

I doubt if Mr Cameron's new-found enthusiasm for "gay marriage" will make it any
more likely that he will lead the Conservative Party to a majority in 2015 or
add greatly to the sum total of happiness and contentment in our society. I
wonder just when the implications of it was discussed in detail by a Cabinet
Committee? Why cannot we have some rather better staff work before great policy
initiatives are announced?

____

Although I do not suppose it will worry him, David Cameron did not find many
friends amongst those who commented on my blog contemplating the election in
2015. Darkseid did stand up for him but rather spoiled it by adding the comment
that "the last thing in the world I wish to see is a strong Tory government".
The last thing! So even a Labour government would would better than a "strong
Tory government" for Darkseid.

To be fair, david in rome was also a Cameron supporter, but far more of you,
boudiccca, george204, alhamilton, Delboy 36, knoweuro, harmonicaman and
henrietta amongst them, took the view that Cameron would scupper (or is it
scuttle?) himself even without any help from the Lib Dems.

There was a lot of argument over the role and influence of UKIP in all this. I
think rastusctastey was right to say that in 2010 people were reluctant to vote
UKIP lest it let Labour back in, but they could no longer see much difference
between Cameron and Miliband. His answer to the problem was an independent Tory
Party led by Farage and he was kind enough to suggest that I might be its father
figure. That I think very unlikely!

The Lib Dems did not find many friends either with avataruk saying that their
conference showed them to be unfit for power.  There is little doubt that bob3
hit the nail on the head saying that their first objective is to scupper the
Tories. Clearly that is right, as if the Tories had a clear majority they would
not need the Lib Dems.

There was a shrewd comment from Jeffersonian, saying that the Tories should try
governing rather than just being in office and johnmcevoy made the same point -
but, as nogoodboyo said, the reason for the coalition was for Cameron to live in
No 10, not to govern.

I thought oldcodger was wrong to suggest that the redistribution of
Parliamentary constituencies amounted to gerrymandering. It is not. It is a
perfectly proper effort to ensure that all constituencies have about the same
number of electors.

I fear that zeusgoose misunderstood why in my comments on "puttting the clock
back" I had made no reference to immigration. Well, that blog post was about the
state of the country, not about the causes of its ills. My aim was to force
people to ask themselves why these things had happened.

There was not much light on such matters generated by the long sprawling
argument between abritabroad, who found our national problems "all so funny" as
they did not affect him, Bill Etheridge, prettypolly, david in rome and a few
others over exactly how many votes had been, or will be polled by UKIP. That
remains to be seen, but abritabroad could not have been more wrong when he
declared that "no one voted for a Conservative majority an no one voted for a
Labour Majority.  The electorate voted for "none of the above". Come off it.
That is simply not true, but it does shed a light into the darker corners of a
distorted imagination.

All in all, it was no wonder that Adrian asked, "Any chance of a military coup?"

 Even setting aside the possibility that before long the British Army might be
outnumbered by the Salvation Army, I think mrsmo was right to say we are too
stable for that.

I hope it stays that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 11:06 AM GMT

Gay marriage: this is a battle the Churches will lose - and it will be a messy
business

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1129 words


Dr Rowan Williams is getting out in the nick of time. Let's be clear about this:
the Churches will lose their fight against gay marriage becoming part of the law
of the land - and it'll be a messy business. This week various bishops have
pointed out, quite correctly, that giving heterosexual and same-sex marriages
the same legal status means redefining a concept that lies at the heart of
religious life. Admittedly, there's a clause in the Coalition's "consultation"
that bans gay church weddings, but that doesn't represent any sort of solution.

Take the case of the Church of England. Lots of trendy clergy will ask to
solemnise gay weddings. Happy couple, beaming vicar, chirpy guests, organist
belting out show tunes - who's going to call the police? Not the bishop, who'll
be terrified of being grilled by the right-on BBC.

For Roman Catholics the prospect is a very bleak one. Even if a liberal priest
wanted to do the honours, he'd incur automatic excommunication and be out of a
job. The "wedding" would be a parody of the sacrament. So a legal ban would save
a lot of awkwardness.

But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Are we sure there's going to be a ban
against gay church weddings? Human rights judges will wipe it off the statute
book at the first opportunity - which is why it may well be smothered during the
consultation process. And in the absence of an exemption, what are Catholic
dioceses going to do? Padlock the church door? It could come to that.

Newsnight on Thursday told me all I needed to know. First we had a filmed report
on gay marriage that gave opponents of the measure the sort of "fair hearing"
reserved for members of Ukip. In the studio discussion afterwards, Tory minister
Nick Herbert and dreary comedian Rhona Cameron found themselves on the same side
of the argument. Cameron was her usual humourless Spartist self, but far more
striking was Herbert's blank-eyed inflexibility. The critics of gay marriage
ranged against them were wasting their breath. The ruling class has chattered,
and the verdict is in.

The passing of this legislation will mark a significant moment in Britain's
history: its emergence as a post-Christian society along the lines of
Scandinavia or France.

The traditional definition of marriage is a cornerstone of Church teaching. The
fact that the Rev Giles Fraser (inevitably) wants to remove it is evidence of
secularisation from within.

But the secularisation that really matters comes from the majority of young
British citizens who are atheists or agnostics. David Cameron isn't in favour of
gay marriage because he's a Conservative: that's just cute sophistry. He's in
favour of it because he represents, and earnestly desires the votes of,
Britain's fast-growing post-Christian electorate.

As for the Anglican and Catholic hierarchies, part of me is looking forward to
watching them lose this battle. For decades, bishops have made damn sure they're
on the liberal side of every controversy: against nuclear weapons, against
government cuts, hysterical proponents of the global warming scare, etc. Now
they're being forced to take a reactionary line against politically correct
members of the Tory party. Quelle horreur!

Archbishop Vincent Nichols, leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales,
has really drawn the short straw here. He was also on Newsnight, in a
pre-recorded interview with Jeremy Paxman. Although he argued his corner with
skill, his expression said: get me out of here. But, thanks to a "conservative"
prime minister, that's no longer an option.

I don't like to criticise, but...

Paul Taylor, The Independent's theatre critic, certainly has a way with words.
Here he is on Shivered at the Southwark Playhouse: "A tragicomic reveling in the
destructive element but bravura, abundant, tonally varied (there are always some
great joles [sic]) tours de foce [sic] of the dramatic and narrative arts. His
invigorated manner and visionary verve incorporate - without resort to
moralising speeches - the resilient, healthy values that are like a built-in
antidote to the sick situations he (so often clairvoyantly) depicts." Yikes. I
think I preferred Johann Hari. At least his interviews were written in English -
albeit someone else's English.

Dave carries the weight of office

I keep chuckling over historian Niall Ferguson's sycophantic interview with
David Cameron, published in Newsweek before the PM's trip to Washington.

Niall found Dave "disarmingly free of snobbery", which is a bit like being
bowled over by the monastic asceticism of Silvio Berlusconi. Also, gushed the
prof, Dave is the first prime minister actually to look younger after taking
office. As a result, he predicted, Obama would seem really old in comparison.

I don't know about you, but what I saw on television was a lean and fit
president next to a chubby chap with shiny cheeks bulging like sausages waiting
to be pricked. Not to be rude, Prime Minister, but that personal trainer really
owes you a refund.

Honours lose their lustre

Anthony Bailey, PR man and former New Labour donor, loves to drape himself in
exotic honours: the Order of the Madara Horseman (Bulgaria), Knight Grand Cross
of the Order of Juan Mora Fernandez (Costa Rica), Grand Officer of the Most
Devoted Royal Household (Tonga). Etc.

Well, whatever turns you on. But I wonder if Bailey is still proud of his Syrian
Order of Outstanding Merit, awarded by the butcher Assad in recognition of
Bailey's status as delegate of the grandly named Catholic "Sacred Military
Constantinian Order of St George". The Constantinians have also made Assad a
Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Francis, much to the disgust of many
Catholics.

It also appears that the Constantinians are a client of Bailey's company, Eligo.
I rang Eligo to check. "Can't help you on that," said an apologetic spokesman.
So I rang the Sacred Military Order. The same man answered the phone, but still
couldn't help. How very odd.

Musical genius that never ends

Next week sees the start of one of Radio 3's exercises in total immersion: eight
days of Schubert from Friday onwards. A highlight will be Brian Newbould's
completion of an unfinished Schubert symphony - not the Unfinished Symphony, but
a fragment from 1821 that contains some of his most adventurous modulations.
Sorry, but I'm sceptical. The reconstructed Elgar Third and Mahler Tenth may
work as symphonies, but to me they're not quite the real thing. And as for the
unfinished final fugue in Bach's Art of Fugue, which ends tantalisingly in mid
air, the fact that no one has ever completed it convincingly is, for me, the
ultimate proof of the composer's genius.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 11:06 AM GMT

Gay marriage: this is a battle the Churches will lose - and it will be a messy
business

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1129 words


Dr Rowan Williams is getting out in the nick of time. Let's be clear about this:
the Churches will lose their fight against gay marriage becoming part of the law
of the land - and it'll be a messy business. This week various bishops have
pointed out, quite correctly, that giving heterosexual and same-sex marriages
the same legal status means redefining a concept that lies at the heart of
religious life. Admittedly, there's a clause in the Coalition's "consultation"
that bans gay church weddings, but that doesn't represent any sort of solution.

Take the case of the Church of England. Lots of trendy clergy will ask to
solemnise gay weddings. Happy couple, beaming vicar, chirpy guests, organist
belting out show tunes - who's going to call the police? Not the bishop, who'll
be terrified of being grilled by the right-on BBC.

For Roman Catholics the prospect is a very bleak one. Even if a liberal priest
wanted to do the honours, he'd incur automatic excommunication and be out of a
job. The "wedding" would be a parody of the sacrament. So a legal ban would save
a lot of awkwardness.

But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Are we sure there's going to be a ban
against gay church weddings? Human rights judges will wipe it off the statute
book at the first opportunity - which is why it may well be smothered during the
consultation process. And in the absence of an exemption, what are Catholic
dioceses going to do? Padlock the church door? It could come to that.

Newsnight on Thursday told me all I needed to know. First we had a filmed report
on gay marriage that gave opponents of the measure the sort of "fair hearing"
reserved for members of Ukip. In the studio discussion afterwards, Tory minister
Nick Herbert and dreary comedian Rhona Cameron found themselves on the same side
of the argument. Cameron was her usual humourless Spartist self, but far more
striking was Herbert's blank-eyed inflexibility. The critics of gay marriage
ranged against them were wasting their breath. The ruling class has chattered,
and the verdict is in.

The passing of this legislation will mark a significant moment in Britain's
history: its emergence as a post-Christian society along the lines of
Scandinavia or France.

The traditional definition of marriage is a cornerstone of Church teaching. The
fact that the Rev Giles Fraser (inevitably) wants to remove it is evidence of
secularisation from within.

But the secularisation that really matters comes from the majority of young
British citizens who are atheists or agnostics. David Cameron isn't in favour of
gay marriage because he's a Conservative: that's just cute sophistry. He's in
favour of it because he represents, and earnestly desires the votes of,
Britain's fast-growing post-Christian electorate.

As for the Anglican and Catholic hierarchies, part of me is looking forward to
watching them lose this battle. For decades, bishops have made damn sure they're
on the liberal side of every controversy: against nuclear weapons, against
government cuts, hysterical proponents of the global warming scare, etc. Now
they're being forced to take a reactionary line against politically correct
members of the Tory party. Quelle horreur!

Archbishop Vincent Nichols, leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales,
has really drawn the short straw here. He was also on Newsnight, in a
pre-recorded interview with Jeremy Paxman. Although he argued his corner with
skill, his expression said: get me out of here. But, thanks to a "conservative"
prime minister, that's no longer an option.

I don't like to criticise, but...

Paul Taylor, The Independent's theatre critic, certainly has a way with words.
Here he is on Shivered at the Southwark Playhouse: "A tragicomic reveling in the
destructive element but bravura, abundant, tonally varied (there are always some
great joles [sic]) tours de foce [sic] of the dramatic and narrative arts. His
invigorated manner and visionary verve incorporate - without resort to
moralising speeches - the resilient, healthy values that are like a built-in
antidote to the sick situations he (so often clairvoyantly) depicts." Yikes. I
think I preferred Johann Hari. At least his interviews were written in English -
albeit someone else's English.

Dave carries the weight of office

I keep chuckling over historian Niall Ferguson's sycophantic interview with
David Cameron, published in Newsweek before the PM's trip to Washington.

Niall found Dave "disarmingly free of snobbery", which is a bit like being
bowled over by the monastic asceticism of Silvio Berlusconi. Also, gushed the
prof, Dave is the first prime minister actually to look younger after taking
office. As a result, he predicted, Obama would seem really old in comparison.

I don't know about you, but what I saw on television was a lean and fit
president next to a chubby chap with shiny cheeks bulging like sausages waiting
to be pricked. Not to be rude, Prime Minister, but that personal trainer really
owes you a refund.

Honours lose their lustre

Anthony Bailey, PR man and former New Labour donor, loves to drape himself in
exotic honours: the Order of the Madara Horseman (Bulgaria), Knight Grand Cross
of the Order of Juan Mora Fernandez (Costa Rica), Grand Officer of the Most
Devoted Royal Household (Tonga). Etc.

Well, whatever turns you on. But I wonder if Bailey is still proud of his Syrian
Order of Outstanding Merit, awarded by the butcher Assad in recognition of
Bailey's status as delegate of the grandly named Catholic "Sacred Military
Constantinian Order of St George". The Constantinians have also made Assad a
Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Francis, much to the disgust of many
Catholics.

It also appears that the Constantinians are a client of Bailey's company, Eligo.
I rang Eligo to check. "Can't help you on that," said an apologetic spokesman.
So I rang the Sacred Military Order. The same man answered the phone, but still
couldn't help. How very odd.

Musical genius that never ends

Next week sees the start of one of Radio 3's exercises in total immersion: eight
days of Schubert from Friday onwards. A highlight will be Brian Newbould's
completion of an unfinished Schubert symphony - not the Unfinished Symphony, but
a fragment from 1821 that contains some of his most adventurous modulations.
Sorry, but I'm sceptical. The reconstructed Elgar Third and Mahler Tenth may
work as symphonies, but to me they're not quite the real thing. And as for the
unfinished final fugue in Bach's Art of Fugue, which ends tantalisingly in mid
air, the fact that no one has ever completed it convincingly is, for me, the
ultimate proof of the composer's genius.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

Unintended consequences of losing national pay rates in the public sector;
Regional public sector pay rates

LENGTH: 1666 words


SIR - The proposal by George Osborne, the Chancellor, to pay public sector
workers according to their local economies would seem to be sensible (report,
March 17). I wonder, however, if it will lead to a poorer quality of service in
deprived areas.

At the moment a teacher working in a deprived area is relatively better off than
a teacher working in an affluent area because of the difference in the cost of
living. But there would be no incentive for a teacher to work in a deprived area
if the pay was lower. If any change is to be made, surely it should aim to
attract good teachers to deprived areas where their skills are most needed.

Also, let us not forget that lots of goods and services cost the same
irrespective of where in the country you live. I cannot go on holiday for less
simply because I live in an area deemed to be less expensive. The opposite is
often true. I pay a surcharge to travel from a northern airport.

John Lynagh                     Ossett, West Yorkshire

SIR - Does the Government realise what a mess it may find itself in if it tries
to bring public sector salaries into line with the local private sector? With
whom will it make the comparisons?

Take teaching: will public sector teachers in or near Windsor have their
salaries compared with that private sector school just down the road in Eton?
Other than the fact that they both teach, can it even be said that their jobs
are similar?

Even within the public sector, can we compare the jobs of staff at a school in a
socially deprived area of a city, with all its associated problems, with those
at a school in an affluent area of the same city?

Ivor Arnold                     Barry, Glamorgan

SIR - Can George Osborne not see that by taking money out of local economies he
will increase unemployment in the private sector? With less money being spent,
local retailers and garages will have to cut back on staff, and builders will
have less work.

In fact, just about every local private business in the areas affected will
decrease its staff. This will result in an increase in spending on welfare and
benefits. Surely this is not what the Government wants.

Derek Graham                     Norton, Co Durham

SIR - The idea of a "local pay plan" was raised some 20 years ago. At my union
meeting it was denounced as unfair.

I asked if my union objected to the "London allowance". The reply was: "Ah,
that's different." I have always wondered what the difference is.

R I Macdonald                     Bristol

SIR - I am interested to see how MPs react to the idea of regional public sector
pay.

Can we expect the Right Honourable Member for Tatton, and other MPs in the
North, to take a pay freeze?

John Ratcliffe                     Maidstone, Kent

The Thames airport

SIR - We believe that plans for an airport on or near the Thames Estuary should
be grounded. The airport would cost up to £70 billion. Proponents say foreign
backers would pay for this, but they go quiet when asked who would foot the bill
for the road and rail links to London.

Aircraft using this airport would be 12 times more at risk of bird strike than
at any other major UK airport. The airport would also be close to Thamesport,
where huge container ships unload one fifth of the UK's liquid natural gas
supplies, as well as the proposed London Array wind farm and the wreck of SS
Richard Montgomery, which is still packed with 1,400 tonnes of explosives.

The airport would also destroy an area used by 300,000 migrating birds every
year, and would devastate the ecosystem of the Thames Estuary, which is of
worldwide scientific importance. Great swaths of the countryside would have to
be developed to make way for new roads, rail links, industrial estates, depots
and hotels. Some have pointed to the economic benefits to north Kent and south
Essex of such an airport, but the airport is still decades away and most of the
jobs would be low paid.

Finally, this airport would have a drastic economic effect on our existing
airports. Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has admitted to MPs that the
Government would have to legislate to force airlines to move from Heathrow. We
believe there are better solutions to the UK's aviation needs than an airport in
the Thames Estuary.

Prof Germaine Greer                                          Chris Corrigan
Director (South East England), RSPBCllr Rodney Chambers (Con)Cllr Nigel
Holdcroft (Con)Gordon Henderson MP (Con)Gareth Johnson MP (Con)Cllr John Kent
(Lab)Cllr Andrew Bowles (Con)Graham Stringer MP (Lab)Dr Julian Huppert MP (Lib
Dem)Cllr John Burden (Lab)Cllr Alan Jarrett (Con)Tracey Crouch MP (Con)Mark
Reckless MP (Con)Rehman Chishti MP (Con)Stephen Metcalfe MP (Con)Nigel Farage
MEP (Ukip)Lord Bradshaw (Lib Dem)Caroline Pidgeon AM (Lib Dem)Murad Qureshi AM
(Lab)Darren Johnson AM (Green)Nicky Gavron AM (Lab)

Unsporting wealth

SIR - Guy Opperman MP says that an "extra tax on properties over £2 million" is
"perfectly fair" and that the Conservatives should be "the party of the
strivers, of aspiration" (Letters, March 17).

How terribly British: we admire those who struggle against adversity, but we
don't like it when they actually succeed.

C D Drewe                     Chelmsford, Essex

Our civil masters

SIR - Charles Moore's article, "Civil servants are the masters now - and our
democracy suffers" (Comment, March 17), called to mind the warning of Marcus
Tullius Cicero that in "any State which has a permanent staff of officials, they
begin as our servants and end up imagining themselves our masters."

Gareth Wardell                     Tumble, Carmarthenshire

Full-page spread

SIR - The problem with reading the Telegraph online is that I end up with
marmalade all over my iPad screen.

Paul Brazier                     Kingswood, Gloucestershire

Exit Archbishop

SIR - Dr Rowan Williams has now resigned from the post of Archbishop of
Canterbury (report, March 17). But his appointment was one of the most
disastrous in modern times. It was bad for the Christian communion and for the
spiritual life of our country, because he was an academic who was out of touch
with the common man.

Let us pray that his successor is, in the words of the hymn writer Isaac Watts,
"not ashamed to own [his] Lord, / Or to defend His cause; / Maintain the honour
of His Word, / The glory of His cross."

David Wederell                     Wedmore, Somerset

SIR - Dr Williams walked a line between evangelicals and conservatives,
receiving criticism from both. But this should not be considered a failing: the
via media is an appropriate path for an Anglican bishop.

Dr Williams's powerful writing and preaching focuses on practical ethics,
liturgical orthodoxy and Christian spirituality. These issues resonate deeper
with those in the pews, and those outside the Church, than episcopal selection.
Most churchgoers see their diocesan bishop rarely, if at all; many could not
name him.

Dr Williams tried, sometimes with success, to move the conversation away from
bishops - the only topic that the Church seemed interested in, and the one that
is of least importance to its flock.

I fear that this time the clergy will get the archbishop they deserve, rather
than the one their congregations need.

William Clarke                     London SW15

SIR - I concur with Leslie Hardwick that the archbishoprics should merge
(Letters, March 17). It is time the Church reduced or eliminated the many tiers
of administration hanging over and largely being paid for by an ever-diminishing
number of benefices, parishes and congregants.

Surely we do not need so many bishops and self-perpetuating committees.

J J Matthews                     Baulking, Oxfordshire

Ask for the whortle

SIR - I spent many happy hours as a child picnicking in the Quantocks (News
Review, March 17), but the fruits gathered there were never known as
"bilberries". In Somerset, they were always known as whortleberries.

To this day there is a café in Porlock called the Whortleberry Tearoom.

Jill Pringle                     Harringworth, Northamptonshire

Poor literacy in primary schools is nothing new

SIR - It is far too late for Ofsted to become concerned about primary schools'
failure to teach English (report, March 15). We are now faced with parents who
cannot themselves read or write. How will they assist their children starting
school?

The weaknesses now being decried have been in primary schools for a generation,
and Ofsted has done nothing to enforce the requirement that children move to
secondary school with confidence in their ability to read and write.

James Bishop                     Wincanton, Somerset

SIR - Some children do not have books of their own, visit public libraries or
have stories read to them from an early age.

Just as we cannot hold the medical profession totally responsible for our
health, teachers do not have sole responsibility for education.

Nigel Pascoe                     Truro, Cornwall

SIR - Sir Michael Wilshaw, the chief inspector of Ofsted, wants more specialist
English teachers to be parachuted into primary schools to drive improvements.
This would mean pumping more money into the bloated state education system.

To reach their upper pay scales, primary school teachers already have to meet
criteria set by the Government. Teachers are professionals and should be
instructed to take responsibility for their teaching.

Jane Gambles                     Thundridge, Hertfordshire

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 18, 2012 Sunday 10:18 PM GMT

It's make or break week for wannabe PM George Osborne

BYLINE: PETER MCKAY

LENGTH: 1628 words


Chancellor George Osborne said yesterday he'll 'come down like a ton of bricks'
on tax avoiders, like those who dodge stamp duty by registering their UK homes
abroad.

Will this - and other soak-the-rich measures - help solve our huge debt
problems?

No, say bean counters. But it might appease Liberal Democrat members of the
coalition when Osborne reduces the 50p top rate of tax, as expected, in his
Budget on Wednesday.

Why reduce the top rate of tax when our national debt is historically high?
Because it's believed this will result in greater tax revenue, not less. Past
experience indicates that fewer high earners bother avoiding tax if it's set at
a lower rate.

The successful businessman Lord Jacobs, 80 - a former Liberal Democrat treasurer
- has, with co-author Richard Teather, sent all MPs and ministers a report on
how the tax system could be reformed to abolish anomalies and increase revenue.

He says: 'Our income tax, inheritance tax and capital gains tax are among the
highest in the Western world, and look where it's got us. Even people earning
the minimum wage are paying a combined income tax and employees' national
insurance of 32pc.'

Osborne looks and sounds confident. He has the bright-eyed, bushy-tailed air of
a man entering a new phase in his career. His Budget is written, his coalition
partners squared.

It's now-or-never time for growth, which, if it comes, would improve the Tory
chances of an overall majority victory in 2015 - or sooner, if this Coalition
government is dissolved.

The Chancellor is his party's chief strategist. If he is successful, he can
expect to be considered a successor to David Cameron. And when might that be?

We've lived through this story before, with Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In
2008, Blair was finally pushed out of No 10 by Brown, who had plotted against
him since Labour's 1997 win.

An overall Tory majority at the next general election should - in theory - mean
a Cameron government until 2020. (Unless Dave considers delivering a Tory
government with an overall majority a job done, and retires.)

Otherwise, Cameron has the immediate prospect of ten years in No 10, admittedly
the first five shared with Lib Dem squatters.

Would he seek to go 'on and on' - as was Margaret Thatcher's expressed wish
after two terms? Probably not. He'll be 54 in October 2020 - young enough to
embrace some less stressful but more lucrative career.

Osborne will be 49 in May 2020. As Chancellor, his qualifications to be
Cameron's successor then are strong, as they'd be if Cameron decided not to
stand at the next general election, or if there's a dissolution of the
government before then.

But nothing is sure in politics at this level. 'Events, dear boy, events' -
Macmillan's description of what drives political weather - could render Osborne
and/or the Tories unelectable at the next general election.

So this is a big week for Chancellor Osborne, who - all Budget details done and
dusted, he advises - tagged along last week on David Cameron's strange,
male-bonding exercise with U.S. President Barack Obama.

Osborne's wealthy, privileged background suggests he is a Right-winger at heart.
But that might limit his prime ministerial ambitions. So he is comfortable now
with the Left wing-owned language of 'fairness'.

The Budget on Wednesday will be for 'working people', he says. He'll be 'very
aggressive' at 'clamping down on tax avoiders'. (Tax avoidance used to be
regarded as respectable by those paying the top rate, while tax evasion - simply
not paying taxes due - was and is illegal. Osborne appears to have abolished any
distinction, in his mind at least.)

You might think a Tory chancellor, faced with a debt mountain bequeathed to him
by Labour, would prioritise an attack on public expenditure rather than further
demonise those who make adjustments to how they are employed, or where their
main home is, to avoid paying tax.

But for now he is tethered to the Lib Dems, who need to focus on 'fairness' -
even if it's illusory - in order to survive as a party. His challenge is to
produce a Budget which will increase growth, restore Conservative electoral
support and enhance his own credentials as a future Tory leader.

Having to have it rubber-stamped by the Liberal Democrats might seem an
additional burden, but it's an advantage, too.

The 'fairness' provisions insisted on by the Lib Dems might not make much
difference in the grand scheme of things. As such, they would have been ignored
by a Tory chancellor normally for fear of angering his base supporters. But they
might help to broaden the party's support, as well as limit Labour's ability to
oppose the package as a whole.

The first German chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, once remarked: 'Die Politik ist
die Kunst des Möglichen' - 'Politics is the art of the possible.'

As he studies himself in the bathroom mirror this morning, does George Gideon
Oliver Osborne wonder: 'Is it possible I will have removed all obstacles to my
succeeding Cameron this week?'

Tory MP Claire Perry, 48, a member of 'Giddy's Gang' - admirers of George Gideon
Osborne - is reported to have advised a colleague, Douglas Carswell MP, during a
Commons debate: 'Why don't you **** off and join UKIP?' Contacted by the Mail on
Sunday, she dismisses the story as 'misogynist nonsense'.

Last year, she was reported to be cross over not being called to speak in the
Commons, reportedly declaring in the tearoom: 'What have I got to do to be
called by the Speaker?

Give him a b*** ***?' It's possible Ms Perry has been misquoted on both
occasions. Or, as she suggests, she's a victim of women haters.

But I think she should make a public effort to prove her niceness. Giddy would
surely appreciate it at the moment.

Having achieved Top Gun status on Apache helicopter gunships and enjoyed a
successful official visit to Jamaica and Brazil, down-to-earth Prince Harry was
not allowed to bask for long in the nation's gratitude.

Embarrassingly, he is reported to have his own coterie of followers, the BBB
Crew - 'Blue-Blooded and Blonde aristocratic childhood chums, their equally
well-bred, mostly blonde girlfriends, and party-loving socialites, mostly
blonde'.

They include duke's daughter Lady Melissa Percy, 24, pictured. The group are
'closely linked, whether romantically, or by shared schooling, or simply a deep
bond of friendship'. And Harry 'trusts each one of them implicitly to be the
gatekeepers of his secrets'. Pass the Downton Abbey-sized sickbag!

The massacre of justice?

Accused of murdering 16 Afghan villagers - including nine children - Sgt Robert
Bales is flown back to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, to be assessed by military
prosecutors.

If it's any guide, in 1968 Lt William Calley led a company that killed more than
500 villagers in South Vietnam. He ended up serving three years under house
arrest - and he didn't have the wealth of post-traumatic stress experts who will
be available to Sgt Bales.

Shouldn't Bales be prosecuted by military authorities in Afghanistan, where the
crime was committed, local witnesses can called and justice seen to be done?

The wooing of Cameron

What can explain President Barack Obama's fondness for our PM, David Cameron
(aside from Dave's irresistible charm)?

Monarchists say Obama's state visit here last May changed his view of us. He was
charmed by the Queen.

But having seen (on Have I Got News For You) the film clip in which the prez
speaks over the national anthem - Her Maj giving him the evil eye - I rather
doubt that.

I suspect that those who really run America - the U.S. military - do value
Britain's unflinching support, and presidents have to toe the line. Besides, I
expect Cameron (like most of our rising politicos) was cultivated by the CIA.

Rolls-Royce is advertising its new Ghost model, promising 'effortless business
performance'. It does at best 20 miles to the gallon, although makers' figures
are usually optimistic. Cost? £2,995 a month over the three-year contract hire
period plus an £18,000 deposit. In other words, £126,000 and you still don't own
the motor. We can't be as hard up as we think.

The 60th birthday party in Mexico of billionaire Topshop tycoon Sir Philip Green
sounds fun. He flew 150 friends there in private jets, including the actor
Leonardo DiCaprio and model Naomi Campbell.

For his 50th, Sir Philip took 200 guests to Cyprus, at an estimated cost of £5
million. The Mexico jaunt sounds even more expensive. In Budget week, I wonder
if it's tax-deductible as a business expense.

Ed's verdict

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls is on a charm offensive, boasting about his cooking
skills and running down the behaviour of his former mentor, Gordon Brown.

He tells Parliamentary writer Ann Treneman: 'I was the person who was willing to
stand up to Gordon Brown and tell him when he was wrong . . . Gordon ended up
seeing the difficulties of any situation rather than the opportunities . . .
nobody is going to look back at any point in history and say Gordon Brown was a
great Prime Minister . . .'

Will voters appreciate Balls's candour? Brown was clearly a difficult man,
obsessed with acquiring power. But he hasn't disparaged his  ex-colleagues
publicly and - considering what several now say about him - you have to respect
him for that.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 18, 2012 Sunday 12:04 AM GMT

The girl from Giddy's gang...

BYLINE: BRENDAN CARLIN, MAIL ON SUNDAY POLITICAL REPORTER

LENGTH: 546 words


and a four-letter tirade at a Eurosceptic Tory in the Commons

An outspoken Tory MP was at the centre of fresh controversy last night after
claims she told a fellow Conservative to 'f*** off and join UKIP'.

Claire Perry is said to have directed the four-letter tirade at well-known Tory
Eurosceptic MP Douglas Carswell during a Commons debate. Friends of Mr Carswell
say he was outraged at Ms Perry's alleged verbal onslaught last week.

Two Tory MPs present in the Commons say they heard Ms Perry make the comment and
insist it was aimed at  Mr Carswell.

Mr Carswell is said to have looked deeply shocked and spluttered in reply: 'I am
just a loyal Conservative.'

One of the Tory MPs present said last night: 'It happened last week, just after
Douglas had asked a question about Coalition policy on child benefit.

'It wasn't a particularly helpful question but it wasn't about Europe or
anything to do with the UK Independence Party.

'But after Douglas sat down, Perry, who was sitting near him, leaned across and
said: "Why don't you f*** off and join UKIP?''

'It was a disgraceful thing to say. People didn't know where to look.'

Last year, Ms Perry came under fire when she complained bitterly at not being
given a chance to take part in Commons debates by Speaker John Bercow. She
stormed into the Commons tea room, declaring loudly: 'What have I got to do to
be called by the Speaker? Give him a b*** j**?'

The statuesque Ms Perry is one of a new wave of ambitious young MPs who are key
members of 'Giddy's Gang', the new Westminster nickname for prominent supporters
of Chancellor George Osborne. Mr Osborne was known as Gideon as a child but
dropped that name for George as a teenager, claiming 'life was easier'.

Before she became an MP, ex-banker Ms Perry, 48, worked as a political adviser
to Mr Osborne as Shadow Chancellor. Despite only having been elected as an MP in
2010, she has already reached the first rung of the ministerial ladder as
parliamentary aide to Defence Secretary Philip Hammond.

Many at Westminster believe the mother of three is ultimately destined for the
Cabinet. But her Tory critics say her forthright manner and habit of heckling
other MPs is making her enemies. Other colleagues defended her. One said: 'Some
of these male MPs can dish it out but they can't take it. Claire is a breath of
fresh air in the Commons. She's very talented and she speaks her mind.'

Others point out that Mr Carswell himself is no stranger to controversy. Two
weeks ago, Foreign Secretary William Hague accused him of living in a 'fantasy
world and talking total nonsense' in a row over Israel.

Commons sources last night said Ms Perry was one of several key members of Mr
Osborne's inner circle.

Others include Transport Secretary Justine Greening, 42, and Suffolk MP Matt
Hancock, 32, a former Bank of England economist who served as Mr Osborne's
former chief of staff in Opposition.

Other members include Greg Hands, 46, a Government Whip, high-profile backbench
MP and polling expert Nadhim Zahawi, and Sajid Javid, Mr Osborne's current
parliamentary private secretary.

Last night, asked whether she had sworn at Mr Carswell Ms Perry declined to
comment, but dismissed the story as 'misogynist nonsense'.

Mr Carswell refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

THE GIRL FROM GIDDY'S GANG ... AND A FOUR-LETTER TIRADE AT EUROSCEPTIC TORY

BYLINE: BY BRENDAN CARLIN

LENGTH: 529 words


AN OUTSPOKEN Tory MP was at the centre of fresh controversy last night after
claims she told a fellow Conservative to `f*** off and join UKIP'.

Claire Perry is said to have directed the four-letter tirade at well-known Tory
Eurosceptic MP Douglas Carswell during a Commons debate. Friends of Mr Carswell
say he was outraged at Ms Perry's alleged verbal onslaught last week.

Two Tory MPs present in the Commons say they heard Ms Perry make the comment and
insist it was aimed at Mr Carswell.

Mr Carswell is said to have looked deeply shocked and spluttered in reply: `I am
just a loyal Conservative.'

One of the Tory MPs present said last night: `It happened last week, just after
Douglas had asked a question about Coalition policy on child benefit.

`It wasn't a particularly helpful question but it wasn't about Europe or
anything to do with the UK Independence Party.

`But after Douglas sat down, Perry, who was sitting near him, leaned across and
said: a€oeWhy don't you f*** off and join UKIP?''

`It was a disgraceful thing to say. People didn't know where to look.'

Last year, Ms Perry came under fire when she complained bitterly at not being
given a chance to take part in Commons debates by Speaker John Bercow. She
stormed into the Commons tea room, declaring loudly: `What have I got to do to
be called by the Speaker? Give him a b*** j**?'

The statuesque Ms Perry is one of a new wave of ambitious young MPs who are key
members of `Giddy's Gang', the new Westminster nickname for prominent supporters
of Chancellor George Osborne. Mr Osborne was known as Gideon as a child but
dropped that name for George as a teenager, claiming `life was easier'.

Before she became an MP, ex-banker Ms Perry, 48, worked as a political adviser
to Mr Osborne as Shadow Chancellor. Despite only having been elected as an MP in
2010

, she has already reached the first rung of the ministerial ladder as
parliamentary aide to Defence Secretary Philip Hammond.

Many at Westminster believe the mother of three is ultimately destined for the
Cabinet. But her Tory critics say her forthright manner and habit of heckling
other MPs is making her enemies. Other colleagues defended her. One said: `Some
of these male MPs can dish it out but they can't take it. Claire is a breath of
fresh air in the Commons. She's very talented and she speaks her mind.'

Others point out that Mr Carswell himself is no stranger to controversy. Two
weeks ago, Foreign Secretary William Hague accused him of living in a `fantasy
world and talking total nonsense' in a row over Israel.

Commons sources last night said Ms Perry was one of several key members of Mr
Osborne's inner circle.

Others include Transport Secretary Justine Greening, 42, and Suffolk MP Matt
Hancock, 32, a former Bank of England economist who served as Mr Osborne's
former chief of staff in Opposition.

Other members include Greg Hands, 46, a Government Whip, high-profile backbench
MP and polling expert Nadhim Zahawi, and Sajid Javid, Mr Osborne's current
parliamentary private secretary.

Last night, asked whether she had sworn at Mr Carswell Ms Perry declined to
comment, but dismissed the story as `misogynist nonsense'.

Mr Carswell refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 18, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Even the French think the EU is a waste of money;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words


MORE than half of French people have branded the European Union a waste of
money. Some 43 per cent of Germans feel the same way, compared with 39 per cent
of Britons.

The poll findings reveal simmering tensions across all member states as the
eurozone crisis takes its toll on taxpayers.

Bailouts for debt-laden countries and a Europe-wide squeeze on public spending
are casting doubt over the cost of the whole EU integration project.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The high-handed
actions of the European elite are succeeding in turning the entire Continent
against them.

"No longer are the British people alone in condemning the project. While
taxpayers across the Continent have a greater belief in the dream, even they are
beginning to have qualms about the practical costs of that dream in these times
of austerity."

The poll, the most in-depth survey of its kind in recent years, was carried out
by new think tank YouGov-Cambridge, which questioned more than 11,000 voters
across the EU. It reveals that Britain and the eurozone countries are heading in
"two starkly different directions".

While the majority of voters in France, Germany and Italy favour more
integration, support for the project in the UK drains away.

Six out of 10 Britons want a renegotiation of our relationship with Brussels or
complete withdrawal. Six out of 10 also back a national referendum.

In contrast 62 per cent of Germans, 61 per cent of Italians and almost half of
French voters want greater integration.

There is even a majority in Italy in favour of a United States of Europe, an
idea also given the backing of four out of 10 French voters.

The vast majority of British voters want to reclaim national control in almost
all policy areas.

Some 79 per cent want total sovereignty over immigration, 80 per cent want
Westminster to wrest back control over all union and labour legislation and 74
per cent want agricultural policy restored to the UK. With the eurozone
countries determined to press ahead with a financial transaction tax which would
hit the City of London hard, some 68 per cent want Britain to be given back
control over financial regulation.

The poll findings have been seized on by Tories who want the Prime Minister to
use the eurozone crisis to re-open talks with Brussels over our relationship
with the EU.

The Fresh Start group is mapping out ways for the UK to claw back power and
wants a firm commitment to renegotiation backed by a referendum in the next
Conservative manifesto.

Andrea Leadsom, co-founder of Fresh Start, said: "These poll findings make very
interesting reading. There is no doubt that with the eurozone crisis there is an
opportunity for wholesale renegotiation.

"It is a huge opportunity for Britain to create a new relationship with the EU
based on a single market and the internal free movement of labour."

The poll also reveals major faultlines opening up between Germany and other
eurozone countries about how best to tackle the currency crisis.

It suggests German public opinion could eventually force a break-up of the
eurozone by forcing out debt-laden countries such as Greece.

Most German taxpayers back Chancellor Angela Merkel's refusal to allow a greater
role for the European Central Bank in easing the currency crisis.

The poll also suggests German voters have run out of patience with bail-outs for
countries not fully committed to harsh austerity measures. More than half of
Germans think it's wrong to spend taxpayers' money trying to save the euro.

OPINION: PAGE 36

What do you think - SHOULD THE UK HAVE A REFERENDUM OVER EU?

YES - 0901 792 5314

NO - 0901 792 5315

YES text SXVOTEYES to 86611

NO text SXVOTENO to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus standard network charges. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.
Voting closes at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tying the knot with a post-Christian Britain

BYLINE: Damian Thompson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 593 words


Dr Rowan Williams is getting out in the nick of time. Let's be clear about this:
the Churches will lose their fight against gay marriage becoming part of the law
of the land - and it'll be a messy business. This week various bishops have
pointed out, quite correctly, that giving heterosexual and same-sex marriages
the same legal status means redefining a concept that lies at the heart of
religious life. Admittedly, there's a clause in the Coalition's "consultation"
that bans gay church weddings, but that doesn't represent any sort of solution.

Take the case of the Church of England. Lots of trendy clergy will ask to
solemnise gay weddings. Happy couple, beaming vicar, chirpy guests, organist
belting out show tunes - who's going to call the police? Not the bishop, who'll
be terrified of being grilled by the right-on BBC.

Will churches padlock For Roman Catholics the prospect is a very bleak one. Even
if a liberal priest wanted to do the honours, he'd incur automatic
excommunication and be out of a job. The "wedding" would be a parody of the
sacrament. So a legal ban would save a lot of awkwardness.

But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Are we sure there's going to be a ban
against gay church weddings? Human rights judges will wipe it off the statute
book at the first opportunity - which is why it may well be smothered during the
consultation process. And in the absence of an exemption, what are Catholic
dioceses going to do? Padlock the church door? It could come to that.

Newsnight on Thursday told me all I needed to know. First we had a filmed report
on gay marriage that gave opponents of the measure the sort of "fair hearing"
reserved for members of Ukip. In the studio discussion afterwards, Tory minister
Nick Herbert and dreary comedian Rhona Cameron found themselves on the same side
of the argument. Cameron was her usual humourless Spartist self, but far more
striking was Herbert's blank-eyed inflexibility. The critics of gay marriage
ranged against them were wasting their breath. The ruling class has chattered,
and the verdict is in.

The passing of this legislation will mark a significant moment in Britain's
history: its emergence as a post-Christian society along the lines of
Scandinavia or France.

The traditional definition of marriage is a cornerstone of Church teaching. The
fact that the Rev Giles Fraser (inevitably) wants to remove it is evidence of
secularisation from within.

But the secularisation that really matters comes from the majority of young
British citizens who are atheists or agnostics. David Cameron isn't in favour of
gay marriage because he's a Conservative: that's just cute sophistry. He's in
favour of it because he represents, and earnestly desires the votes of,
Britain's fast-growing post-Christian electorate.

As for the Anglican and Catholic hierarchies, part of me is looking forward to
watching them lose this battle. For decades, bishops have made damn sure they're
on the liberal side of every controversy: against nuclear weapons, against
government cuts, hysterical proponents of the global warming scare, etc. Now
they're being forced to take a reactionary line against politically correct
members of the Tory party. Quelle horreur!

Archbishop Vincent Nichols, leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales,
has really drawn the short straw here. He was also on Newsnight, in a
pre-recorded interview with Jeremy Paxman. Although he argued his corner with
skill, his expression said: get me out of here. But, thanks to a "conservative"
prime minister, that's no longer an option.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Will churches padlock the doors?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

COMMENTARY NIGEL FARAGE Leader of UK Independence Party

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 476 words


IN the 12 years I've been an MEP I have received a lorry load of communication
from constituents, asking me to support this and oppose that. But not one
calling for me to support, or indeed oppose, gay marriage.

Why is gay marriage suddenly in the spotlight?

It was in no manifesto. It may be vital to a minority of people, but not to the
wider public.

A recent ICM poll reveals that 14 per cent of people thought that the Government
should prioritise the issue but 78 per cent felt that it has more important
matters to address.

It's puzzling. Why on earth is David Cameron pushing this so hard? Why has a
consultation been launched on the issue?

It is evident that the Government has already made up its mind. As it says:
"This consultation is about how the ban can be lifted on same-sex couples having
a marriage through a civil ceremony."

Not making the change is not an option, apparently.

Why is he opening a new front in his war against his traditional support?

I bumped into the gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell a few days ago. "Why
now?" I asked.

Smiling, he told me that it was because he had a case going to the European
Court of Human Rights. Of course, stupid me, why didn't I think of that? There
just had to be a European angle.

I went off and found it, on Peter's EqualLove website. My legal advice on his
case was this. "The case is well-argued and, knowing the politicisation of the
ECHR and its general drift, it is almost definitely going to win."

Whatever one's view of the issue, the case they make is well constructed. They
have put together a team of complainants to the ECHR, some straight, some gay.

They highlight the difference between banning marriage for gays and civil
partnerships for straight couples despite them being to all intents and purposes
equal in law.

It has been with the court since last year. The fact that Cameron has suddenly
taken up this cause, which has not really been on the horizon at all, suggests
that the case is heading towards an imminent hearing and his legal advice is the
same as mine.

The last thing he needs at the moment is to have the European courts declare our
law discriminatory again and demand it be changed. It would show him weak and
ineffectual.

It would then appear that he was only espousing gay marriage because the court
has said so.

The Tatchell express has been spotted coming down the tracks and Cameron has
decided to get out of its way. That he is jumping into the path of another train
composed of his own core support means nothing to him.

The chief whip is saying that there will be a free vote on this. Maybe so, there
was one on prisoner votes after all, but it is meaningless.

For in exactly the same way it doesn't matter what our politicians say and do,
when the European Court rules, we must obey.

In this world where we are governed by the ECHR, one has to ask, is nothing
sacred?

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP leader Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Euro showdown 'spurs PM's zeal for gay marriage'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 511 words


DAVID Cameron was last night accused of rushing legislation on gay marriage to
avert an embarrassing human rights showdown. It was claimed that a joint legal
challenge by four gay and four heterosexual couples has forced the Prime
Minister to drive through the changes, to allow same-sex couples to marry, so
that the Government does not look discriminatory.

The proposal, fiercely opposed by some senior church figures and Conservative
MPs, was first mooted by the Tories last spring.

Mr Cameron then spelled out his plans at last year's Tory Party Conference,
saying he wanted to make it legal for gay couples to exchange marriage vows
before the next election, due in 2015.

But there were claims yesterday that the Prime Minister had moved quickly to
ward off a potentially damaging confrontation with the European Court of Human
Rights.

The joint case, spearheaded by gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell, was first
submitted to the court in February last year.

It centres around four gay couples, who want to strike down the ban on same-sex
civil marriages, and four heterosexual couples, who want the ban lifted on
opposite-sex civil partnerships.

Mr Tatchell claims that two months after his submission to the court the
Government started making "noises" about same sex marriage.

The proposals were then announced by Mr Cameron at the Tory Conference in
October.

Mr Tatchell said: "I suspect one of the reasons David Cameron decided to
publicly commit to legalising same-sex marriage is because he was aware that our
European court case will eventually force the British government to justify the
current ban."

A recent ICM poll found 14 per cent of people thought the Government should
prioritise the issue but 78 per cent said it had more important issues to
tackle.

Writing in today's Daily Express, right, Nigel Farage leader of the UK
Independence Party, questions why Mr Cameron is trying to drive through the
legislation.

He concludes: "The last thing he needs at the moment is to have the European
courts declare our law discriminatory again and demand it be changed."

A Downing Street source last night said: "I was not aware of that court case. It
sounds like a bit of wishful thinking on Mr Tatchell's part.

"The reasons for the changes to the legislation were given by the Prime Minister
at the Conservative Party Conference." Civil partnerships, introduced in 2005,
already give gay couples similar legal rights to married couples. But the
Government wants them to be allowed to make vows and declare they are married
within three years.

It launched a 12-week consultation on issue this week.

Some Tory MPs argue it will undermine the family. One of their number, Peter
Bone, said he "threw up" when he heard David Cameron defend the move, saying:
"On this particular issue, he is totally and utterly wrong."

opiNioN: pAge 16 Should gay marriages be made legal? q Yes: 0901 792 5310 No:
0901 792 5311 Yes text DXsATYes to 86611 No text DXsATNo to 86611 Texts cost 35p
plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 17, 2012 Saturday 11:52 AM GMT

My lesson for teacher: There's no more money

BYLINE: KELVIN MACKENZIE

LENGTH: 1528 words


Teachers in the school up the road from where I live went on strike last
November as part of their campaign to cling on to their absurdly generous
pension arrangements.

I asked the chairman of the school governors, Councillor Ian Lake, how many of
the staff walked out. He refused to say. I also tried to ask the headteacher of
Heathside, Ann Cullum, but she wouldn't come to the phone. Similarly, Surrey
County Council (which runs the school) said it didn't have to disclose the
figures.

Not easily put off, I used the Freedom of Information Act and those secretive
idiots at the council offices were forced - after weeks of umming and ahhing -
to come clean.

The answer is that 42 teachers at the secondary school and sixth form college
stopped work, disrupting children's education and creating childcare mayhem for
parents. Out of 265 schools in Surrey, Heathside was the eighth most militant.

I would be grateful in future if such fascinating details about teachers'
strikes were put alongside the Ofsted report on the school website so parents
could decide if they wanted their children taught by members of the Socialist
Workers Party.

It's a good job none of the teachers thought of working for Tesco, which has
just told 172,000 staff that as of now they will have to work till 67 - an extra
two years - before being entitled to a full pension.

Meanwhile, Education Secretary Michael Gove has given teachers a ten-year
moratorium on their current pension arrangements. Many teachers do a wonderful
job but I'm afraid I'd give their unions a moratorium of only ten seconds.

Despite Mr Gove's generosity, the teaching unions are planning fresh strikes.
But even good teachers have to accept that their pensions are funded by
taxpayers, including those who work in the private sector and whose firms can't
afford such generous pensions.

The sooner parents stand up against the troublemakers, the faster our children
may turn out as educated as those in Estonia.

Incidentally, the curse of MacKenzie has struck Councillor Lake who has been
fired from the Council Cabinet after being accused of trying to profit from the
London Olympics.

Parts of Surrey will be used for the cycling road race and Mr Lake was censured
for not disclosing his commercial interest in a company offering Olympic
hospitality packages. He denies any conflict of interest.

Hollywood star Dick Van Dyke has, at the age of  86, married his 40-year-old
make-up artist and says: 'I am looking forward to a long and happy marriage.'
I'm sure it will be 'happy', but I find it hard to believe it will be 'long'.

Bumped into a friendly South London publican this week at the Cheltenham
Festival - basically a beer festival with farmyard animals - who told me of a
bar-bore who had earned the nickname 'Pothole' from other drinkers.

The landlord asked one of the locals to explain why he had been given the name
and was told: 'He must be avoided.'

Into my hospitality box came Sir Peter O'Sullevan, the voice of racing for
decades, who is now an astonishingly sprightly 94. I asked a bookmaker friend
who had a dinner with him recently why Sir Peter looked so good. 'It must be
that two bottles of red he knocked back,' he replied. So that's the answer!

For me, the most moving moment at Cheltenham came when Andy Stewart, the
big-hearted and big-personality owner, collected the prize for his horse Big
Bucks which won the Ladbroke's World Hurdle and set a new record of 16
consecutive victories.

What moved me was the sight of his handsome son, Paul, walking with the aid of a
walking stick to the podium. Paul, 30, broke his back falling 200ft in an
avalanche in the Alps three years ago.

It was feared he would be in a wheelchair for life but, thanks to spinal
specialists here and in the U.S., he has made remarkable progress.

Today, Paul, a sports graduate from Loughborough, is on the brink of being
picked for the 50m freestyle for the Paralympics in August. He works out for two
hours a day in the pool, using only his arms.

Wouldn't it be great if he won a gold?

My army of spies out there tell me it is impossible to find a Premier Inn hotel
room at £29, despite what the chain's adverts say.

Perhaps Patrick Dempsey, the £413,000-a-year managing director, should explain
how the racket works.

Something blue for a gypsy bride

The most extraordinary picture of the year must be the electronic ankle tag
studded with stick-on jewels worn by a bride being filmed by Channel  4 for its
My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding series.

It's not clear what events led to the 16-year-old being ordered to wear the
device, but the tag has now become a fashion accessory. It will only be a matter
of time before all teenage girls will want one. Stores such as Accessorize
please note.

Regardless of the blinged-up ankle tag, the wedding was extraordinary. There
were 1,000 members of the public outside the church.

Meanwhile, there was a curious incident some 24 hours earlier at an upmarket
kitchenware shop which may be linked to the wedding.

Three women went into the store and started browsing. They complained to the
owner that a male customer was smelling badly.

The owner approached the man and noticed the most awful smell of rotten eggs. He
asked the man to leave and the women also exited . . . as did a £70 frying pan
and two sets of cheese knives worth £20 and £30.

You don't think that the items might pop up on a certain wedding list?

I note Victoria Derbyshire, the Radio 5 Live 10am-12pm presenter, couldn't quite
fit in the full five days this week and was missing again yesterday. Could
someone explain to her that work is not something you do between your days off
and your holidays.

The tears dry up for Tappin

Have you noticed how all the tears for Christopher Tappin, the Kent businessman
who has been extradited from Britain to the U.S., where he faces charges for
arms smuggling, have dried up since I shone the spotlight (last week) on the
truth about the case?

I pointed out that two of his former business associates are already in jail for
trying to obtain batteries for Iranian surface-to-air missiles and that Mr
Tappin was no novice in this area.

Even Nigel Farage, the energetic leader of UKIP and Mr Tappin's friend of 40
years, has put a brake on the campaign to save him from extradition.

The stories are horrific. Dogs found hanging from trees, chained in 35-degree
heat with no shade and virtually no water. Dogs roaming the streets being left
injured by uncaring motorists.

This is the side of Kos, the Greek holiday island, you don't see in  the
brochures.

And the problem, caused by growing austerity measures in the bankrupt country,
is getting worse. I know this from Marian Jarvis, a  54-year-old mother-of-two,
originally from Walsham, Norfolk, who, for some years, has been using her time
and money to try to help these victims of cruel and often downright ignorant
locals.

She has just paid to build a shelter and veterinary sanctuary on the island.
Next week, I will publish details of Marian's little charity and how you can
help if you wish.

It's a cop out

This is true. To join the police in 1930, candidates were asked the following
maths question: multiply 7,419 by 837. Remember, there were no pocket
calculators in those days.

In 2012, applicants were asked to solve a different question: a purse has a £5
note, four 20p coins and five 2p coins. How much was in the purse?

At this rate, by 2020 there will only be one question: Have you ever worn socks?

P.S. The answer to the 1930 question is 6,209,703.

Did you see that the 'good days and bad days' defence I mentioned last week
(said by cheats as they explain why they fraudulently claimed thousands in
disability payments) has been trotted out yet again?

This time, it was used in the defence of a 51-year-old mother who claimed she
could hardly walk but was filmed going down a steep waterslide in a holiday park
in the South of France.

Clearly being forced to sell her house in Wales to repay the £16,000 of
disability living allowance she stole will be a bad day. All together now:
'Aaaaahh.'

Get your bag off my seat

I have no time for the thuggish and drunken behaviour of a financial consultant
who ended up in the dock after punching a train passenger who had tried to
reserve the seat next to him by placing his laptop bag on it.

But I do share his irritation at this growing habit - by both men and women - of
trying to 'own' the seat next to them. Commuting is overcrowded and stressful
enough without having to ask: 'Would you mind moving your bag?'

It shouldn't be put there in the first place. Don't do it. You know you're
trying it on.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DON'T LET TORY AND UKIP STUPIDITY LET IN ANOTHER EURO-FANATIC

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 292 words


THE PALACE of Westminster is now openly abuzz with the debate over whether Chris
Huhne, pending trial, can hope to hold on to his marginal seat at Eastleigh,
Hampshire. The majority view for gamblers is that it might be wiser to invest in
the Greek economy.

Back in 2005 Eastleigh was regarded as a traditional Conservative seat but its
sitting MP was retiring. The Tory candidate was Conor Burns, who happened to be
robustly EU-sceptic. In an act of near insanity the local UKIP headbangers
mounted a vigorous campaign, split the Tory vote and let in the EU-fanatic
Huhne. It's called blowing off your foot to prove the gun works.

As it happens, UKIP probably cost the Tories 25 seats, giving Blair his 66-seat
majority over combined opposition instead of 16 seats and possibly costing us
the referendum which UKIP is always clamouring for. Had the latter happened
Michael Howard could have stayed as leader and he had given a solemn, written
and signed pledge to pull us out of the Common Fisheries Policy, which would
have triggered our complete departure. But that's just what might have been.

Anyway, if this autumn sees a by-election at Eastleigh and if Tory Headshed and
UKIP have half a brain (jury still out on that one) it would be wise for
Headshed to choose a stalwart EU-sceptic and the local UKIP to help him topple
the Lib-Dem incumbent rather than sabotage him. The effect on Conservative
morale nationwide would be like VE-Day.

In 2010 Master Huhne preached loudly of his dedication to the concepts of home,
wife and family. At the time he was indulging in the pleasures of the duvet of
Ms Carina Trimingham, for whom he later walked out on his wife and kids. The
voters of Eastleigh can sometimes be a tad old-fashioned when they want to be.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anger as Somali pervert wins right to sue Britain

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 372 words


A SOMALI sex offender who sidestepped Home Office attempts to deport him
yesterday won the right to sue the Government for failing to release him quickly
enough.

Bashir Barrow, 51, was originally allowed to stay in the UK after fleeing his
war-torn homeland.

But instead of repaying the favour he ended up costing the country hundreds of
thousands and went on the run to avoid being sent home.

Now the pervert - who once turned up to an immigration hearing so drunk it had
to be abandoned - could be in line for a cash payout after the Court of Appeal
gave him permission to continue a taxpayerfunded bid for compensation. The UK
Border Agency paid out £4million in compensation in 2010 for 152 cases -
including many unlawful detention claims - at an average of £26,600 each.

Ukip Euro-MP and home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten hit out at the farcical
situation. He said: "It is getting crazy. Not only can we not deport foreign
criminals we don't want here, but we are finding we have to pay them for the
privilege of staying in the country.

"This is exactly the kind of reason that we have to get rid of the Human Rights
Act." Yesterday the Court of Appeal heard how Barrow arrived in the UK in 1995.
He was refused asylum but was granted exceptional leave to remain that year and
indefi-nite leave to remain in 2002. Within a year he was jailed for indecent
assault, theft and breaching a community order. He went on to commit a string of
driving offences and returned to jail in 2007.

Home Office staff had wanted to deport Barrow after his first jail term but he
went missing.

By the time of the second deportation attempt, in May 2008, he had written to
the European Court of Human Rights pleading for help.

Strasbourg judges then ruled that sending the criminal back would violate his
human rights. He was later granted bail from an immigration centre in September
2009, when a judge ruled that - although he was "a pest" - he had to be
released.

Barrister Shivani Jegarajah told the appeal judges her client's criminal record
was "not serious" and he should have been released soon after the European Court
ruling. Lord Justice Davis, Sir John Thomas and Mr Justice Black ordered a High
Court review of Barrow's case.

oPInIon: PAGE 12.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 16, 2012 Friday 10:51 AM GMT

By-elections boost for Labour;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 360 words


Labour scored a double gain from Tories at Braintree District in the heart of
Essex man territory in the latest council by-elections.

However Conservatives managed to pick up a Green Party seat at Scarborough
Borough, North Yorkshire.

Labour's Eric Lynch gained at Braintree East and party colleague Martin Green
triumphed at Braintree South.

At Scarborough, Tory Michelle Donohue-Moncrieff won at Hertford from the Green
Party which failed to field a candidate to defend the seat.

Analysis of six comparable contests suggests a projected 1.6% nationwide Labour
lead over Conservatives.

This is smaller than the trend indicated by three other by-elections earlier
this month but there was a large net switch in the two marginal Braintree wards.

RESULTS

Braintree District - Braintree East: Lab 554, C 388, Ukip 131, Green 76, No
description 32. (May 2011 - Three seats Lab 762, C 759, Lab 756, 710, C 691,
668, Green 297). Labour gain from C. Swing 5.9% C to Lab.

Braintree District - Braintree South: Lab 596, C 476, Green 116. (May 2011 -
Three seats C 844, 806, Lab 780, 711, 709, C 605, No description 408, Green
291). Lab gain from C. Swing 5.4% C to Lab.

Braintree District - Geat Notley and Braintree West: C 532, Lab 232, Ukip 155,
Green 61. (May 2011 - Three seats C 1435, 1418, 1211, Lab 407, 362, 306, Green
274). C hold. Swing 8.8% C to Lab.

Broxtowe Borough- Toton and Chillwell Meadows: C 831, Lab 385, Lib Dem 300, Ukip
228 . (May 2011 - Three seats C 1529, 1491, 1413, Lab 926, 925, 837, Lib Dem
377, 334, Ukip 305, Lib Dem 304). C hold. Swing 3.1% Lab to C.

Fareham Borough - Portchester East: Lib Dem 1216, C 840, Lab 323, Green 90, Ind
77. (May 2010 - Two seats Lib Dem 3554, 3178, C 1929, 1231, Lab 721, 607). Lib
Dem hold. Swing 8.5% Lib Dem to C.

Nottinghamshire County. - Chillwell and Toton: C 1958, Lib Dem 1375, Ukip 682.
(June 2009 - Two seats - Two seats C 3388, 3356, Lab 1442, 1135, Lib Dem 1076,
998, Ukip 786, Green 658, BNP 546, Green 500). C hold. Swing 8.0% C to Lib Dem.

Scarborough Borough - Hertford: C 663, Lab 208, Ukip 126, Lib Dem 99. (May 2011
- Two seats Green 1192, C 902, 444, Lab 287). C gain from Green. Swing 11.7% Lab
to C.

PA

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Beer tax rap

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 59 words


CHANCELLOR George Osborne was yesterday urged to help drinkers and pubs in his
Budget.

Figures showed Brits pay 40% of all beer tax in the EU but drink only 13% of the
ale.

Ukip's Euro MP Roger Helmer, 68, said: "The pub trade is a vital part of our
heritage and it's directly threatened by unrealistic proposals for beer tax
hikes. Osborne must think again."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHO'LL MARRY HARRY?;
It's lonely being a prince, he admitted this week. So we've found him Europe's
most eligible and beautiful aristocrats and party girls

BYLINE: SIMON EDGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 761 words


1. CHARLOTTE CASIRAGHI, 25

As fourth in line to the throne of Monaco, Charlotte is a European royal -
albeit of the Euro-tacky variety. Her grandmother was the actress Grace Kelly
and her mother is former wild-child Princess Caroline. Her father was the
Italian businessman Stefano Casiraghi who died defending his world speedboat
title. A keen showjumper, Charlotte is a journalist and editor who co-founded
her own eco-magazine with offices in London.

The only snag is she's a Catholic, which means Harry, 27, would have to give up
his place as third in line to the throne - or we could do what we should have
done years ago and reform the Act of Succession.

2. LILY COLE, 23

If he's looking for a fellow redhead to ginger up the gene pool, Harry should
spare a thought for brain box model Lily. Talent-scouted at 15, she was already
famous when she won a place at Cambridge University. But that didn't go to her
head and she emerged with a double-first. Harry's grandmother might raise an
eyebrow at the string of nude or topless photo-shoots she has done - but it
would boost her eligibility in the groom's eyes.

3. GABRIELLA ANSTRUTHERGOUGH-CALTHORPE, 22

If Harry wants to fall back on the option of a good, old-fashioned British toff,
what better than a triplebarrelled one? Her elder sister Isabella, who once
dated Richard Branson's son Sam, is a friend of Prince William. But half-sister
Gabriella is a more eligible age. If Harry took her down the aisle she would be
the first member of the Royal Family ever to have appeared in Doctor Who - under
her stage name Gabriella Wilde.

4. SOPHIA HESKETH, 27

Sophia is the daughter of motor-racing aristocrat Lord Hesketh who served as
John Major's chief whip in the House of Lords and recently defected to the UK
Independence Party. The Hon Sophie is a fashion editor at Japanese Vogue and
dated the Prime Minister's brother-inlaw Robert Sheffield.

She's known to have a soft spot for Harry.

5. ALLEGRA VERSACE, 25

As a member of a gilded, hereditary European fashion house, Allegra is a new
kind of royalty. Daughter of Donatella and niece of Gianni, she was only 11 when
the latter was murdered by a serial killer at his Miami Beach home. He had
always doted on her and left her 50 per cent of his fashion empire, giving her a
£700million fortune. She has struggled with anorexia so Harry might need to feed
her up.

6. MICHELLE DOCKERY, 31

Might Lady Mary turn Harry's head? The actress who plays Lord Grantham's eldest
daughter in Downton Abbey is actually an Essex girl from Romford, which would
introduce a new element to the Windsor stock. One obstacle is that she already
has a live-in boyfriend.

7. CAROLINE FLACK, 32

She recently made cradle-snatching headlines for dating another Harry, the
teenage singer from boyband One Direction. But TV presenter Caroline was also
linked to Prince Harry a couple of years ago. She stressed they were just good
friends but could they be more than that? It may be hard to picture the co-host
of I'm A Celebrity processing up the aisle as a royal bride. But Harry's cousin
Lord Freddie Windsor married Peep Show actress Sophie Winkleman so it wouldn't
be without precedent.

8. ALEXANDRA OF LUXEMBOURG, 21

A conventional princess, Alexandra is the only daughter of Grand Duke Henri. The
Grand Duke is descended on his mother's side from the Belgian royal family,
which was established by Queen Victoria's uncle, so there is a distant family
connection (but no in-breeding). She is presently studying history, philosophy
and literature at a Catholic university in Ohio, which raises the problem of the
Act of Succession once more and it may mean she is a bit too bookish for Harry.
But at least her English is good.

9. LADY HENRIETTA SEYMOUR, 22

Harry's mother Princess Diana was the youngest daughter of a senior aristocratic
family with royal connections going back centuries. If that's the kind of girl
he fancies as his wife then a decent bet might be the second daughter of the
Duke of Somerset. Lady Henrietta is a lively creature who once wore leopardprint
tights to a debutantes' ball. One of her ancestors was Jane Seymour, third wife
of Henry VIII.

10. SUSANNA WARREN, 23

Magnificent cross-class credentials. Susanna is posh on her mother's side - Lady
Caroline Herbert once dated Harry's Uncle Andrew - but her father John grew up
on an Essex council estate (eventually becoming the Queen's racing manager).
Susanna's uncle is the Earl of Carnarvon and she grew up on his estate at
Highclere - which doubles as Downton Abbey. She used to date Harry's best mate
Guy Pelly.

SIMON EDGE

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 712 words


&#10002;Stranger and stranger grows the saga surrounding welfare-to-work
specialists A4e, the company owned by the prime minister's one-time adviser Emma
Harrison. It has employees suspected of fraud, and Harrison is the recipient of
a tide of bad publicity. She needs friends. One guy comes to mind.

We'd love to know who he is. What we do know is that someone was engaged in
helpful tinkering with A4e's page on Wikipedia. In 2009, when unhelpful stories
about A4e began appearing in the press and on Channel 4, whoever it was took to
correcting and amending that page - and also making minor alterations to
Harrison's Wiki entry, the page for The Secret Millionaire (the series featured
Harrison) and that concerning Thornbridge Hall, her home. All low key, but not
enough, perhaps. Journalist Ian Silvera traced the IP location to a computer
services company called Techdept in Sheffield. Among Techdept's clients - A4e.
Then things got strange. Yes that is our IP address, said technical director
Richard Grundy, but "we have found no record of A4e instructing the changes made
by our employee to the Wikipedia page in emails or task records. For which
reason I have to assume it was his own decision to make the changes." A mystery
altruist then. Boy does she need him now.

&#10002;What of Ukip? Buoyed by recent defections from the Tories, they should
be happy as they look forward to the London Assembly elections. But it is hard
to keep good cheer. Last week we flagged up the re-emergence of Paul Wiffen, the
candidate who was nasty about black people and Travellers. And now we hear of
discord over the party's choice of lead candidate. Barrister and Ukip City of
London spokesman Steven Woolfe has been propelled to the top spot despite being
voted only fourth in an election to decide the frontrunner. The move by party
chiefs has apparently left regional chairman David Coburn a little sour, and
little wonder. He had been nominated for the lead role. Needs the wisdom of
Solomon to sort it out. Luckily, the party's national executive includes Neil
"liar and a cheat" Hamilton, the one-time "cash for questions" MP.

&#10002;Happy days for London mayor Boris Johnson, as he watches his deadly
rival Ken Livingstone struggling to bat away diversionary questions about his
tax arrangements. Livingstone says it's all a smear. The problem with smears is
that they work. Still, Johnson has irritations of his own, the biggest being
Sonia Purnell's unflattering biography Just Boris, now out in paperback. Out and
about the other day, Johnson was asked by tormentors from the website Boris
Watch to sign a copy of the hated biography. Cornered, he did so. "This is total
bollocks," scribbled the mayor. "All the best; Boris Johnson."

&#10002;Over at his second home, the Telegraph, there is anger at the decision
of ice-cream makers Ben and Jerry to dedicate a flavour - Apple-y Ever After! -
to the concept of gay marriage. A coup for campaigners Stonewall. Telegraph
types just don't like it. "Just imagine the response from the well-organised
international left, liberal, progressive, multicult gay lobby MSM, if an ice
cream company had decided to run an anti-gay marriage campaign," posts one
reader. "This poxy pc company is now off my family's menu," pledges another.
"Let's hope it comes with a free pack of retroviral drugs," is one of the more
thoughtful contributions. Ben and Jerry? Ben and Jerry! A-ha: now it all makes
sense.

&#10002;After all the bad news the Lib Dems have been forced to endure, some
good news. Tomorrow marks the 50th anniversary of the historic Orpington
byelection victory over the Tories. The winner, Lord Avebury - then plain Eric
Lubbock - tells us the secret was basic shoe leather. "The March of 1962 was
bitterly cold, and the Conservative candidate sat in a heated caravan and sent
out Tory ladies to invite people to visit him, which didn't go down too well on
the doorstep," says the peer, now 83. The cuttings are interesting too. "We must
not stop in our efforts to overthrow Tory blunder," proclaimed Lubbock in 1962,
and 50 years later he's been fighting the coalition's welfare proposals and the
scythe being taken to legal aid. The more things change, the more they stay the
same.

Diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 15, 2012 Thursday 6:06 PM GMT

Marriage is 'a celebration of love and should be open to everyone', says
Featherstone;


BYLINE: Joe Churcher

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1467 words


Marriage is "a celebration of love and should be open to everyone", Equalities
Minister Lynne Featherstone said as she published plans to legalise gay civil
marriage.

She signalled the Government's determination to make the change by 2015, at an
expected cost of £4 million, putting ministers on collision course with church
leaders and many Conservatives.

Tory MPs are expected to be offered a free vote when legislation championed by
Prime Minister David Cameron comes before the Commons in a bid to prevent an
embarrassing backbench revolt.

Under the plans put out for consultation today, same-sex couples will be
entitled to get married in a register office or other civil ceremonies, or
convert existing civil partnerships.

Existing marriages in which one partner changed their sex would also no longer
have to be ended.

The blueprint however, also endorsed by home Secretary Theresa May, maintains a
legal ban on same-sex religious services despite some churches expressing an
interest in conducting them.

Nor does it anticipate allowing heterosexual couples to enter civil
partnerships, the state-recognised partnerships introduced in 2005 as a first
step towards gay marriage.

In a joint foreword, the two ministers said the present discrimination was
unacceptable.

"Put simply, it's not right that a couple who love each other and want to
formalise a commitment to each other should be denied the right to marry," they
wrote.

The reforms have sparked a wave of religious fury, with Britain's most senior
Catholic branding the proposal a "grotesque subversion of a universally
acknowledged human right".

Many Tory MPs are also known to be hostile to the change which is seen as an
example of Liberal Democrat influence on coalition policy despite Mr Cameron's
public support.

Half the party's grassroots supporters are against the change, a recent poll
suggested, though it was backed by a margin of 45% to 36% among the wider
public.

The Prime Minister championed reform in his party conference speech, declaring:
"I don't support gay marriage despite being a Conservative. I support gay
marriage because I'm a Conservative."

But it is understood party whips are set to ensure the issue is treated as a
matter of conscience when it is ready to be debated by Parliament amid fears of
a major revolt.

A Downing Street spokeswoman refused to be drawn on whether MPs would be
expected to back the Government but noted that Mr Cameron has made his views
"very clear".

She said: "Any vote is some time away so I'm not aware of any whipping
arrangements. We have just published a consultation today. We are not there yet
in terms of the process."

She added: "The Prime Minister's views are very clear. He's fully in support of
it."

Setting out the proposed changes, Ms Featherstone said: "Today is a hugely
important step as we consider how to lift the ban on civil marriage for same-sex
couples. This is about the underlying principles of family, society and personal
freedoms. Marriage is a celebration of love and should be open to everyone."

She made clear there was no question of the principle being reopened, however
strong the opposition to gay marriage became.

One campaign group, The Coalition for Marriage, has placed adverts in two
national newspapers to coincide with the launch of the consultation, which call
the proposals "profoundly undemocratic".

Labour welcomed the proposals, calling for legislation to be included in May's
Queen's Speech, but said the Government should allow churches to marry gay
couples if they chose to.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "No one is proposing that churches
should be obliged to hold same-sex marriages. That is rightly ruled out in this
consultation. Religious marriages are a matter for each church and denomination,
not for the Government. But equally, the Government should go further than they
currently plan.

"If we really support the institution of marriage and want to welcome more
people into it, then government and parliament should not deny the Quakers, the
Unitarians and other churches who want to celebrate gay marriage the chance to
do so."

Peter Tatchell, co-ordinator of the Equal Love campaign, called for civil
partnerships to be extended to heterosexual couples, suggesting not to do so
breached human rights.

The changes, which would affect England and Wales, were backed by the Family and
Parenting Institute charity.

Chief executive Katherine Rake said: "As a society we need to do all that we can
to support stable couple relationships. Stability is vital for the well-being of
children. The wider members of a family around the couple also benefit.

"It's important for UK society to offer all couples a genuine choice on how they
can best achieve this stability. Gay couples should be allowed to choose civil
marriage if they decide it's the best option for them."

But the consultation was dubbed a "sham" by the Coalition for Marriage (C4M),
which counts several Tory and Labour MPs and a number of Church of England
bishops among more than 200,000 signatories to an online petition.

Campaign director Colin Hart said: "This consultation is a sham. It is being
pushed through despite the public never having a say on this change. None of the
main political parties proposed redefining marriage in their manifestos and the
impact assessment misses out many of the possible problems that could occur if
this institution is redefined. For example, how this change will affect our
schools.

"C4M and the 200,000 people who have signed our petition believe that this
change is profoundly undemocratic, will have massive consequences for society
and is simply unnecessary as civil partnerships provide all the legal rights of
marriage."

UK Independence Party spokesman David Coburn said: "It seems that through some
kind of political correctness, David Cameron is picking a fight with the
millions of people whose religious faiths do not recognise same-sex marriages.

"That, in our view, is an aggressive attack on people of faith and an act of
intolerance in itself. This is a concern that must be expressed in the
consultation."

The impact assessment published alongside the consultation puts the cost of the
change, mainly in terms of changing IT systems and staff training, at up to £4.5
million.

It noted that after an initial flurry, the number of civil partnerships being
entered has steadied at around 58,000 per year, with between 68,000 and 88,000
now in place.

One advantage of the new system would be allowing same-sex couples to keep their
sexuality hidden. At present, being in a civil partnership automatically
signifies a couple is gay.

Wedding venues such as hotels would be able to carry out same-sex civil
ceremonies under their existing licences, the assessment suggested.

One Tory MP opposed to the change suggested it would open the door to other
claims, such as legalising Islamic marriages involving multiple wives.

Julian Brazier, who opposed the introduction of civil partnerships, said he did
not have a problem "with people forming these relationships".

But he told BBC Radio 4's The World At One: "If we are going to say to the gay
lobby that we are going to revise, completely change, this definition from one
man and one women, what do we then say to the much larger group of Islamic
people in this country?

"They have, in sharia marriage, up to four wives. Why are we making a change for
one group but refusing it to a larger group?"

Advocates of civil partnerships had insisted at the time that they were not a
first step to same-sex marriage, he pointed out.

"It, of course, within seven years has turned into exactly that.

"I do not have a problem with people forming these relationships. I do not have
a problem with changes in the law to reflect the international problems.

"But it seems to me that the institution of marriage, which has been with us for
more than 2,000 years, is fundamental."

Tory MPs had "a free vote and a variety of different views", he said, denying
the issue was a clash between the two sides of the coalition.

Tory MP Peter Bone said he "threw up" when the Prime Minister told his party he
supported gay marriage "because" he was a Conservative.

He told Ian Payne on LBC 97.3: "I threw up when I heard that comment. It was at
the party conference and on what authority he had to say that, I do not know and
that's why, if you listen to what he said, he's making that a party political
thing.

"It's saying you have to vote for gay marriage because you're a Conservative.
There is absolutely no basis whatsoever for saying that.

"He can, of course, support gay marriage if that's what he believes in, but he
can't pretend this is Conservative policy, tradition or anything.

"The Prime Minister is doing a lot of good things for the country but on this
particular issue, he is totally and utterly wrong."

PA

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday

8 battling for Bradford seat

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 91 words


Labour's Imran Hussain, the city council's deputy leader, is favourite to defend
the seat following the resignation of Marsha Singh MP. Other major runners are
Tory Jackie Whiteley and Lib Dem city councillor Jeanette Sunderland. Also on
the list is former Respect MP George Galloway. The full candidates list is: Neil
Craig (Democratic Nationalists), George Galloway (Respect), Howling Laud Hope
(Monster Raving Loony William Hill Party), Imran Hussain (Lab), Dawud Islam
(Green), Sonja McNally (UKIP), Jeanette Sunderland (LD), Jackie Whiteley (C).

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 14, 2012 Wednesday

The mayoral referendum: Wanted: a mayoral candidate with the drive to put
Birmingham second again: The mayoral referendum: Nine cities are to vote on
whether they get an elected mayor. Are the Midlands ready for a Brummie Boris?

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1526 words


Outside the vet's surgery on mock-Tudor Chester Road in the eastern suburbs of
Birmingham, a sign offers pets a "£99 booster for life" jab. Does Britain's
self-effacing second city need a similar boost in the shape of a Ken-or-Boris
executive mayor? That is the question the city's 700,000 voters will be asked in
a referendum on local election day, 3 May.

The rejuvenation of Birmingham's city centre, botched in the 1960s, is an
acknowledged commercial and cultural success. After a nasty recession, Jaguar's
Castle Vale factory in Chester Road is booming in the world's luxury markets. So
is Land Rover, now also owned by Tata of India, just across the city line in
Solihull. The headache for unions now is compulsory weekend shifts, rather than
layoffs. The Jaguar XF Sportbrake will be built at Chester Road, it was
confirmed when the car was unveiled at the Geneva motor show this month. Land
Rover is building a new plant in Wolverhampton.

Hi-tech, science-driven and digital: there is much to celebrate. The New York
Times recently placed Brum at 19 in its list of "45 places to go in 2012". But
not even that flattery assuages anguish over the local skills shortage (40% of
pupils leave school without five decent GCSEs), stubbornly high youth
unemployment, or over the notorious transport gridlock and the feeling that
Manchester has managed to overhaul bigger Birmingham just like its football
teams. It even handled its 2011 riots better.

Prof Wyn Grant of Warwick University, who has been chairing a study into the
case for and against elected mayors, to be published next month, says:
"Birmingham has not marketed itself very well as the second city. It's taken a
lot of knocks since the 60s and the revitalisation of the city centre has not
lifted morale and confidence."

Desperate

Dr David Hardman, who runs the city's university-linked science park, puts it
succinctly. "What a mayor would have to do by 2026 is create something in
Birmingham which makes people get off the train there instead of going on to
Manchester."

May's ballot on devolving power from Whitehall has been imposed by Whitehall on
Birmingham and nine other English cities, from Newcastle and Leeds to Manchester
and Bristol. Like Labour before it, the coalition government is desperate to
find a more dynamic and responsive form of municipal leadership to revitalise -
and rebalance - regional economies. Despite lurid efforts by the No camp to make
an elected mayor sound like a tyrant - a Brummie Nero or Genghis Khan - the
campaign has so far barely fizzled into life beyond the chamber of commerce and
the universities, "just business and the intelligentsia," Yes boosters admit.

Chester Road is part of the Erdington constituency held until 2010 by the
leading mayoral contender, Labour's Sion Simon, who took a gamble and gave up
his seat to campaign for mayor. Yet, just eight weeks before the referendum, few
local voters know anything about it. "I've seen small bits in the newspaper and
on TV. I don't usually vote, but I might for a mayor. If London's got one and
it's good for business, I don't see why the second city shouldn't have one too,"
says Kevin Reddan, 31, a self-employed engineer.

Reddan is the exception. Young mums and grandads with prams, middle-aged men
walking their alsatians, none of them have heard a word. "Don't know anything
mate, and I don't care," says a voter cleaning his car. Bustling New Street in
the city centre's pedestrianised shopping quarter is no better informed.

In multi-ethnic Aston ward, close to Spaghetti Junction and one of the city's
poorest, the message is the same. "No, we haven't heard," admit a neat Kashmiri
couple in Grosvenor Road, though the man guiding a delivery lorry into nearby
Al-Amin Cash & Carry crisply replies "American-style mayors" and gives a
thumbs-up. Aston's Lib Dem councillor and wannabe regional police commissioner,
Ayoub Khan, is personally undecided: Birmingham's black and ethnic minorities
(20% south Asian, 7% black) are both confused and ill-informed about a mayor, he
admits.

Yet the Yes camp is doggedly convinced it will prevail here on 3 May despite
apathy and ignorance which many blame on Birmingham city council's hostility to
a Whitehall-dictated blow to the status quo and weak regional media. In 2001 a
consultative referendum voted by 56% to 45% for a mayoral system, with voters
divided between two versions. Councillors decided to ignore both the vote and
the grumbling about the failure to attract inward investment to replace lost
manufacturing in metal-bashing Castle Vale and elsewhere.

Such complaints persist: hence the Yes camp's cautious optimism and the No
camp's less convincing "the result may be close". In truth, while minor parties
from Ukip to the Greens are solidly opposed, all three main parties are split on
the issue. Solid but uncharismatic Mike Whitby, who has led a Tory-Lib Dem
coalition at the Council House on Victoria Square since 2004, has modified his
hostility and is widely expected to stand at the November election if Brum says
yes.

His Labour predecessor, the veteran Sir Albert Bore - no media-savvy Boris
Johnson or Ken Livingstone either - has already thrown his hat into the ring,
though he expects to be council leader again if Labour gets its expected win on
3 May. So has Gisela Stuart, Labour MP for suburban Edgbaston, which she holds
against the odds. The former CBI boss and (briefly) Labour industry minister,
Lord (Digby) Jones, the only big Brummie personality with a national profile in
sight, has ruled himself out. John Hemming, a leading No campaigner and
Yardley's maverick Lib Dem MP, has not quite done so, despite exotic political
and personal baggage that can match a Ken or Boris.

Liam Byrne, a Labour former cabinet minister whose Hodge Hill seat is set to go
under boundary changes, is hovering on the fringe, waiting to see if voters back
the mayoral principle. What with squabbling over tactics (does Simon have
privileged access to voter records? asks Stuart) and manoeuvring (might Bore and
Ed Miliband swing behind Byrne?), it has been uninspiring.

Labour will ballot its 3,000 to 4,000 members in the city on the party's choice
of candidate in June. Even allowing for the uncertainties of a second preference
ballot, Labour's choice may be the crucial one, since its candidate would be
expected to win. All have flaws, but Simon is the tipped favourite.

Simon, who thinks the city is run by a dysfunctional, introverted clique of
councillors and officials, launched a 10-point revitalisation plan in an
Afro-Caribbean food warehouse this week. Bore has a rival plan. But Miliband's
equivocation on mayors (Labour opposes Whitehall-imposed referendums) may be an
issue because his own constituency base of Doncaster will ballot on 3 May to
ditch its brief but turbulent experiment with an elected English Democrat mayor.
It does not help.

Enhanced

Privately, Whitby asks the crucial question: "If you just change my title and
directly elect me, that's pointless. If you give me new powers and directly
elect me, that might be worth it." If a high-profile city mayor could bang heads
together - a bridge-builder across public and private, corporate and academic,
Whitehall and venture capitalist sectors - with enhanced powers, it could make a
difference, London-style. It is precisely the complaint that Brum's mayor will
not have such powers over the capital's 32 lesser councils that prompted Lord
Jones to say No. Jones wants a mayor, not just for the city, but with strategic
regional powers over the neighbouring and rival Black Country boroughs such as
Wolverhampton and beyond.

In negotiations with local government chiefs, Eric Pickles and his deputy, Greg
Clark, have hinted at extra powers and extra cash: they bribed Liverpool council
into embracing the mayoral model without a referendum. But they remain vague on
details.

Councillors with long memories recall that Margaret Thatcher abolished the West
Midlands metropolitan county council and its kind in 1986 and that Pickles
announced the abolition of the Advantage West Midlands regional development
agency and other RDAs in 2010. Their replacement, local enterprise partnerships
(LEPs) are deemed too weak. Council chiefs are therefore wary, just as ministers
fear granting the London mayor's powers to other ambitious city-regions.
Wolverhampton and Solihull look at Birmingham and are nervous too.

By general consent voters do not care much about local government structures,
but can distinguish success from failure. As someone said of Welsh and Scottish
devolution, it is "a process, not an event". It is a thesis Alex Salmond is
testing to the limit in Edinburgh. Let's have a mayor and watch him prove the
post can work, then gently extend his soft power beyond the city boundary, the
optimists argue. It's a gimmick that puts too much power into one "power
freak's" hands, reply the wary. Staid status quo or shiny experiment? Across
Britain, it is a leap in the dark.

Captions:

Selfridges at the Bullring, part of the Birmingham revival. Below, Sir Albert
Bore, who has signalled he will stand for mayor Main photograph: Pawel
Libera/Rex Features

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 14, 2012 Wednesday 5:39 PM GMT

MEP in protest over Iceland EU membership;


BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 398 words


A London MEP today opposed EU membership for Iceland - because of the millions
of pounds the country owes the capital.

Marina Yannakoudakis made her protest when the European Parliament debated
Iceland's ongoing EU negotiations.

She refused to back a resolution supporting membership because it stated that
money owed by Iceland's Landsbanki after the collapse of Icesave "must not be an
obstacle" to accession.

She insisted: "As a London MEP I cannot support this resolution. Six London
borough councils had a total £120 million invested with Icesave; Transport for
London invested a further £40 million and the Metropolitan Police £30 million."

Local authorities were suffering painful budget cuts after the economic
downturn:

"These councils and organisations have not seen a penny of their money since
Icesave's collapse in October 2008. The Icelandic government is dodging its
legal obligation to pay minimum compensation to these and other British
depositors."

Ms Yannakoudakis said Baroness Margaret Thatcher had once asked the EU for "our
own money back", adding: "That is what we are asking of Iceland - until they pay
up I cannot support their membership application."

More than 100 UK local councils and thousands of private UK investors had nearly
£5 billion on deposit in Icesave accounts at the time of the collapse.

But another London Tory MEP, Charles Tannock, told MEPs he was confident all
debts would be paid.

He described the nation as a "small, stable, wealthy democracy", and pointed out
that Iceland's Supreme Court had recognised the country's obligations over
compensation for Icesave depositors.

Mr Tannock continued: "I understand around one third of the recognised priority
claims have now been repaid. Given Iceland's successful completion of the
International Monetary Fund's economic recovery programme last year and its
return to positive economic growth, we have no doubt that the other outstanding
claims will be repaid."

UK Independence Party MEP for the West Midlands Mike Nattrass voiced opposition
to Icelandic EU membership, but not because of the banking collapse. He said it
was in the country's own interest to stay out of the EU because its fishing
industry could be destroyed by the Common Fisheries Policy.

"For the love of cod, don't do this - say no," he pleaded.

However, Iceland's onward march towards EU membership was endorsed by 596 votes
to 52.

PA

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     March 14, 2012 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Letters: My gravely ill son had to starve himself to death;


SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1720 words


How well I understand the feelings of Tony Nicklinson and his family ("My right
to choose when to die", 13 March). We were in the same situation last year.

My son had suffered from an aggressive form of multiple sclerosis for six years
and decided that life held nothing more for him on the day that he found he
could no longer move from his bed to his wheelchair. Situations like this are as
hard, if not harder, for the close family as for the victims themselves and one
of the reasons that my son wanted to die was to end the heartache, drudgery and
frustration undergone by his wife as well as himself.

With enormous courage he starved himself to death, a situation which lasted for
several weeks. The doctors and nurses did nothing to help him die and we all had
to watch a difficult death after six difficult years.

I could not help contrasting this suffering with the quiet "putting to sleep" of
my beloved and ill lurcher earlier last year. One is not allowed by law to put
pets through the traumas and pain that this same law makes binding on people.

The sooner that this is changed, the better for everyone in a country which
prides itself on being civilised.

Primrose Kirkman

Warminster, Wiltshire

***

If Tony Nicklinson's legal hearing doesn't go the way he hopes, then surely it
is time for the politicians to act. Maybe the definition of murder should be
changed. Our most basic laws are designed to protect against acts which are
perpetrated without consent. Stealing, assault and other acts are crimes
precisely because of this.

Killing is such a final act that humanity takes it for granted that it is
without consent, all the more so because the deceased is no longer able to give
his or her side. But we can allow - in extreme cases and with extreme care - for
consent to be taken beforehand. I would go so far as to say that consent should
be given only with the judicial approval of the highest court in the land, and
that when that consent was accepted, it would follow that anyone who killed the
person concerned would not be charged with any crime.

Capital punishment is still widespread in our world. Whether or not you agree
with this - for the record, I don't - the fact remains that ending someone's
life with judicial approval does not constitute a crime. Any modern democracy
which claims to have the welfare of its citizenry at heart should be able to
formulate a law that allows - within extremely narrow guidelines - judicial
killing with the consent of the person concerned.

Mr Nicklinson is a victim now, and will get justice only when the law allows
someone to end his intolerable suffering.

Pat Ryan

Nuneaton, Warwickshire

A rare voice raised against the relic of monarchy

Of late, voices in support of republicanism have been few in the media, possibly
because of the upcoming Diamond Jubilee. But Yasmin Alibhai-Brown (12 March)
makes a sound case for the abolishing of the out-of-date, undemocratic relic
that is the monarchy.

In future I would respect Prince Charles as head of state much more if he was
President Windsor, with a genuine mandate to represent Britain. The notion that
this family, the House of Windsor, has any more of a right to lead the nation
than any other is absurd, let alone the substantial public sums that they
receive and the substantial power that they still retain.

The monarch is above several elements of the law, which is an unacceptable
loophole, open to all kinds of abuse by future, unknown royals. The law of any
modern democracy should be clear, fair and unbiased.

It is the principle that is the issue here. Through no effort of their own,
unelected royals automatically receive wealth, prestige and power and can retain
it for the rest of their lives. This goes strongly against the spirit of
meritocracy and hard work that this nation prides itself on.

As for the suggestion that tourists flock the nation because of the monarchy, do
we really want to run Britain on the basis of what attracts tourists?

Jack H G Darrant

London SW2

***

Prince Harry qualified for Sandhurst, became an efficient regimental officer and
has an honourable active service record, marred only by the attentions of the
reptiles of the press. He has now qualified to serve as aircrew on what I
believe is a difficult helicopter, designed to be right at the sharp end - where
he clearly hopes to be.

However much Yasmin Alibhai-Brown might despise these achievements, many of us
would still be very proud if our own children made the same choices. She seems
unable to empathise in any way with those who do not share her views about how
our shared home ought to be.

R S Foster

Sheffield

Lib Dems help to privatise the NHS

As a former Liberal Democrat, I read John Kampfner's piece on Shirley Williams
with great interest (12 March). Williams is the classic fence-sitter, and the
perfect patsy for a ruthless leadership which planned, in secret, to trade the
party for power.

The problem has always been that the Lib Dems are a composite. The Liberal wing
could not accept that, and made its big play with the Orange Book, an agenda for
their vision of the party. At a stroke the consensus was torn up, and the rest
is history.

There is now a straight line running from Margaret Thatcher through to David
Cameron and Nick Clegg. British politics has pursued the single-minded objective
of marketisation of society, and Shirley Williams has played her part.

Stephen Jackson

Bexhill on Sea, East Sussex

***

Where, initially, Andrew Lansley's proposed NHS reform Bill was wrong because
the structures it proposed were designed to facilitate back-door privatisation
of the NHS, the modified Bill is also wrong, because it is one of the most badly
drafted, over-complex and confused works of legislation ever put before
Parliament, and that fact in itself will drastically increase the very
bureaucracy Andrew Lansley pretends his Bill was created to reduce.

As to whether conniving in yet more broken promises might create a perception
that Liberal Democrats are either trustworthy coalition partners, or a party
that might one day even seem like a party of government, one wonders whether
those who voted Conservative believing there would be "no top-down
reorganisation of the NHS" will appreciate Lib Dems helping David Cameron break
that promise, any more than those of us who voted Lib Dem appreciate Nick Clegg
breaking his promises.

Whatever the answer, whether or not a party is fit to govern is a moot point
unless it enjoys sufficient electoral support. Potential coalition partners have
not failed to notice Lib Dem votes slipping below UKIP, and the Lib Dems won't
remain viable coalition partners unless that trend is reversed.

Alan Baker

Edgware, London

Australian way to beat a drought

In 1893 gold was discovered at Kalgoorlie in Western Australia. Water was a
major problem for both the mines and the population in this area of high
temperature and low rainfall.

A temporary solution was to build wood-fired condensers using water from the
local salt lakes. However, by 1903 a 600-kilometre pipeline had been built from
a reservoir near the coast, rising 400 metres to Kalgoorlie and powered by eight
steam-driven pumping stations. The pipeline is still in use today, delivering 40
million litres daily.

The distance is about that from Edinburgh to London, so reservoirs in the
Southern Uplands of Scotland or the northern Pennines could be constructed to
gather the necessary water to pipe it to the South-east and Midlands of England.

However, I cannot imagine that such a project would even have left the planning
stage after 10 years were it to be considered in Britain today.

Tim Colman

Keyworth, Nottinghamshire

***

The current drought is prompting much debate about a water grid, desalination
and rationing. How about using fleets of (cleaned-up) tankers to take water from
sources in the North to ports in the South-east?

Dennis Sherwood

Exton, Rutland

***

Those worried about the prospect of drought can relax. The cricket season is
fast approaching and if 2011 is any guide the reservoirs will be brimming over
by the end of June. As every cricket lover knows, it is a meteorological fact
that it only rains in the summer.

John Collis

Taunton, Somerset

The fuss about gay marriage

Thank you to Canon Timothy Kinahan for his comments on shrill voices raised
against gay marriage (letter, 13 March). At last, a Christian who worships the
same God as me. I know that there are many of us, but unfortunately it's the
judgemental voices that get heard .

All this fuss about something that Jesus never mentioned, when all over the
world children are dying of starvation, innocent men and women are being blown
up by their own countrymen, and in the UK people are living out in the cold on
the streets. Let's start working to right the terrible wrongs that mankind is
inflicting on itself, and leave people to live the kind of life that they choose
in private.

Penny Joseph

Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex

***

As a gay man I pay tax and National Insurance just like my heterosexual
counterparts and as such I should have the same rights and opportunities as they
have, including the right to marry. It's as simple as that.

Paul Hamer

Brighouse, West Yorkshire

On the beach

Can I claim the first sighting of the year in your paper today (13 March) of
people sitting in the sun on Brighton beach? It is always pleasing to know that
your photo-journalists go that extra mile to get us the best pictures. As we all
know, there are no other beaches in our country worthy of a photograph. Or do
your journalists all live in Brighton?

Ian Chambers

Stockport, Cheshire

Team spirit

Dominic Lawson (13 March) says those representing Great Britain at the Olympics
are pursuing intensely personal ambitions: "Team GB could be renamed Team BG and
it would make no difference to almost all of those representing it." In fact,
there is already a "Team BG": British Gas sponsors the GB swimming team, and
last week's Olympics selection trials were the British Gas Swimming
Championships.

Dr Alex May

Manchester

Politics of disgust

Professor Hill (letter, 13 March) asks Michael Spencer why greed is better than
envy. Both miss the point. There is little envy for the huge rewards demanded by
bankers and others. The prevailing emotion is disgust, illustrated by frequent
use of the description "obscene".

Martin Sheppard

Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday

DIARY

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1169 words


DAME'S COMMONWEALTH DAY OUT

THE Queen gives out scores of medals each year, but the opportunity for
recipients to show them off are rare. Yesterday's annual Commonwealth Observance
Day service at Westminster Abbey was just such an opportunity.

Dame Gail Ronson, who was awarded her honour in 2004 for services to charity,
was proudly wearing hers on her left breast as she arrived at the Abbey where
she joined the Queen, Prince Philip, Prince Charles and Camilla, and the
Countess of Wessex. Mother-of-four Gail, 65, wife of property magnate Gerald
Ronson, was invited to the event by the Mayor of Westminster Susie Burbridge.

'Susie is a widow and doesn't have a consort so she often asks girlfriends to
accompany her to things,' says a pal.

Gail famously held together her family and their business interests in the
Eighties when her husband was jailed for over the Guinness scandal , he
subsequently rebuilt his career and was made a CBE in the New Year Honours.

When it was revealed that property tycoon Paul Sykes's 44-year marriage to his
'perfect' wife Valeria was on the rocks, he declared defiantly: 'Me and my wife
will never part , we're a devoted family.'

Sadly for the Yorkshire-based self-made millionaire, 68, whose fortune is
estimated at around 6650m, it looks as though this is one rescue package he has
failed to deliver. For I hear Valeria has taken ownership of Copt Hewick Hall, a
Grade II regency house not far from their former family home in Ripon. The
house, once the property of the Marquess of Zetland, has been on the market for
65m.

The couple, who have two grown-up daughters, were said to have separated in
January. Despite his wealth, Sykes, a former tyrefitter who is now one of the
primary donors to Ukip, has vowed to leave it all to good causes rather than to
his children.

WILL HM'S HORSE MAKE THE CUT?

During her Silver Jubilee, the Queen enjoyed her biggest racing success when her
filly Dunfermline won the Oaks.

Now I can reveal there will be an even more poignant celebration if another of
the Queen's horses wins at Cheltenham this week.

For Sir Michael Oswald, the Queen's National Hunt racing adviser, tells me that
Barbers Shop, who runs in the Christie's Foxhunter Chase on Friday, is the last
horse the Queen Mother bred and the only one of her string still in training.
The ten-year-old gelding was born on March 6, 2002, just 24 days before the
Queen Mother's death, aged 101.

At the end of 2010

, Barbers Shop was retired from the racetrack after being repeatedly beaten by
three Gold Cup winners, Kauto Star, Denman and Imperial Commander.

However, earlier this year the horse was revitalised by a spell of hunting and
point-to-pointing and returned to the track.

'It would be very emotional indeed if Barbers Shop won,' says Sir Michael, who
will be at Cheltenham to supervise the Queen's Festival runners. The Queen is
expected to be watching on television but this, say royal insiders, could be a
good omen.

When Dunfermline won in 1977, she was not at Epsom because 17-year-old Prince
Andrew had returned that morning from a visit to Canada and she decided to watch
the race on television at Windsor Castle.

He can turn out fluffy pancakes by the dozen, but one thing chef Jamie Oliver
doesn't want more of is babies. Although his wife Jools is already a
mother-of-four, she would like a fifth.

But the TV star, said to be worth 6106 million, has put his wife's dream on
hold. 'I want another but Jamie says I have to wait a couple of years and see
how I feel,' says Jools, 36. 'I said "OK, well, I won't force it."

'Maybe if we're lucky we'll have another. People call me super mum but I just
love children, they give you so much. Being a mother is really hard but I adore
it.'

Perhaps after Poppy, Daisy, Petal and Buddy, Jamie's just run out of quirky
names.

ps AN invigorated Prince Charles returned to royal duties yesterday after a
secret trip to Klosters. It was his first visit to the Swiss Alps for four years
after apparently falling out of love with both skiing and the resort. I
understand he did not book into his usual hotel but stayed four nights privately
with a wealthy friend, who has raised money for the Prince's Trust. 'His regular
ski guide was unwell but he went out to local restaurants, popped into the odd
bar and thoroughly enjoyed the fact that no one spotted he was in town,' I am
told.

THREE years ago its future seemed uncertain, but just as Prince Harry has
blossomed so, too, has the cause that he set up in memory of his mother.

Fresh from the triumph of his trip to the Caribbean and Brazil, the Prince has
returned to learn that his personal charity Sentebale has recorded its best ever
set of financial figures.

It completes a remarkable transformation for the party prince, who sealed his
Brazilian tour by stealing a kiss from Victoria's Secret model Fernanda Motta
(pictured) after a polo match that raised funds for Sentebale.

Accounts filed at Companies House show that the charity, which helps orphaned
and vulnerable children in the African kingdom of Lesotho, raised 62.1 million
in the year ending August 2011 , an increase of 16 per cent on the previous
year.

It represents a major turnaround from 2007 when it received just 6250,000, and
has enabled the charity to spend more than 61.3 million on its work.

And it comes as the Prince announced plans to expand the charity into a
worldwide operation. Speaking before leaving Brazil, Harry said: 'It is not just
about Lesotho, there are disadvantaged kids all around the world who have no
hope and need help.

'We hope to expand across the world with the concept we're using in Lesotho.' A
statement published with the accounts said the charity's costs were higher
mainly due to the cost of cancelling the Sentebale polo cup in Dubai last year
because of unrest in the region, and re-arranging the tournament at Coworth Park
in Berkshire in June.

The figures show that nearly three-quarters of spending went on helping children
directly, while 27 per cent accounted for fundraising. Just 1 per cent went on
governance.

Sentebale , 'forget me not' in the local language , was set up by Harry and
Prince Seeiso of Lesotho in memory of Princess Diana. In the early days it was
criticised for its high administrative costs and there was talk of a funding
crisis, but a strategic rethink and the introduction of some high-calibre
charity experts has stabilised things.

Stolen kiss: Fernanda Motta She has no regrets about baring all in the graphic
film Intimacy. But actress Kerry Fox assures me she will not be getting her kit
off again. 'There is no way I could do it now, I was a different age, a
different person,' says Kerry, 45, who lives in Islington. 'I mean I have two
kids now, yuck. And I have saggy, droopy bits, it would be too scary.' She
panicked when son Eric, 11, wanted to see her 1994 black comedy Shallow Grave.
'I said, "You can't do that!" I wasn't worried about the killing or the
stabbing. I just really didn't want my son to have to see his mum flash her
boobs on screen.'

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Briton 'knew his Iran deal was illegal in US';
Extradited businessman used false invoices to disguise the military uses of
batteries being exported, say court papers

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner; Robert Winnett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 721 words


A BRITISH businessman extradited to the US for alleged arms dealing agreed to
buy missile batteries using false invoices despite knowing it was illegal to
sell them to Iran, according to US court papers.

Details of the papers, seen by The Daily Telegraph, emerged ahead of David
Cameron's meeting with President Barack Obama today. Mr Cameron is "not
particularly sympathetic" to the plight of Christopher Tappin and does not
intend to discuss his case with Mr Obama.

He is reluctant to intervene because of mounting prima facie evidence against
the businessman, who is accused of plotting to sell missile parts to Iran. The
Prime Minister believes Mr Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in jail if he is
tried and convicted of selling arms to a rogue state, has serious questions to
answer.

The court papers allege that Mr Tappin "discussed the specifics of the plot"
with undercover federal agents, and talked about using false invoices to
disguise the military use of the components.

Mr Tappin, 65, from Orpington, in south London, claims he thought the batteries
he arranged to buy from America were for use in the car industry and had no idea
they were for Hawk surface-to-air missiles. An alleged co-conspirator, who was
convicted of a part in the "plot", told a court that Mr Tappin had told him of
the batteries' military application.

Mr Tappin is being held on remand in a jail in New Mexico after being denied
bail after his extradition to the United States last month. His family and
friends, who include Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, have gathered a
4,000-signature petition demanding that Mr Cameron debates the US-UK extradition
treaty with Mr Obama.

Sources have said that while Mr Tappin's case "may" come up in discussions
during Mr Cameron's two-day trip to America, it is not on the main agenda.

Mr Cameron's stance over Mr Tappin contrasts with his views on Gary McKinnon,
where the Government believes there is a genuine issue. Mr McKinnon suffers from
Asperger's syndrome and is fighting extradition for allegedly hacking US
military computers.

MrTappin, who is president of the Kent Golf Society, came to the attention of US
authorities in 2007 after the US Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
set up a fake company, Mercury Global, in El Paso, Texas. According to court
papers relating to an unsuccessful appeal by Robert Caldwell, one of the
coaccused, MrTappin contacted Mercury in December 2005 through an intermediary
in the US "seeking the unlicensed export" of a camera and Hawk missile batteries
- both appear on the US Munitions List as defence articles.

Mr Tappin agreed to pay $5,000 each for 50 batteries, according to the court
papers. The normal retail price was $2,000. "During these negotiations, Tappin
and the undercover agents discussed the specifics of the plot, including the use
of double (i.e. false) invoices."

The papers state that: "Caldwell testi-fied and admitted that Tappin told him of
the batteries' military application."

Agents sent Caldwell two sets of invoices - a false set, disguising the nature
of the batteries, and the true invoices, with a note saying: "Export of the
commodities described herein is strictly prohibited without a valid export
licence issued by the US State Department, Office of Defense Trade Controls,
prescribed in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations."

Caldwell faxed the invoice to MrTappin with an asterisk and a note telling him
"please see detail below", it is claimed.

Caldwell was jailed for 20 months in 2007 after being convicted of charges
relating to the sale. Mr Tappin denies any wrongdoing, saying the batteries were
destined for the Netherlands to be used for electroplating cars. He claims his
commission on the deal was £320, but prosecutors say he stood to make £96,000 if
other deals he set up had gone ahead.

They also claim to have recovered 16,000 documents from another codefendant, who
was jailed for 24 months in 2007, which show that Mr Tappin had conducted
business with Iran before.

Karen Todner, Mr Tappin's British solicitor, said: "If there is evidence against
Mr Tappin we don't know about it because he was extradited without knowing the
evidence against him.

"It's not for Mr Cameron to judge someone's innocence or guilt. If there is
evidence against him or he is guilty, then let him stand trial in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Christopher Tappin, 65, insists the batteries were bound for Holland's
car trade and denies any wrongdoing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 12, 2012 Monday

LENGTH: 1569 words


PETER McKAY COLUMN

DON'T LET OBAMA TAKE YOU FOR A RIDE, DAVE

The Prime Minister and his wife, Samantha, are in Washington this week,
socialising with President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle.

As a treat, the Camerons are getting a ride on the President's jumbo jet, Air
Force One. There will be goody bags and mementos of the visit.

I wonder if the PM will have the time, and inclination, to raise the question of
British businessman Chris Tappin, 65, who's currently rotting on remand in a
Texas jail while prosecutors try to pressure him into pleading guilty to charges
of arms dealing with Iran.

Or, to mention hacker Gary McKinnon, who is wanted for trial in America after
allegedly accessing U.S. defence department computers. And discuss with Obama,
generally, the seemingly skewed U.S.-UK extradition laws.

Some take a hard line on these cases, suggesting Tappin may be worse than he
seems, and McKinnon's computer hacking more serious than has been made out by
his supporters.

This is often the view among those who've supported all recent U.S. foreign
policy decisions, including the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. They think
our support for America is more important than UK nationals caught in U.S. legal
traps.

McKinnon has yet to be extradited, but Tappin is in a high security facility and
has been refused bail despite voluntarily presenting himself to U.S. agents in
Britain.

The leaders of our main parties don't want to know. Why would they? They're U.S.
lapdogs.

UKIP's Nigel Farage -- a friend of Tappin for 40 years -- considers the
extradition `little better than kidnap'. Tappin is accused of conspiring to
export batteries for Iranian missiles, which he denies. He admits arranging a
shipment of batteries, but says he is the victim of a `sting' by the FBI. His
earnings from the deal? Just $500.

`It is impossible for me to believe that a wealthy man, on the verge of
retirement, would have risked everything for such a paltry sum -- I have always
known him to be a man of the highest integrity,' says Farage.

As a friend, he would say that, of course. But can any fair-minded person be
happy with a system in which UK citizens sought by U.S. prosecutors are taken
there without any judge in this country reviewing the evidence?

When Americans are sought by prosecutors in Britain, there is U.S. judicial
oversight of the evidence against them.

The Tappin case arises out of America's determination to bring about regime
change in Iran. At one time -- when the U.S. had its own puppet leader in power
there -- Iran could have all the weapons and batteries it wanted.

But now it wants shot of Iran's mullahs. So it's trying to strangle Iran with
sanctions. The threats to bomb Iran if it doesn't unequivocally renounce the
possession of nuclear weapons are part of the same campaign. If the
U.S.-supported Shah was still in power they'd supply him with nuclear missiles.

Farage points out another evil in the Tappin case -- the U.S. plea-bargaining
system.

`If someone pleads not guilty, they can spend years in prison awaiting trial.
There are huge legal costs and they can end up getting life imprisonment. But,
if they plead guilty, they can get out in two years. I imagine they will make
his stay as unpleasant as possible to make him plead guilty,' says Farage.

Meanwhile, Tappin's wife, Elaine, asks: `Shouldn't it be a basic requirement
that a proper case be made out against my husband in a UK court before
subjecting him to total disruption to his life, and freedom, that extradition
entails? Isn't that the cornerstone of British justice?'

Surely she is right. America is our ally. Broadly speaking, we share the same
values. But this shouldn't mean delivering our citizens up to a system of
justice different from our own, without any judicial inspection of the evidence
or how it was gathered.

The McKinnon and Tappin cases have aroused public concern. It's Mr Cameron's
duty to raise them with Obama, along with the imbalances in the extradition
system pointed out by senior lawyers here.

We won't mind his jaunt on Air Force One with Obama if he isn't taken for a ride
on extradition.

GENERAL, WE ARE CUTTING AND RUNNING

General Sir Peter Wall, Chief of the General Staff, comments on the death of six
young soldiers in Afghanistan last week: `There is no question of cutting and
running. It would betray all the skill, courage and hard work the Army has
invested in Afghanistan over the last few yearsa€:

`They were outstanding British infantrymen who gave their lives in the line of
duty. Our thoughts are with their families, their comrades and their friends.'

The expression `cut and run' is popular with military bigwigs who seek to
justify our continued deployment in Afghanistan. They rely on its pejorative
meaning of `cowardly retreat'.

But its original naval meaning suggested pragmatism rather than cowardice. `Cut'
is thought to refer to severing the anchor chain so the vessel could run from an
impending attack.

The expression is inappropriate for Afghanistan. What will we be doing in 2014
-- when, experts say, the violence and chaos there might be even greater --
other than cutting and running?

The departure process has already begun. According to a report yesterday, David
Cameron has been forced to agree a visit to Kazakhstan's dictator, President
Nazarbayev, in return for letting military equipment convoys transit his country
on their 3,500-mile trip home.

Sir Peter ends his homily with the familiar message about our thoughts being
with families, comrades and friends. Cameron also uses it in the Commons to
announce new deaths.

They would show greater respect for the dead and their grieving families if they
made more of an effort to avoid cliched language.

BARCLAYS, THE REAL TAX HAVEN FOR BANKERS

Barclays' chief executive, Bob Diamond, got a tax bill of _65.75 million last
year. Happily (for him) it was paid by Barclays, which boosted his overall
reward in 2011 to almost _625million.

I have never seen an explanation about why Diamond is paid this much, especially
for a year in which his bank suffered a 3a€[0/00]per cent drop in profits. Or
why bank chiefs, generally, are paid more in a year than other seemingly more
worthy people earn in a lifetime. Nor have I worked for a company prepared to
pay my tax bill. The `greed is good' camp say bankers must be paid the going
rate -- the one they set for themselves. Otherwise, we're told, they'll move to
countries which do not interfere with their rewards. But there are a limited
number of nations which don't impose taxes, and few of them are worth living in.

A friend in the business says mainland European bankers are paid less than their
British counterparts, even in that economic powerhouse, Germany.

When it comes to collective will versus individual freedom, most of us lean
towards the latter.

But we are in favour of restricting personal freedom when it is exercised in
pursuit of theft. Why doesn't this apply to theft from shareholders and
taxpayers?

As we stumble on into the Stygian gloom of debt caused by larcenous banking
practice, the Government's only response is to preach austerity, levy taxes and
require us to be patient. But hoping something will turn up isn't enough, is it?

It's keen on truth, reconciliation and new rules when it comes to what appears
in newspapers, but evidently not the shady world of banking.

The BBC is accused of giving the anti-monarchy Republic group `free rein' on
Radio 4's Today programme.

Royal historian Hugo Vickers says: `I don't think it's normal for the BBC to
allow a group like that on without someone to oppose them. It's unfair.' Unfair?
I heard the brief segment, in which Graham Smith of Republic was quizzed by John
Humphrys. My impression was that Humphrys more than compensated for the lack of
a royal spokesman.

The papers are `Wild about Harry'. The Prince's tour of the Caribbean and Brazil
is judged a huge success. Of course, there's always someone ready to rain on a
parade. One Sabbath journal cautions that the Duke of York once enjoyed such
adulation, and look what happened to him. True enough, but let's look on the
bright side.

MARRIAGE? MY GAY FRIENDS CARE MORE ABOUT MANSIONS

Equalities Minister Lynne Featherstone says in an interview that Church leaders
who oppose gay marriage and use the term `heretic' belong to the Dark Ages.

`It is irresponsible to use language that risks inflaming intolerance and
homophobia,' she says.

Who is Ms Featherstone to accuse Church leaders of being irresponsible?

A poll by the Sunday Times of 85 Church of England vicars found 61 against gay
marriage and 23 in favour, with one undecided. A gay friend says: `We are not
interested in gay marriage. What we're worried about is the mansion tax.'

Have you been following the court case over the sacking of English actress
Nicollette Sheridan (pictured) from TV's Desperate Housewives? It's more
entertaining than the show itself.

Was Ms Sheridan's character killed off after she fought on-set with the show's
creator, Marc Cherry?

No, says Cherry, he'd decided earlier to can her. Yes, says 48-year-old Ms
Sheridan, who seeks a modest $6 million in damages.

Online comments from viewers are robust. `She's just a bitter witch. I hope she
loses,' says one. Another opines: `Sheridan should be awarded the full amount of
her lawsuit and Cherry should be arrested immediately at the conclusion of the
trial for physical assault and battery.' Desperate is the word for it.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 12, 2012 Monday

Bradford West by-election almost ready for the off

BYLINE: Martin Wainwrightguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 619 words

ABSTRACT

Labour chooses deputy council leader to complete the slate of main party
candidates fighting to take over from Marsha Singh

FULL TEXT

The Bradford West by-election is pretty much ready to go now that Labour has
chosen its candidate to defend the seat on 29 March.

As was generally assumed, the job has gone to the city council's deputy leader
Imran Hussain who beat six others on the shortlist last night. His opponents
included fellow-councillor Ralph Berry and Mohammed Afzal Khan, a previous Lord
Mayor of Manchester.

He is 33 and a barrister and was born and brought up in the constituency which
Marsha Singh held in 2010 with a majority of 5,763. Singh, whose appeal embraced
all the area's diverse communities, resigned last month because of ill health
after serving as MP for 15 years.

Hussain says:

It is a great honour to have been selected by the Labour Party to contest this
election in my home constituency. Bradford West is where I was born, where I
went to school and where I live now. I've been a hard working local campaigner
since I was a teenager.

Now more than ever Bradford people need a strong voice to stand up for them in
the face of unfair Tory cuts and spiralling unemployment that are hitting our
local families hard - I will be that strong voice.If I am elected, I promise I
will always do what's right for Bradford, not what's right for Westminster, and
that means working tirelessly to bring investment and well-paid jobs to our
great city.

The other candidates so far include the Liberal Democrats'Jeanette Sunderland, a
long-serving councillor who leads her party's group at City Hall and hopes to
join the party's MP for Bradford East, David Ward, in the Commons. She says:

The whole city has been let down for a long time by Labour MPs. I want to
replicate in Bradford West what is happening in Bradford East with a Liberal
Democrat MP speaking up for people.I will tackle issues such as health, poverty
and education and getting young people into work.I want to get people into
apprenticeships and we got more money for pensioners.

The Conservatives are putting up Jackie Whiteley, a local businesswoman who
fought Rotherham at the 2010 general election. She has the specific endorsement
of the party's co-chair Baroness Sayeeda Warsi, from nearby Dewsbury, who says:

Jackie is an outstanding local candidate who has a reputation for working hard
for the people of Yorkshire and I know she will fight for their best interests.
Our campaign in Bradford is underway, we are out listening to voters in the
constituency, and I will be campaigning alongside Jackie for every vote.

Sonja McNally is fighting for UKIP and the former MP George Galloway has arrived
from London as candidate for Respect. McNally, a mother-of-two and former Green
candidate who is involved in a mass of local community groups,says:

My track record in volunteering and community work means I know what matters to
local people. Bradford West deserves a MP that cares about the area - not a
career politician only selected by a party to increase their numbers.

Galloway notes in his blog the 'mournful milestone' of more than 400 British
servicemen dying in Afghanistan including 19-year-old Private Christopher
Kershaw from Bradford in last week'sWarrior tragedy. He says:

Huddersfield, Bradford and the Lancashire former mill towns are a universe away
from the gilded Etonian millionaires who are running our country into the ground
- when not taking to horse, on steeds loaned, if you will, from the Metropolitan
Police at our expense.

Last time:

Labour: 18401 (45.35%)Conservative: 12638 (31.15%)Liberal Democrat: 4732
(11.66%)BNP: 1370 (3.38%)UKIP: 812 (2%)Green: 940 (2.32%)Others: 1683
(4.15%)Majority: 5763 (14.2%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 12, 2012 Monday

Ukip shares more with the far right than it admits

BYLINE: Matthew Goodwinguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 926 words

ABSTRACT

Matthew Goodwin: Our research shows that despite its denials, Ukip's policies
and support base have significant similarities with those of the BNP

FULL TEXT

My colleague Jocelyn Evans and I have released a report exploring the views of
over 2,000 citizens toward violence and armed conflict. The aim was to
investigate whether individuals who align themselves with the far right, mainly
the British National party, consider preparing for and engaging in armed
conflict as "justifiable" actions, and whether they believe that violence
between different ethnic, racial or religious groups is inevitable.

Our study is merely a first step into an area that remains under-researched and
poorly understood. For this reason, we were careful to present it as exploratory
rather than definitive, and were the first to draw attention to its limitations.
But as summarised elsewhere, the findings remain striking: almost two-fifths of
BNP followers viewed armed conflict as justifiable when defending the national
way of life; over three-fifths agreed that violence would be needed to protect
their group from threats and almost 90% of those who affiliated with Nick
Griffin's fading party agreed that inter-group violence was inevitable.

But perhaps just as striking is the response from Ukip to the report. We
included a large number of Ukip supporters in the study as a rightwing "control"
group to our more extreme rightwing BNP group. This owed less to a desire to
discredit Ukip than to an attempt to explore variations within the increasingly
crowded and fragmented territory to the right of Cameron's conservatives. Some
critics who objected to the approach had clearly not read the report, like one
excitable tweeter who claimed we only talked to five Ukippers (the actual figure
was 1,505). Others, such as Ukip leader Nigel Farage, wrote a letter in which he
claimed the "study is not of the party, but of those who self-define as
supporters", and suggested we might have actually surveyed a group of EDL
activists posing as Ukip. Conservative MEP Dan Hannan similarly dismissed the
inclusion of Ukip as "ludicrous".

These criticisms are anchored in the argument that, by including Ukip alongside
the more toxic extreme right, we are staining the party by association. But
those who read the report will know that we never claim Ukip is an extremist
party associated with violence. Rather, from the outset we are careful to
describe Ukip as a "more moderate" brand of radical rightwing politics, and
acknowledge the party "would strongly reject any association with extremism and
violence". These assertions are backed up by our data: while they also appear
deeply concerned about immigration and Islam, Ukip supporters are less intense
and less hostile than their BNP rivals. They are also far more likely to
consider violence as "never justifiable".

At the same time, however, Ukip critics tend to ignore the fact that their party
does have considerable policy overlaps with the extreme right. Like the BNP, at
the last general election Ukip demanded an end to uncontrolled immigration,
tighter border controls, the expulsion of illegal immigrants, the removal of
benefits for remaining immigrants and an "end the active promotion of the
doctrine of multiculturalism by local and national government and all publicly
funded bodies". This radical right pitch to voters included an end to political
correctness and a ban on the burqa, and led Ukip to invite Geert Wilders to show
an anti-Islam documentary in the House of Lords.

Ukip is not a rightwing extremist party, but on the doorsteps of voters it is
often pushing the same message as the extreme right, and this is reflected in
our results. Almost half of the Ukip affiliates in our survey ranked either
immigration or Muslims in Britain as the most important issues facing Britain
today. Over half (51%) rejected the suggestion that Britain has benefited from
diversity. Almost two-fifths (37%) backed the idea of repatriating immigrants
back to their country of origin, and irrespective of whether they had broken the
law. Over three-fifths (64%) would feel "bothered a lot" by the presence of an
Islamic institution in their community, which is over twice the national average
(31%). And 85% of them disagreed with the suggestion that Islam does not pose a
danger to the west, while the equivalent figure among the BNP group was only
three points higher.

Nor does this perception of Islam as a threatening religion appear confined to
our sample of self-identified Ukippers, as Farage might suggest. At various
points, Ukip elites have voiced concern over Muslim "breeding", party organisers
have referred to "Muslim nutters"; UKIP candidates have described Islam as
"degenerate", suggested Britain forcibly repatriate Muslims and endorsed
Wilders' description of Islam as a "retarded ideology".

Some in the Ukip camp claim that our study is flawed. But our findings are
consistent with research by other academics, and also a much larger study last
year that drew on a survey of over 4,000 Ukip supporters. As above, it found
that a significant portion of the Ukip base closely resembled that of the BNP:
while less intense, they comprise a poorer, more working-class and more deeply
disconnected wing within the party that is driven not simply by Euroscepticism
but also their profound concern about immigration and dissatisfaction with the
three main parties. Ukip denies these associations with the radical right, but
both parties are pitching a far-right formula and rallying a radical right base.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 12, 2012 Monday 9:30 PM GMT

David Cameron 'not sympathetic' to plight of alleged arms dealer Christopher
Tappin ahead of Obama meeting;
David Cameron is "not particularly sympathetic" to the plight of the alleged
arms dealer Christopher Tappin and does not intend to discuss his case during a
meeting with President Obama, The Daily Telegraph understands.

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner and Robert Winnett

LENGTH: 746 words


Mr Cameron is reluctant to intervene because of mounting prima facie evidence
against the British businessman, who is accused of plotting to sell missile
parts to Iran.

The Prime Minister believes Mr Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in jail if he is
tried and convicted of selling arms to a rogue state, has serious questions to
answer.

Court papers seen by the Telegraph allege that Mr Tappin "discussed the
specifics of the plot" with undercover federal agents, and talked about using
"false invoices" to disguise the military use of the components.

Mr Tappin, 65, from Orpington in Kent, claims he thought batteries he arranged
to buy from the US were for use in the car industry, and had no idea they were
for Hawk surface-to-air missiles.

But an alleged co-conspirator, who was convicted of his part in the "plot", told
a court that Mr Tappin "told him of the batteries' military application".

Mr Tappin is being held on remand in a jail in New Mexico after being denied
bail following his extradition last month. His family and friends, who include
the UKIP leader Nigel Farage, have raised a 4,000-signature petition demanding
that Mr Cameron debates the US-UK extradition treaty with Mr Obama.

But well-placed sources have told the Telegraph that while Mr Tappin's case
"may" come up in discussions during Mr Cameron's two-day trip to the US, it is
not on the main agenda.

Mr Cameron's stance over Mr Tappin contrasts sharply with his views on Gary
McKinnon, the Asperger's Syndrome sufferer who is fighting extradition for
allegedly hacking US military computers, where the Government believes there is
a genuine issue.

Mr Tappin, who is president of the Kent Golf Society, came to the attention of
US authorities in 2007 after the US Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) set up a fake company, Mercury Global, in El Paso, Texas.

According to court papers relating to an unsuccessful appeal by one of Mr
Tappin's co-accused, Robert Caldwell, Mr Tappin contacted Mercury in Dec 2005
through an intermediary in the US, "seeking the unlicensed export" of a camera
and Hawk missile batteries, both of which appear on the US Munitions List as
"defence articles".

Mr Tappin agreed to pay $5,000 apiece, which was $2,000 above the normal retail
price, for 50 batteries, according to the court papers.

"During these negotiations, Tappin and the undercover agents discussed the
specifics of the plot, including the use of double (i.e. false) invoices," it is
claimed.

Mr Tappin told Mercury that Caldwell, "an Oregon fertilizer importer", would buy
the batteries on his behalf and send them to him.

During Caldwell's case, prosecutors produced evidence that he had written down
the words "batteries", "trucks" and "military" during a phone conversation with
Mr Tappin.

"Caldwell testified and admitted that Tappin told him of the batteries' military
application," the papers state.

Agents sent Caldwell two sets of invoices - a false set, disguising the nature
of the batteries, and the true invoices, with a note saying: "Export of the
commodities described herein is strictly prohibited without a valid export
licence issued by the US State Department, Office of Defense Trade Controls,
prescribed in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations."

Caldwell faxed the invoice to Mr Tappin with an asterisk and a note telling him
"please see detail below", it is claimed.

Caldwell later told an undercover agent: "The thought of something that is
potentially illegal isn't cool."

He then explained a plan to "disguise" the batteries before they were sent to Mr
Tappin.

Caldwell was jailed for 20 months in 2007 after being convicted of charges
relating to the sale.

Mr Tappin denies any wrongdoing, saying the batteries were destined for the
Netherlands and were to be used for electroplating cars.

He claims his commission on the deal was a mere £320, but prosecutors say he
stood to make £96,000 if other deals he set up had gone ahead.

They also claim to have recovered 16,000 documents from Robert Gibson, another
co-defendant who was jailed for 24 months in 2007, which show that Mr Tappin had
done business with Iran before.

Mr Tappin's British solicitor, Karen Todner, said: "If there is evidence against
Mr Tappin we don't know about it because he was extradited without knowing the
evidence against him. It's not for Mr Cameron to judge someone's innocence or
guilt. If there is evidence against him or he is guilty, then let him stand
trial in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 12, 2012 Monday 8:00 PM GMT

Europe to demand inflation-busting budget rise;
MEPs will on Tuesday demand an inflation-busting £42.6 million rise in their own
budget, with extra cash to spend on propaganda, political parties and a museum
of official European Union history.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 461 words


The three per cent increase for the European Parliament will take its spending
to £1.5 billion at a time of national austerity and as the EU is imposing budget
cuts on eurozone countries.

If agreed during budget talks later this year, the increase means that British
taxpayers will contribute £186 million - an extra £5.3 million - to the running
of the parliament in 2013.

The EU assembly's "estimates" for next year will be voted through by MEPs this
week as part of plans for a bigger overall EU budget for 2013, increases that
are fiercely resisted by governments.

"With tough decisions being taken in countries across Europe to sort out their
finances, an inflation busting increase like this would be completely
unacceptable," said a British diplomat.

MEPs have accused governments, led by Britain, of "artificially" trying to cut
Brussels spending to help the EU emerge from economic crisis "by ignoring real
budget needs".

But confidential documents, seen by the Daily Telegraph, disclose that, in terms
of their own budget, MEPs are more preoccupied with their public image than the
economy.

Despite the worst economic crisis since 1945, the parliament wants a 24 per cent
increase in spending on "communications" and spin doctors.

Panic is growing in the parliament over looming European elections in 2014 after
voter turnout fell to a record low in 2009 amid swings to Eurosceptic parties.

Martin Schulz, the parliament's president, admitted last Friday that most
members of the public view MEPs as "superfluous, useless human beings".

In a bid to win over a hostile public, the parliament's overall propaganda
budget will rise over 20 per cent to £36.7 million.

"Expenditure on audio-visual information" is up 36 per cent, including £6.7
million for Europarl TV, a television channel highlighting the work of MEPs with
only 830 daily viewers.

The parliament is also pressing ahead with the creation of a controversial £70
million "House of European History", celebrating the EU, at a cost of £18.9m
next year.

The parliament is also seeking to increase public funding for the activities of
artificial EU political parties.

Contributions for political "foundations" will increase by 9.8 per cent despite
the parliament's own internal auditor identifying serious problems with the
funding.

Under the proposals, funding for parties, such as the federalist European
People's Party, will rise to £244 million.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and former whistle-blowing chief accountant at the
European Commission, dismissed the spending rises as "unnecessary and
unwarranted".

"Ignoring the financial suffering of the public and increased spending on PR
will do nothing to counter the valid accusation that the EU institutions live in
a hugely expensive ivory tower," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 12, 2012 Monday 1:02 PM GMT

UKIP are not 'far Right'. There's nothing extremist about rejecting the
'benefits of diversity'

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1405 words


Imagine that a report came out linking people's unease with inequality and
poverty to extreme Left-wing violence of the Baader-Meinhof variety, showing
that Labour voters shared some of the same concerns with supporters of the
Communist Party or other Far-Left organisations.

Imagine it illustrated this report with a picture of a gun beside a red flag and
jackboots, and pictures of Ed Miliband and Harriet Harman by pictures of
Left-wing extremists. If you're a member of UK Uncut and reading this, I believe
I'm not wrong in assuming that you'd consider it an unwarranted slur if your
group was compared to bombers and murderers.

So try imagining how the UK Independence Party must feel about the Hope Not Hate
report, "Voting to violence? Far right extremism in Britain", which lumps the
group in with the British National Party and English Defence League in a study
of Right-wing extremists.

The report was produced in response to a Home Office committee last year that
declared that the risk of extreme Right-wing violence was underplayed and that
there was a serious terror threat from these groups. The aim of this report,
therefore, is to explore the intellectual hinterland from which these Right-wing
extremists will emerge, for:

The report graphically highlights the central dominance of immigration and a
fear of Islam to supporters of both the British National Party (BNP) and United
Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP). This is despite the leadership of both
organisations playing down their hardline views. While there might be
differences in the intensity of this animosity between BNP and UKIP supporters,
hostility to immigration and Muslims is linked to a wider discontent with
British democracy and distrust towards those who represent it.

The report clearly shows distinct variations of attitudes between different
types of supporters, with those actively involved in extreme right wing
organisations having more hardline views and attitudes to violence than those
who merely vote for such groups or those who are potential supporters. Whether
the more hardline views explain why people actually join right wing
organisations, as opposed to simply voting for them, or being involved
politicises people is beyond the scope of this research, however the differences
are interesting in themselves.

One of the most worrying aspects of this research is the attitude of BNP, UKIP
and English Defence League (EDL) supporters to violence.

Why UKIP?

Second, we wanted to compare and contrast supporters of different movements to
the Right of the centre-right Conservatives. Not all movements that occupy the
far right-wing are the same: whereas some, such as the British National Party
(BNP), are associated more strongly with ideological extremism, criminality and
violence, other movements, such as the more moderate UK Independence Party (UKIP
), advocate similar policies in many areas but would strongly reject any
association with extremism and violence. Understanding whether, and if so how,
their supporters differ may be an important step to understanding what pushes
and pulls citizens further along the political spectrum.

There is a strange, almost quaintly unknowing quality about this worldview. UKIP
and BNP supporters, the report argues, "are almost unanimous in their rejection
of the notion that Britain is benefiting from diversity".

And one would, of course, have to be literally insane to hold such a view.

Yet a report that defines "far Right" as someone who thinks that mass
immigration is overall a bad thing has a bit of a problem. On Friday the
Guardian reported that UKIP supporters had been included as a "control" group,
but if that was the case, why not just compare these "far Right" views with
those of the public in general? Because these "extreme" opinion are, in fact,
mainstream.

Channel 4's 2009 survey, for example, showed a majority of Tory voters and a
plurality of Labour and Liberal Democrats agreeing that "all further immigration
to the UK should be halted". A clear majority of Tory voters disagreed with the
statement that Britain had benefited from the "arrival in recent decades of
people from many countries and cultures", expressing similar levels of concern
as UKIP supporters. Some 53 per cent of Labour voters agreed, and 56 per cent of
Liberal Democrats.

Last year's HOPE not hate report showed that 63 per cent of white Britons, and
almost half of Asians, believed that immigration had been a bad thing for
Britain; presumably then some 40 per cent of British Asians are potential white
supremacists. The report stated that half of the British population would vote
for a "far-Right" party that did not promote violence. In fact their description
of "far Right" was not far-Right in any traditional sense, that is being
violent, anti-democratic, race-obsessed, territorially expansionist or violently
hostile to women's rights and gays; it was just one that rejected the "benefits
of diversity" and wanted to restrict immigration. I love the unwitting humour of
the logic here; we're in the centre, everyone else is an extremist.

Another problem with this latest report is the wording of the questions. It
found that roughly a third of UKIP supporters agreed or strongly agreed that
"immigrants should be sent back to their home country, whether or not they break
the law." That seems harsh, but do they mean all immigrants? If they had added
this word then I imagine the numbers in favour would be pretty small; otherwise
it's an ambiguous question. I would agree, for example, that Abu Qatada should
be deported, even though he has committed no crime here. And what is the view of
the public at large? The report only compares "extreme" views with the general
population in one question.

Then the questions about violence, "Violence between different ethnic, racial or
religious groups is largely inevitable" or "violence may be needed to protect my
group from threats"; these are theoretical, existential questions. The former is
also incredibly vague - do they mean all-out Yugoslavia-style war or low-level,
everyday conflict that afflicts all diverse societies? The second question could
just be interpreted as the same as whether one would fight for one's country.

Might it be that Hope Not Hate, and many of the other organisations fighting
racism, have a rather skewed idea of what "Far-Right" and "extreme" is? Hope Not
Hate does a lot of good work, but it seems stuck in a 1980s theory of
anti-racism which confuses racial hatred with "parochial altruism", that is the
natural human feeling of being happier around people like ourselves, and so
having discomfort with diversity; the former is the pathological variation of
the latter, but the latter is part of human nature and not immoral or
necessarily problematic. Anti-racism, which has its roots in the Utopian
far-Left, holds that this universal feeling can be somehow indoctrinated out,
just as the Soviets believed that our desire for financial self-interest could
be bred out.

UKIP is something of a strange beast politically, a mixture of libertarians and
social conservatives; aside from the Greens, it is the only party considering
supporting the legalisation of cannabis. Economically it is the polar opposite
of the BNP, but it's true to say that like that party it draws much of its
support from people alienated and repulsed by the new moral order. Social
conservatives who overall feel happier with the values of pre-1968 Britain,
whether it's patriotism, their views on marriage, crime and punishment, or
sexual mores; and libertarians who hate the way that the cultural revolution has
brought a massively expanded state with an insatiable appetite for making new
laws, New Labour's era being a nadir. Both wings of the party have a
particularly English opposition to the nanny state, telling them off and
leeching their taxes, whether it's in the name of "health inequality" or
"promoting diversity" or any of the other mantras that the statist clergy repeat
ad nauseam.

But that hardly makes it "far" anything, any more than Labour are extreme for
attracting people who might otherwise vote for the extreme Left and for using
the same language of equality and social justice. The irony is that this report
seeks to address peoples' alienation from mainstream politics, and then
characterises them as extremists. Is it any wonder that people feel so
disconnected?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 12, 2012 Monday 8:14 AM GMT

The Lib Dems want higher taxes? Very well. The Tories should make sure everyone
knows

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 383 words


For days - weeks even - the headlines have been dominated by Lib Dems talking
about tax. Specifically, about wanting to put taxes up. Nick Clegg used his
Saturday interview with the Telegraph to talk about a 'tycoon tax', while Vince
Cable carried on his argument for a shift of tax from income to wealth to focus
specifically on mansions. Danny Alexander has talked tax, and from every corner
of Lib Dem world there has been a clamour for more taxes. Mr Clegg would point
out that what he wants is less tax on the poor, more tax on the wealthy. But the
overarching impression, the snatched message that the public hears through the
din of other news, is of the Lib Dems banging on about putting up taxes. They
have successfully made themselves the party that is arguing for more tax, not
less.

The question for the Tories, therefore, must be: what do they do about it? There
was an arresting line in James Forsyth's required reading column in the Mail on
Sunday. Explaining that Mr Clegg's tycoon tax idea would introduce a statutory
minimum income tax level for higher rate tax payers, he goes on to say:
"Intriguingly, the Tory Chancellor George Osborne is, apparently, not hostile to
this idea." Intriguing? More like worrying. I have no idea whether this is true
(note to self, must ask), but I suspect many would have preferred to read
"Intriguingly, the Tory Chancellor George Osborne thinks it's a turkey" or
"Intriguingly, the Tory Chancellor George Osborne is so hostile to the idea he's
thinking of joining UKIP". In fact, what we should be hearing from Mr Osborne,
and the Prime Minister and every other Tory is the first salvos in what will be
a sustained campaign to exploit this Lib Dem obsession with putting up taxes.
They should take as their set text a brief line from John Redwood in the Sunday
Telegraph, which has the makings of a Tory mantra: "I don't think we should be
looking for more ways of taxing people." Mr Cameron is rightly concerned with
keeping the Coalition on course. It remains the overwhelming choice of the
electorate. But he should also make sure that at every opportunity people know
that the party with the tax raising instinct is the Lib Dems, while finding his
own language to explain why taxes are too high across the board, and he aims to
bring them down.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 12, 2012 Monday 7:52 AM GMT

Budget 2012: David Cameron and George Osborne fail to understand the striving
middle classes;
The Cameroons' lack of feel for hard-working families could be fatal to their
electoral chances.

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

LENGTH: 792 words


Who will the Budget hit hardest?

Yet again, the middle classes. Some of the measures being discussed in the
Treasury would hit the aspirational middle classes hardest. The current
obsession of much of the political and media classes is soaking the rich. Nick
Clegg is currently coming up with new taxes at the rate of three a week; his
latest initiative is a new "tycoon tax".

But underneath all the rhetoric about hammering the most wealthy, it is the more
modest, hardly rich, end that is getting walloped worst. The Chancellor has
already dragged another 800,000 Britons into paying the punitive 40p tax, which
was the price of acceding to a Lib Dem demand and raising the threshold at which
the lowest paid start paying tax. More than 3.5 million people now pay tax at
40p on income above £43,000. A tax that was originally designed in the 1980s to
hit a small number of the super-affluent now catches a head of department in
state school.

What's next?

Incredibly, the Tory-led Treasury is looking at ending tax relief on pensions
for those on the 40p and 50p band. There may also be an overhaul of council tax,
with new bands above £320,000. It would be felt most keenly in the south of
England and the parts of the midlands where house prices are higher and the
Tories are traditionally strong.

What will happen to child benefit?

Despite attempts by a panicked No 10 to get the Treasury to look again at its
misguided plan to remove child benefit from families where one earner pays 40p
tax, it is proving very difficult to find a compromise, and a proud Chancellor
does not want to be seen to be backing down in the face of intense criticism
from some Tory MPs.

Why are the Tories doing this?

The hard-working members of the middle classes who have crossed into the 40p tax
band are the easiest to hit. Not being mobile, they are sitting ducks for the
Treasury. They cannot move income or assets offshore, and do not have armies of
clever accountants and lawyers working out how to make them as tax efficient as
possible. As there are more than three million such taxpayers, any raid on their
income brings in a large amount of revenue when money is short. David Cameron
and George Osborne are also desperate to keep the Lib Dems in the Coalition and
have got used to ceding ground when they shouldn't.

Aren't they at risk of alienating part of their core support?

Yes, but the Tory leadership's calculation seems to be that those in that group
who are Tory voters (and not all are, though they are disproportionately likely
to be Conservative-inclined) have nowhere else to go come the next election.
They will, runs the theory, vote for the people who made them worse off because
the alternatives are claimed to be terrible. This is always a dangerous
assumption for a political party to make. Voters can choose to stay at home come
polling day or vote for one of the smaller parties such as UKIP, or in Scotland
the SNP. In a tight election it could make the difference in key seats.

Why do the Cameroons struggle to understand the middle classes?

At the heart of it are two potentially fatal misunderstandings. First, they seem
incapable of grasping that someone on £43,000 is not well-off, by the time they
have paid a mortgage and commuted to work, especially in the south east.
Secondly, they misunderstand the nature of aspiration. Although average wages
are £26,000, someone ambitious earning not far above that can see the 40p rate
looming up ahead.

Just below the 3.5 million people paying 40p tax are many millions more strivers
who think that if they work hard and try to get on then they and their family
stand a chance of going up the income scale a bit. These are the people the
country desperately needs to start small businesses, work hard and push for
promotion. An attack on those paying 40p tax also sends a message to many more
than the 3.5 million that they will be punished if they get there.

Margaret Thatcher, coming from where she did, instinctively understood this.
Ultimately, Cameroon incomprehension must be a function of a privileged
background. Amusingly, Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne think of themselves as
hard-pressed members of the middle classes, and, since they mix with the
extremely wealthy at Chequers and in Notting Hill, they may not regard
themselves as rich. But for the millions earning much more modest sums who
aspire to get on, they seem to have almost no feel. This will make it very
difficult for them to win the next election unless they start rethinking, and
fast.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 11, 2012 Sunday

THE FAMILY TORN APART

LENGTH: 1213 words


US EXTRADITION LAW

BY SARAH OLIVER

SOME are curling at the edges, others are blemished by time. A few stand proudly
in frames but most are tattered by the touch of happy hands across 40 years of
suburban life. These are the photographs that tell the story of the Tappins, the
British family torn apart by the extradition of businessman Chris Tappin. They
show a couple so in love, they married less than a year after they met, a
husband and wife whose lives were completed with first a daughter and then a
son.

The rites of passage common to many Z weddings, christenings, graduations and
the arrival of a first grandchild Z are on display. The rest lie in albums of
the exquisitely ordinary, of Christmases, birthdays and holidays, of cherished
moments.

Two years ago, Chris and Elaine Tappin had no reason to believe they would not
add many more pictures to their collection as they headed into comfortable
retirement.

But now they are thousands of miles apart Z Elaine, 62, at the family home in
Orpington, Kent, and Chris, 65, in a cell in Otero County Prison, New Mexico.
The only photograph she will see of him for the next few months is a police
mugshot.

It is an extraordinary reversal of fortune for a couple who prospered as Chris
built his import-export business from scratch in the Seventies, employing his
father as his messenger and Elaine as his Girl Friday until their first child
was born.

His entrepreneurial spirit paid for the luxury home they have lived in for more
than 30 years (bought to house three generations of their family), private
education for their children Georgina and Neil, and world travel in pursuit of
their joint passion: golf.

But it was this same company that brought Chris to the attention of the US
authorities several years ago when he was accused of transporting missile parts
destined for Iran Z a charge he strongly denies, saying that the shipment was
industrial batteries on their way to the Netherlands.

The controversy now raging is not over his guilt or innocence but over the fact
that none of the evidence against him was tested in a British court before he
was taken into custody by American marshals at Heathrow a fortnight ago.

In an emotional, unscheduled phone call home witnessed by The Mail on Sunday on
Friday, Chris revealed some of the privations he has suffered during his time in
custody.

They include 36 hours in a solitary-confinement cell illuminated permanently
with bright light; being banned from having a book or even a clock; and being
allowed outside for just an hour a day.

Chris described Friday, March 2 Z the day his application for bail was denied in
El Paso, Texas Z as 'the worst of my life', telling his wife he had been caged
for almost ten hours before he'd 'kicked up a fuss' and a guard had brought him
a sandwich.

The contrast between his current situation and his last day of liberty in
Britain, when he played a valedictory round of golf at his local course and then
went home to a beef and tomato casserole with his wife and children, could
hardly be starker.

If Chris Tappin maintains his innocence, goes to trial and loses, he faces 35
years in prison and accepts he will die behind bars. If, as many expect, he
accepts a plea-bargain and 'confesses his guilt', then he might be home in three
years.

But the pleasurable life he had crafted, the one seen in the Tappins' jolly
family albums, can never be resumed. Chris and Elaine face financial hardship as
they must now sell their home to pay legal bills already heading towards
6100,000.

Elaine was in the house babysitting five-year-old grandson when the extradition
warrant was served. She had to break the news to her husband that the date for
his departure had been set. It was, Elaine says, 'the hardest thing I have done
to him in all my years as his wife.

'He was so shocked, his knees gave way. It was painful to see. I can't imagine
what it felt like to hear.'

Now she must rally support to the Tappin family colours. Senior members of the
Government, including David Cameron and Home Secretary Theresa May, have been
quiet on the subject, though UKIP has launched an online petition in an effort
to force the Prime Minister to raise the issue with President Obama when they
meet on Tuesday.

Needless to say, Elaine has been inundated with letters and cards Z some merely
addressed to 'Wife of Betrayed British Citizen, Orpington' Z from strangers
around the country.

From his cell in the deserts of New Mexico there is little Chris can do for
himself. His conditions have improved since being released from solitary
confinement and placed in a dormitory with four other prisoners. He used his
15-minute phone call to describe them to Elaine.

He told his wife: 'I'm in with a man who speaks English and I'm enjoying his
company. Our other cellmates are two Mexicans who speak Spanish so there's not
much conversation there. There is a clock on the wall so I can tell the time and
we have a television, which means I can watch the news.

'I am playing cards and chess with my cellmate and we are swapping our books. I
am allowed out at midday and have access to an exercise yard where I am able to
walk about two miles in laps. I think I have walked four or five miles so far
and it's been warm and pleasant to be outdoors.

'I have set up an account at the prison shop and can buy extra food to
supplement what I am being given. Some of the food is all right, but I was given
grits for breakfast and I can't bear them.

'I pool my food with the men in my dormitory. We share most of it and keep some
so we can make a sandwich in the afternoon.

'At night the lights don't go off, but they are dimmed so sleeping is easier.'

The call came at 11.55am UK time (4.55am in New Mexico) on Friday. The line was
unclear and crackly and Elaine and her daughter Georgina struggled to understand
a lot of the precious conversation. However, a wife's intuition told Elaine that
Chris's spirits were suffering.

She says: 'Things seem better this week than last week. But I am concerned there
has been a dip in his morale. I fear the realisation that he's in this situation
for the foreseeable future has just hit him.'

Elaine does not know how and when she'll be able to retrieve the other future
the couple had planned Z the one filled with golf and their grandson. But she
does know she will not stop trying.

'We, as British citizens fighting for the rights of another British citizen,
should be heard, but we're not,' she says.

'We've been left floundering. It's like we've been punished twice Z once with
the loss of our husband and father, and again by not having a voice. What can we
do but fight on?'

CLOSE BOND: The couple pose for a portrait with Neil, then aged one, and
Georgina, aged three

FLORIDA FUN: The Tappins relax during a holiday in Key West in 1992

SPORTING LIFE: Golf fan Chris tees off, above, and at St Andrews with Elaine,
below left. Above left: Preparing for an adventure in Corfu in 1986. Below: An
artist's sketch of Chris in court

ANGUISH: Elaine Tappin speaks to her husband Chris on Friday

PROUD MOMENT: Georgina graduates in 1999

As golf-club pensioner makes emotional call from prison to his wife, she reveals
cherished pictures of life he left behind

'He was so shocked at the news, his knees gave way'

He plays cards and chess with a cellmate

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 11, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

INSIDE POLITICS

BYLINE: Iain Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 732 words


Who will the Budget hit hardest?

Yet again, the middle classes. Some of the measures being discussed in the
Treasury would hit the aspirational middle classes hardest. The current
obsession of much of the political and media classes is soaking the rich. Nick
Clegg is currently coming up with new taxes at the rate of three a week; his
latest initiative is a new "tycoon tax".

But underneath all the rhetoric about hammering the most wealthy, it is the more
modest end that is getting walloped. The Chancellor has already dragged another
800,000 Britons into paying the punitive 40p tax, which was the price of
acceding to a Lib Dem demand and raising the threshold at which the lowest paid
start paying tax. More than 3.5 million people now pay tax at 40p on income
above £43,000.

A tax originally designed in the 1980s to hit a small number of the
super-affluent now catches a head of department in a state school.

What's next?

Incredibly, the Tory-led Treasury is looking at ending or reducing tax relief on
pensions for those in the 40p and 50p band. There may also be an overhaul of
council tax, with new bands above £320,000. It would be felt most keenly in the
south of England and the parts of the Midlands where house prices are higher and
the Tories are traditionally strong.

What will happen to child benefit?

Despite attempts by a panicked No 10 to get the Treasury to look again at its
plan to remove child benefit from families where one earner pays 40p tax, it is
proving very difficult to find a compromise and a proud Chancellor does not want
to be seen to back down in the face of intense criticism from some Tory MPs.

Why are the Tories doing this?

The hard-working members of the middle classes who have crossed into the 40p tax
band are the easiest to hit. Not being mobile, they are sitting ducks for the
Treasury. They cannot move income or assets offshore, and do not have clever
accountants and lawyers working out how to make them as tax efficient as
possible. As there are more than three million such taxpayers, any raid on their
income brings in a large amount of revenue when money is short. David Cameron
and George Osborne are also desperate to keep the Lib Dems in the Coalition and
have got used to ceding ground when they shouldn't.

Aren't they at risk of alienating part of their core support?

Yes, but the Tory leadership's calculation seems to be that those in that group
who are Tory voters (and not all are, though they are disproportionately likely
to be Conservative-inclined) have nowhere else to go come the next election.

They will, runs the theory, vote for the people who made them worse off because
the alternatives are claimed to be terrible. This is always a dangerous
assumption for a political party to make. Voters can choose to stay at home come
polling day or vote for one of the smaller parties such as Ukip or, in Scotland,
the SNP. In a tight election it could make the difference in key seats.

Why do the Cameroons struggle to understand the middle classes?

At the heart of it are two misunderstandings. First, they seem incapable of
grasping that someone on £43,000 is not well-off by the time they have paid a
mortgage and commuted to work, especially in the South East. Secondly, they
misunderstand the nature of aspiration. Although average wages are £26,000,
someone ambitious earning not far above that can see the 40p rate looming up
ahead.

Just below the 3.5 million people paying 40p tax are many millions more strivers
who think that if they work hard and try to get on then they and their family
stand a chance of going up the income scale a bit. These are the people the
country desperately needs to start small businesses, work hard and push for
promotion. An attack on those paying 40p tax also sends a message to many more
than the 3.5 million that they will be punished if they get there.

Margaret Thatcher, coming from where she did, instinctively understood this. Mr
Cameron and Mr Osborne think of themselves as hard-pressed members of the middle
classes and, since they mix with the extremely wealthy at Chequers and in
Notting Hill, they may not regard themselves as rich. But for the millions
earning much more modest sums who aspire to get on, they seem to have almost no
feel. This will make it very difficult for them to win the next election unless
they start rethinking - fast.

Iain Martin is a leading political commentator

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 11, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I'D RATHER PICK UKIP

BYLINE: Toby Young

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 122 words


THE Lib Dems are holding their spring conference in Gateshead this weekend, a
fact that's unlikely to set the North East on fire.

According to a recent YouGov poll, support for the party in the region has
slipped to four per cent , placing them three points behind UKIP.

Peter Hain, the former Labour cabinet minister, last week said the most Labour
could hope for at the next election would be to form a coalition with the third
party.

Not if it's UKIP you won't, Peter. If a small party is going to hold the balance
of power after the election I'd prefer it to be UKIP than the Lib Dems.

Imagine a government formed by UKIP and the Tories, with Nigel Farage as Foreign
Secretary. Now that would be a coalition worth getting excited about.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Roger Helmer's green car

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 75 words


THE spectacular defection of MEP Roger Helmer from the Conservatives to Ukip
last weekend was partly the result of his disenchantment with his former party's
expensive backing for renewable energy sources such as wind power. But Mr Helmer
protested to his new political tribe that he is an environmentalist at heart.

He told Ukip's spring conference: "I've actually got a green car - British
racing green. And I enjoyed burning the gas on the way here."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday

Politics live blog: Lib Dem spring conference 2012

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 9522 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of the Lib Dem spring conference in
Gateshead, including a Q&A with Nick Clegg and the latest on the health bill

FULL TEXT

6.10pm: Here's an early evening summary.[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has urged Lib Dem
activists to support the leadership in tomorrow's vote on the health bill out of
solidarity with Shirley Williams. In a Q&A, Clegg said: "It is important that we
Liberal Democrats show that we are on Shirley Williams' side not Andy Burnham's
side." Clegg sought to frame the debate in these terms after winning a
procedural vote that reduces his chances of embarrassment tomorrow. Faced with a
choice about whether to debate a rebel motion saying the health bill should be
withdrawn or defeated and a pro-bill motion saying Lib Dem peers should give it
a third reading (the so-called "Shirley Williams motion"), the conference voted
to debate the Shirley Williams motion. In tomorrow's debate, which will start at
about 9.20am and run for just half an hour or so, delegates could vote down the
motion. But this would not be as awful for Clegg as having the conference vote
in favour of a motion saying Lib Dem parliamentarians should kill the bill, and
the chances of a defeat seem quite slim. The anti-bill "rebels" are now focusing
their hopes on getting the conference to vote for an amendment that would remove
a sentence in the Shirley Williams motion calling on "Liberal Democrat peers to
support the third reading of the bill provided such further amendments are
achieved". If this amendment were to be accepted, it would neuter the Williams
motion and leave the conference theoretically neither supporting nor opposing
the bill. But there is no guarantee yet that that amendment will even be put to
a vote. Labour's Andy Burnham said that the Lib Dem decision not to debate the
"drop the bill" motion was "desperately disappointing".

[#xfffd] Clegg has said that the health bill controversy has taught him the
importance of persuading the public that there is a problem before asking them
to embrace a solution. He made the point in a Q&A with delegates.

I tell you one thing I have learnt on what could be handled better. I have
learnt, and frankly I've learnt it the hard way over the last year and a half,
you can't spring on to the public a solution or a policy if you don't spend a
lot of time first explaining what the problem is.

[#xfffd] Vince Cable has renewed his attack on the Tory rightwingers demanding
deregulation.

As Liberal Democrats in government we must confront the old-fashioned,
backward-looking, negative thinking which says that all government needs to do
to generate growth is to cut workers' rights, slash taxes on the rich, and
stroke 'fat cats' until they purr with pleasure.

That's it for today. I'll be back tomorrow when we've got the debate on the
health bill and Nick Clegg's speech to the conference.

Thanks for the comments.

5.39pm: The Liberal, a magazine that is not officially tied to the party but
that claims to reflect liberal opinion, has sent out this comment about the
conference's decision to debate the Shirley Williams motion tomorrow and not the
rebel "drop the bill" motion.

This vote, which looks like cowardice - and makes a mockery of Tim Farron's
claim that the Lib Dems are the sole party of conscience - will have serious
consequences for activists; if not in the long-term (when the extent of
privatisation becomes evident), then in the short term, starting with local
elections in May.

5.12pm: What did we learn from all that?

First, Clegg has managed to frame tomorrow's health debate quite cleverly. In
politics, you can normally boil most issues down to X versus Y, and just as long
as your X is more popular (or less unpopular) than their Y, you'll be okay.
Tomorrow (at a horribly early hour - they have just told us that the debate will
start not at 9.30am, as planned, but even earlier) Lib Dems will vote on the
health bill. If they were forced to choose between Andrew Lansley and the BMA,
the rebels would win easily. Clegg could have made this an issue of confidence
in his own leadership (ie, Clegg v the BMA). But he has sidestepped that option
and instead presented it as Shirley Williams v Andy Burnham. Just in case any
delegates did not get the message, the motion is actually titled: Protecting our
NHS: the Shirley Williams motion.

Second, Clegg genuinely thinks he is winning the argument about tax. His point
about Boris Johnson writing columns supporting ideas that used to be seen as Lib
Dem obsessions was a good one.

And, third, Clegg has at least learnt something from the health bill fiasco. His
line about not trying to persuade the public to embrace a solution until you've
convinced them first that there's a problem was one that all legislators should
remember. Although Clegg and his government colleagues would do better if they
could agree what the problem to which the health bill is the solution actually
was. In the past ministers have told us that the health bill was about giving
patients more choice, or empowering GPs, or cutting bureaucracy. But today Clegg
said it was all about stopping elderly people clogging up hospital beds which,
to my ears at least, is fairly new on the list of health bill objectives.

4.57pm: Final question.

Q: What are you most proud of among the things you have done in office? And what
would you have done better?

Clegg says that he has learnt that you cannot get the public to accept a
solution unless you have explained first what the problem is. On health, the Lib
Dems did not explain the problems caused by an ageing population.

As for best achievements, Clegg mentions the pupil premium and lifting the
income tax threshold. The pupil premium is only just having an effect, he says.
It is exciting to hear headteachers talking about it.

4.55pm: Now he has launched into a riff about Labour's worst moments: Iraq, the
banks, the 75p pension increase etc.

Now Labour has suffered from amnesia.

But they are making a monumental strategic mistake because they are just
opposing everything. They do not have a story to tell voters. For example, on
the cuts they are opposing all of them, but not saying what they would reverse.

(Clegg is at his most animated at this point. Vince Cable did not criticise
Labour, but Clegg has made up for it.)

4.51pm: More questions.

Q: What are you going to do about the polls? And how do we convince people we
are on their side?

Clegg says he always thought going into a coalition would cause a problem.

And don't think going into coalition would have been "a breeze". In the south
west the Lib Dems rely on lots of centre-right voters.

Forming the coalition has disrupted the normal order of things, he says.

He also says that people don't know what the Lib Dems have achieved. Rattling of
a list of achievements, he asks his audience: Do they know this? The Lib Dems
"don't have a lot of friends in the press," he says. They have some vicious
opponents. So they have to tell people what they have done.

4.48pm: Clegg says next month pensioners will receive the largest cash increase
in their pensions ever as a result of Lib Dem policy.

On tax relief for pensions, Clegg says it should be "evenly spread". At the
moment it isn't. It goes to the wealthy.

4.44pm: More on tax.

Q: When can you raise the tax allowance high enough to take people on the
minimum wage out of tax altogether?

[This is now official party policy - see 2.50pm.)

Clegg says it is important to walk before you run. At the moment he is just
saying he wants to go further and faster.

Q: Why won't you keep child benefit as a universal benefit?

Clegg says that it is right for the poor to get more than the rich.

But everyone in government accepts the current proposal to take child benefit
away from higher-rate taxpayers creates some anomalies, he says.

4.36pm: A question about tax.

Q: How will you convince the Lib Dems' coalition partners that the rich should
pay more in tax?

By argument, says Clegg. He says he genuinely thinks the Lib Dems are winning
the argument.

Several years ago Vince Cable said it was an outrage that the rich were avoiding
stamp duty. No one took any notice. But now Boris Johnson is saying the same
thing.

Clegg mentions his "tycoon tax" idea. (See 1.30pm.) He read about the
controversy about Mitt Romney paying very little tax. He thought that could not
happen here. But, after he commissioned some research, he found it was happening
here.

Q: What can you do to eradicate the tax gap?

Clegg says the Lib Dems have already done things to address this. Capital gains
tax has gone up. The complicated tax system inherited from Gordon Brown was "a
tax dodgers' charter". The Treasury will claw back about [#xfffd]7bn a year. But
it needs to go further.

Clegg says he cannot say what will be in the budget. "It has not been decided
finally yet," he says. But going "further and faster" towards raising the tax
threshold to [#xfffd]10,000 is the Lib Dems' flagship policy. And it has to be
paid for.

4.31pm: More health questions.

Q: Could you not have done all this under the reforms introduced by Alan
Milburn?

Clegg says that may be the case. He says he has spoken to Milburn about the
bill. Milburn objects to it, but Clegg says that, as far as he can understand
Miliburn's position, that's because Miliburn wants the government to be more
radical.

[Jonathan Marks had a better answer to this. See 11.43am.]

In response to another question, Clegg says Labour wasted [#xfffd]250m on
private sector contracts that did not help patients.

His grandfather was a long-standing editor of the British Medical Journal, he
says.

Clegg says that if he felt the bill was about privatising the NHS, "this bill
would never have seen the light of day".

4.24pm: First question.

Q: Why was the health bill allowed to progress when it was not in the coalition
agreement?

Clegg says there is a coalition committee that considers proposals not in the
coalition agreement. He chairs that with David Cameron. The approved the plans.
They have been amended.

He says he hopes the conference will show support to Shirley Williams. It is
important for the Lib Dems to support her, not Andy Burnham.

It is important that we Liberal Democrats show that we are on Shirley Williams'
side not Andy Burnham's side.

(A very neat piece of framing. You might have thought that tomorrow's debate was
all about being for or against the health bill. But now it's all about being for
or against Shirley Williams.)Q: How do you feel about the fact that the
government has failed to take the medical profession with it?

Clegg says he accepts this. The government needs to reach out, in a genuine
spirit of cooperation.

Clegg says Britain faces a problem because the population is ageing. The point
of the bill is to enable patients to be kept at home, he says.

4.22pm:Nick Clegg is about to start his Q&A.

It will last for about 40 minutes.

4.04pm: In the comments mrkinkladze asked about the voting figures in the ballot
to decide the motion for debate tomorrow morning.

Here are the figures.

First round

Justice and security green paper - 32The Shirley Williams health motion -
246Syria - 50The rebel "drop the bill" health motion - 270

But the Lib Dems use STV in this ballot and the votes for the two least popular
motions - the green paper and Syria - were redistributed. After that, the
Shirley Williams motion won.

The Shirley Williams health motion - 309The rebel "drop the bill" health motion
- 280

If this had been a first past the post election, the rebels would have won.

3.40pm: There were no policy announcements in Vince Cable's speech and he
trailed the main news line - his attack on his rightwing Tory critics - in his
interview in the Guardian.But it was interesting how guarded he was about the
government's achievements. Ministers normally wallow in self-congratulation.
But, in this passage, Cable came close to saying that the government was failing
in it efforts to boost banking lending.

If Britain is to emerge from this dreadful crisis, business needs access to
finance, just as plants need water - and the banks aren't supplying it. We have
several options, none of them easy or palatable.

We can sit around slowly waiting for banks to recover their nerve and sort out
their balance sheets; but in the meantime good companies and jobs go down the
pan.

The taxpayer can guarantee or subsidise lending on an even bigger scale but,
that is nationalising risk and privatising profit.

We can get the partly state-owned banks to lend more: we have done a bit of that
and must do more, but we are then up against EU competition rules.

We can also try to mobilise some new sources of funding - supplier finance from
big companies; business angels and venture capital; pension funds and insurance
companies all this has already been happening, but will move faster with
government support.

The bit about "lending on an even bigger scale" was particularly interesting
because this is what George Osborne is doing through credit easing.

Cable was also quite defeatist on the subject of executive pay.

I don't pretend for a moment that more shareholder power - desirable though that
is - will do more than scratch the surface of the inequalities of income and
wealth, and the justified sense of social injustice which has grown in the last
few decades of boom and bust.

I don't recall Cable adopting this tone when he announced his executive pay
plans in the Commons in January.Then he was telling us how significant they
were.

One other point to make: Cable barely mentioned Labour. It was not a
particularly partisan speech, but all the withering scorn it did contain was
directing at rightwing Tories. As Patrick Wintour and Nick Watt point out in the
Guardian today, with Chris Huhne out of the cabinet, Cable is now its leading
social democrat.This speech suggests he's taking that role quite seriously.

3.34pm: Cable is concluding now.

I believe more than ever that we were right to choose the responsibilities of
office, to work and been seen to work in the wider national interest. But we
shall succeed politically only if we communicate that this is about more than
balancing the books. We are fighting for jobs, for British industry, for banks
which serve business and not the other way around. And above all we fight for
fairness and strong public services to protect all our people. That's why I am a
Liberal Democrat.

He gets a standing ovation.

3.32pm: Cable says he agrees that there should be rewards for success.

But there is no justification for the massive escalation of top pay over the
last decade, unrelated to the performance of companies let alone pay in general.

Cable says that he is taking steps to curb executive pay, by getting
shareholders to exercise more control.

But I don't pretend for a moment that more shareholder power - desirable though
that is - will do more than scratch the surface of the inequalities of income
and wealth, and the justified sense of social injustice which has grown in the
last few decades of boom and bust.

That is why we must insist on a radical plan for fair tax which we developed in
opposition through the Tax Commission: lifting low earners out of tax; shifting
the tax base from income to wealth, especially high priced property; and
cracking down hard on the shocking tax dodging culture - personal and corporate
- which disfigures our country.

3.28pm: Cable is now talking about the various measures the government could
take to get more lending to business.

We can get the partly state-owned banks to lend more: we have done a bit of that
and must do more, but we are then up against EU competition rules.

We can also try to mobilise some new sources of funding - supplier finance from
big companies; business angels and venture capital; pension funds and insurance
companies all this has already been happening, but will move faster with
Government support.

Financial markets have failed and we need thoughtful, intelligent government to
take a lead.

Cable cites the Green Investment Bank as an example of this. And he pays tribute
to Chris Huhne, for his work on this and his contribution to the coalition
generally. That gets a generous round of applause.

3.27pm: Cable is turning to the banks.

British business can't succeed without access to capital. But three years on
from the banking crash our recovery is still being throttled by lack of finance.
Business must to be irrigated by bank capital but the irrigation channels are
still silted up.

Banks have now become highly risk averse, and tougher regulation reinforces risk
aversion. Yet banks regard most small and medium sized companies are inherently
risky. Innovation is risky. Low carbon is risky. Exports to high growth emerging
markets are risky. Who or what will plug the gap?

3.26pm: Cable says the government should promote firms based in Britain -
regardless of who owns them.

It is what the business community itself is telling me. They say that we in
government need to get behind Britain's successful sectors and firms. Many are
foreign owned, but that doesn't matter. Provided they invest good money in
Britain operate responsible businesses and pay their taxes I don't care what
colour or creed their owners are. Britain's leading manufacturer is Indian; our
top car companies are German, Japanese, and American; our big new steel producer
is Thai. New wind turbine manufactures are being developed along our coastline
with investment by German, Danish and Spanish firms. All are employing British
workers and supply chains. We shall succeed as a country by being open - to
ideas, capital, technology, and of course, talented people.

Our party must have no truck with narrow nationalism and our government must
make that clear to our allies in Europe.

3.24pm: Returning to the Tory attacks on his record, Cable says he is amused by
them.

These days I am amused rather than offended when I come under attack from some
Conservative backwoodsmen- one recently identified me as a member of the
Socialist Workers Party: that, for advocating policies which would be considered
mainstream in successful Scandinavian countries or Germany or France or even, in
that socialist paradise, the United States

3.21pm: Cable says he rejects the suggestion (which you will read in the
Conservative press from time to time, presumably on the back of Tory briefing)
that he is blocking measures that would stimulate growth.

I am sometimes told that I am single-handedly blocking the Government's
deregulation agenda. In fact my excellent team of Lib Dem and Conservative
Ministers is doing more to stop or reverse unnecessary regulation than any
previous government. If my critics really mean it, let us join in supporting
business demands to hack away at the impenetrable red tape which makes our tax
system such a nightmare for small businesses.

And let's cut through the time wasting bureaucracy around foreigners working and
studying here when they have every right to be in Britain. That's what business
means when it talks about 'anti-business' policies.

This is where the values of our party matter. As a Liberal party we believe in
the importance of successful business, markets and genuine competition.

3.20pm: Cable turns to industry policy. And he attacks those on the Tory right
who want more deregulation.

What we must do is to intervene to support growth and new jobs. And as Liberal
Democrats in government we must confront the old fashioned, backward-looking,
negative thinking which says that all government needs to do to generate growth
is to cut workers' rights, slash taxes on the rich, and stroke 'fat cats' until
they purr with pleasure.

3.16pm:Vince Cable, the business secretary, is speaking now.

He starts with a joke about how Lib Dems were able to find out about his private
thoughts about Rupert Murdoch a year or so ago, and how they were able to find
out about his private views about industrial policy last year. As Woody Allen
said, Cable remarks, just because you're paranoid, that does not mean they are
not out to get you.

3.12pm: The Lib Dems have just passed a motion changing their constitution.
Essentially it clarifiiesthe "triple lock" procedure designed to ensure that any
decision to take the party into a coalition has widespread support.

(The triple lock was originally passed in 1998 when some Lib Dem activists
feared that Paddy Ashdown was about to bounce the party into a pact with New
Labour.)

2.50pm: For the first time I've made it into the main conference hall. It's a
handsome auditorium with lots of wood panelling that looks very orange under
this lighting. You could shoot a Tango advert in here.

Three policy motions were passed this morning. I wasn't paying them much
attention, because I was focusing on health, but, for the record, here are the
key points.

On tax, the Lib Dems passed a Making Tax Fairer motion proposing:

[#xfffd] Raising the tax allowance to a level implied by full-time work on the
minimum wage, and keeping it there.[#xfffd] Raising a 1% annual levy on the
value of a property over [#xfffd]2m (the mansion tax).[#xfffd] Having a general
anti-avoidance rule.[#xfffd] Supporting a global financial transaction
tax.[#xfffd] Keeping the 50p top rate of tax.

On Europe, they passed a motion saying:

[#xfffd] Conference "deeply regrets" David Cameron's use of the "veto" at the EU
summit in December.[#xfffd] Cameron's move overturned "50 years of policy of
government of all colours aimed at preventing the emergence of a two-speed
Europe with the UK in the slow lane" and "risks ... directly removing British
influence over major decisions in the EU which have a huge impact on the
UK".[#xfffd] After 2014 the new president of the European Commission should be
chosen on the basis of the way people voted across Europe in the European
elections.

And, on Giving Young People a Future, they passed a motion saying:

[#xfffd] Young people on apprenticeships should get loans to help them with
living costs and childcare.

[#xfffd] Local authorities should be able to categorise schools as
"under-performing" if they produce too many NEETS (young people not in
education, employment or training).

2.27pm: The Shirley Williams health motion got 309 votes. The rebel "drop the
bill" one got 280 votes.

2.21pm: Nick Clegg has won his first battle of the conference. According to
Channel 4's Michael Crick on Twitter, Lib Dem activists have chosen to debate
the Shirley Williams health motion tomorrow - the pro-leadership one - instead
of the rebel motion calling for it to be withdrawn or defeated.

It is still quite possible that the Williams motion would be defeated. But
having the conference vote against a pro-bill motion would be less embarrassing
for Clegg than having it vote in favour of a motion saying the bill should be
dropped.

1.55pm: In my transcript of the Shirley Williams comments earlier I quoted her
calling Polly Toynbee a "damn journalist". I've just corrected that because I
should have written "damn good journalist". Thanks to Twitter (or twist, as
Williams calls it, wrongly in this case) for pointing that out.

1.30pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has called for a "tycoon tax" to stop the ultra-wealthy
using tax avoidance to cut the overall amount they pay in tax. In an interview
with the Daily Telegraph, he said some very rich people were getting away with
paying effective tax rates of less than 20%.

There are hundreds of people earning millions per year who are barely paying 20%
tax - forget 40%, forget 50%, forget 30%. They are not even paying 20%.
Therefore I think it's time that we look at what I call a tycoon tax.

If you're earning millions per year, if you're able to pay an army of lawyers
and accountants to basically pick and choose what tax you are paying, if you are
paying as low as 25%, 20% or even less in tax, there should be a minimum fair
share that you should pay to society.

It makes people so incredibly angry when you are getting up early in the
morning, working really hard to try and do the right thing for your family and
for your community, you are paying your taxes and then you see people literally
in a different galaxy who are paying extraordinarily low rates of tax.

At this stage it is not clear how serious this proposal is. When Danny
Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, was asked about it in a Q&A, he
suggested that this might just end up as a proposal for the Lib Dem manifesto.
But, with the smoke signals from the Treasury suggesting that the mansion tax is
going nowhere, Clegg's proposal suggests that the Lib Dems are thinking
inventively about finding new ways to extract tax revenue from the wealthy. In
his Q&A Alexander said HM Revenue and Customs was now focusing more on getting
money from the rich and that these initiatives would yield an extra [#xfffd]7bn
a year by the end of this parliament.

[#xfffd] Labour have dismissed Clegg's "tycoon tax" proposal. Chris Leslie, a
shadow Treasury minister, put out this statement about it.

Few people will take Nick Clegg's latest bluster on tax fairness seriously. He
is negotiating how to cut the 50p top rate of tax for the richest one per cent
while slashing tax credits by [#xfffd]73 per week for working couples on the
minimum wage. And he is the man who campaigned against a regressive rise in VAT
but then announced a VAT hike just weeks after becoming Deputy Prime Minister.

[#xfffd] Clegg has played down the prospects of the Lib Dem leadership being
defeated in a vote on the health bill tomorrow. In comments that suggest he
would welcome a debate, he said Lib Dems would be "comforted" when the realities
of the bill were explained to them.

I think it is quite right that people have a look at it. My own view is that
when people look at what we have done rather than what we are alleged to have
done, because many of the critics I speak to about the Bill when I ask them if
they have read the health bill they say they haven't, I think there is a big gap
between what people think the bill is going to do and what it actually says, I
think when people actually see that they will be quite comforted.

This morning Lib Dem activists have been voting on the subject of tomorrow's
emergency debate. There are four choices, including two about the health bill:
one rebel one saying it should defeated or withdrawn, and one, from Shirley
Williams, saying the Lib Dem-inspired changes to the bill make it acceptable.
One of these is likely to be chosen for debate. If delegates were to vote for
the rebel motion, or vote against the Williams motion, that would be a severe
embarrassment to Clegg (although Clegg has not said it would lead to Lib Dem MPs
voting against the bill). But the Lib Dem leadership seem quite confident, and
at this stage a win tomorrow looks more likely.[#xfffd] Shirley Williams has
accused the media of misrepresenting the health bill. In a short speech at a
Q&A, she singled out the Guardian's Polly Toybnee for particular criticism,
saying that she was "extremely angry" about a column Toynbee wrote about the
bill this week. She also said that the Lib Dems were fighting "an uphill battle
for the truth". Clegg has also complained about the bill being misrepresented.
Taken together, their comments suggest that Labour's propaganda campaign against
the bill has been effective. (See 12.39pm.)

[#xfffd] Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, has said that the
Lib Dems would like to take people on the minimum wage out of income tax
altogether. In a Q&A, he indicated that this would be a promise in the next Lib
Dem manifesto. He also dismissed comments from unnamed Lib Dem sources quotes in
the Times complaining he has "gone native" in the Treasury. (See 9.52am and
10.24am.)[#xfffd] Brian Paddick has urged Lib Dem activists not to write off his
chances of winning the London mayoral election.

People said to me you won't succeed if you're open about your sexuality - yet I
became the highest ranking openly gay police officer in the UK.

People said I couldn't tell my officers not to arrest people for cannabis, so
they could concentrate on what was really important to local people - it's now
police policy nationally.

People are saying I can't be Mayor of London - watch me!

12.39pm: It wouldn't be a Lib Dem conference without someone having a go at the
Guardian. And this morning it was Shirley Williams, who let rip in response to a
column from Polly Toynbee.

Here's what she said, more or less in full. It's worth quoting at length not
because it's about us, but because attacking the way the health bill is being
presented in the media has now become a recurring message from the Lib Dem
leadership.

I want to give you an example of what we're up against because you may not
realise how serious it is. And I don't mean by that the Labour party or the
Conservative party. I mean the material covered in the media.

As we came into this meeting the group of us who are sitting here talked to one
another about who would deal with which subject ... While we were talking, we
were talking and somebody came up, from one of the tabloids, I suspect, and said
to me: "I see you are getting together to stitch it up behind the scenes."
That's what we are up against. He then grilled me for a couple of minutes,
endlessly, about how we were stitching it up, how we were fixing it up, no doubt
in collaboration with the government.

All of you know that the media do not recognise that we have a uniquely
democratic conference in the Lib Dems, one where we do ask our members to come
and deal with us, talk with ministers. And I deeply resent that kind of
statement.

And I'll give a second example, which is why I have to say this morning I am
extremely angry. Yesterday you may have read in the Guardian a story from Polly
Toynbee which began with the following sentence. "Yesterday Shirley Williams led
her erstwhile rebels into the government lobby to vote for a hospitals' rights
to use 49% of beds for private patients."

There has never been a right for hospitals to offer 49% of their places for
private patients. The so-called 49% is a myth or, to put it in non-parliamentary
language, a lie.

Now, I know Polly well. She's a very able journalist. Either she just did not
look at the detail and therefore is able to say that in the Guardian, or she did
look at the detail and decided that tribalism should trump truth. I'm going to
explain why I say that in very simple terms.

Sentence number one, or if you like, nailing the lie number one. Every single
penny of profit made in a foundation trust hospital on the back of private
patients' fees goes to the NHS. The whole lot. Every penny is invested back in
the NHS to pay for those new machines you see in our hospitals today ...

The second nail. Because of the work done by this team, every single hospital
trust foundation has got to keep separate accounts for its private and its
public patients, for the first time ever. That was never true before ...

Point three. Labour never had any kind of cap at all - 49%, 80%, 100% - no cap
of any kind.

Nail number four. We are now laying it out in an amendment that no foundation
trust hospital can increase its private patient income by more than 5% - not
49%, 5% - and if they try to go above that figure, they will attract the
immediate interest of Monitor, which is now charged by another amendment to say
quite clearly that if there are any adverse effects in that region on health
provision, then they will not be able to go ahead with it ...

So those four amendments together make it impossible for anything like 49% [to
be reached].

Now, Polly is an intelligent woman and obviously a damn good journalist. How did
she come to write that sentence? Either because she did not know ... in which
case I can only say that an awful lot of what we have been told requires us to
know that journalists did not bother to look at the amendments to discover what
was going on.

And the final point I want to make is this. We are fighting an uphill battle for
the truth, to be able to base people's opinions on facts, and not on the stuff
they have presented on Twitter and tweet and, dare I say it, the new social
network, which is known as twist.

So I ask you to listen to the replies ... and to please bear them in mind when
you are told to vote on motions which are based, to a very great extent, on
people being unaware of the firescale of changes made [to the bill], literally
in the last few weeks.

On Twitter Lord Rennard, the former Lib Dem chief executive, has hit back at my
comment about the Lib Dems and the Guardian.

"@AndrewSparrow. Wouldn't be the Guardian without some distortion from some
columnists of #LibDems.

12.10pm: The Q&A is now over. I'll post full quotes from Shirley Williams's anti
Polly Toynbee broadside shortly.

11.58am: More questions.Q: Who is actually thinking about the interests of the
Lib Dems in all this? Isn't there a danger that this could damage us as much as
tuition fees did?

Some of us have thought all the way through about this, says Liz Barker. She
says Lib Dem peers were doing what they thought was best.

But the Lib Dems are now facing an unprecedented campaign led by Andy Burnham.
His message is simplistic, but easy to understand.

The important thing is for the Lib Dems to do what they think is best, she says.

But the key point is that this bill will reverse the Labour legislation leaving
hospitals vulnerable to privatisation, she goes on.

If we can look back and say we protected hospitals, then we will have done the
right thing.

Jonathan Marks says Labour in the Lords voted to lift any cap on the amount of
private patients a hospital can take. Their stance is a lie, he says.

John Pugh says this is coalition legislation not Lib Dem legislation.

It would be "nice" if someone senior in the party were to apologise to people
working in the health service for all the trouble they have had in the last two
years. Even though the bill is in a better shape now, it was not ideal when it
was introduced.

Shirley Williams says there is a difference between the health bill and tuition
fees. The Lib Dems have amended the bill in significant ways. But there has been
a failure to communicate these achievements, she says. Sometimes amendments were
accepted very quickly, with the result that no one found out about them.

Lib Dems now have a huge opportunity. If they can take control of the new health
and wellbeing boards, the party will benefit at a grassroots level.

11.43am: More questions.

Q: Do we actually need this legislation?

Jonathan Marks says the questioner is right to ask this question. But the real
question is: Would this change have happened without a bill. The point about
legislation is that it converts good practice into general practice under
obligation, he says.

He also says the bill introduced a duty to reduce inequalities.

Even given the fact that there are problems with the bill, the benefits of the
bill outweigh the disadvantages, he says.

11.27am: More questions.

Q: Won't the Nicholson challenge - the need to save [#xfffd]20bn - have a more
devastating impact on the NHS than anything else? What have you done to address
this?

Jonathan Marks says the health bill will, in the long run, produce
"considerable" savings because it will introduce local commissioning.Q: [This is
from Charles West, a doctor who is one of those leading the campaign for the
health bill to be dropped.] Why do you treat the amendment passed at last year's
spring conference as a list of all the faults in the bill?

Liz Barker says the Lib Dems have not got everything that they wanted. But they
have got 95% of the changes they demanded, she says.

Williams says the Lib Dems have changed the bill's whole approach to competition
and put the secretary of state back in charge.

She says she respects some of her Labour critics on this, but not Andy Burnham.
He is attacking the Lib Dems over the commercialisation of the NHS that he
actually encouraged when he was in office, she says.

Q: Why aren't the Lib Dems insisting on the publication of the NHS risk
register?

Marks says the Lib Dems have not said the government should suppress the risk
register. But the government has taken the view that publishing these registers
across government would cause problems.

The government has not decided how to respond toyesterday's tribunal ruling, he
says.

Williams says that it is ultimately up to the law, not the government, to decide
what should be published.

The Lib Dems have pushed for as much as possible to be published, she says.

11.16am: The Q&A has now started.

Q: What difference will patients see if the bill goes through?

Paul Burstow answers. He says the bill will introduce more transparency into the
NHS. People will see which services work best. That will save lives, he says.

Q: Why is the government pushing ahead with this bill when these plans were not
put to the electorate?

Burstow says that people should look at the Lib Dem manifesto and the
Conservative manifesto. If you read those documents, you will see that they
proposed clinical commissioning, an NHS commissioning board, Monitor as an
economic regulator, reducing the size of the Department of Health (in the Lib
Dem manifesto), integrating health care (in the Lib Dem manifesto) and getting
rid of strategic health authorities.

So these plans were put to the electorate, Burstow says. He urges Lib Dems not
to listen to what the critics are saying.

11.09am: Shirley Williams is speaking now.

She says she wants to explain the threat posed by the media.

She says she is "extremely angry" about the way the health bill has been
reported in the media.

She quotes from Polly Toynbee's column yesterday. (See 9.00am.)

Toynbee said the Lib Dems were voting to allow hospitals to devote 49% of their
resources to private beds. But that is not true, she says. Toynbee either did
not understand the bill, or ignored what it actually says.

Under the bill, it would be impossible for hospitals to allocate 49% of their
beds to private patients.

Williams says Toynbee is a very able journalist. The most "charitable"
explanation for what she wrote is that she did not know what was in the bill.

That illustrates the struggle facing the Lib Dems, she says. They have to
confront people's misconceptions about the bill.

Social media has made this worse, she says. There is Twitter and tweets. But the
worst of them is is twist, she says.

(I'll post some direct quotes from this when I get a chance later.)

11.05am: Judith Jolly says that when the health bill was in the Lords, Lib Dem
peers sought to amend it to take into account the concerns raised at last year's
spring conference.

She highlights some changes that were achieved.

1. Clarifying the secretary of state's responsibility for the NHS.

2. Removing the "toxic" framework for the commercialisation of the NHS
introduced by Labour in 2006. If the health bill falls, the NHS will revert to
this model, she says.

3. Better rules for declarations of interest in clinical commissioning groups.

4. The introduction of lay governance.

Jolly says these changes were achieved without the need for votes. Lib Dem peers
achieved these amendments by negotiation behind the scenes.

11.03am: The health Q&A is about to start. Judith Jolly and Shirley Williams
will make short speeches.

It's a large hall and it is almost full. At a guess, I would say there are about
150 people here.

10.53am: The health Q&A will be starting soon. These are the people on the
panel.

John Pugh MP, co-chair of the parliamentary policy committee on healthJudith
Jolly (Lady Jolly), the other co-chair of the parliamentary policy committee on
healthShirley Williams (Lady Williams), a member of the Lords health teamLiz
Barker (Lady Barker), another member of the Lords health teamJonathan Marks
(Lord Marks), another member of the Lords health teamPaul Burstow MP, the health
minister

10.48am:Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, was on the Today programme this
morning. He insisted that there was "clear blue water" between the policies of
the Liberal Democrats and the policies of their coalition partners, the
Conservatives. I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

There is clear blue water all the time. Instead of arguing for tax cuts for the
rich, which is what the Tories are doing, we are arguing for tax cuts for the
poor and those on lower incomes. That is a different position from the Tories.
Of course I would like there to have been a Liberal Democrat government on our
own, but that is not what the British public determined.

"They determined nobody should have the over-riding right to run Britain. We are
working with another party in the national interest. and we are getting us out
of the biggest economic mess we have had in my political lifetime, and we are
doing it in a way that produces a fairer outcome. All the difficult choices in
the end are ones that people can say made a difference.

10.42am: Trade unionists from Unison are in Gateshead urging the Lib Dems to
vote against the health bill. Here's a statement from their general secretary,
Dave Prentis.

It is electoral suicide for Lib Dems to support this Bill and ignore the
overwhelming opposition from the medical profession, patients, unions and the
public. The motion calling for the Bill to be withdrawn is a lifeline which I
hope the party will grab with both hands.

Shirley Williams' alternative motion does not go far enough. Private companies
will still play a greater role in the health service. Competition between
healthcare providers - including profit making private companies - could still
be based on price not what's best for patients. These are key planks of the bill
and are unacceptable to the public, to patients and health professionals.

10.24am: More questions.

Q: It is said that Wayne Rooney's tax bill was only [#xfffd]5,000. What can you
do to make people like him pay more?

Alexander says he won't comment on Rooney's tax affairs. But there are lots of
ways that wealthy people can use to avoid taxes at the moment. The Lib Dems
believe in everyone paying their fair share.

Q: Someone in the Times today (see9.50am)says you have "gone native" in the
Treasury. Have you?

No, I don't think I have, Alexander says. He says he has doubts about people
quoted anonymously. But in a coalition government it is important for people to
work together.

That does not stop you standing up for your values, he goes on.

"These comments don't worry me enormously," he says.

Q: What lessons can the UK learn from the US given the job growth in the US?

Alexander says there is a limit to the parallels that you can draw with the US.

Q: Nick Clegg talked about a tycoon tax in an interview with the Telegraph
today. (See9.50am.) Is that something that you are looking at now? Or is it
something for the manifesto?

Alexander says this is one of a number of ideas that the party is looking at.
These are things that the Lib Dems would like to deliver in government. But if
they can't achieve them in government, they will put them in their manifesto.

10.17am: More questions to Alexander.

Q: What can you do to speed up infrastructure projects?

Alexander says the government is already reforming the planning laws to address
this. But planning is not the only problem. Some windfarms cannot go ahead
because of radar interference. The government is working with the Ministry of
Defence to address this.

Q: Will you take on more tax inspectors?

Alexander says the part of HM Revenue & Customs dealing with tax avoidance and
tax evasion is expanding. HMRC wil be able to substantially increase the number
of people it prosecutes for tax evasion. And there will be new "affluence teams"
targeting the wealthy.

And HMRC recently focused on the medical profession. One doctor sent a cheque
for [#xfffd]1m to clear his debts, Alexander says.

By the end of this parliament this programme will yield an extra [#xfffd]7bn a
year in tax revenue.

10.15am: UKIP have been in touch on Twitter to say that taking people on the
minimum wage out of income tax (see 9.52am) is UKIP policy.

10.10am: Back to Alexander. More questions.

Q: What will the Treasury do to stop departments wasting money on IT programmes?

Alexander says the questioner would be wrong to assume that departments have not
had their knuckles wrapped over failed IT programmes. "Quite the opposite", he
says.

The Treasury now has a central projects authority to improve scrutiny of major
government projects.

Q: Why don't you put income tax up by 2p? Labour didn't need to cut it by as
much as they did.

Alexander says he does not agree with this.

10.09am: More about the queue outside the conference centre. This is from Tim
Prater on Twitter

It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a
conference rep to clear the security queue at #ldconf

And this is from the BBC's Norman Smith.

Oh dear.Long queues outside Lib Dem conf cos of security.That' not going to put
them in a good mood for backing leadership over nhs methinks

10.00am: Some questions.

Q: If you take away the 50p top rate of tax, that will be seen as a sop to the
rich, even if there is an economic case for doing so. That could be as bad for
the Lib Dems as tuition fees. How much weight will you give to political
considerations in this?

Alexander says he won't discuss individual taxes or rates.

But it is important to take tax decisions based on evidence, he says.

Now is not the right time to be reducing the tax burden on the wealthy, he says.

But there are different ways of taxing the wealth, he says.

Q: But what about the symbolism of cutting the 50p rate?

Alexander says he recognises that. But the Lib Dems must focus on what they
think is most important. Their priority is helping the less well off.Q: Are
lending figures reliable? Apparently the offer of a loan counts as a loan in
government statistics.

Alexander says he has heard stories from his own constituency about small firms
having trouble getting access to loans.

Often firms object to the terms on which they are offered loans, rather than
complaining that they can't get loans in the first place, he says.

More competition in the banking sector would help. The Vickers report addressed
this, although these recommendations did not receive as much attention as his
ones about ring-fencing.

9.52am: I'm in the Danny Alexander Q&A. It's a big hall, but there are only
about 40 party members here - perhaps because there is an enormous queue to get
into the conference centre.

In his opening remarks Alexander said that he would like the Lib Dems to commit
themselves in their next election manifesto to lifting the income tax threshold
to a level that would mean anyone on the minimum wage would not pay any income
tax at all. That would save people on the minimum wage the equivalent of a
month's wages, he said.

He's taking questions now.

9.50am: Here are some of the best Lib Dem conference articles from today's
papers.

Here are some of the key Lib Dem conference stories from today's papers.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg tells the Daily Telegraph in an interview that he favours a
"tycoon tax" to ensure that the super-wealthy pay a minimum rate of tax.

"Mitt Romney, it turns out, pays 13 per cent tax," Mr Clegg says indignantly.
"You hope that kind of thing doesn't go on in this country."

Just to be sure, he asked his officials to look at the situation in Britain, and
was shocked at what the inquiry revealed.

"There are hundreds of people earning millions per year who are barely paying 20
per cent tax, forget 40 per cent, forget 50 per cent, forget 30 per cent. They
are not even paying 20 per cent."

Those arrangements are perfectly legal, he admits. They are also quite wrong.

"It makes people so incredibly angry when you are getting up early in the
morning, working really hard to try to do the right thing for your family and
for your community, you are paying your taxes and then you see people literally
in a different galaxy who are paying extraordinarily low rates of tax."

The answer, he says, is a tycoon tax, a legal minimum tax rate that everyone
should pay on their earnings, regardless of its source. This new floor rate of
tax should be in addition to the new "general anti-avoidance rule" that the
Coalition is also considering. It is a new rule specifically aimed at the
ultra-rich, whom he describes as "living on a different planet to most normal
people"

[#xfffd] Vince Cable, the business secretary, tells the Guardian in an interview
that Conservative rightwingers are "backward-looking" and "totally out of touch
with the real demands of business".

Vince Cable today mounts a bold attack on the right wing of the Conservative
party, promising to confront its "ridiculous and bizarre" claim that the key to
economic growth in the UK lies in more business deregulation.

In a Guardian interview, the Liberal Democrat business secretary dismisses their
argument as "backward-looking" and "totally out of touch with the real demands
of business".

In remarks that will enrage Conservative MPs seeking further deregulation to
boost the struggling economy, Cable says: "I am going to confront the
old-fashioned negative thinking which says that all government needs to do to
generate growth is cut worker and environmental protections, cut taxes on the
rich and stroke 'fat cats' until they purr with pleasure. I'm completely
repudiating the idea that government has to get out of the way. Government has a
positive role to play."

[#xfffd] Danny Alexander, the chief secretary, to the Treasury, tells the
Independent in an interview that the government is going "further and faster"
towards lifting the tax threshold to [#xfffd]10,000.

Millions of workers earning less than [#xfffd]10,000 a year could stop paying
tax within two years under the centrepiece announcement of this year's Budget,
the Chief Secretary to the Treasury suggests today.

In an interview with The Independent, Danny Alexander said he was close to
agreeing proposals with George Osborne to go "further and faster" towards
removing low earners from tax. He hinted that the measure could be paid for by
toughening up tax breaks on the pension contributions of the highest earners and
said that a tax loophole which allows multimillionaires to avoid paying stamp
duty could be closed.

[#xfffd] Michael Savage in the Times (paywall) says some Lib Dems believe
Alexander has become a prisoner of the Treasury.

"When it comes to Danny, he seems to think his only job is to please George
Osborne," said a pro-coalition minister. "He has gone native. Chief Secretary to
the Treasury is a big job for us."

The complaints put to The Times about Mr Alexander, all brought up by Lib Dems
determined for the coalition to succeed, are that he has become a prisoner of
the Treasury and has stopped performing the vital role of listening to his
colleagues' concerns.

"Ideas have become a real problem for us," said another minister. "We need to be
thinking of new things, but there is a real dearth. [Danny] has become
inaccessible."

Mr Alexander potentially holds huge sway in Government. As well as being the Lib
Dem man in the Treasury, he sits alongside Nick Clegg as a member of the Quad,
through which all the key government policies are cleared.

The problem, says one Lib Dem frontbencher, is that Mr Alexander was thrust into
the position of Chief Secretary to the Treasury by chance and is
under-qualified. Originally appointed Scottish Secretary, he was made Mr
Osborne's deputy only after the resignation of David Laws.

"This is a man who was the press officer for the Cairngorms National Park," he
said. "He had no experience in economics at all before moving into Government.
It is frustrating."

[#xfffd] Andrew Grice in the Independent says Clegg will tell the Lib Dems
tomorrow that they are a "one nation" party.

"We are the One Nation party," Nick Clegg will tell the Liberal Democrats in his
speech to their spring conference tomorrow. It is meant primarily as an
assertion of the Lib Dems' identity - a party that represents all sections of
society and all parts of Britain without being in hock to vested interests,
while the Conservatives rely heavily business donors and Labour is dependent on
the unions.

But Mr Clegg knows his spot of plagiarism will also get under David Cameron's
skin. "One Nation" is a Conservative theme dating back to 1845 and Disraeli. Mr
Cameron would doubtless prefer his Coalition partner to stick to Gladstone. He
wants to be seen as a "One Nation" leader. Mr Clegg implies that, whatever Mr
Cameron's instincts, the Tories have not yet abandoned what Disraeli would have
called the "two nation" philosophy of Thatcherism.

[#xfffd] Jane Martinson, the Guardian's women's editor, interviews Lynne
Featherstone, the equalities minister, - and isn't impressed.

Featherstone, 60, has had a busy week following a UN summit on the status of
women in New York, in which she hosted an event on women's representation in the
media and its impact on body confidence. She argues that body image is a kind of
violence against women, as they contort and twist themselves into unrealistic
shapes. "People can be a bit sniffy and say, what's that got to do with
anything," she says. "It's massively important. It affects everybody, especially
young people. Women are made to feel bad about themselves by multimillion
[pound] industries. And it's a truly international issue."

In the stream of consciousness that follows, she says this: "There's obviously
sometimes a good rationale for plastic surgery. When you've had five children
and your breasts are hanging around your waist, and it's affecting your life,
then I wouldn't really have a problem with that woman getting that sorted ... "
Before I can draw breath, she adds that such a decision is a "judgment for a
doctor to make", before going on to talk about the iniquities of young girls
having breast implants at 16.

I feel a bit floored. Feminism is a broad church - big enough for those who
believe the right to choose covers women who choose surgery - but here is an
equalities minister, outraged by women being forced to look a certain way, who
thinks droopy boobs are cause for surgery.

9,00am: It's a glorious day in Newcastle/Gateshead and from the window in the
press room at the Sage (a futuristic bubble on the banks of the Tyne that serves
as a conference centre) I can see delegates arriving for the first full day of
the Lib Dem spring conference. On their way in, they're being lobbied by
protesters dressed in skeleton costumes. I think we can guess that that's about.

In an open letter to the Lib Dems yesterday, Andy Burnham, the shadow health
secretary, said this weekend's conference "could determine the future of our
country's best-loved institution".He was talking about the NHS, of course,
because tomorrow there's likely to be a vote on the health bill. With respect to
Burnham, it is hard to believe that that vote will be quite as seismic as that.
Even if the Lib Dems were to vote to scrap the bill (quite a big if at this
stage), there is no indication that Nick Clegg and his Lib Dem ministers would
feel bound by that decision. But, nevertheless, the stakes are high and this
weekend's events could help to determine the future of one national
institutional - although perhaps not Britain's best-loved one. As Polly Toynbee
argued in the Guardian this week, what happens over health could define the Lib
Dems for years to come.

If there is a debate on the health bill, it will take place tomorrow morning,
when the conference will spend half an hour debating an emergency motion. Today
delegates are voting for what that motion should be. There are four options: a
rebel motion saying the health bill should be withdrawn or defeated; an
alternative one, drafted by Shirley Williams, highlighting the changes that have
already been made to the bill and saying Lib Dem peers should support the bill
at third reading subject to further amendments being agreed; a motion on Syria
and a motion on the justice and security green paper.

But that does not mean we won't be hearing a lot about health today. Clegg is
taking part in a Q&A in the conference hall this afternoon, and Williams
himself, and other party health spokespeople, will be holding their own Q&A with
delegates at a fringe event this morning.

The other highlights today include a Q&A with Danny Alexander, the chief
secretary to the Treasury, and a speech from Vince Cable, the business
secretary.

Here's the agenda for the day.

9am: The Lib Dem MEP Fiona Hall formally opens the conference.

9.20am: Debates on Europe and Giving Young People a Future

9.30am: Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, takes part in a
Q&A outside the main hall.

11am: Shirley Williams, the Lib Dem peer, Paul Burstow, the health minister, and
other party spokespeople on health take part in a Q&A outside the main hall.

11.35am: A debate on Making Tax Fairer.

2.15pm: A debate on party rules affecting what the party does in the event of a
hung parliament.

3.15pm: Vince Cable, the business secretary, delivers a speech.

4.20pm: Nick Clegg takes part in a Q&A.5pm: A debate on public and private
sector pensions.

I'll be blogging all day, covering all the conference events but particularly
focusing on the Clegg, Alexander and health Q&As and Cable's speech. I'll post a
summary at around 1pm and another after the conference wraps up at about 6pm.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow@gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday

Comment: Far-right fantasy: A weakened fascist rump predicts armed conflict. But
the real danger lies elsewhere in society

BYLINE: Daniel Trilling

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 630 words


Is Britain's far right preparing for armed conflict? And could a catastrophe of
the kind that struck Norway last summer be on its way here? An academic survey
of more than 2,000 BNP, EDL and Ukip supporters suggests that a hardcore of
far-right supporters in this country believe violent conflict between ethnic,
religious and racial groups is inevitable. Even more alarmingly, two-fifths of
BNP supporters appear to consider armed conflict "always or sometimes"
justifiable.

This militancy is not entirely new. Beneath the "respectable" public image
crafted to win elections, the BNP always remained a home for violent racists. In
2007, at the height of its progress through local politics, when anti-fascist
campaigners feared the party could take control of several English councils,
former BNP candidate Robert Cottage was convicted of stockpiling explosives at
his Lancashire home. Cottage believed race war was imminent - which is no
surprise, since the fear of such a catastrophe is crucial to fascist ideology.
In the words of Nick Griffin: "The only thing which can save everything we hold
dear is total change at all levels of society; in a word, a revolution."

As electoral success has melted away since the BNP's collapse at the 2010
general election, the hardcore is now left exposed. At the same time, a younger
generation has been attracted to the adrenaline-pumping street politics of the
English Defence League, which adapts its language to better suit the realities
of multicultural modern Britain. It claims merely to oppose "militant Islam",
but its supporters have carried out numerous violent attacks on Asian Britons,
on their shops, homes and places of worship.

Yet shocking as such incidents might be - and although they are undoubtedly a
tragedy for those involved - they are a sign of weakness, not of strength. The
far right is not backed by big business or bankrolled by foreign governments.
Violent actions have no public support beyond the hardcore identified in the
study by Matthew Goodwin and Jocelyn Evans.

The greater danger remains where it always has done: in the elements of
far-right propaganda that overlap with mainstream political sentiment. Few
people in Britain would agree that race war is on its way, but how many would
agree that immigration has gone "too far"; that multiculturalism has failed or
that the west is locked in a "clash of civilisations" with Islam?

By his murderous actions in Norway last summer, Anders Breivik has become the
new face of far-right terror. Yet he did not tear Norway's society apart in the
way that, say, the rhetoric of Geert Wilders threatens to do in Holland. There,
his nonviolent Freedom party has been able to extract reactionary anti-Muslim
concessions from the Dutch coalition government in return for support on
economic policies. In France, the Front National's Marine Le Pen has made halal
meat a major issue in the presidential election, and encouraged Nicolas Sarkozy
to compete with her furiously in the immigrant-bashing stakes.

In Britain, the BNP may have been smashed as an electoral force, but it is only
a matter of time before its more competent activists regroup under a different
name. Meanwhile, Ukip is on hand to offer anti-immigrant populism while the
coalition government and their allies in the rightwing press have shown
themselves willing to heap opprobrium on any target which helps deflect
criticism of their austerity programme - immigrants who don't speak English, the
disabled, the unemployed, Muslims who "refuse" to integrate.

That tiny, violent hardcore of far-right supporters are never likely to change
their views. The real question is: what about the rest of us?

Daniel Trilling's book Bloody Nasty People: the Rise of Britain's Far Right will
be published in the autumn

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday

Letter: Fjords fry-up

BYLINE: Nigel Farage MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 93 words


The Evans-Goodwin study into the far right (Report, 9 March) is bedevilled by
its methodology. The study is not of the party, but of those who self-define as
supporters. This is problematic, as the EDL leadership, to avoid the taint of
the BNP, have in the past called on their supporters to claim to be Ukip. Ukip
bars membership to EDL activists, so the study is fatally compromised. Goodwin
is an expert on the BNP and, as the party implodes, he needs to broaden his
interests. Building a new bogeyman of Ukip suits that purpose.

Nigel Farage MEP

Leader, Ukip

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

EU scorns the victims of crime

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 175 words


ANGER erupted yesterday after figures showed the EU has spent £144million on
British prisoners - but nothing on victims of crime.

The European Social Fund (ESF) forks out huge sums of taxpayer-funded cash to
help criminals improve their self-esteem and support them in finding a job.

One project got £110million, making it the biggest single social fund project in
Europe.

Between 2009-14, £144million will be spent on criminals, according to details
uncovered by Tory MP Priti Patel. She said: "Victims are being sidelined. A
small fraction of this could do an enormous amount to help charities that
support victims and their families."

Furious UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: "The EU can waste millions on making
criminals feel better about themselves. A bit more money spent on making them
fear detection, conviction and punishment would be better."

The Ministry of Justice admitted no ESF money had been spent on crime victims.

A spokesman said: "The money was specifically to help former offenders to find
work - a crucial factor in preventing reoffending."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Victims of crime left out

BYLINE: EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 175 words


ANGER erupted yesterday after figures showed the EU has spent £144million on
British prisoners - but nothing on victims of crime.

The European Social Fund (ESF) forks out huge sums of taxpayer-funded cash to
help criminals improve their self-esteem and support them in finding a job.

One project got £110million, making it the biggest single social fund project in
Europe.

Between 2009-14, £144million will be spent on criminals, according to details
uncovered by Tory MP Priti Patel. She said: "Victims are being sidelined. A
small fraction of this could do an enormous amount to help charities that
support victims and their families."

Furious UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: "The EU can waste millions on making
criminals feel better about themselves. A bit more money spent on making them
fear detection, conviction and punishment would be better."

The Ministry of Justice admitted no ESF money had been spent on crime victims.

A spokesman said: "The money was specifically to help former offenders to find
work - a crucial factor in preventing reoffending."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

National: British far right geared up for armed ethnic conflict, survey warns:
Inner core of supporters willing to plan attacks: Ukip control group mostly
resigned to 'inevitable'

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 671 words


A hardcore of far-right supporters in the UK appears to believe violent conflict
between different ethnic and religious groups is inevitable, and that it is
legitimate to prepare for armed conflict, according to a study published today.

The report - From Voting to Violence? Rightwing Extremists in Modern Britain, by
Matthew Goodwin, of the University of Nottingham, and Jocelyn Evans, of Salford
University - was launched at Chatham House last night.

The study questioned more than 2,000 supporters of "radical-right" and
"far-right" groups and found many endorsed violence, with a "hostile inner core"
apparently willing to plan attacks.

The authors describe the findings as preliminary, but say the study represents a
warning about the potential threat posed by far-right extremists in the UK.
"What we have got here is a group of people who self-identify as supporters of
the far right and who are, to quite a large extent, backing ideas about
preparing for violence and appear to view violence as a justifiable political
strategy," said Goodwin.

The findings come ahead of the trial next month of Anders Behring Breivik, who
admits murdering 77 people in Norway in July. Breivik said he had contact with
far-right groups in the UK and that he carried out the attacks to help protect
Europe from a "Muslim takeover".

Goodwin said 17 people affiliated to the far right have been imprisoned in the
UK in recent years for terrorism offences. "When you go through the transcripts
of those cases what they often emphasise is this notion of impending race war,
the impending clash of civilisations that meant they needed to stockpile
explosives and plan attacks to defend their group from a perceived threat."

The study was based on a survey, by YouGov, of 2,152 people who identify
themselves as supporters of the British National party, the UK Independence
party or the English Defence League.

Goodwin said Ukip supporters had been included as a "control group" for
comparison with far-right organisations as it was to the right of the
Conservatives. "Ukip is not an extreme or violent organisation, but it is useful
to see what its supporters think in comparison to supporters of other groups,"
he said.

The authors found almost half the BNP supporters in their sample thought
"preparing for conflict between different groups is always or sometimes
justifiable" and two-fifths considered armed conflict to be "always or
sometimes" justifiable.

Ukip supporters showed markedly less enthusiasm for conflict, although most
believed relations between different ethnic and religious groups in the UK would
inevitably end in violence.

"Even at the less extreme end of the radical-right spectrum in the UK, large
numbers of these citizens clearly believe relations between different groups are
not going to be harmonious but will descend into violent conflicts," said
Goodwin.

A Ukip spokesman said it was committed to effecting change through the ballot
box or by the intellectual weight of an argument, not through violence.

"Recent polls show that Ukip is now only one or two points behind the Liberal
Democrats," he said. "This proves that our policies on tax, defence, the EU,
human rights, energy, education and immigration are increasingly resonating with
voters."

A spokesman for the BNP said: "The party is committed to a democratic path and
is against violence, but because the system is utterly rigged against us there
is a real danger that people are turning to a more radical course of action."

Most of those surveyed were men who had not been to university, were
dissatisfied with their lives and concerned about immigration, the economy and a
perceived threat from Muslims and Islam; 20% of BNP supporters and 25% of Ukip
supporters had served in the armed forces.

Goodwin said: "These findings do not necessarily represent the views or policies
of the parties themselves, but they are instructive as to the motivations and
views of members and supporters."

Captions:

The study used a survey of supporters of the BNP, the EDL and Ukip

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 9, 2012 Friday 11:03 AM GMT

Labour gains in by-elections surge;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 178 words


Labour gained in the latest council by-elections, taking one seat from Tories
and coming close to winning another.

There were large swings to the party in two of this week's three contests.

Its candidate Anne Hobbs triumphed at Rowley, Stafford Borough. Former town MP
David Kidney signed her nomination papers.

Labour also slashed the majority to 72 in what had seemed a safe Conservative
ward at Kemsley, Swale Borough, Kent.

This result saw Ukip advance by more than 10%.

Labour's vote share did tumble at Baylis and Stoke, Slough Borough, although
Tories and Liberal Democrats failed to fight.

RESULTS

Slough Borough - Baylis and Stoke: Lab 1,300, Ind 764, Ukip 82, No description
68. (May 2011 - Lab 2,351, C 349, Lib Dem 225). Lab hold.

Stafford Borough - Rowley: Lab 620, C 540, Green 67, Ukip 61. (May 2011 - Two
seats C 868, 783, Lab 759, 711, Green 222, Lib Dem 146). Lab gain from C. Swing
5.4% C to Lab.

Swale Borough - Kemsley: C 384, Lab 312, Ukip 279, Lib Dem 166. (May 2011 - Two
seats C 830, 797, Lab 461, 397, Ukip 230, Lib Dem 122). C hold. Swing 8.8% C to
Lab.

PA

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 680 words


&#10002;Shocks aplenty for MPs as they consider the scandal of the vulnerable
being targeted by payday loans companies. This is something we must get to grips
with, they said. There are poor people suffering and rich people raking it in.
And they're not wrong. For one of the shocks that confronted them had less to do
with the loans companies themselves than with the salary being paid to Tony
Hobman, boss of the government-funded Money Advice Service. Its role is to help
the poor deal with debt. But with his earnings of £350,000 a year, including
bonuses and perks, Hobman should be able to keep the wolf from the door - in the
short term, at least. It makes me "hugely incentivised", he told the Commons
business committee. It's an "extravagance", said MPs. But he should care. With
that sort of money, who needs friends?

&#10002;The public finances are a mess, but credit's due to George Osborne. He's
not the sort to stand idly by and do nothing. And so breaking, perhaps, with
long-established protocol, we can reveal what he plans to do to raise money with
his budget. He's privatising the budget process itself. Since for ever and a
day, the budget papers, containing press releases and data, have been available
free of charge as soon as the chancellor sits down. Hacks queue up and take them
away from the Treasury. This year the chancellor is charging £45 per copy for
anyone who wants to read the fine print. Should raise a few thousand quid, and
it might deter a good many from scrutinising the details. Clever Gideon. What is
that, if not a win-win?

&#10002;And these are heady days for Ukip, following two high-profile defections
from the Tories. And now the best news of all: the return of Paul Wiffen. Paul
who? You know Paul Wiffen. The musician. The one who played with Stevie Wonder
and Jean Michel Jarre and had this strange double life as London chairman of
Ukip. Contributed a few thoughts to communitycare.co.uk late one night, at which
point his political career went a bit pear-shaped. "You leftwing scum are all
the same," he posted. "Wanting to hand our birthright to Romanian gypsies who
beat their wives and children into begging and stealing money they can gamble
with, Muslim nutters who want to kill us and put us all under medieval Sharia
law, the same Africans who sold their Afro-Caribbean brothers into a slavery
that Britain was the first to abolish (but you still want to apologise for!).
Worry about where we are going to live and grow food, you wanker," he said. He
was suspended for a bit (for which he blamed this diary). But now he's back as
Ukip's London North East candidate for the London assembly. Shows anything is
possible. Quite comforting, really.

&#10002;Here's to the survivors. Here's to Mark Thompson, now the BBC's longest
serving director general since Charles Curran, in the 1960s. And unusually for
that cohort, he is leaving at a time of his own choosing - after the anticipated
glory of the London Olympics. But he has learned so much, and there is so much
to pass on, so next Thursday Thompson pitches up at Oxford Brookes University to
deliver a lecture. His topic: "Disaster management and organisation continuity
planning at the BBC: How to respond to disaster." Will the warm-up man be
Jonathan Ross?

&#10002;To the National Liberal Club, where some fear they are operating a
secret colour bar. The spare tie tray at the club - ties are obligatory - may
boast a nice selection of orangey gold, purple and pink ties, but there's no red
or blue; nothing that might reference Labour or the Tories. "We're not allowed
those," confides an official sporting a gold tie. "Only good Liberal ones."
Perhaps a blueish cravat for Nick Clegg.

&#10002;Finally, a football manager is sacked. Times readers demand the details.
"When are we going to get some in-depth analysis of the situation at Chelsea,"
asks Steve Dobell from London. "Only five pages yesterday and no leading article
since Monday; there is growing concern that you're not taking it seriously."
Behold, the Wapping spring.

Diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

OH, PLEASE DECEASE ME

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 118 words


AT first I thought Ukip had hijacked our Eurovision selection process and
persuaded Engelbert Humperdinck to give the Adele finger to EU rulers while
belting out "Please Release Me".

Then I thought we were using a man whose name is of non-specific European
origin, to impress small nations who'll presume he's from the country next door
and thus they have to vote for him.

But then I got it. The Olympic Games and the Diamond Jubilee will skint us. So
we're ripping off the Father Ted episode in which he and Dougal were entered by
Ireland for Eurovision knowing they would lose, and thus Dublin wouldn't have to
host it the following year. In which case can we get the 75-year-old Hump to
sing My Lovely Hearse?

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday

Telegraph blogger launches full-frontal assault on Cameron's Tories

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 309 words

ABSTRACT

Best if Conservatives lose the next election, argues right-wing journalist

FULL TEXT

Don't call the Daily Telegraph the Torygraph ever again. It is running a blog
today headlined The Conservatives will lose in 2015. Thank God.

Written by Ed West - who is described as "a journalist and social commentator
specialising in politics, religion and low culture" - it's a full-frontal attack
on David Cameron's version of the Tory party. It begins:

"If you're worried about your finances, here's a bit of advice for you - put
some money on the Conservatives losing the 2015 general election, with Labour
the largest party and in power again."

He then cites a speech by Francis Maude, as reported in the Telegraph, about the
Conservatives needing to shed "backward-looking social attitudes."

West sees this consensual social liberalism in similar terms to the consensual
economic liberalism of Ted Heath's era.

He argues that the Tory leadership seems to accept most of the Left's social
premises, such as the place of the family, attitude towards crime and justice
and, most notably, immigration.

On the latter, he writes that the Tories hold "the prevailing liberal-Left
consensus that diversity is somehow 'enriching' and 'vibrant' rather than, as
most studies now show, a weakness that has to be overcome through border
restrictions and official playing down of the population's differences."

On gay marriage, West argues that "like many Tories, I don't see it as a burning
issue and don't understand the party's strategy of targeting the high-hanging
fruit of metropolitan liberals, the sort of people who will never vote
Conservative, while the core vote drifts off to UKIP."

He concludes: "Just as Heath had to go to make way for Thatcher, so the Tories
losing in 2015 may well be a blessing in disguise for conservatism and Britain."

Source: Telegraph blogs

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

THRUSTING ALEXANDRA SWANN, [...]

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 37 words


THRUSTING Alexandra Swann, right, a glamorous Young Tory defector to Ukip, was
last glimpsed on the knee of a Tory MP. The average age of The Swann's new party
looks as if it's 73, so any repeat and it'll be a replacement knee.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 1 Star Edition

THRUSTING ALEXANDRA SWANN, RIGHT, A [...]

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 38 words


THRUSTING Alexandra Swann, right, a glamorous Young Tory defector to UKIP, was
last glimpsed on the knee of a Tory MP. The average age of The Swann's new party
looks as if it's 73, so any repeat and it'll be on a replacement knee.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 7, 2012 Wednesday 1:57 PM GMT

The Conservatives will lose in 2015. Thank God

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 882 words


If you're worried about your finances, here's a bit of advice for you - put some
money on the Conservatives losing the 2015 General Election, with Labour the
largest party and in power again.

To understand why, one only need listen to Francis Maude's speech today, as this
paper reports:

The Tories will be viewed as unelectable unless they shed "backward-looking
social attitudes," Mr Maude, the minister for the Cabinet Office will tell MPs
and party members.

In a speech to the Policy Exchange think tank he will say: "The Conservative
Party will always suffer if it is seen as if it is trying to turn the clock back
to an imagined golden era.

"You can't drive policy looking through a rose-tinted rear view mirror. If we
are seen as being defined by backward looking social attitudes we will be seen
as unacceptable and unelectable.

He will add: "We shouldn't arrogantly assume we always know best and that
society should conform to our expectations rather than us adapting to evolving
social norms."

As the Wikipedia page will one day say: "David Cameron, who was Prime Minister
of Great Britain from 2010 to 2015..."

I know I'm not going to win the 2012 Award for Political Insight by comparing
Cameron to Edward Heath, but there are similarities, and they grow more
pronounced the longer his premiership lasts.

Heath is detested by much of the Tory Party for a number of reasons, not least
of which was his support for the European Community, and the way he tricked the
British public about its true intentions. But mostly it was because, as a
"Conservative", he failed to fight the prevailing Left-wing consensus over
economics, a model that was clearly failing; this was partly out of political
cowardice and a desire to avoid conflict, but partly because he shared the
Left's beliefs.

Heath's defeat turned out to be a blessing in disguise for the Right, allowing
as it did for the arrival of someone who was prepared to "turn the clock back"
(for better or worse).

And today we are in similar position as we were in the 1970s, except it is the
social rather than economic consensus that needs to be challenged.

The Government is doing this in certain areas, namely education, where the
egalitarian dogma that failed so spectacularly when implemented in the late
1960s is now on the run; Michael Gove has an advantage in that the Overton
window on education has already shifted considerably. Indeed it was New Labour
that really started the counter-revolution, despite Ed Balls.

Yet the Conservative Party leadership seem to accept most of the Left's other
social premises, such as the place of the family. Conservatives can often sound
tedious going on about "family values", especially in England, where many people
can't stand their families and where MPs who raise the subject invariably turn
out to have a half-dozen mistresses and a gimp; but conservative aren't
"obsessed" with families, they simply believe that tax systems influence
people's life choices, that the act of getting married affects the life outcomes
of peoples' children, and that systems created in both Britain and the United
States to counter the impoverishing effect of non-traditional families have
created more poverty. I believe that the weight of evidence shows this to be
true, and that it is only a matter of time before policy catches up.

Likewise with this Government and crime. Last week James Q Wilson, the American
political scientist who helped coin the phrase "broken windows" to describe how
petty crime led to more serious offences, passed away. America went through a
crime explosion in the 1960s, partly because of welfare expansion, and it was
Wilson who helped to undermine the prevailing liberal wisdom about crime that
was influenced by the likes of Herbert Marcuse.

That "wisdom" still prevails in Britain, not the least in the Ministry of
Justice.

As for immigration: the Government accepts that levels should be reduced, and
that the state should stop funding extremists (although it still does), but it
still holds the prevailing liberal-Left consensus that diversity is somehow
"enriching" and "vibrant" rather than, as most studies now show, a weakness that
has to be overcome through border restrictions and official playing down of the
population's differences.

I don't have strong views on gay marriage; the Government is going to go ahead
with it, whatever the public thinks, so we may as well just accept it and see
how this experiment pans out in 20 years or so. Like many Tories, I don't see it
as a burning issue and don't understand the party's strategy of targeting the
high-hanging fruit of metropolitan liberals, the sort of people who will never
vote Conservative, while the core vote drifts off to Ukip.

When Maude uses phrases such as "turn the clock back", he is in effect
signalling to social liberals that the Conservatives Party shares their
worldview, even though the bulk of the British population does not. And the
socially liberal political consensus is not just unpopular with the public at
large, but it is losing traction on an intellectual level, especially in the
United States, just as the Keynesian consensus was by the 1970s.

Just as Heath had to go to make way for Thatcher, so the Tories losing in 2015
may well be a blessing in disguise for conservatism and Britain.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday

SHUT DOWN THE NINCOMPOOP COMMISSION! As the equality quango demands more rights
for gypsies, unions, prisoners and terrorists, QUENTIN LETTS says it's time to
give it the chop

BYLINE: By QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1480 words


Try to imagine a political party with the following manifesto: more rights for
gypsies, giving prisoners the vote, being soft on anti-capitalism protesters and
making it easier for trade unions to strike.

Readers, I can sense your snouts tingling. I just know you would relish having
such a party on the ballot paper -- if only to avoid it. Our imaginary political
party -- perhaps we can call it the Party of Loon -- believes terrorism-related
offences should carry no higher constraints on the freedom of suspects than
other alleged crimes.

Shoplifting and the planting of bombs on the London Underground, in other words,
shall be approached equally.

The Loonies (as we will call followers of this Party of Loon) are against
prohibiting terrorist organisations because that might infringe their
egalitarian rights, poor darlings.

The Loonies argue against the detention of asylum-seekers. They also, rather
gratuitously, repeat unsubstantiated slurs about the mistreatment of Iraqi
civilians by British soldiers.

Oh, and they happily spend millions of pounds of public money -- your money,
taken from your wages -- on propaganda officers specialising in race relations,
militant secularism and transgender rights outreach. Quite a manifesto, is it
not?

How many votes do you think the Party of Loon would receive? Fewer, I suspect,
than the Lib Dems or UKIP. It might even do worse than the British National
Party, whose uncongenial grunts are usually held to be beyond the pale of the
body politic.

Expensive

A party which stood on the policies I have listed would probably lose its
deposit in every constituency throughout the kingdom, save perhaps in trendy
Islington.

So why does the current Government, like its Labour predecessor, tolerate just
such a platform of Left-wing madness from an expensive state body? And why are
we paying at least 670 million a year for the privilege?

The organisation is the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC,) which
yesterday presented those damaging proposals -- and more -- in its
lofty-sounding 'human rights review'.

Confronted by that jumble of letters, EHRC, your eyes perhaps glaze. The same
letters, in a slightly different order, stand for the European Court of Human
Rights (ECHR). Confusion is to be sympathised with, for both organisations are
remote organs of the anti-democratic Left.

The EHRC is the outfit which is led by suave Trevor Phillips, that
Labour-leaning friend of Peter Mandelson.

It was set up only in 2007 and it exists to enforce, promote and clarify the
egalitarian agenda and equality laws which were pushed through by Harriet Harman
in the New Labour years. In short, it is a thorough menace which we can no
longer afford. When will the politicians admit as much?

Despite the fancy title, its 'human rights review' yesterday was, in many ways,
a statement of the obvious. The EHRC, whose officers are paid fat wages to
campaign for more equality and human rights, thinks that more must be done to
achieve 'equality'.

Blow me down with a peashooter. Public sector staff engaged in a spot of job
justification? You don't say!

The review was the result of more than two years' 'work' and cost a reported
6150,000. That sum, like so much else produced by the EHRC, appears to be
disingenuous because it does not include labour costs.

It certainly did not include the 6252,000 annual pay of the EHRC's 'director of
engagement and intelligence', Richard Emmott.

All human beings are equal, but Comrade Emmott -- whose intelligence must be
open to question, given the guff he produces -- is more equal than others.

Fanfare

A true analysis of the cost of this chin-stroking 'human rights review', which
was launched with as little press fanfare as possible, would include the price
of the thousands of bureaucrats made necessary by the attendant rules and
regulations. It would also look at the cost in lost enterprise and business
risk-taking as a result of employers feeling constrained by equalities
legislation.

The EHRC has used its state funds to assist cases against businesses both large
and small.

It supported the now infamous prosecution of Cornish hoteliers Peter and
Hazelmary Bull by two gay men they refused a double room. The EHRC wanted to
establish that the rights of gay people were higher than the rights of hoteliers
to their fundamental Christian doubts about homosexuality.

The EHRC also, last month, tried to force airlines (in particular British
Airways) to extend British disability rights to its passengers around the world.

John Wadham, the commission's highly dogmatic 'Group Director, Legal', said
after losing the case in the Court of Appeal that he may yet take it to our
Supreme Court.

Further legal costs. Further uncertainty to business.

The Commission acts as mothership to a network of law centres, advice bureaux,
racial equality councils, disability advice specialists and human rights
organisations.

It supports such outfits by dispensing grants.

In 2008-2009, the last year for which figures are listed, those groups included
the likes of the Africa Policy Research Network (67,994); the Mosaic Black and
Mixed Parentage Family Group (628,126); and the Open Clasp Theatre Company
(615,912), which 'addresses prejudice, challenges stereotypes and raises
awareness of inequality and discrimination affecting a) women who identify as
lesbians, b) victims of domestic violence, c) people suffering from mental
distress, d) people who are subject to bullying (includes homophobic bullying)'.

As the dedications on Radio 2 used to say: 'And anyone else who knows me.'

What we are looking at here is grievance farming -- professional advocates
making a good living on the back of some perceived slight. Sometimes you have to
ask if the suffering really exists.

The EHRC paid 635,000 to the National Coalition Building Institute in Lancashire
to 'welcome newcomers to the district by developing a community listening
service which will befriend and support newcomers, enable their fuller
participation in the community and dispel myths'. Odd.

Lancashire has always struck me as the most welcoming of places. Does it really
need such agents of the egalitarian state to act as greeters? Or is this simply
about empire building and buttressing politically correct attitudes in
officialdom?

Another 635,000 was blown on the British Humanist Association to help 'increased
understanding of issues of religion or belief in the context of equality and
human rights within the general public'. Ka-ching!

A further 635,000 was given to a company called Documentary Film-makers Group
'to promote equal opportunities in the filmmaking industry'. Yet another 635,000
of your loot went on telling Suffolk residents about Zimbabwean youth. Would it
not be more in our interest to tell Zimbabwean youth about Suffolk?

The spending went on. Another 635,000 was dropped on a group in 'the West
Yorkshire Sub Region' (do they mean the West Riding?) as 'a vehicle to empower
Black Minority Ethnic young people to influence local, regional, national and
world politics'. Wow. World politics!

With public money allegedly so tight, how can this spending on such palpable
nonsense be justified? With Parliament allegedly resurgent, how can MPs tolerate
a governmental body which, for instance in its stance on votes for prisoners, is
so out of step with parliamentary opinion?

The official line is international and European Union treaties make it
impossible to close the EHRC completely, but that the Government has already
acted to trim the commission's money.

Zealous

Behind the scenes, one hears promising noises that this may now lead to sharper
action. Home Secretary Theresa May, under whose umbrella the EHRC shelters, is
horrified by its ideological tone, and by its sheer waste.

She is of the view that it is a fountain of zealous over-officiousness and needs
cutting back 'to within an inch of its life', both in its budget and its remit.

The matter has been discussed in Downing Street and Nick Clegg, for once, is
apparently not entirely agin the proposal.

The Home Office's Lib Dem minister, Lynne Featherstone, who is Minister for
Equalities, is also said to be comparatively 'on side' with Mrs May. There is a
feeling at the Home Office that reductions in the scope of the EHRC can be made
within the 'next few months' and will not need a parliamentary Bill.

The EHRC is more than an obstacle to economic growth. It is a factory of
meddling and nincompoopery making life legal hell for private enterprise.

It is a prize target for a hefty austerity chop and its demise would be cheered
by anyone who has to run anything in Britain, not to mention the millions of
electors who never voted for the thing in the first place.

Messrs Cameron and Clegg could do with a boost to their popularity: here is an
easy vote-winner. More important than that, however, a radical hewing back would
be good for the country. Let's do it, guys.

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 6, 2012 Tuesday 10:00 AM GMT

Christopher Tappin refused bail by American court;


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 786 words


The wife of a retired British businessman extradited to the United States has
said it is "heartbreaking" that he will be kept behind bars while he awaits
trial on arms dealing charges.

Elaine Tappin said it was an "outrage" that her 65-year-old husband Christopher
was denied bail last night in El Paso, Texas.

Judge Robert Castaneda ruled Tappin must remain in custody after US prosecutors
told the federal court in El Paso, Texas, he may be a "danger to the community"
if released.

He agreed that measures could be imposed to ensure Tappin is monitored if
released, but said a discrepancy in Tappin's financial statement led to him
being denied bail.

Daryl Fields, a spokesman for the US Attorney's office in the western district
of Texas, added that Tappin was denied bail because he "posed a flight risk".

Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in jail if convicted of trying to sell
batteries for surface-to-air missiles to Iran, has spent 23 hours a day locked
in his cell at the Otero County detention centre in New Mexico.

Mrs Tappin, 62, of Orpington, Kent, said: "This is an outrage. God only knows
how he'll bear up. It's heartbreaking.

"I am shocked and deeply disappointed," she said.

"He's a man of his word and is certainly not at risk of fleeing - where would he
go?

"He doesn't have his passport or access to money.

"Why has the British Government allowed him to be incarcerated in solitary
confinement for 23 hours a day before he's even been tried?

"Tony Blair helped the NatWest Three, why can't David Cameron help Chris?"

Mrs Tappin went on: "He's not a danger to anyone - he's a 65-year-old granddad.

"How is he supposed to prepare a proper defence when he's only been allowed to
communicate with his lawyers from behind a plastic screen?"

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who has known Tappin for almost 40 years, added he was
"absolutely appalled" that he had been denied bail, "but even more so that the
Home Secretary has done absolutely nothing to help the situation".

In a brief telephone conversation with his wife on Sunday night, Tappin told her
he was shackled and confined in a cage for five hours before his bail hearing on
Friday, a family spokeswoman said.

The president of the Kent Golf Union was escorted into the courtroom wearing an
orange-red prison jumpsuit, with his feet and one hand shackled.

US marshals allowed the other hand to remain free so he could use a cane he
needs to walk.

Assistant US attorney Greg McDonald asked the judge to keep Tappin in jail for
the remainder of the proceedings.

"The risk is not that he'll punch somebody in the face, but through the use of a
computer and the knowledge he has, he might pose a danger to the community," Mr
McDonald said.

Tappin has no ties to the US and failed to disclose to court officials his
frequent travels to Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and South Africa, he added.

But Kent Schaffer, representing Tappin, said if released, his client would have
complied with any restrictions imposed by the court and his family was ready to
post bail of 50,000 dollars (£31,600).

His trial will take place before US District Judge David Briones in El Paso, but
no date has been set.

The case has fuelled the row over the fairness of the extradition treaty between
the UK and the US.

Attorney General Dominic Grieve QC said Tappin's extradition highlighted
problems with the treaty which were not "readily curable", warning that many
Britons were left uneasy when faced with the seemingly harsh and
disproportionate sentences in the American justice system.

Other critics of the 2003 treaty, including Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg,
have described it as "one-sided", but an independent review by retired Court of
Appeal judge Sir Scott Baker last year found it was both balanced and fair.

Tappin's extradition follows an investigation which started in 2005 when US
agents asked technology providers about buyers who might have raised red flags.

Those customers were then approached by undercover companies set up by
government agencies.

Briton Robert Gibson, an associate of Tappin who agreed to co-operate, was
jailed for 24 months after pleading guilty to conspiracy to export defence
articles.

Gibson provided ICE agents with about 16,000 computer files and emails
indicating that he and Tappin had long-standing commercial ties with Iranian
customers.

American Robert Caldwell was also found guilty of aiding and abetting the
illegal transport of defence articles and served 20 months in prison.

Mr Schaffer told BBC Radio 5 Live an appeal against the decision not to grant
his client bail will now be launched.

"We expect that it (the appeal) will be filed some time this week and we will
then get a hearing date to go back before a different judge," he said.

PA

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 6, 2012 Tuesday 10:00 AM GMT

Christopher Tappin refused bail by American court;


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 786 words


The wife of a retired British businessman extradited to the United States has
said it is "heartbreaking" that he will be kept behind bars while he awaits
trial on arms dealing charges.

Elaine Tappin said it was an "outrage" that her 65-year-old husband Christopher
was denied bail last night in El Paso, Texas.

Judge Robert Castaneda ruled Tappin must remain in custody after US prosecutors
told the federal court in El Paso, Texas, he may be a "danger to the community"
if released.

He agreed that measures could be imposed to ensure Tappin is monitored if
released, but said a discrepancy in Tappin's financial statement led to him
being denied bail.

Daryl Fields, a spokesman for the US Attorney's office in the western district
of Texas, added that Tappin was denied bail because he "posed a flight risk".

Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in jail if convicted of trying to sell
batteries for surface-to-air missiles to Iran, has spent 23 hours a day locked
in his cell at the Otero County detention centre in New Mexico.

Mrs Tappin, 62, of Orpington, Kent, said: "This is an outrage. God only knows
how he'll bear up. It's heartbreaking.

"I am shocked and deeply disappointed," she said.

"He's a man of his word and is certainly not at risk of fleeing - where would he
go?

"He doesn't have his passport or access to money.

"Why has the British Government allowed him to be incarcerated in solitary
confinement for 23 hours a day before he's even been tried?

"Tony Blair helped the NatWest Three, why can't David Cameron help Chris?"

Mrs Tappin went on: "He's not a danger to anyone - he's a 65-year-old granddad.

"How is he supposed to prepare a proper defence when he's only been allowed to
communicate with his lawyers from behind a plastic screen?"

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who has known Tappin for almost 40 years, added he was
"absolutely appalled" that he had been denied bail, "but even more so that the
Home Secretary has done absolutely nothing to help the situation".

In a brief telephone conversation with his wife on Sunday night, Tappin told her
he was shackled and confined in a cage for five hours before his bail hearing on
Friday, a family spokeswoman said.

The president of the Kent Golf Union was escorted into the courtroom wearing an
orange-red prison jumpsuit, with his feet and one hand shackled.

US marshals allowed the other hand to remain free so he could use a cane he
needs to walk.

Assistant US attorney Greg McDonald asked the judge to keep Tappin in jail for
the remainder of the proceedings.

"The risk is not that he'll punch somebody in the face, but through the use of a
computer and the knowledge he has, he might pose a danger to the community," Mr
McDonald said.

Tappin has no ties to the US and failed to disclose to court officials his
frequent travels to Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and South Africa, he added.

But Kent Schaffer, representing Tappin, said if released, his client would have
complied with any restrictions imposed by the court and his family was ready to
post bail of 50,000 dollars (£31,600).

His trial will take place before US District Judge David Briones in El Paso, but
no date has been set.

The case has fuelled the row over the fairness of the extradition treaty between
the UK and the US.

Attorney General Dominic Grieve QC said Tappin's extradition highlighted
problems with the treaty which were not "readily curable", warning that many
Britons were left uneasy when faced with the seemingly harsh and
disproportionate sentences in the American justice system.

Other critics of the 2003 treaty, including Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg,
have described it as "one-sided", but an independent review by retired Court of
Appeal judge Sir Scott Baker last year found it was both balanced and fair.

Tappin's extradition follows an investigation which started in 2005 when US
agents asked technology providers about buyers who might have raised red flags.

Those customers were then approached by undercover companies set up by
government agencies.

Briton Robert Gibson, an associate of Tappin who agreed to co-operate, was
jailed for 24 months after pleading guilty to conspiracy to export defence
articles.

Gibson provided ICE agents with about 16,000 computer files and emails
indicating that he and Tappin had long-standing commercial ties with Iranian
customers.

American Robert Caldwell was also found guilty of aiding and abetting the
illegal transport of defence articles and served 20 months in prison.

Mr Schaffer told BBC Radio 5 Live an appeal against the decision not to grant
his client bail will now be launched.

"We expect that it (the appeal) will be filed some time this week and we will
then get a hearing date to go back before a different judge," he said.

PA

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 5, 2012 Monday

National: Sketch: Insular, proud of it. But Ukip has a younger look

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1088 words


If David Cameron had been watching Ukip's spring conference on the Skegness
seafront, the critic who would most have spoiled his day was not Roger Helmer
MEP, the serial rebel who celebrated his weekend defection from the Tories by
calling the prime minister a "complete sell-out" over Europe.

Nor was it veteran Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom, who later dismissed him as "an
appallingly vacuous, pigeon-chested young man".

Helmer is 68, Bloom is 62, and they have been insulting the Tory leadership from
the fleshpots of Strasbourg for years. They delight the equally elderly members
of the UK Independence party, Britain's version of America's disaffected Tea
Party. Stubborn, nostalgic and cheerfully insular, they are also very cross.

No, the new Tory defector whose scornful tone might have rattled Cameron was
Alexandra Swann.

Smartly dressed and well-spoken, sporting long blonde hair and 3in heels, she
does not fit the Ukip stereotype. No blazer and regimental tie, no beard or beer
gut, Swann is researching a PhD on 19th century social Darwinism and the small
state. She is also 23, a political anorak since 16, former deputy chairman of
the Tory youth wing and a visible blogosphere presence.

As sunshine finally burned off overnight fog on nearby Skegness beach, Swann was
cheered by 400 Ukip activists in the Embassy theatre for her assessment that
Cameron's "Lib Dem-led business-hating coalition" - obsessed with Europe and
windfarms - is already on the ropes.

So many people at the SW Surrey Conservative club (her tax-hating father is a
member) feel betrayed by Cameron ("as true a Conservative as Belgium is a real
country") that they will soon be following her into Ukip, she assured them.

All parties love defectors, the lifeblood of political hope.

But Ukip leader Nigel Farage MEP ("the first politician to be given the freedom
of the City of London"), believes this time is different.

Given a rock star's welcome in Skeg on Saturday, he combined mockery of familiar
Brussels targets such as EU president Herman van Rompuy with a renewed effort to
broaden Ukip's appeal as the "commonsense" party of liberty within the
democratic nation state.

"We want to be good Europeans, but we don't want to be run by people like (Jose
Manuel) Barroso or Van Rompuy. We want a Europe of nation states," he said,
where small employers and the self-employed, "heroes" ground down by
bureaucracy, can smoke in their own pub or go fox-hunting if they want, he
explained.

More and more young libertarians like Swann share his view, say party officials.
The Guardian encounters an earnest 15-year-old who has made the journey from
London and is on message: "The other parties are all the same. Only Ukip can
save us."

Like most party conferences, Ukip's looks more middle class and middle-aged than
young, though there is plenty of talk of restoring grammar school opportunities
for the working class ("To get my kids the education I got I had to pay," says
newspaper columnist Jon Gaunt) and a top tier of distinctly posh. It includes
peers and academics such as economist Tim ("leave the EU and join the world")
Congdon and educationalist Sir Chris Woodhead. He praises Ukip as the only party
with "conviction, common sense and courage".

It is two years since the eurozone crisis first vindicated some of Ukip's
predictions, almost two years after Cameron's failure to win a Commons majority
forced the Tories into coalition with the pro-euro Liberal Democrats.

It is nearly three years since Ukip beat Brown-led Labour into third place in
the 2009 European elections. With Labour worth barely a rude mention on
Saturday, Ukip's leadership thinks its breakthrough into Westminster politics
may be at hand.

That may be a tall order. In the 2010 general election Ukip got 919,417 votes to
the Tories' 10,703,654, 8,606,517 for Labour, 6,836,248 for the Lib Dems - and
564,321 for the BNP, which Ukip dismisses as a leftwing party of extremists, so
unlike itself.

Ukip may have 12 MEPS but it has no MPs. At local level it boasts just 139
councillors, mostly in parishes, 21 at district level and - in Cambridgeshire
county, Huntingdon district and Ramsey parish councillor, the highly articulate
Peter Reeve - all three. Ramsey got international media attention when the
controlling Ukip group decided to save money by cleaning the parish loos
themselves - typical of its hand-on, localist worldview, says Reeve.

How can Britain afford to pay Europe £50m a day, send aid to nuclear India and
waste money on bureaucracy when it cuts buses and care for the elderly, leaving
potholes in the roads, he asks. Loud applause. Skegness's famous skipping
mascot, the whiskery Jolly Fisherman, is deployed on conference literature and
looks the Ukip type - jolly in a saloon bar way, but cross about quite a lot.

The party's strength is in small towns and rural communities, its attraction in
Lincolnshire enhanced by hostility to migrant farm workers.

Chris Pain, Ukip's local candidate in 2010, tells the conference the workers
undercut local wages, wire most of their pay home to Poland on Fridays and avoid
UK taxes. More applause.

The populist politics of grievance are not confined to Ukip, which shares with
bigger parties a desire to cut taxes and the state while proposing all sorts of
costly plans - like more bobbies on the beat - and wants a more efficient
military that buys off-the-shelf Apache helicopters, not customised ones at five
times the price.

A visceral scorn for the EU as the whipping boy for life's problems is what
holds Ukip-ers together, but its agenda is widening.

Farage, 47, a former City broker turned MEP since 1999, and his executive
chairman, Steve Crowther, a marketing man, know they must avoid the extremist
and one-policy labels and reach out. There is little or no mention of China,
India or even Germany, nor of larger economic or social forces at work. The tone
is insular - and proud of it.

But Ukip is aware of one looming irony. For a party with its raison d'etre it
knows that Alex Salmond's campaign to break up the UK must be a growing
priority. On the conference fringe in Skeg the most heated debate was between
those who advocate an England-only parliament to match the devolved assemblies,
end the English backlash and save the union - and those who argued fiercely that
such a strategy will "do Barroso's job for him" by breaking up Britain. Europe,
it's everywhere.

Captions:

Alexandra Swann, a recent Tory defector to Ukip, is former deputy chairman of
the Tory youth wing.

She does not fit the Ukip stereotype

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              March 5, 2012 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP OUT OF HERE!;
ROWDY RIGHT-WINGERS BARRED FROM PUBS

BYLINE: LUCY THORNTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 313 words


A BUNCH of arrogant rightwing political activists were kicked out of a string of
pubs in a night of shame.

The 25 UK Independence Party members were handing out fliers when some
apparently went crazy after being asked to leave a quiet boozer.

They allegedly began threatening bar staff and police had to be called.

The cocky group - bedecked in Ukip badges - included disgraced former Tory MP
Neil Hamilton.

Appalled drinker Clive Hales, 57, said: "I've never seen a bunch of ruder or
brasher people.

"They were a bunch of Hooray Henrys and had clearly been drinking beforehand.
They were asked to stop handing out their leaflets as it is not a political pub.
That's when the trouble started.

Mr Hales claimed: "They said they'd get the place shut down. They were lairy and
one (not Mr Hamilton) told a member of staff he was a barrister who'd ensure
that he never worked again - all for asking him to be quiet."

He said Mr Hamilton - who lost his Conservative seat in the cash for questions
saga and was elected to Ukip's national executive committee last year - had not
been behaving badly but he added: "He did nothing to calm the situation. It's
ironic that they pride themselves on being the party of traditional British
values and then go and behave like this."

Trouble flared at the Red Lion as the activists tried to hand out Save the Pub
fliers in Skegness, Lincs.

Among other stops was the Stumble Inn. A barman said: "They'd already been asked
to leave other pubs. They were told they couldn't put leaflets here and were
asked to go."

Ukip press officer Gawain Towler, who attended the night out, said they had
already paid for food and drink when told to go.

He said: "One of our younger members did shout something but he was immediately
taken outside by one member and given a good talking to.

"But to suggest we were all shouting insults and threatening people is
ridiculous."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROW Stumble Inn. & Hamilton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              March 5, 2012 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

UKIP OUT OF HERE!;
ROWDY RIGHT-WINGERS BARRED FROM PUBS

BYLINE: LUCY THORNTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 313 words


A BUNCH of arrogant rightwing political activists were kicked out of a string of
pubs in a night of shame.

The 25 UK Independence Party members were handing out fliers when some
apparently went crazy after being asked to leave a quiet boozer.

They allegedly began threatening bar staff and police had to be called.

The cocky group - bedecked in UKIP badges - included disgraced former Tory MP
Neil Hamilton.

Appalled drinker Clive Hales, 57, said: "I've never seen a bunch of ruder or
brasher people.

"They were a bunch of Hooray Henrys and had clearly been drinking beforehand.
They were asked to stop handing out their leaflets as it is not a political pub.
That's when the trouble started."

Mr Hales claimed: "They said they'd get the place shut down. They were lairy and
one (not Mr Hamilton) told a member of staff he was a barrister who'd ensure
that he never worked again - all for asking him to be quiet."

He said Mr Hamilton - who lost his Conservative seat in the cash for questions
saga and was elected to UKIP's national executive committee last year - had not
been behaving badly but he added: "He did nothing to calm the situation. It's
ironic that they pride themselves on being the party of traditional British
values and then go and behave like this."

Trouble flared at the Red Lion as the activists tried to hand out Save the Pub
fliers in Skegness, Lincs.

Among other stops was the Stumble Inn. A barman said: "They'd already been asked
to leave other pubs. They were told they couldn't put leaflets here and were
asked to go."

UKIP press officer Gawain Towler, who attended the night out, said they had
already paid for food and drink when told to go.

He said: "One of our younger members did shout something but he was immediately
taken outside by one member and given a good talking to.

"But to suggest we were all shouting insults and threatening people is
ridiculous."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROW Stumble Inn & Hamilton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 5, 2012 Monday 5:08 PM GMT

Frank Carson;
Comic who became one of Northern Ireland's most famous exports

LENGTH: 874 words


FRANK CARSON, who has died aged 85, was Northern Ireland's best-known comedy
export during the long, grim years of the Troubles, a standard-bearer for the
province's wellspring of native humour and love of the craic.

Throughout the 1970s Carson's Tigger-like personality - over the top, and
occasionally tiresomely so - hugely amused viewers of such popular television
staples as The Comedians (1972-74) and The Wheeltappers and Shunters Social Club
(1974-76). These re-created the quick-fire gag format of the traditional
northern working men's clubs in the days before the demise of the mother-in-law
joke related over bottles of stout in smoke-filled rooms.

"It's a cracker!" and "It's the way I tell 'em!" were Carson's incessant
leitmotifs, the signatures which he attached to his jokes. Many of his gags were
"Irish" jokes, which is to say that they poked gentle fun at Carson's own
people, although the modern pieties of political correctness would probably now
prohibit many of them - especially those of the "thick Mick" variety - from
being broadcast.

With his heavy square spectacles, neatly cut hair, chubby cheeks and short,
squat frame, Carson looked every inch the twinkling tradesman that he had been
before winning Hughie Green's television talent show Opportunity Knocks no fewer
than three times.

It was a feat that established Carson as television's pre-eminent "motormouth" -
a crown that he never subsequently relinquished. Some producers became reluctant
to book Carson for live shows because he would inevitably deviate from the
pre-agreed script, would upstage any other comedian, interrupt any business that
did not involve himself, and flood the airwaves with non-stop gags of varying
vintages.

One of Spike Milligan's favourite jokes neatly encapsulated the problem: "What's
the difference between Frank Carson and the M1?"

"You can turn off the M1."

Hugh Francis Carson was born on November 6 1926 in Belfast, to a family of
Italian descent; his grandmother was Sicilian. His father, a lapsed Roman
Catholic, was a newspaper distributor, and Frank started performing with the
Belfast News Boys' Club at the age of nine. He was educated at St Patrick's
primary school in the immigrant area of Belfast known as Little Italy, now
demolished. Although too young to serve in the war, in the late 1940s he spent
three years in the Middle East with the Parachute Regiment.

In Palestine in 1947 he was caught up in clashes in the militant Arab quarter in
Haifa, and as a fighting corporal he shot and killed one of a group of Jewish
prisoners who had broken out of jail and were making a run for it towards the
desert.

Carson had left school at 14 with no qualifications and became an apprentice
electrician, but at 16 had switched to being a plasterer. In his spare time he
worked on his spiel as a stand-up comic, a talent that earned him regular
appearances on Northern Ireland television. When he was 25 he sold some scripts
to the regional BBC station and became a professional entertainer, touring with
the Australian magician known as The Great Levante.

Encouraged to try his luck on the northern club scene on the mainland, Carson
was spotted by the television producer Barney Colehan and signed up for his
first network exposure on the music-hall tribute show The Good Old Days.

Meanwhile, on ITV, Carson - having thrice won Opportunity Knocks - was also
booked to appear on The Comedians, by the producer Johnny Hamp.

This was the show that transformed Carson from an obscure club comedian into a
comedy star. His blustering salvos of Northern Irish humour sat well in Hamp's
quick-fire format of one comic after another. Carson's comedy confrères included
Bernard Manning, Roy Walker, Jim Bowen, George Roper and the black Yorkshire
comedian Charlie Williams.

Carson appeared in every series, and also toured with the record-breaking stage
version of the show. He found himself in demand for cabaret dates and club
bookings across Britain and abroad; his workload affected his health, and when
he underwent heart surgery in 1976, it was suggested that this would mean
inevitable, if premature, retirement.

But Carson continued working - he became a regular on the ATV children's series
Tiswas - and also made television acting appearances and had roles in two
feature films. He claimed to be the Queen's favourite comedian and said that he
had met her more than 100 times.

In 2004 his planned appearance on the reality television show I'm a Celebrity,
Get Me Out of Here! was shelved by ITV executives on account of prohibitive
insurance costs due to Carson's age and concerns about his health.

He was planning to call his autobiography Rebel Without a Pause, and claimed it
ran to more than a million words.

In 1987 Pope John-Paul conferred on Carson a Knighthood of the Order of St
Gregory to recognise his extensive work for charity. He appeared in the Royal
Variety performance of 1992, and was the subject of This Is Your Life. He was a
member of the entertainment charity the Grand Order of Water Rats.

In later life he lived at Blackpool, and became involved with the Eurosceptic UK
Independence Party.

Carson, who underwent surgery for stomach cancer in July 2011, is survived by
his wife, Ruth, and three children.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday

Help me create a manifesto for a model mayor

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 884 words

ABSTRACT

Dave Hill: Each morning for a fortnight, I'll present a policy area for you to
debate. Together, we can produce a vision for London

FULL TEXT

Manifesto for a Model Mayor is an opportunity for Guardian readers to take part
in an exciting exercise in open journalism and have a major input into our
coverage of the biggest political event of the year - the fourth election for
the British capital's executive mayor.

Campaigning is, of course, already under way: the two frontrunners, Conservative
incumbent Boris Johnson and his Labour challenger and two-times former mayor Ken
Livingstone, have been hurling verbal missiles at each other for months. Brian
Paddick for the Liberal Democrats, Jenny Jones for the Greens, Lawrence Webb of
Ukip and the independent Siobhan Benita are among the others in the race.

In the next few weeks they will begin publishing their promises and plans for
exercising mayoral power in the key areas of transport, policing, housing, the
environment, culture, the capital's economy and more. My modest pledge is that
the Manifesto for a Model Mayor will leave these prospectuses cowering meekly in
the shade.

But fulfilling that pledge depends on you. The project won't be a success unless
it is richly informed by the input of Comment is Free readers and followers of
my London blog.

The great thing about open, online journalism is that it teaches journalists a
thing or two. Since the activities of the city's mayor became my professional
territory four years ago, I've learned a huge amount about London, its pleasures
and its pain, from contributions "below the line". I've often wished I could
spend more time with these. Manifesto for a Model Mayor is an opportunity for me
in that sense, too.

This is where the knowledge and wisdom of constructive commenters is absolutely
essential to making the manifesto - our manifesto - hit the mark.

The first part of the Model Mayor project will be a crowdsourcing exercise
conducted over the next fortnight. Starting tomorrow, I'll be supplying a short
article on each of 10 policy areas over which the mayor has power or influence.
These will include three on separate aspects of London's transport system, where
the office's responsibilities and ability to affect change are greatest.

Each article will seek to frame the debate, stimulate readers and, of course,
enlighten me. The 10 policy pieces will be launched at 11am each weekday for the
next two weeks, starting with public transport. I will be at my desk responding
to commenters until at least noon each day. Fresh thinking will be particularly
welcome. Abuse, cheap point-scoring and general trolling will be even less
welcome than usual. Later in the day, a colleague in the office will give the
best contributions extra prominence by adding them to the end of the main
article.

Now here's an important point: if you're not a Londoner, please, please, please
don't feel excluded. I'm aware, of course, that the Guardian has a national and
indeed global readership, and that there is human life outside the capital,
despite the impression the media sometimes give. However, the London mayoral
contest has implications far beyond London.

For one thing, its outcome of the will strongly affect morale in national
politics: a Labour win would put fresh wind in Ed Miliband's sails and a Tory
loss would be a blow to David Cameron.

Furthermore, London since 2000 has been a testing ground for big city mayors. On
same day - 3 May - that Londoners go to the polls, the citizens of 11 English
cities, including Birmingham, Bristol, Manchester, Sheffield and Newcastle, will
vote in referendums to agree or disagree with the government's belief directly
elected, executive mayors provide, "the strong, visible leadership that will
help them prosper nationally and internationally." Liverpool has decided to go
ahead without such a vote. Leicester has adopted the system already.

There's also the issue of London's status as, to quote the current mayor, "the
engine of the UK economy". Is it right or wise that the capital is such crucible
of growth and wealth-generation compared with other great British cities? For
all our sakes, how much bigger can or should London become? We'd love to hear
your views on any of those big questions about urban life and policy.

Once the crowdsourcing phase is complete, I'll disappear from view, absorb your
fabulous ideas and write the manifesto. Don't worry: I won't be declaring myself
a candidate, not even as a stunt. My sole aim is to produce a set of proposals
that combine originality, idealism and practicality into a philosophically
coherent vision for the future of one of the world's most prominent mega cities.
(That may not sound like much, but I hate to over-promise.)

I anticipate a finished document of between 20,000 and 25,000 words, structured
around a small group of key themes to be published by the Guardian as a handsome
online document. It will draw on ideas found across the political spectrum, but
it won't be a scorecard of the real candidates. In fact, I doubt it will even
mention them. My hope is that, unlike most political manifestos, it will be fun
to read. I'd love you to agree. After all, the Manifesto for a Model Mayor is
going to be your manifesto, too.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 4, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trade agreements are possible outside EU;
To the Editor

SECTION: FEATURES; FEMAIL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 238 words


SIR - I agree with Syed Kamall MEP (Letters, February 26) that "the European
Commission should conclude new trade agreements with Canada, India and Japan",
provided that those agreements are not one-sided.

However, EU negotiations over proposed trade agreements with Canada and Japan
are getting almost nowhere. Only the trade agreement with India has a chance of
being completed in the next two years.

Before 1975 Britain had its own trade agreements with Canada and India. We
turned our backs on those agreements when we joined the then European Common
Market, now the EU. Switzerland - which is not a member of the European Union -
now has its own trade agreement with Japan.

If Britain were outside the EU, we could negotiate our own trade agreements with
India and Canada - and with Japan, as Switzerland has done.

Earl of Dartmouth MEP (Ukip) Whiteway, Devon

SIR - Nick Clegg states that the House of Lords is "an affront to the principles
of openness" and "a chamber that legislates on behalf of the people - but is not
held to account by the people" (report, February 26).

But what about Europe? The support he gives the EU is exactly opposite to that
of his campaign against the second chamber in his own country.

H C Leivers Pontypridd, Glamorgan

SIR - Germany is now the dominant force in Europe, while France collaborates,
Italy prevaricates, Greece demonstrates and Britain deliberates.

Bob Stebbings Chorleywood, Hertfordshire

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

What a pity that the [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 66 words


What a pity that the Tory MEP Roger Helmer has defected to Ukip. He had hoped to
hand his seat to a fellow Eurosceptic, Rupert Matthews, who is next in line
under the Buggins' Turn system of Euro democracy.

Matthews is an instructor in the paranormal for something called the
International Metaphysical University and an expert on UFOs. What an adornment
he would have made to the European parliament.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

TORY REBEL JOINS UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 46 words


DAVID Cameron suffered a blow yesterday when Tory Euro MP Roger Helmer quit to
join the UK Independence Party.

Mr Helmer, who has represented East Midlands since 1999, was given a standing
ovation as he was introduced by UKIP leader Nigel Farage at the party conference
in Skegness.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 3, 2012 Saturday

BYLINE: `DISILLUSIONED' MEP DEFECTS FROM TORIES TO JOIN UKIP

LENGTH: 203 words


A TORY MEP will today announce his defection to the UK Independence Party
following a row with Conservative party chairman Baroness Warsi.

Roger Helmer blamed Lady Warsi's `obstinancy' for his decision to quit the
Tories after 40 years.

Mr Helmer, 68, who has been an MEP since 1999, was going to stand down last year
after he became `disillusioned' with his party.

But he changed his mind over Lady Warsi's refusal to confirm that Rupert
Matthews, who is the `next in line' candidate, would succeed him.

Mr Helmer said he had now been left with `no choice' but to defect. Instead of
stepping down, he will carry on as an East Midlands MEP for Ukip.

Lady Warsi has been accused of wanting to block Mr Matthews's appointment so she
could parachute in an approved A list candidate a€" preferably a woman.

Mr Helmer said: `I announced my intention to resign at the end of 2011. But that
plan was frustrated by the deliberate obstinacy and recalcitrance of the party
chairman.'

`She has brought this on herself. I couldn't make her do the right thing, but I
can make her regret doing the wrong thing.

`The fact is that Ukip represents the values and interests of East Midlands
Conservatives much better than Cameron's Tory Party does.'

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 3, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tory defects to Ukip;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 94 words


A Conservative MEP was expected to announce today that he has defected to the UK
Independence Party.

Roger Helmer, 68, a member for the East Midlands, said on Thursday that he
disagreed with David Cameron on 20 points of policy, including the need for a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty, cuts to the Armed Forces, overseas aid and wind
turbines.

"On all these questions, I find myself at odds with the Government, and with the
party. But the strange thing is that I find that Conservative voters, and party
members and activists, overwhelmingly agree with me," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 3, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Say No, No, No to propping up this EU disaster zone

BYLINE: Chris Roycroft-Davis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 882 words


.... .....

ARE the leaders of the European disaster zone a bunch of deluded saps or
dangerous glory-seekers? Whichever answer you give you'll be right, I'm afraid.
And no one more personifies the fossilised thinking that blights Europe than its
useless head, the bumbling Belgian Herman Van Rompuy.

One commentator wrote of him yesterday that he has delusions of grandeur. I
disagree - the man has delusions of adequacy, not grandeur. He actually thinks
he knows what he's doing.

Sadly so do half the other European prime ministers and presidents over whom he
rules as President of the European Council. They are all in total denial of the
crisis that threatens to destroy the eurozone and has the potential to inflict
massive economic damage on Britain even though we are no part of it.

To see the smug faces of Merkel and Sarkozy - the axis of complacency - as they
signed their worthless new treaties in Brussels was to witness a scene from the
blackest of black comedies. Except with our future at stake it's not funny.

Lady Thatcher showed chilling foresight 10 years ago when she described the
European superstate that was under construction as "a monument to the vanity of
intellectuals". Well now that monument has been completed and predictably it is
already crumbling because its foundations are built on sand.

MOST politicians in Europe are blind to the obvious truth that a centrally
commanded economy can never work for 27 supremely diverse nations, so they
concentrate instead on the vainglorious politics they hope will keep them in
power. It is a dangerous game for these men and women are in truth the assassins
of democracy.

They listen to no views but their own and if someone dares to disagree - whether
it be David Cameron over the Greek bailout farce or the people of Ireland in a
referendum - then those voices are dismissed as worthless troublemakers.

Our Prime Minister went to Brussels with a plan for growth that had the backing
of 11 other governments, representing more than half the population of the EU.
In a nutshell he wanted to slash red tape to set business free to create jobs
and wealth. He wanted clear targets, dates when they would be met and proper
accountability - in other words if someone messes up they'll get their backside
kicked.

Imagine his frustration at dinner when he discovered that all his work had been
dumped in the rubbish bin. Instead the new treaty was made up of proposals put
forward by Germany and its new lapdog France, almost word for word.

If an idea doesn't come from Berlin or Paris then Van Rompuy doesn't want to
know. Democracy? Don't make me laugh.

As Italy and Holland fall into recession and Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy
teeter on the brink of financial Armageddon (saved for now only by the
artificial props of the latest dodgy bailout) no one will see the wisdom of
Europe growing its way out of trouble.

Instead the Germans want hairshirt austerity for the debtor states. Cut
government borrowing, cut government spending, cut government debts. The French
go along with this prescription because their pygmy president faces electoral
disaster in May and needs every friend he can get.

They are living in la-la land.

They honestly believe that binding disparate nations closer together with
Germany barking the orders from the top of the heap is a way of creating freedom
and prosperity.

Van Rompuy greeted his "unanimous re-election" as president with a stream of
ludicrous statements on Twitter. Hang on, did he say "re-election"? Did anyone
get a vote? Of course not - he was shoehorned in via the old pals' act. One
tweet claimed Van Rompuy had a "new mandate" to pursue his "deep conviction"
that the euro and the EU are "irreversible projects". He has no mandate from the
people of Britain to continue pushing out this tosh, nor any other country for
that matter.

He even says without a hint of irony that "the word 'Europe' has long been a
sign of hope". I can only assume this was a typing error on his smartphone and
he meant to say "dope".

IT'S a pity Mr Cameron didn't do more than just express his displeasure at the
way he'd been snubbed. Banging his fist on the table and knocking the wine over
would have been a better way to get the rest of Europe to sit up and take
notice.

Because in the words of Corporal Jones: "They don't like it up 'em." You can see
this for yourself by going to YouTube and searching the words "Nigel Farage
harangues EU President".

It is a masterclass in blunt speaking.

Farage, the leader of UKIP, does not mince words as he faces Van Rompuy across
the Brussels debating chamber. He says he has "the charisma of a damp rag and
the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk". In the most telling exchange he asks
him: "Who are you? Who voted for you?" Precisely.

Needless to say the Machiavellian machinations of the European elitists have the
full support of the Lib Dem part of the coalition. Cameron has been slapped down
by the dead hands that run Europe. The views of the leader of the one country
that has a true free market economy have been tossed to the wind.

Some 25 years ago a certain lady would have been swinging her handbag and
knocking sense into the dullards in Brussels. Come on Mr Cameron, start telling
Europe No, No, No. And mean it.

'Britain's request to cut red tape was ignored'

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DELUDED: Herman Van Rompuy claims a mandate
Picture: GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 3, 2012 Saturday

Say No, No, No to propping up this EU disaster zone

BYLINE: Chris Roycroft-Davis

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 857 words


ARE the leaders of the European disaster zone a bunch of deluded saps or
dangerous glory-seekers? Whichever answer you give you'll be right, I'm afraid.
And no one more personifies the fossilised thinking that blights Europe than its
useless head, the bumbling Belgian Herman Van Rompuy.

One commentator wrote of him yesterday that he has delusions of grandeur. I
disagree - the man has delusions of adequacy, not grandeur. He actually thinks
he knows what he's doing.

Sadly so do half the other European prime ministers and presidents over whom he
rules as President of the European Council. They are all in total denial of the
crisis that threatens to destroy the eurozone and has the potential to inflict
massive economic damage on Britain even though we are no part of it.

Sure they were making noises about optimism and stability last night and one EU
official said they had moved from "crisis mode to growth mode," but none of them
has the first clue how they will achieve growth in their sclerotic economy while
at the same time taking an axe to spending.

To see the smug faces of Merkel and Sarkozy - the axis of complacency - as they
signed their worthless new treaties in Brussels was to witness a scene from the
blackest of black comedies. Except with our future at stake it's not funny.

Lady Thatcher showed chilling foresight 10 years ago when she described the
European superstate that was under construction as "a monument to the vanity of
intellectuals".

Well now that monument has been completed and predictably it is already
crumbling because its foundations are built on sand.

MOST politicians in Europe are blind to the obvious truth that a centrally
commanded economy can never work for 27 supremely diverse nations, so they
concentrate instead on the vainglorious politics they hope will keep them in
power. It is a dangerous game for these men and women are in truth the assassins
of democracy.

They listen to no views but their own and if someone dares to disagree - whether
it be David Cameron over the Greek bailout farce or the people of Ireland in a
referendum - then those voices are dismissed as worthless troublemakers.

Our Prime Minister went to Brussels with a plan for growth that had the backing
of 11 other governments, representing more than half the population of the EU.

In a nutshell he wanted to slash red tape to set business free to create jobs
and wealth. Imagine his frustration at dinner when he discovered that all his
good work had been dumped in the rubbish bin.

Instead, the new treaty was made up of proposals put forward by Germany and its
new lapdog France, almost word for word.

You see, if an idea doesn't come from Berlin or Paris then Van Rompuy doesn't
want to know. Democracy? Don't make me laugh.

As Italy and Holland fall into recession and Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy
teeter on the brink of financial Armageddon (saved for now only by the
artificial props of the latest dodgy bailout) it seems no one will see the
wisdom of Europe growing its way out of trouble.

From the start the Germans have wanted hairshirt austerity for the debtor
states. Cut government borrowing, cut government spending, cut government debt.
The French go along with this prescription because their pygmy president faces
electoral disaster in May and needs every friend that he can get.

They are living in la-la land. They honestly believe that binding disparate
nations closer together with Germany barking the orders from the top of the heap
is a way of creating freedom and prosperity.

Van Rompuy greeted his "unanimous re-election" as president with a stream of
ludicrous statements on Twitter. Hang on, did he say "re-election"? Did anyone
get a vote? Of course not - he was shoehorned in via the old pals' act. One
tweet claimed Van Rompuy had a "new mandate" to pursue his "deep conviction"
that the euro and the EU are "irreversible projects". He has no mandate from the
people of Britain to continue pushing out this tosh, nor any other country for
that matter.

He even says without a hint of irony that "the word 'Europe' has long been a
sign of hope". I can only assume this was a typing error on his smartphone and
he meant to say "dope".

IT'S a great pity Mr Cameron didn't do more than just express his displeasure at
the way he'd been snubbed. Banging his fist on the table and knocking the wine
over would have been a better way to get the rest of Europe to sit up and take
notice.

Because in the words of Corporal Jones: "They don't like it up 'em." You can see
this for yourself by going to YouTube and searching the words "Nigel Farage
harangues EU President".

It is a masterclass in blunt speaking.

Farage, the leader of UKIP, does not mince words as he faces Van Rompuy across
the Brussels debating chamber. He says he has "the charisma of a damp rag and
the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk".

In the most telling exchange he asks him: "Who are you? Who voted for you?"
Precisely.

Needless to say the Machiavellian machinations of the European elitists have the
full support of the Lib Dem part of the coalition. And who are they? Who voted
for them?

'These eurocrats are the assassins of democracy'

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DELUDED: Herman Van Rompuy claims a mandate
Picture: GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 3, 2012 Saturday

National: Prime minister's inner circle: Cameron's 'big society' guru who's
opting out ... for now: Tory moderniser seeks time with wife and son: Divisive
figure blamed for lack of overall majority

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1023 words


Steve Hilton's decision to leave Downing Street and decamp to Silicon Valley
with his wife and young son says a lot about politics, some of which is deeply
traditional and a lot of which is peculiar to the times in which David Cameron's
closest source of strategic wisdom - to Star Wars fans his Yoda - cut his teeth
as a workaholic practitioner in an addictive trade.

Politics has always been a rough old business in which reputations can be made
or destroyed by unforeseen events, bad judgment and worse luck. No one could
have predicted a sitting prime minister being linked to an elderly police mount
loaned to a scandal-laden tabloid apparatchik, as happened to Cameron in
"Horsegate" this week. Hilton could be forgiven for banging his head on a desk.

Yet it is par for the course once any government's ever-briefer honeymoon with
the voters - and events - is over. Unseen civil servants who run Whitehall's
private offices, as well as party appointees giving political advice such as
Hilton, work gruelling hours, are there to shout and be shouted at when things
go wrong, to share the adrenalin rush when their plans work. The pace wrecks
nerves and livers, family life and marriages - and has long done so.

Sheer physical stamina keeps the addicts afloat but most burn out sooner or
later and need quieter jobs in which to recover. But nowadays the changing
nature of communications technology makes the pressure that much greater, there
is so much more that informed people are supposed to know from all quarters. It
is the same for many professions, but government is conducted in the spotlight
and nowadays that spotlight is never switched off by 24/7 TV, by the internet,
Twitter and the rest.

Hilton, 42 last August, is deeply enmeshed in this world. His parents were
refugees from the Soviet tanks which crushed the Hungarian revolt in 1956 (it
is, alas, not true that the Hirckacs adopted the name Hilton because they spent
their first British night in one). Hilton went on a scholarship to Christ's
Hospital school in Sussex and did the inevitable PPE degree at Oxford, as
Cameron and much of today's political class also did.

The pair met in John Major's HQ campaign team in 1992, bright young men with an
eye to the main chance, who shared some of the credit when Major came from
behind to beat Labour and seed the fateful myth that "It was the Sun Wot Won
It". Cameron became a Whitehall special adviser - alongside Hilton's future
wife, Rachel Whetstone - while Hilton set up his own Good Business consultancy,
advising firms (Coke and McDonalds were among his clients) on corporate social
responsibility.

That alone must have marked his card among free market Tories, that and the
refusal not only to wear a suit and tie, but often socks and trousers. Biker
Hilton still prefers T-shirts and shorts, a suit remains the big occasion
option. Many on the right argue that a firm's social responsibility is to make
profits, create jobs and pay taxes - leaving social goals to government.

When the Tories were defeated in the 1997 campaign by Tony Blair (Hilton shares
some blame for the misjudged "demon eyes" poster) Hilton recoiled from William
Hague's doomed lurch to the right (and is rumoured to have voted Green). When
Cameron succeeded Michael Howard in 2005 he saw that such "no such thing as
society" talk had critically tarnished the Tory brand and that dramatic symbolic
gestures of reform - hugging hoodies and huskies, learning to love the NHS,
choosing HS1 over that third Heathrow runway - were need to "detox" the brand.

Turning Etonian "Tory Boy" Cameron into middle class Dave was also a priority.
The concept of the "big society" in which the state shrunk and private or
voluntary groups grew to fill gaps is also laid at Hilton's door as an
over-arching election theme which few voters understood. With a recession under
way it came to look like a posh word for cuts.

In any case such marketing language appalled traditional Tories who believe that
softie Hiltonian policies simply drove disaffected voters into the arms of UKIP
or their own armchairs and help explain why Cameron failed to win an overall
majority and was forced into a coalition with the hated Lib Dems.

The bad feeling lingers on in disputes over NHS reform, welfare, the AV
referendum which Cameron conceded (but also squashed) and Lords reform.

That underrates Hilton's successes, which include the promise of a referendum on
the Lisbon treaty and putting fashionable theories - Richard Thaler's "nudge" is
one - into a practical context. But he clashed with Andy Coulson, Cameron's
ill-chosen hotline to Essex voters and thus a counter-weight to the brainy
immigrants' son, also with civil servants and colleagues who resented his
influence, his restless energy, so much greater than most, and his lack of the
silkier diplomatic skills.

According to last night's No 10 statement Hilton is simply off to mighty
Stanford University for a year's intellectual refreshment, something he did
before when his wife - as tall and willowy and Hilton is short and chunky -
landed a senior post at Google, another of the IT treadmills which makes
political life more demanding.

It is a blow to Cameron and may signal disappointment that the sharp realities
and constraints of coalition government two years in (Lib Dems and Thatcherites
pulling the pragmatic Cameron in both directions) have finally dampened Hilton's
boundless enthusiasm.

Then again, when Cameron speaks of the importance of a better work/life balance
and non-material satisfactions he is articulating Hilton Speak which their
author also believes.

Hilton likes to see a bit of his son, Ben, and would probably like to see more
of his wife too. If a wife's career takes her across eight time zones to
California then sometimes a husband has to compromise with his own and go too.
The very thought is enough to get older Tory MPs spluttering into their gin this
weekend - but it's probably a factor and a very zeitgeisty one. Very Steve
Hilton.

Captions:

David Cameron and Steve Hilton in the Arctic in 2006. The trip was designed to
show the Tories' green credentials Photograph: Andrew Parsons

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 3, 2012 Saturday 10:33 AM GMT

Christopher Tappin waits to hear bail decision;


BYLINE: PA

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 787 words


A retired British businessman extradited to the United States over arms dealing
charges will remain in jail this weekend.

Christopher Tappin, who lost his two-year battle against being sent to America
last week, will have to wait until Monday to learn whether he will be released
on bail, his US lawyer Dan Cogdell said.

Tappin, 65, who is spending 23 hours a day locked in his cell, will be held at
Otero County detention centre in New Mexico until the federal court in El Paso,
Texas, rules on the bail hearing.

Daryl Fields, a spokesman for the US Attorney's Office in the western district
of Texas, said US Magistrate Judge Robert Castaneda adjourned the hearing until
1.30pm local time on Monday (8.30pm BST) when he will deliver his ruling.

Earlier, Kent Schaffer, representing Tappin, said his client would agree with
any measures the court chose to impose for his release while he awaited trial.

Tappin, of Orpington, Kent, denies attempting to sell batteries for
surface-to-air missiles which were to be shipped from the US to Tehran via the
Netherlands.

The president of the Kent Golf Union faces up to 35 years in jail if convicted.

He was escorted into the courtroom wearing an orange-red prison jumpsuit, with
his feet and one hand shackled. US marshals allowed the other hand to remain
free so Tappin could use a cane he needs to walk.

Assistant US attorney Gregg McDonald opposed the bail request and asked the
court to keep Tappin in custody for the remainder of the proceedings.

Mr McDonald said: "The risk is not that he'll punch somebody in the face, but
through the use of a computer and the knowledge he has, he might pose a danger
to the community."

He argued that Tappin had no ties to the US and failed to tell court officials
about his frequent travels to Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and South Africa.

The prosecutor also said Tappin continued to deal US technology to Iran even
after he was indicted in 2007.

Ron Marcell, a special agent with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (Ice) ,
said that in July 2007 and April 2008, agents seized about 100,000 dollars
(£63,291) allegedly sent by Tappin and his freight company, Brooklands, for the
purchase of a "clean room" of the sort used in electronics manufacturing and Yig
Filters, electronic devices used in telecommunications that would be sent to
Iran. Tappin never contested the seizing of the money, Mr Marcell said.

He also said there was evidence indicating a prior sale of technology for about
two million dollars (£1.2m) to the United Arab Emirates and then to Iran.

Mr Schaffer said if released Tappin would wear a GPS tracking device, comply
with any curfews, live in the house of one of his lawyers in Houston, Texas, and
stay within a five-mile radius of it at all times. He said Tappin's family was
ready to post bail of 50,000 dollars (£31,600).

"I don't want to use the word preposterous, but the fact that he surrendered
himself in Heathrow airport, went to the Otero (New Mexico) County jail
facility, was brought in handcuffs to go through a detention hearing to go
running back to England...It's not going to happen," Mr Schaffer said.

Tappin was delivered to El Paso by US marshals last week after fighting
extradition from the UK for two years.

During the investigation, which began in 2005, Ice agents arrested another UK
citizen, Robert Gibson, who agreed to co-operate with US authorities.

Gibson served two years in prison after pleading guilty to conspiracy to export
defence articles.

He provided authorities with about 16,000 computer files and emails indicating
that he and Tappin had long-standing commercial ties with Iranian customers.

Mr Marcell said that when they told Tappin that the specialised missile
batteries needed to be exported with a US government licence, he gave them with
a false invoice stating that the batteries were for other purposes.

The invoice given by Tappin had a signature that he claimed was Gibson's, who at
the time was in federal custody.

Another man, American Robert Caldwell, was found guilty of aiding and abetting
the illegal transport of defence articles and served 20 months in prison.

A family spokeswoman confirmed Tappin's wife Elaine, 62, would not be making any
comment until the result of the bail hearing was known on Monday.

Tappin's MP, Tory Jo Johnson, and Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who has known the
businessman for nearly 40 years, urged Home Secretary Theresa May to intervene
to ensure the US authorities did not object to bail.

On Tuesday, his wife broke down in tears as she told MPs of her despair that
nobody was prepared to listen to her husband's defence before "carting him off".

Tappin's case fuelled the row over the fairness of the extradition treaty
between the UK and the US.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              March 2, 2012 Friday

RICHARD KAY DIARY

LENGTH: 1167 words


JEEVES STAR AND A TRAGIC FAMILY RIFT

He was a star of stage, screen and television whom Lord Attenborough called `a
perfect gentleman'.

But Kind Hearts And Coronets actor Dennis Price, the man who first brought P.G.
Wodehouse's butler, Jeeves, to our TV screens and was once expected to be spoken
of in the same breath as Sir John Gielgud and Sir Alec Guinness, died a
penniless alcoholic.

Now, nearly 40 years after his death on the Channel Island of Sark, his
daughter, Tessa, has spurned the offer of a collection of memorabilia that pays
tribute to her father.

It was created many years ago by one of Dennis's very few girlfriends.

Now aged 78, Christine Marotti, a former PA to interior designer Dudley Poplak,
tells me she wrote to Tessa Burnett, whose husband, Hugh, is a deputy lieutenant
of East Sussex, offering her the book of photos and clippings but got no reply.

a€?I then telephoned in case she hadn't received my letter, but she was
extremely frosty and when I asked if she would like to have the album, she told
me in no uncertain words: a€oeNo, I definitely would not!a€a€[0/00]' Christine
tells me.

Tessa, it is thought, was never reconciled with her father after he began to
sink into a decline and it emerged that he was both a drunk and gay, in the days
when homosexuals could be jailed.

Says Christine: `I just thought that after all these years, a member of his
family might like to have my album and I managed to track down Tessa, but she
was not at all happy to talk to me.'

Christine met Price when she was 17 -- he was then 36 -- after she went to get
his signature at a stage door and he drove her home.

They saw each other as friends for several years after that, and Christine
gradually began to be aware that their relationship could only be platonic
because she realised he was gay.

`In those days you could go to jail if you were found out, but I gradually
realised which way the cookie crumbled,' she says.

`I am very disappointed that Tessa did not want my album of her father. He was a
truly great actor, who was very much underrated.'

Mrs Burnett declined to comment.

BY GUM, TV HANNAH GETS HITCHED

Not even screenwriter Richard Curtis could have invented the hilarious scenario
at the wedding of TV presenter Hannah Sandling and Bruno Varela.

For just as the lady registrar began to pronounce: `Do You Bruno take
Hannaha€[0/00].a€[0/00].a€[0/00].' there was an unexpected rattle.

`The registrar's false teeth shot on to the table in front of us,' says Hannah,
35, who married on the beach at Punta del Este, Uruguay. `I couldn't believe my
eyes and nearly cracked a rib trying to stop myself laughing.' Hannah, a
previous love of property heir Archie Keswick, has been with ranch owner Bruno
-- son of legendary Hello! magazine fixer the Marquesa de Varela -- for three
years.

The ceremony was followed by a church service, which Hannah and her father
Robert got to ten minutes before the guests.

`So Daddy and I went sightseeing in the car. I was wearing a full-lace Rosa
Clara dress and looked like a true princess -- so we did get some strange
looks,' she tells me.

BEA'S SHARP MEMORY OF DIANA

AS the spirited daughter of Princess Diana's closest friend, she grew up in one
of London's most fascinating salons and regularly saw Prince William and Prince
Harry as they were growing up.

These days, Beatriz Nasr is a full-time mother and no longer in contact with the
princes -- though she hasn't lost her sense of fun, as her elaborate costume
shows.

`It's one of those things,' says Beatriz, whose mother Lucia was a confidante of
Diana when her father Paulo Tarso Flecha de Lima was Brazil's ambassador to the
UK.

`Sadly, we are no longer in touch,' she adds about William and Harry. `But I
wish them well and I'm glad to see them happy.'

Diana drew great consolation from the de Limas aft er her marriage collapsed,
and she would often stay at the family's Mayfair home. `I went home at Christmas
and we all reminisced about Diana -- my sister Isobel and I were very close to
her,' adds Beatriz, who is married to investment banker Mounzer Nasr.

Beatriz was speaking at the Contemporary Art Society's gala in Smithfield.

`My parents are now retired and life has to move on,' adds Beatriz, who supports
charities the Bush and Print Room theatres. `These days, I am a housewife and
full-time mother.'

THE Duchess of Cambridge's appearance alongside her stepmother-in-law Camilla
and the Queen at Fortnum & Mason is seen as a triumph. Next week, Kate will
again fall in alongside the monarch -- this time with Prince Philip -- on a trip
to Leicester.

Some see it as curious that the Queen asks her granddaughter-in-law to accompany
her and not one of her `blood' grandchildren. But the duchess's inclusion is not
an attempt to garnish some of her glamour on staid royal events. Far from it.
`The Queen is above all that, longevity has given her a unique appeal of her
own. After all, you never saw her with Princess Diana,' I am told.

In fact, Kate's presence has more to do with the view at Buckingham Palace that
the duchess can learn from the Queen. I am told the Palace `suggested' Kate
might like to join Her Majesty on next week's jubilee awayday.

`There is a feeling that Kate's demeanour might benefit from time spent with the
Queen,' I am told. Where have we heard all that before? It is not the first time
femme fatale Sally Farmiloe has been on the prowl for a leading man.

Best remembered for her affair with Jeffrey Archer, actress Sally wants a
handsome chap to play her younger lover in farce Carry On Brighton, at both the
Brighton and Edinburgh festivals.

`What terrible luck, yet again my leading man has been nabbed,' she says. `The
lovely Daniel Simpson is to be transformed into that dreadful Norwegian mass
murderer [Anders Behring Breivik] for a TV drama.

`I need a gorgeous man, but he needs to be able to be very camp and to kiss moi,
whom he marries in the play.' Steady on! TORY MP George Eustice thought he was
among friends when he addressed a raucous gathering at the free-market Institute
of Economic Affairs. Addressing guests, he said he was just as Eurosceptic as
they, but he did not want Britain to exit the EU. `What we need is an ever
closer union,' he said before adding: `No, whoops, er, I mean an ever looser
union!' Guffaws erupted. `That was a Freudian slip,' he protested as pandemonium
erupted. Betting tycoon and UKIP treasurer Stuart Wheeler told him: `You need a
reality check -- we are never going to get powers back from Brussels.'

ps PRINCE Edward and the Countess of Wessex will today hitch a lift on a
helicopter hired by Montserrat's volcanic observatory for the weekly check on
the bubbling lava and sulphur dioxide spewing at a rate of 343 tonnes-a-day from
the volcano which has devoured 60 per cent of the 40 square mile Caribbean
island. For the inspection, the helicopter gets right into the dome -- a quite
spectacular sight and in great contrast to inspecting a guard of honour,
greeting some of the 5,000 remaining residents or having lunch with local VIPs.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 2, 2012 Friday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 683 words


&#10002;Into the palace of varieties that is the European parliament in
Brussels. Richard Howitt, MEP for the east of England, is on his feet. Howitt is
concerned about the spying activities of the authorities in Colombia against
those who highlight human rights abuses. Previously Karel de Gucht, the European
trade commissioner, promised to investigate. It's a hot topic. On Monday, the
office of the UN commissioner for human rights in Colombia reported evidence of
continued illegal spying. What's happening, demanded Howitt. Hold on, said De
Gucht, theatrically whipping out his mobile phone. "I am consulting my own
intelligence services," he said. He then read out a text message suspiciously
close to the Colombian government's line that the problem is solved because the
intelligence service has been closed. Then he slipped his phone back into his
pocket and moved on to other business. The commissioner for comedy. Truly
statesmanlike don't you think?

&#10002;Here, meanwhile, we see indications that the prime minister has trouble
satisfying his rightwing partners. A revolt on immigration here, a broadside
about the 50% rate of tax there. Nonstop grumbling about his emasculation by the
Lib Dems. And now, from the youthful right, an apparent defection. Because he
has his ear to the ground, he will have heard of Alexandra Swann. She did
various helping-out things at the Commons for his colleague David Morris, MP for
Morecambe and Lunesdale, but more notably she served until the last general
election as deputy chair of the go-ahead youth wing Conservative Future. And
now, she has let her party membership lapse: destination Ukip. "I have been a
libertarian for a long time," she tells us. "I have been a Conservative member
since I was 16 and campaigning since I was 14. But I don't know if I have ever
been a true Conservative. Ukip is more along the lines I believe in." Dave's
fab, she says, but "because of the coalition, the Conservative party is in a
difficult position. There are a lot of unconservative policies." As for Nigel
Farage: "I think he is fantastic." Well, she's young. And it's all relative,
isn't it?

&#10002;And a message to the PM. While you're putting the world to rights,
bullying Labour Ed, lecturing Europe on human rights, could you have a word with
your man Steve Hilton. All very well for him to be careering around Downing
Street with his shoes and socks off, but the other day we encountered him in
Benugo, the trendy bar of the British Film Institute, having an ale with a male
companion. Shoeless, on a tall stool with his trademark scruffy trainers
abandoned on the floor next to his courier bag. What about the other drinkers?
Don't they have human rights too?

&#10002;Amid the swirl of hostility and invective whizzing around Twitter and
the internet, signs that the rich and famous are ready to fight back. According
to the Stage newspaper, the writer Susan Hill, author of The Woman in Black, has
had enough. Hill told an audience at the British Library of an email she
received. "Hi Sue," it said. "I'm doing your book, we have read it and I just
want to say it's the most boring crap I ever read, so thanks for ruining my
life." To which she replied: "Well, somebody had to." Go Susan. That's the
spirit.

&#10002;And finally, a message to the lady with the shoulder-length brown hair
who took to broadcasting the worries of her parliamentary master "Nick" to the
top deck of the 27 bus in west London over a torturous half-hour earlier this
week. A few things to say: one is that it was presumptuous to keep parroting the
mantra "your constituency seat is safe". More so to keep describing it as an
"easy seat", even if that did seem necessary - from what passengers around could
hear - to calm the poor man down. Our "election plan will work", she said. And
soon, she promised, she would reveal to him "the structure of our campaign".
Sooner rather than later, by the sound of things. And if it can be done in a way
that doesn't tear a deck-load of commuters away from their iPods, so much the
better.

Diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
