
                               1 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:29 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3733 words


10.20: Jenny Jones, the delightful archaeologist who contested the London
mayoralty for the Greens, has beaten Brian Paddick, the LibDem, in the battle
for third place. Jenny is a proper radical, who extends the logic of her
politics to the EU, clocking it for the racket it is. She is a strong supporter
of the campaign for an In/Out referendum. It will be interesting to see whether
the BBC, which always treats the LibDems generously, can come up with a formula
that justifies their being bracketed with the big two rather than with the
Greens and UKIP. I'm sure it'll manage.

9.55: Why do you suppose that, despite all the promises, most councils have
stopped counting on Thursday night? Do you imagine that such a change was
proposed by elected councillors? Of course not: like most policies, it was
designed by and for the permanent staff (qv fortnightly bin collections, chief
executive remuneration etc).

It's a small but telling example of what our political system has become.
Elected representatives are the front men for the standing nomenklatura. Whether
it's a councillor defending the current system of undemocratic policing ('our
chief constable here is an absolutely first rate man') or a Chancellor defending
UKREP's decision to make Britain liable for bailing out the euro('I got a good
deal for Britain'), we see where true power lies.

8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:29 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3728 words


10.20: Jenny Jones, the delightful archaeologist who contested the London
mayoralty for the Greens, has beaten Brian Paddick, the LibDem, in the battle
for third place. Jenny is a proper radical, who extends the logic of her
politics to the EU, clocking it for the racket it is. She is a strong supporter
of the campaign for an In/Out referendum. It will be interesting to see whether
the BBC, which always treats the LibDems generously, can come up with a formula
that justifies their being bracketed with the big two rather than with the
Greens and UKIP. I'm sure it'll manage.

9.55: Why do you suppose that, despite all the promises, most councils have
stopped counting on Thursday night? Do you imagine that such a change was
proposed by elected councillors? Of course not: like most policies, it was
designed by and for the permanent staff (qv fortnightly bin collections, chief
executive remuneration etc).

It's a small but telling example of what our political system has become.
Elected representatives are the front men for the standing nomenklatura. Whether
it's a councillor defending the current system of undemocratic policing ('our
chief constable here is an absolutely first rate man') or a Chancellor defending
UKREP's decision to make Britain liable for bailing out the euro('I got a good
deal for Britain'), we see where true power lies.

8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:00 PM GMT

'Bonkers' Lib Dem policies must be scrapped, Conservative MPs warn David
Cameron;
David Cameron must scrap "bonkers" Liberal Democrat demands like gay marriage
and Lords reform after bruising defeats in the local elections, senior
Conservatives have warned.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words


One leading backbencher, Peter Bone, even claimed the results spelled "the
beginning of the end of the Coaltion", as MPs claimed their alliance with the
Lib Dems had cost them 400 council seats.

The Prime Minister is likely to come under pressure to change direction from the
right of his party, as the UK Independence Party gained its biggest ever share
of the vote in local elections.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, insisted the results were in the "normal
range" for a mid-term Government and would not have led to an overall victory
for Labour in a general election.

He also insisted it was not a "matter of going right or left", but more than a
dozen Conservative MPs broke ranks to criticise the Government.

Mark Pritchard, a senior member of the 1922 backbench committee and MP for The
Wrekin, issued a strong warning to the Conservative leadership to pay attention
to his party faithfuls.

"Number 10 need to listen to their Conservative backbenchers and the
Conservative Party grass roots more often, and to their minority and junior
Coalition partners less often," he said. "It would be misguided to just put this
down to mid-term blues."

Tim Yeo, the longest-serving MP in the House of Commons and MP for South
Suffolk, also said the Prime Minister needed to stand up more to the Liberal
Democrats.

"Voters are getting impatient and we need to talk about issues that matter to
them," he said. "Top of the list that doesn't matter is House of Lords reform.

"I would like the Prime Minister to be able to say to Nick Clegg: I'm very
sorry, mate, but we'll put this one a bit further down the agenda for now.

"For Lords reform to be top of the list in the Queen's Speech next week, most
voters will think he has gone bonkers."

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, echoed these comments with a plea for Mr
Cameron to drop "barmy lib Dem policies" like gay marriage and Lords reform that
risk alienating traditional party members.

Eleanor Laing, a former shadow minister and Conservative MP for Epping Forest,
also blamed the Liberal Democrats for losing the party votes with their "student
politics" of green policies and lords reform.

The first Conservative to come out arguing for a swing to the right was Gerald
Howarth, a defence minister who served in Margaret Thatcher's government.

"There are issues, for example, like the proposals for gay marriage," he told
the BBC. "A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying 'I am a lifelong
Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being proceeded with?'"

There was also discontent among MPs who saw their local councils lose overall
control to Labour.

Gary Streeter, MP for Devon South West, said many voters did not perceive the
Government to be "competent", as Plymouth City Council fell to Labour.

Meanwhile, Robert Halfon, a member of the modernising 301 Group and MP for
Harlow, which also swung to Labour council control, said Conservatives needed to
"show once again we're the party of aspiration, opportunity and fairness".

Sources in the Liberal Democrats said it would not make sense to the Coalition
to swing to the right when hundreds of seats had been lost to Labour and barely
any to UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:00 PM GMT

If local elections result was repeated in 2015, Labour would be in power;
The purpose of local elections is, of course, to determine who runs local
councils. We should be cautious of treating them as glorified national opinion
polls, and there are many perils associated with using them to project general
election results. Nonetheless, there are a number of vital clues which
Thursday's results offer us about which way the political wind is blowing.

BYLINE: By Stuart Wilks-Heeg Director, Democratic Audit

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 538 words


First, the national share of the vote obtained by the three main parties
confirms the story told by recent opinion polls. There is now a clear gap
between Labour, who have gained 38 per cent of the votes cast, and the
Conservatives, whose share was 31 per cent. While the Liberal Democrats fare
better in local elections than they do in national opinion polls, their 16 per
cent share of yesterday's votes leaves them far short of where they were in the
run-up to the 2010 General Election.

Second, the colour-coded maps of council control tell an important story. One of
the core reasons the 2010 General Election delivered a 'hung parliament' is the
growing geographical concentration of both Labour and Conservative support.
While Labour lost a number of key seats in southern and eastern England in 2010,
their vote held up well in the north and even increased in Scotland. The failure
of the Conservative to win enough of their target seats in north west England
was crucial to them falling short of an overall majority. The 2011 local
elections confirmed the broad north-south polarisation in party political
support

But the 2012 results are different, because Labour are doing well everywhere in
northern metropolitan areas, in Wales, Scotland, London, and in a number of
their key southern targets. Labour's gains in places like Harlow, Thurrock,
Southampton, Exeter and Plymouth will be hugely encouraging for them.

Meanwhile, the Conservatives have a big city problem. Long out of contention in
places like Manchester and Liverpool, the Tories had hoped to win in some
suburban parts of Merseyside and Greater Manchester in 2010. That Labour
yesterday took control of Sefton in Merseyside, a hung council since 1986 and
Tory-led prior to that, underlines the scale of the challenge the Conservatives
now face.

It goes without saying that the results pose the biggest problem for the Liberal
Democrats. Decades of Lib Dems campaigning to build up council bases as
foundations for winning parliamentary seats has been undone in two years. If
there is a silver lining for the Liberal Democrats, it is that they have
generally performed best in areas of the south where they currently have MPs,
notably Cheltenham, Eastleigh and Portsmouth.

These results clearly shift the political balance in Labour's favour and, if
they were to be repeated across Great Britain in a general election, would
almost certainly produce a Labour majority. Although this is a very big 'if'
three years short of an election, at which far-reaching boundary changes are
scheduled to be implemented.

But the biggest impact of these local election results on the next general
election may be how they influence the politics of the coalition over the next
couple of years. Demands from Conservative MPs to move to the right to counter
the rise in the UKIP vote are being made alongside those from Liberal Democrat
MPs seeking to shift the coalition to the left. Not only will this prove an
impossible political balancing act, it will also open up obvious opportunities
for Labour.

Stuart Wilks-Heeg is a director of independent research organisation Democratic
Audit and a senior lecturer at Liverpool University

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:56 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3629 words


9.55: Why do you suppose that, despite all the promises, most councils have
stopped counting on Thursday night? Do you imagine that such a change was
proposed by elected councillors? Of course not: like most policies, it was
designed by and for the permanent staff qv fortnightly bin collections, chief
executive remuneration etc).

It's a small but telling example of what our political system has become.
Elected representatives are the front men for the standing nomenklatura. Whether
it's a councillor defending the current system of undemocratic policing ('our
chief constable here is an absolutely first rate man') or a Chancellor defending
UKREP's decision to make Britain liable for bailing out the euro('I got a good
deal for Britain'), we see where true power lies.

8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre! 					

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:11 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3496 words


8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:11 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3495 words


8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:11 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3495 words


8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well
thenobviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to
every pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losingvotes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events.Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision,viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:11 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3496 words


8.31: Alright, my earlier predictions were off in one respect. As the results
have come in, Labour's position has improved. Not least in Scotland - which,
Iain Martin says, is good news for the Union. I still can't imagine Ed Miliband
being prime minister. (Can anyone after watching this?) But I have to accept
that, on most definitions, that terrifying prospect has moved a lot closer.

5.36: 'Hello, is that Daniel Hannan? We'd like to have you on our programme as a
drooling Right-wing extremist, preferably homophobic.' Alright, that's not
exactly how they put it, but they might as well. I've had three broadcasters on
the phone this afternoon. The conversations go like this. 'We were wondering
what lessons you think the Tories should be drawing from the election results.'
Well, you can read them on my blog. 'Yeah, so in particular, d'you think David
Cameron has got the right message on issues like gay marriage and Lords reform.'
As you'll see, I don't really think the election was about those things. 'Right,
well let me just have a quick word with my editor and I'll call you back'.

4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:14 PM GMT

Conservatism is doomed. Head for the hills

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 657 words


So a perfect night for Labour - victories for pretty much every candidate except
Ken Livingstone (probably), whom party MPs and activists have hardly been
falling over themselves to endorse in recent weeks.

And so the tragi-comic King Ralph-like scenario of Ed Miliband actually becoming
the heir to Palmerston and Salisbury is now, bizarrely, closer, unless the
Government can pull off a serious economic miracle before 2015 (and assuming the
faeces-gun that is the hacking scandal does not land a direct hit on the Prime
Minister).

For someone universally seen as a clot, Miliband is doing extremely well at the
thing that really matters for a politician; except for Bradford, where the
Respect Party continues to make gains, Labour have had a superb night, helped by
significant numbers of Tories drifting towards Ukip and even larger numbers
staying at home.

Clearly, enough small-c conservatives feel disenchanted with the government to
such an extent that they are willing to put Labour in power to punish them, for
that is the certain outcome of the Right splitting. Ukip can either merge with
the Tories, or supplant them, and the latter is fairly unlikely without any
grass roots, so fundamentally important to a party but perhaps more so to a
party which, by its very nature, is at risk of being colonised by oddballs. To
be fair to Ukip, they are very vigilant about extremists, and Baroness Warsi's
comments were pretty crass, as well as mathematically interesting. (The Ukip
spokesman who called her a rather rude word has an Asian wife and mixed-race
daughter, so it's understandable why he might resent the comparison with a party
that believes in the separation of races).

Being a pessimist by nature, I'm not sure it's simply a matter of the
Conservatives becoming more conservative; certainly their interest in things
like gay marriage look like middle-class problems when people are desperately
worried about their jobs and homes, and on crime, immigration and Europe the
public are more Right-wing than any major party by some distance, but the
British public are small-c conservative in the same way they are Christian - in
theory but not in practise.

In fact among the under-30s or even under-40s people have been detached from
conservative ideas in almost the same way as they have from religion. Bear in
mind that for 40 years the 93 per cent of people who were educated in the state
sector have been, effectively, indoctrinated by the Left's ideas. For two
generations and more people have grown used to the idea that most things are the
state's responsibility, and once this is established it becomes very hard to
reverse, especially as so many people are on the state's payroll (and people
come to forget that lots of things could be done without the state. As E G West
noted, literacy levels were very high before the Education Act - that is
something that would just never be taught in a state school).

Added to this, as Jonathan Haidt recently put it, liberalism has had a total
moral monopoly in the intellectual sphere for decades, which is why the
Conservative Party finally decided that the only way it could win was to abandon
conservatism in the same that New Labour abandoned socialism.

I think that was deeply flawed and morally wrong, because I believe that if the
Conservative Party does not follow the vision of Edmund Burke then it is
nothing. But I'm not entirely sure that a truly conservative party could be a
serious force right now.

I say right now because in the long term conservatism always wins; socialist
countries run out of money and liberal societies run out of people. I suppose
the best hope is that, thanks to Michael Gove's reforms (although initially
started by Lord Adonis) the next generation receive a better education to my
one, and are therefore more receptive to the nuanced, paradox-heavy arguments
behind conservatism. Until then we may as well just all hibernate for a few
decades.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:14 PM GMT

Conservatism is doomed. Head for the hills

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 657 words


So a perfect night for Labour - victories for pretty much every candidate except
Ken Livingstone (probably), whom party MPs and activists have hardly been
falling over themselves to endorse in recent weeks.

And so the tragi-comic King Ralph-like scenario of Ed Miliband actually becoming
the heir to Palmerston and Salisbury is now, bizarrely, closer, unless the
Government can pull off a serious economic miracle before 2015 (and assuming the
faeces-gun that is the hacking scandal does not land a direct hit on the Prime
Minister).

For someone universally seen as a clot, Miliband is doing extremely well at the
thing that really matters for a politician; except for Bradford, where the
Respect Party continues to make gains, Labour have had a superb night, helped by
significant numbers of Tories drifting towards Ukip and even larger numbers
staying at home.

Clearly, enough small-c conservatives feel disenchanted with the government to
such an extent that they are willing to put Labour in power to punish them, for
that is the certain outcome of the Right splitting. Ukip can either merge with
the Tories, or supplant them, and the latter is fairly unlikely without any
grass roots, so fundamentally important to a party but perhaps more so to a
party which, by its very nature, is at risk of being colonised by oddballs. To
be fair to Ukip, they are very vigilant about extremists, and Baroness Warsi's
comments were pretty crass, as well as mathematically interesting. (The Ukip
spokesman who called her a rather rude word has an Asian wife and mixed-race
daughter, so it's understandable why he might resent the comparison with a party
that believes in the separation of races).

Being a pessimist by nature, I'm not sure it's simply a matter of the
Conservatives becoming more conservative; certainly their interest in things
like gay marriage look like middle-class problems when people are desperately
worried about their jobs and homes, and on crime, immigration and Europe the
public are more Right-wing than any major party by some distance, but the
British public are small-c conservative in the same way they are Christian - in
theory but not in practise.

In fact among the under-30s or even under-40s people have been detached from
conservative ideas in almost the same way as they have from religion. Bear in
mind that for 40 years the 93 per cent of people who were educated in the state
sector have been, effectively, indoctrinated by the Left's ideas. For two
generations and more people have grown used to the idea that most things are the
state's responsibility, and once this is established it becomes very hard to
reverse, especially as so many people are on the state's payroll (and people
come to forget that lots of things could be done without the state. As E G West
noted, literacy levels were very high before the Education Act - that is
something that would just never be taught in a state school).

Added to this, as Jonathan Haidt recently put it, liberalism has had a total
moral monopoly in the intellectual sphere for decades, which is why the
Conservative Party finally decided that the only way it could win was to abandon
conservatism in the same that New Labour abandoned socialism.

I think that was deeply flawed and morally wrong, because I believe that if the
Conservative Party does not follow the vision of Edmund Burke then it is
nothing. But I'm not entirely sure that a truly conservative party could be a
serious force right now.

I say right now because in the long term conservatism always wins; socialist
countries run out of money and liberal societies run out of people. I suppose
the best hope is that, thanks to Michael Gove's reforms (although initially
started by Lord Adonis) the next generation receive a better education to my
one, and are therefore more receptive to the nuanced, paradox-heavy arguments
behind conservatism. Until then we may as well just all hibernate for a few
decades.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:14 PM GMT

Conservatism is doomed. Head for the hills

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 657 words


So a perfect night for Labour - victories for pretty much every candidate except
Ken Livingstone (probably), whom party MPs and activists have hardly been
falling over themselves to endorse in recent weeks.

And so the tragi-comic King Ralph-like scenario of Ed Miliband actually becoming
the heir to Palmerston and Salisbury is now, bizarrely, closer, unless the
Government can pull off a serious economic miracle before 2015 (and assuming the
faeces-gun that is the hacking scandal does not land a direct hit on the Prime
Minister).

For someone universally seen as a clot, Miliband is doing extremely well at the
thing that really matters for a politician; except for Bradford, where the
Respect Party continues to make gains, Labour have had a superb night, helped by
significant numbers of Tories drifting towards Ukip and even larger numbers
staying at home.

Clearly, enough small-c conservatives feel disenchanted with the government to
such an extent that they are willing to put Labour in power to punish them, for
that is the certain outcome of the Right splitting. Ukip can either merge with
the Tories, or supplant them, and the latter is fairly unlikely without any
grass roots, so fundamentally important to a party but perhaps more so to a
party which, by its very nature, is at risk of being colonised by oddballs. To
be fair to Ukip, they are very vigilant about extremists, and Baroness Warsi's
comments were pretty crass, as well as mathematically interesting. (The Ukip
spokesman who called her a rather rude word has an Asian wife and mixed-race
daughter, so it's understandable why he might resent the comparison with a party
that believes in the separation of races).

Being a pessimist by nature, I'm not sure it's simply a matter of the
Conservatives becoming more conservative; certainly their interest in things
like gay marriage look like middle-class problems when people are desperately
worried about their jobs and homes, and on crime, immigration and Europe the
public are more Right-wing than any major party by some distance, but the
British public are small-c conservative in the same way they are Christian - in
theory but not in practise.

In fact among the under-30s or even under-40s people have been detached from
conservative ideas in almost the same way as they have from religion. Bear in
mind that for 40 years the 93 per cent of people who were educated in the state
sector have been, effectively, indoctrinated by the Left's ideas. For two
generations and more people have grown used to the idea that most things are the
state's responsibility, and once this is established it becomes very hard to
reverse, especially as so many people are on the state's payroll (and people
come to forget that lots of things could be done without the state. As E G West
noted, literacy levels were very high before the Education Act - that is
something that would just never be taught in a state school).

Added to this, as Jonathan Haidt recently put it, liberalism has had a total
moral monopoly in the intellectual sphere for decades, which is why the
Conservative Party finally decided that the only way it could win was to abandon
conservatism in the same that New Labour abandoned socialism.

I think that was deeply flawed and morally wrong, because I believe that if the
Conservative Party does not follow the vision of Edmund Burke then it is
nothing. But I'm not entirely sure that a truly conservative party could be a
serious force right now.

I say right now because in the long term conservatism always wins; socialist
countries run out of money and liberal societies run out of people. I suppose
the best hope is that, thanks to Michael Gove's reforms (although initially
started by Lord Adonis) the next generation receive a better education to my
one, and are therefore more receptive to the nuanced, paradox-heavy arguments
behind conservatism. Until then we may as well just all hibernate for a few
decades.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:31 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3306 words


4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:31 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3306 words


4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:31 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3305 words


4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well
thenobviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to
every pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losingvotes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events.Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision,viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:31 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3306 words


4.21: Brendan O'Neill is right to draw attention to the 68 per cent abstention
rate. It's preposterous to hear spokesmen talking of 'a good night for Labour',
'a big "No" to elected mayors' and so on. I wonder, though, whether he isn't
overdoing the self-obsessed Twitterati and sullen Morlocks thing. The reason so
few people vote at local elections is, when you think about it, rather obvious:
the cost/benefit ratio is unappealing. The effort of filling in a ballot paper
is unlikely to be matched by any tangible consequential impact on your life.
This isn't just because politicians are dull, or because people are cynical.
It's because English local government is powerless, and elected representatives
have far less influence over our lives than the Child Support Agency, the
Learning and Skills Council, the Highways Agency, the Health and Safety
Executive, the European Commission etc.

Did you vote yesterday? If so, ask yourself honestly what you thought you were
achieving. Did you imagine that your ballot would lead to lower taxes, better
schools, more police? Or were you, rather, voting from a sense of civic duty?
One of the reasons that participation declines with age is that older voters
formed the habit in the days when elections still mattered. The problem is
remediable. Give local councils real power, and voting will again become a
rational pursuit.

4.05: First rule of elections: let voters know your party's name.

4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep the office. The present mayor, Peter
Davies, is a relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is
the father, incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents
the English Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town
councillors (whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and
town hall employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:05 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3058 words


4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep it. The preset mayor, Peter Davies, is a
relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is the father,
incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents the English
Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town councillors
(whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and town hall
employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:05 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3058 words


4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep it. The preset mayor, Peter Davies, is a
relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is the father,
incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents the English
Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town councillors
(whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and town hall
employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:05 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3057 words


4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep it. The preset mayor, Peter Davies, is a
relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is the father,
incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents the English
Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town councillors
(whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and town hall
employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well
thenobviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to
every pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losingvotes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events.Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision,viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:05 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 3058 words


4.00: Many congratulations to Conservatives in Adur, whose company I enjoyed on
Saturday, and who now hold 25 out of 29 council seats in that handsome corner of
Sussex.

3.45: See the perceptiveness, once again, of Milton Friedman's phrase 'the
tyranny of the status quo'. Outside Bristol, most English cities have voted
against having elected mayors. But in Doncaster, which already has one, people
have voted by 62 per cent to 38 to keep it. The preset mayor, Peter Davies, is a
relentless foe of public spending and political correctness, and is the father,
incidentally, of the Conservative MP, Philip Davies. He represents the English
Democrats. Those seeking the end of the system included several town councillors
(whose overall numbers and expense regimes Mr Davies had cut) and town hall
employees (likewise).

3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 3:45 PM GMT

Could Ken still win?

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 199 words


According to the Guardian, Ken Livingstone's team is privately conceding defeat.
If you look at the London Elects website, which shows how the count is going so
far, you can see why: Boris Johnson is well ahead, with 44 per cent of first
preference votes, against just 40 per cent for Ken.

But hang on - the second preference votes haven't been added up. Is Ken being
too hasty (or somehow devious) by briefing that he expects to lose? Here's how
things stand at the moment:

Boris Johnson, for the Conservatives: 44 per cent

Ken Livingstone, for Labour: 40 per cent

Jenny Jones, for the Green Party: 4 per cent

Brian Paddick, for the Lib Dems: 4 per cent

Siobhan Benita, independent: 4 per cent

Lawrence James Webb, for Ukip (but on the ballot paper he hilariously appeared
as of the Fresh Choice for London party): 2 per cent

Carlos Cortgilia, for the BNP: 1 per cent

So that's 15 per cent to be redistributed between Ken and Boris. To win, Ken has
to get second preferences at a rate of 2:1, which seems unlikely. But how many
people voting Green are really likely to have voted Conservative for their
second preference, I wonder? Worryingly, this could be closer than we imagine.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 3:45 PM GMT

Could Ken still win?

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 199 words


According to the Guardian, Ken Livingstone's team is privately conceding defeat.
If you look at the London Elects website, which shows how the count is going so
far, you can see why: Boris Johnson is well ahead, with 44 per cent of first
preference votes, against just 40 per cent for Ken.

But hang on - the second preference votes haven't been added up. Is Ken being
too hasty (or somehow devious) by briefing that he expects to lose? Here's how
things stand at the moment:

Boris Johnson, for the Conservatives: 44 per cent

Ken Livingstone, for Labour: 40 per cent

Jenny Jones, for the Green Party: 4 per cent

Brian Paddick, for the Lib Dems: 4 per cent

Siobhan Benita, independent: 4 per cent

Lawrence James Webb, for Ukip (but on the ballot paper he hilariously appeared
as of the Fresh Choice for London party): 2 per cent

Carlos Cortgilia, for the BNP: 1 per cent

So that's 15 per cent to be redistributed between Ken and Boris. To win, Ken has
to get second preferences at a rate of 2:1, which seems unlikely. But how many
people voting Green are really likely to have voted Conservative for their
second preference, I wonder? Worryingly, this could be closer than we imagine.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 3:45 PM GMT

Could Ken still win?

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 199 words


According to the Guardian, Ken Livingstone's team is privately conceding defeat.
If you look at the London Elects website, which shows how the count is going so
far, you can see why: Boris Johnson is well ahead, with 44 per cent of first
preference votes, against just 40 per cent for Ken.

But hang on - the second preference votes haven't been added up. Is Ken being
too hasty (or somehow devious) by briefing that he expects to lose? Here's how
things stand at the moment:

Boris Johnson, for the Conservatives: 44 per cent

Ken Livingstone, for Labour: 40 per cent

Jenny Jones, for the Green Party: 4 per cent

Brian Paddick, for the Lib Dems: 4 per cent

Siobhan Benita, independent: 4 per cent

Lawrence James Webb, for Ukip (but on the ballot paper he hilariously appeared
as of the Fresh Choice for London party): 2 per cent

Carlos Cortgilia, for the BNP: 1 per cent

So that's 15 per cent to be redistributed between Ken and Boris. To win, Ken has
to get second preferences at a rate of 2:1, which seems unlikely. But how many
people voting Green are really likely to have voted Conservative for their
second preference, I wonder? Worryingly, this could be closer than we imagine.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 3:36 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2914 words


3.35: LibDems defeated in Edinburgh by a man in a penguin suit called Professor
Pongoo. Otherwise, it's a toss-up between Labour and SNP north of the border.

2.15: Delighted that Bristol, against the trend, has decided on an elected
mayor. When Britain joined the EEC in 1973, that beautiful city found itself -
like Glasgow and Liverpool -  on the wrong side of the country. It perhaps coped
better than the others. Still, it ought really to be England's gateway to the
Anglosphere.

2.05: Look, I don't want to be a bore about this, but, of those who had taken
the trouble to register to vote, two out of three declined to cast their ballots
yesterday. English local government is the weakest in Europe, making abstention
a rational choice. Although Eric Pickles has, to his credit, started to empower
local authorities, the problem will endure until we make councils largely
self-financing.

1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well
thenobviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to
every pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losingvotes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events.Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision,viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:57 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2756 words


1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in.¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:57 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2756 words


1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in.¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:57 PM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2756 words


1.35: Why did Boris do so much better, and London UKIP so much worse, than their
provincial counterparts? Here'sone reason.

12.00: One consequence of all these Labour councils might be a return of skewed
priorities. At the end of the 1980s, some councils deliberately withdrew popular
services and blamed 'the cuts'. Will people see through it this time?

11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:49 PM GMT

Elections: at a glance;
Key upsets for the Conservatives came in areas of the south, where Labour had
not expected to take council seats.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 439 words


LABOUR GAINS

Labour has already gained 507 seats and more than 20 new councils. The
Conservatives are down 301 seats, while the Liberal Democrats have lost 145
seats. Tories say they are prepared to lose more than 400 seats and up to 750.

BIG TORY UPSETS

There were big disappointments for the Conservatives in Southampton, Great
Yarmouth, Plymouth, Harlow and Thurrock, as unexpected areas of the south fell
into Labour hands.

POOR TURNOUT

A poor turnout of 32 per cent makes it difficult to tell how a general election
would play out. Some wards reported that fewer than 20 per cent of voters turned
up.

UKIP TRIUMPH

UKIP had its best local election ever, as its share of the vote was five points
higher than a year ago. It has translated this into significantly more council
seats, but the party claimed a significant scalp when it ousted the Tory leader
of Tunbridge Wells.

RESPECT VICTORY

Labour did not have an unmitigated success, as its leader of Bradford council
lost his seat to George Galloway's Respect party. Conservatives are also
pointing out that the opposition did not gain 40 per cent of the vote - the
supposed amount required for a majority in a general election.

TORY BACKBENCH UNREST

Some Conservative backbenchers and losing council chiefs are unhappy and blaming
the Lib Dems for watering down Conservative polices. Two ministers, Gerald
Harmsworth and Damian Green, plus MPs Gary Streeter, Martin Vickers and Bernard
Jenkin, have so far expressed concern that the Government needs to do better.

NICK CLEGG UNDER PRESSURE

Pressure is also growing on Nick Clegg to do more than say he is "really sad"
about the results. Lembit Opik, the former MP, has repeated calls for him to
stand down as party leader.

ELECTED MAYOR DEFEAT

Four cities - Bradford, Manchester, Coventry and Nottingham - rejected the idea
of elected mayors in a blow to David Cameron's plans to boost local democracy.
Birmingham elected a Labour mayor, while the Glasgow results are not yet in.

BORIS WELL AHEAD IN LONDON

Boris Johnson appears to be well ahead in the race to be London mayor, according
to the London Elect website. Polls shows Mr Johnson on around 45 per cent, Ken
Livingstone at about 39 per cent and Liberal Democrat candidate Brian Paddick
way down in 5th at 4 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:34 PM GMT

Elections: at a glance;
Key upsets for the Conservatives came in areas of the south, where Labour had
not expected to take council seats.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 355 words


- Labour has already gained 507 seats and more than 20 new councils. The
Conservatives are down 301 seats, while the Liberal Democrats have lost 145
seats. Tories say they are prepared to lose more than 400 seats and up to 750.

- There were big disappointments for the Conservatives in Southampton, Great
Yarmouth, Plymouth, Harlow and Thurrock, as unexpected areas of the south fell
into Labour hands.

- A poor turnout of 32 per cent makes it difficult to tell how a general
election would play out. Some wards reported that fewer than 20 per cent of
voters turned up.

- UKIP had its best local election ever, as its share of the vote was five
points higher than a year ago. It has translated this into significantly more
council seats, but the party claimed a significant scalp when it ousted the Tory
leader of Tunbridge Wells.

- Labour did not have an unmitigated success, as its leader of Bradford council
lost his seat to George Galloway's Respect party. Conservatives are also
pointing out that the opposition did not gain 40 per cent of the vote - the
supposed amount required for a majority in a general election.

- Some Conservative backbenchers and losing council chiefs are unhappy and
blaming the Lib Dems for watering down Conservative polices. Two ministers,
Gerald Harmsworth and Damian Green, plus MPs Gary Streeter, Martin Vickers and
Bernard Jenkin, have so far expressed concern that the Government needs to do
better.

- Pressure is also growing on Nick Clegg to do more than say he is "really sad"
about the results. Lembit Opik, the former MP, has repeated calls for him to
stand down as party leader.

- Four cities - Bradford, Manchester, Coventry and Nottingham - rejected the
idea of elected mayors in a blow to David Cameron's plans to boost local
democracy. Birmingham elected a Labour mayor, while the Glasgow results are not
yet in.

- Boris Johnson appears to be well ahead in the race to be London mayor,
according to the London Elect website. Polls shows Mr Johnson on around 45 per
cent, Ken Livingstone at about 39 per cent and Liberal Democrat candidate Brian
Paddick way down in 5th at 4 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:57 AM GMT

Local elections 2012: David Cameron warned to return to Tory values after heavy
election defeat;
David Cameron was warned today that he must return to "traditional policies"
after bruising defeats in the local elections and his dream of elected mayors
left in tatters.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 645 words


Senior Conservatives blamed the "Jeremy Hunt fiasco" and a series of national
rows over the budget, as the party looked set to lose more than 400 local seats.

Initial estimates from the BBC show Labour with 39 per cent of the vote, the
Tories with 31 per cent and the Lib Dems on 16 per cent, with a low turn-out of
32 per cent. In a further blow, many cities, including Nottingham, Coventry and
Manchester, voted against the Mr Cameron's plan for directly-elected mayors to
replace council leaders.

Cllr Vivien Pengelly, who lost her position as Conservative leader of Plymouth
City Council, blamed the Prime Minister for her defeat.

"David Cameron will be knowing in the next week or so exactly how I feel," she
said. "He must listen to the people."

She laid fault at the Government's door for the scandal over the Culture
Secretary's links with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and public spending
cuts "affecting very vulnerable people, especially here in the south west."

Mr Cameron's leadership was also criticised by one of his own ministers, Gerald
Howarth, as UKIP increased its share of the vote by five percentage points.

He said the leadership must "listen to some of the concerns" that the party is
not being Conservative enough on traditional issues.

"There are issues, for example, like the proposals for gay marriage," he told
the BBC. "A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying 'I am a lifelong
Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being proceeded with?'.
There is the business of trying to change the House of Lords. Do we need to do
this at a time when the nation is preoccupied with restoring the public
finances?"

Other Conservative MPs blamed the Liberal Democrats for watering down core
Conservative policies. Gary Streeter, a Conservative MP for Devon South West,
said many voters did not perceive the Government to be "competent".

"We've got to be much more small c and big c Conservative on crime, law and
order, some of our traditional policies," he said. "That's what our supporters
are waiting, indeed gagging to see.

"The interesting thing for me was that, doing a lot of visits on the doorstep,
that people were unhappy, obviously about the last two months of our government,
and many of them said we can accept many things from the Conservative party, but
we expect them to be competent.

"And that was one of the messages coming across. We have to regain our
sure-footedness if we are going to recapture lost trust and confidence.

Alun Cairns, Conservative MP for Vale of Glamorgan, the party "need to remember
that David Cameron was most popular when he vetoed EU treaty", adding that the
"Lib Dems [are] holding us back".

However, the Government insisted the results were not as bad as they could have
been.

"It's never good to lose councillors, but these results are well within the
normal range for a mid-term government," says William Hague, the Foreign
Secretary .

The Liberal Democrats also had a bad night, losing key councils such as Cardiff.

Tim Farron, president of the party, apologised to those councillors who lost
their seats.

"I am sorry. Liberal Democrat councillors work hard. They lost their seats not
through their fault but through our fault and where we are nationally," he said.

The party dropped below 3,000 councillors for the first time in its history, as
voters punished the leadership for its role in the Coalition.

Mark Ramsbottom, Manchester Liberal Democrat group leader, said the results were
"a shame".

"I'm still committed to the Liberal Democratic Party and I'm certainly not angry
with Nick Clegg."

Labour MPs and councillors celebrated their sweeping victory in more than 460
seats, gaining more than 20 councils such as Derby, Exeter and Harlow.

However, it was not an unmitigated success, as the Labour leader of Bradford
Council lost his seat to George Galloway's Respect party.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:56 AM GMT

Elections 2012: election marathon

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2690 words


11.55: It's not just Plymouth. In Dudley, too, UKIP seems to have cost the
Conservatives the council. And possibly in many other places. Thurrock is
especially interesting: Labour councillors backed the People's Pledge and were
rewarded.

09.10: Nick Clegg says 'I want to pay tribute to all the hardworking Liberal
Democrat councillors...' Does anyone other than a politician use the phrase 'I
want to pay tribute'? George Orwell pointed out that, when someone uses this
sort of phrase, he is not stopping to consider what he's saying. When you talk
in cliché as relentlessly as Cleggie, you're almost certainly thinking in
cliché.

09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36:

Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place in
wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much from contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 11:19 AM GMT

Local elections: Labour punishes Coalition;
The Coalition has been dealt a rebuke by voters as Labour racked up significant
gains in local elections.

BYLINE: By Murray Wardrop

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 667 words


· Labour on course to gain more than 700 seats
· Key councils including Birmingham lost to Labour
· Projected vote share: Lab 39pc; Con 31pc; Lib Dem 16pc
· Rain and voter apathy blamed for low turnout

Projections suggest Labour will add more than 700 seats and have taken control
of 22 councils including Birmingham.

Key councils such as Thurrock, Harlow, Southampton, Norwich, Great Yarmouth and
Chorley also fell to Ed Miliband's party.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, was also embarrassed by losses in his
Oxfordshire constituency - with Labour taking the seats of Witney Central,
Witney East and Chipping Norton.

In a further blow, Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry ignored Mr Cameron's
pleas and rejected proposals for elected mayors.

The Liberal Democrats were not spared pain, being left without a representative
on several powerful councils as voters seemingly punished the Government for
austerity measures.

Overall Labour looked on track to exceed the 700 gains experts had set as the
threshold for a good performance.

With results in from 101 of 181 councils, Labour were up 474 seats, while the
Conservatives and Lib Dems were 277 and 134 seats down respectively.

A BBC projection of the national vote share gave the party 39 per cent - up
three points on a year ago. The Tories were down four on 31 per cent and the Lib
Dems trod water on 16 per cent.

However, Mr Miliband did suffer a setback in Bradford, where his party lost
seats to Respect.

The results followed George Galloway's shock success in last month's
parliamentary by-election.

The UK Independence Party enjoyed its best ever local election night, averaging
about 14 per cent of the vote where its candidates were standing, mainly at the
expense of the Conservatives.

The Eurosceptic party's performance is likely to increase pressure on the
coalition to hold an EU referendum and for David Cameron to distance himself
from his coalition partners.

Tories pointed to a low turnout, estimated at little over 30 per cent,
suggesting that "apathy" had played a significant part in the results.

But there were also calls for a change in direction from the leadership.

Local Government Secretary and former Tory Chairman Eric Pickles told Sky News
the outcome was to be expected.

He said: "When a party is rock bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not
seeking to rain on Labour's parade."

Shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan said: "It has been a good night for Labour
because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of this
coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

"But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this."

More than 4,700 seats have been contested in 128 English councils, with 21
unitary authorities in Wales electing new councillors.

Most were last up for grabs in 2008, when the Conservatives made significant
gains and Labour and the Lib Dems were hit hard.

In Scotland - where Labour is expected to find it tougher to make inroads
against the SNP - every seat on 32 unitary authorities was up for election, with
results expected later on Friday.

Labour gained Plymouth from the Tories and Reading from no overall control as it
sought to re-establish itself in crucial electoral battlegrounds.

The party won four seats to strip the Lib Dems of control in Cambridge.

A Labour source said: "We are making real progress in areas where we need to win
(at the general election) in 2015."

The remainder of the 10 cities holding referendums on elected mayors will reveal
their results later.

And the Prime Minister will be hoping that Boris Johnson has bucked the trend by
securing re-election as London Mayor.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson is set
for victory over Labour's Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53 per cent to 47 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:55 AM GMT

Local elections 2012: David Cameron warned to return to Tory values after heavy
election defeat;
David Cameron was warned today that he must return to "traditional policies"
after bruising defeats in the local elections and his dream of elected mayors
left in tatters.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 724 words


Senior Conservatives blamed the "Jeremy Hunt fiasco", support for gay marriage
and a series of national rows over the budget, as the party looked set to lose
more than 400 local seats.

Initial estimates from the BBC show Labour with 39 per cent of the vote, the
Tories with 31 per cent and the Lib Dems on 16 per cent, with a low turn-out of
32 per cent.

In a further blow, many cities, including Nottingham, Coventry and Manchester,
voted against the Mr Cameron's plan for directly-elected mayors to replace
council leaders.

Despite the heavy Conservative losses, William Hague, the Foreign Secretary,
insisted that "it's not a matter of going right or left".

"These results, while it is never a good feeling to lose councillors, are well
within the normal range of mid-term results for governments," he said.

Mr Hague insisted the Government is making headway on traditional issues such as
limiting immigration and reining back the power of Europe.

However, the Prime Minister is likely to come under pressure to change tack from
the right of his party, as UKIP made gains in Conservative heartlands.

Gerald Howarth, a defence minister who served in Margaret Thatcher's government,
said the leadership must "listen to some of the concerns" that the party is not
being Conservative enough on traditional issues.

"There are issues, for example, like the proposals for gay marriage," he told
the BBC. "A lot of Conservatives have written to me saying 'I am a lifelong
Conservative, there is no mandate for this, why is this being proceeded with?'.
There is the business of trying to change the House of Lords. Do we need to do
this at a time when the nation is preoccupied with restoring the public
finances?"

Other Conservative MPs blamed the Liberal Democrats for watering down core
Conservative policies. Gary Streeter, a Conservative MP for Devon South West,
said many voters did not perceive the Government to be "competent".

"We've got to be much more small c and big c Conservative on crime, law and
order, some of our traditional policies," he said. "That's what our supporters
are waiting, indeed gagging to see.

"The interesting thing for me was that, doing a lot of visits on the doorstep,
that people were unhappy, obviously about the last two months of our government,
and many of them said we can accept many things from the Conservative party, but
we expect them to be competent."

Alun Cairns, Conservative MP for Vale of Glamorgan, the party "need to remember
that David Cameron was most popular when he vetoed EU treaty", adding that the
"Lib Dems [are] holding us back".

Cllr Vivien Pengelly, who lost her position as Conservative leader of Plymouth
City Council, blamed the Prime Minister for her defeat.

"David Cameron will be knowing in the next week or so exactly how I feel," she
said. "He must listen to the people."

She laid fault at the Government's door for the "Jeremy Hunt fiasco" - the
scandal over the Culture Secretary's links with Rupert Murdoch's News
Corporation. She also attributed it to public spending cuts "affecting very
vulnerable people, especially here in the south west."

The Liberal Democrats also had a bad night, losing key councils such as Cardiff.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader and Deputy Prime Minister, said he was
"really sad" about the results, while Tim Farron, president of the party,
apologised to those councillors who lost their seats.

"I am sorry. Liberal Democrat councillors work hard. They lost their seats not
through their fault but through our fault and where we are nationally," he said.

The party dropped below 3,000 councillors for the first time in its history, as
voters punished the leadership for its role in the Coalition.

Mark Ramsbottom, Manchester Liberal Democrat group leader, said the results were
"a shame".

"I'm still committed to the Liberal Democratic Party and I'm certainly not angry
with Nick Clegg," he added.

Labour MPs and councillors celebrated their sweeping victory in more than 460
seats, gaining 20 councils such as Derby, Exeter and Harlow.

Harriet Harman, deputy leader of the Labour party, said its success was down to
people feeling the Govenrment "still appears to be not listening" over the
economy.

However, it was not an unmitigated success for the pary, as the Labour leader of
Bradford Council lost his seat to George Galloway's Respect.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:31 AM GMT

David Cameron and the Conservative Party have far more to fear from a Lib Lab
pact than from Ukip

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 503 words


An interesting result this morning is that though the Lib Dems have been
decimated, they have been decimated solely by Labour. In southern areas, the
party has actually held up against the Conservatives. The Lib Dem vote is one of
the reasons why, in David Cameron's solidly Tory constituency of Witney, three
council seats have fallen to Labour - amusingly, Chipping Norton is now Labour
territory. In Eastleigh, the former Energy Secretary Chris Huhne's Parliamentary
seat, the Lib Dems have actually strengthened their grip, picking up two seats
from independents as well as one from Labour - they now control 13 out of 15
council seats.

This ought to worry the Conservatives. The party is essentially dead in
Scotland, and it is dying in the North of England, but it should at least be
romping home in the South. If, however, the Lib Dem losses to Labour in the
North translate into gains from the Conservatives in the suburban South, then
the possibility of some sort of Lib Lab pact becomes quite real. Labour could
stand down their candidates in seats where the Lib Dems are strong in exchange
for Lib Dem support in Government. Ed Miliband has spoken frequently about the
"progressive majority", and, unlike Tony Blair in 1997, he is in a weak enough
position that he might actually have to mean it.

Most Lib Dem and Tory strategists expect the Coalition to begin breaking up in
around 2014, in preparation for a general election. The Lib Dems could choose
that moment to replace Nick Clegg with a more Labour-friendly leader, untainted
by "broken promises" - someone like the party president Tim Farron, or even, if
he is cleared of the charges he faces for speeding, Mr Huhne. Senior figures in
the party like Vince Cable have long-standing links with Labour, while behind
the scenes, MP in the two parties have recently co-operated against the
Government over issues like legal-aid cuts. There is plenty of scope for more.

The Conservatives meanwhile haven't won more than 40 per cent of the vote in a
general election since 1992 - in 2010, they managed just 36.1 per cent. A far
larger proportion of the population would "never" vote Conservative than would
"never" vote Labour or even Lib Dem. The Tories can try to reverse that -
perhaps by trying more "modernisation" - but even if they can pick up votes from
the Left, they will lose some of their base support. I don't believe that the
Right is going to split disastrously - Ukip has no real grassroots - but you can
only alienate your base so much. After David Cameron's failure to win in 2010,
you feel like most Tory activists feel like they've had quite enough
triangulation already.

And if a Lib Lab pact did form, then it could quite easily be extended to
council elections, undermining the Tory base in local government. What would
that mean for the "natural party of government"? When Tim Farron said on the
Today Programme that a Right-wing shift for the Tories would be "bonkers", I
wonder whether he was offering more than just friendly advice.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:31 AM GMT

David Cameron and the Conservative Party have far more to fear from a Lib Lab
pact than from Ukip

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 503 words


An interesting result this morning is that though the Lib Dems have been
decimated, they have been decimated solely by Labour. In southern areas, the
party has actually held up against the Conservatives. The Lib Dem vote is one of
the reasons why, in David Cameron's solidly Tory constituency of Witney, three
council seats have fallen to Labour - amusingly, Chipping Norton is now Labour
territory. In Eastleigh, the former Energy Secretary Chris Huhne's Parliamentary
seat, the Lib Dems have actually strengthened their grip, picking up two seats
from independents as well as one from Labour - they now control 13 out of 15
council seats.

This ought to worry the Conservatives. The party is essentially dead in
Scotland, and it is dying in the North of England, but it should at least be
romping home in the South. If, however, the Lib Dem losses to Labour in the
North translate into gains from the Conservatives in the suburban South, then
the possibility of some sort of Lib Lab pact becomes quite real. Labour could
stand down their candidates in seats where the Lib Dems are strong in exchange
for Lib Dem support in Government. Ed Miliband has spoken frequently about the
"progressive majority", and, unlike Tony Blair in 1997, he is in a weak enough
position that he might actually have to mean it.

Most Lib Dem and Tory strategists expect the Coalition to begin breaking up in
around 2014, in preparation for a general election. The Lib Dems could choose
that moment to replace Nick Clegg with a more Labour-friendly leader, untainted
by "broken promises" - someone like the party president Tim Farron, or even, if
he is cleared of the charges he faces for speeding, Mr Huhne. Senior figures in
the party like Vince Cable have long-standing links with Labour, while behind
the scenes, MP in the two parties have recently co-operated against the
Government over issues like legal-aid cuts. There is plenty of scope for more.

The Conservatives meanwhile haven't won more than 40 per cent of the vote in a
general election since 1992 - in 2010, they managed just 36.1 per cent. A far
larger proportion of the population would "never" vote Conservative than would
"never" vote Labour or even Lib Dem. The Tories can try to reverse that -
perhaps by trying more "modernisation" - but even if they can pick up votes from
the Left, they will lose some of their base support. I don't believe that the
Right is going to split disastrously - Ukip has no real grassroots - but you can
only alienate your base so much. After David Cameron's failure to win in 2010,
you feel like most Tory activists feel like they've had quite enough
triangulation already.

And if a Lib Lab pact did form, then it could quite easily be extended to
council elections, undermining the Tory base in local government. What would
that mean for the "natural party of government"? When Tim Farron said on the
Today Programme that a Right-wing shift for the Tories would be "bonkers", I
wonder whether he was offering more than just friendly advice.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 10:31 AM GMT

David Cameron and the Conservative Party have far more to fear from a Lib Lab
pact than from Ukip

BYLINE: By Daniel Knowles

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 503 words


An interesting result this morning is that though the Lib Dems have been
decimated, they have been decimated solely by Labour. In southern areas, the
party has actually held up against the Conservatives. The Lib Dem vote is one of
the reasons why, in David Cameron's solidly Tory constituency of Witney, three
council seats have fallen to Labour - amusingly, Chipping Norton is now Labour
territory. In Eastleigh, the former Energy Secretary Chris Huhne's Parliamentary
seat, the Lib Dems have actually strengthened their grip, picking up two seats
from independents as well as one from Labour - they now control 13 out of 15
council seats.

This ought to worry the Conservatives. The party is essentially dead in
Scotland, and it is dying in the North of England, but it should at least be
romping home in the South. If, however, the Lib Dem losses to Labour in the
North translate into gains from the Conservatives in the suburban South, then
the possibility of some sort of Lib Lab pact becomes quite real. Labour could
stand down their candidates in seats where the Lib Dems are strong in exchange
for Lib Dem support in Government. Ed Miliband has spoken frequently about the
"progressive majority", and, unlike Tony Blair in 1997, he is in a weak enough
position that he might actually have to mean it.

Most Lib Dem and Tory strategists expect the Coalition to begin breaking up in
around 2014, in preparation for a general election. The Lib Dems could choose
that moment to replace Nick Clegg with a more Labour-friendly leader, untainted
by "broken promises" - someone like the party president Tim Farron, or even, if
he is cleared of the charges he faces for speeding, Mr Huhne. Senior figures in
the party like Vince Cable have long-standing links with Labour, while behind
the scenes, MP in the two parties have recently co-operated against the
Government over issues like legal-aid cuts. There is plenty of scope for more.

The Conservatives meanwhile haven't won more than 40 per cent of the vote in a
general election since 1992 - in 2010, they managed just 36.1 per cent. A far
larger proportion of the population would "never" vote Conservative than would
"never" vote Labour or even Lib Dem. The Tories can try to reverse that -
perhaps by trying more "modernisation" - but even if they can pick up votes from
the Left, they will lose some of their base support. I don't believe that the
Right is going to split disastrously - Ukip has no real grassroots - but you can
only alienate your base so much. After David Cameron's failure to win in 2010,
you feel like most Tory activists feel like they've had quite enough
triangulation already.

And if a Lib Lab pact did form, then it could quite easily be extended to
council elections, undermining the Tory base in local government. What would
that mean for the "natural party of government"? When Tim Farron said on the
Today Programme that a Right-wing shift for the Tories would be "bonkers", I
wonder whether he was offering more than just friendly advice.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:53 AM GMT

UKIP attack Tory chairman Baroness Warsi with 'unparliamentary language' for
linking party to BNP;
Baroness Warsi was attacked by UKIP last night for linking their success in the
local elections with the decline of the extreme right-wing British National
Party.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 249 words


A UKIP spokesman described the Conservative party co-chairman as a "b***h" on
his Twitter feed, after she suggested the party would pick up votes in places
where the British National Party was no longer fielding candidates.

Speaking on the BBC, Lady Warsi said: "Where UKIP is fielding candidates this
time that the BNP did last time but they're not this time, I think that will
have an impact."

"There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political parties, but it
is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of candidates."

This prompted Gawain Towler, a UKIP spokesman to retaliate on Twitter, the
microblogging website.

He quickly removed the post after some of his followers complained of the
"unparliamentary language", tweeting: "Deleted, out of order on my part".

He later added: "Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise."

Paul Nuttall, UKIP's deputy leader, responded in more measured terms, calling
Lady Warsi's comments "disgraceful" and "a sign that the Conservatives are very
scared of UKIP."

UKIP fielded around 700 candidates, while the BNP put up just 130 - far fewer
than in previous years. The BNP has been hit with a shortage of funding and
defections.

However, UKIP has gained ground against the Conservatives and beat the Liberal
Democrats in a number of areas, polling around 15 per cent where it was
competing.

It has been trying to broaden its appeal from its traditional anti-Europe core
vote to woo Conservatives frustrated with the Coalition partnership.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:35 AM GMT

Senior Tory links BNP and Ukip, provokes foul-mouthed spat: but does Baroness
Warsi understand percentages?

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 533 words


: I've spoken to the Conservative Party press office, and it sounds like the
worst that Baroness Warsi can be accused of is not knowing the difference
between percentages and percentage points. In 2008, the BNP ran in 19.3 per cent
of seats; in 2012, they ran in only 5.3, a drop of 14.0 percentage points (but
73 per cent). By contrast, Ukip ran in 14.4 per cent of seats in 2008, and in
28.7 per cent of seats in 2012, an increase of 14.3 percentage points (but 99
per cent). Obviously that doesn't mean there is a link between the two parties,
but the correlation she described is there.

You don't need me to tell you that it's been a horrible night for the
Conservatives, and a hilariously bad one for the Lib Dems. Labour have managed
to meet expectations, it appears, which is all that you can ask for when you're
facing an open goal like this one, although Boris is still on course to beat
Ken. Nothing, really, that you couldn't have predicted 24 hours ago.

But the interesting thing has been the fiery (and foul-mouthed) little spat
between Baroness Warsi, the Conservative Party co-chairman, and one of the
Eurosceptic party's senior figures, and what it apparently reveals about Lady
Warsi's grasp of figures.

Lady Warsi, on the BBC last night, pointed out that Ukip are fielding 14 per
cent more candidates at this election than at the last one, while the BNP are
fielding the same percentage fewer. She called this "interesting" and asked if
there was a "link or an overlap" between the two. Nick Robinson, the BBC's
political editor, asked if she meant that there has been some sort of deal
between the two. Here's her quote in full:

What's interesting about Ukip this year is that they are actually fielding
something like 14 per cent more candidates this year than they did last time.
But interestingly the British National Party are fielding exactly 14 per cent
less candidates this time than they did last time. So whether there is some sort
of link, an overlap, there.

Robinson asked if she was suggesting that former BNP candidates are now Ukip
candidates, saying that it was "noteworthy" that a senior Conservative was
hinting at such a link. Warsi would not elaborate, simply repeating that it was
"interesting".

I haven't got the figures to hand, but it seems there's an immediate problem
with Warsi's claim. Two numbers changing by the same percentage doesn't mean
that they've changed by the same number, obviously. Unless Ukip and the BNP
fielded exactly the same number of candidates last time, then the fact that one
has gone up 14 per cent and the other has gone down 14 per cent doesn't mean
they've changed by the same actual number of candidates, so it's just a
coincidence that the percentage point change is the same. Unless Warsi knows the
absolute numbers, this is all pretty irrelevant. I'll try to get the numbers
later.

But whatever the truth of it, it has not gone down well with the Ukip high
command. The party spokesman Gawain Towler tweeted "Warsi f*** off, how dare
you. B****." He rapidly deleted it and apologised, but can you imagine a senior
Conservative or Labour figure losing it in quite such spectacular fashion?

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:35 AM GMT

Senior Tory links BNP and Ukip, provokes foul-mouthed spat: but does Baroness
Warsi understand percentages?

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 533 words


: I've spoken to the Conservative Party press office, and it sounds like the
worst that Baroness Warsi can be accused of is not knowing the difference
between percentages and percentage points. In 2008, the BNP ran in 19.3 per cent
of seats; in 2012, they ran in only 5.3, a drop of 14.0 percentage points (but
73 per cent). By contrast, Ukip ran in 14.4 per cent of seats in 2008, and in
28.7 per cent of seats in 2012, an increase of 14.3 percentage points (but 99
per cent). Obviously that doesn't mean there is a link between the two parties,
but the correlation she described is there.

You don't need me to tell you that it's been a horrible night for the
Conservatives, and a hilariously bad one for the Lib Dems. Labour have managed
to meet expectations, it appears, which is all that you can ask for when you're
facing an open goal like this one, although Boris is still on course to beat
Ken. Nothing, really, that you couldn't have predicted 24 hours ago.

But the interesting thing has been the fiery (and foul-mouthed) little spat
between Baroness Warsi, the Conservative Party co-chairman, and one of the
Eurosceptic party's senior figures, and what it apparently reveals about Lady
Warsi's grasp of figures.

Lady Warsi, on the BBC last night, pointed out that Ukip are fielding 14 per
cent more candidates at this election than at the last one, while the BNP are
fielding the same percentage fewer. She called this "interesting" and asked if
there was a "link or an overlap" between the two. Nick Robinson, the BBC's
political editor, asked if she meant that there has been some sort of deal
between the two. Here's her quote in full:

What's interesting about Ukip this year is that they are actually fielding
something like 14 per cent more candidates this year than they did last time.
But interestingly the British National Party are fielding exactly 14 per cent
less candidates this time than they did last time. So whether there is some sort
of link, an overlap, there.

Robinson asked if she was suggesting that former BNP candidates are now Ukip
candidates, saying that it was "noteworthy" that a senior Conservative was
hinting at such a link. Warsi would not elaborate, simply repeating that it was
"interesting".

I haven't got the figures to hand, but it seems there's an immediate problem
with Warsi's claim. Two numbers changing by the same percentage doesn't mean
that they've changed by the same number, obviously. Unless Ukip and the BNP
fielded exactly the same number of candidates last time, then the fact that one
has gone up 14 per cent and the other has gone down 14 per cent doesn't mean
they've changed by the same actual number of candidates, so it's just a
coincidence that the percentage point change is the same. Unless Warsi knows the
absolute numbers, this is all pretty irrelevant. I'll try to get the numbers
later.

But whatever the truth of it, it has not gone down well with the Ukip high
command. The party spokesman Gawain Towler tweeted "Warsi f*** off, how dare
you. B****." He rapidly deleted it and apologised, but can you imagine a senior
Conservative or Labour figure losing it in quite such spectacular fashion?

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 9:35 AM GMT

Senior Tory links BNP and Ukip, provokes foul-mouthed spat: but does Baroness
Warsi understand percentages?

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 539 words


· UPDATE and embarrassing climbdown: I've spoken to the Conservative Party press
office, and it sounds like the worst that Baroness Warsi can be accused of is
not knowing the difference between percentages and percentage points. In 2008,
the BNP ran in 19.3 per cent of seats; in 2012, they ran in only 5.3, a drop of
14.0 percentage points (but 73 per cent). By contrast, Ukip ran in 14.4 per cent
of seats in 2008, and in 28.7 per cent of seats in 2012, an increase of 14.3
percentage points (but 99 per cent). Obviously that doesn't mean there is a link
between the two parties, but the correlation she described is there.

You don't need me to tell you that it's been a horrible night for the
Conservatives, and a hilariously bad one for the Lib Dems. Labour have managed
to meet expectations, it appears, which is all that you can ask for when you're
facing an open goal like this one, although Boris is still on course to beat
Ken. Nothing, really, that you couldn't have predicted 24 hours ago.

But the interesting thing has been the fiery (and foul-mouthed) little spat
between Baroness Warsi, the Conservative Party co-chairman, and one of the
Eurosceptic party's senior figures, and what it apparently reveals about Lady
Warsi's grasp of figures.

Lady Warsi, on the BBC last night, pointed out that Ukip are fielding 14 per
cent more candidates at this election than at the last one, while the BNP are
fielding the same percentage fewer. She called this "interesting" and asked if
there was a "link or an overlap" between the two. Nick Robinson, the BBC's
political editor, asked if she meant that there has been some sort of deal
between the two. Here's her quote in full:

What's interesting about Ukip this year is that they are actually fielding
something like 14 per cent more candidates this year than they did last time.
But interestingly the British National Party are fielding exactly 14 per cent
less candidates this time than they did last time. So whether there is some sort
of link, an overlap, there.

Robinson asked if she was suggesting that former BNP candidates are now Ukip
candidates, saying that it was "noteworthy" that a senior Conservative was
hinting at such a link. Warsi would not elaborate, simply repeating that it was
"interesting".

I haven't got the figures to hand, but it seems there's an immediate problem
with Warsi's claim. Two numbers changing by the same percentage doesn't mean
that they've changed by the same number, obviously. Unless Ukip and the BNP
fielded exactly the same number of candidates last time, then the fact that one
has gone up 14 per cent and the other has gone down 14 per cent doesn't mean
they've changed by the same actual number of candidates, so it's just a
coincidence that the percentage point change is the same. Unless Warsi knows the
absolute numbers, this is all pretty irrelevant. I'll try to get the numbers
later.

But whatever the truth of it, it has not gone down well with the Ukip high
command. The party spokesman Gawain Towler tweeted "Warsi f*** off, how dare
you. B****." He rapidly deleted it and apologised, but can you imagine a senior
Conservative or Labour figure losing it in quite such spectacular fashion?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:59 AM GMT

Ed Miliband's red dawn is rising - sort of

BYLINE: By Dan Hodges

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 747 words


So, a new dawn has broken, has it not? Tories in disarray, Labour resurgent, the
Lib Dems an afterthought. It's like 1997 all over again.

Well, not quite. But be under no illusions, this was a very good night for
Labour, and a very bad night for the Conservative Party.

As I wrote last week, the key to local elections is expectation management.
Twelve months ago, Ed Miliband's inexperienced team let the Tories sucker them
into predicting gains that were never achievable. This morning the Tories have
suckered themselves. It was quite comical watching embattled Conservative
co-chairman Sayeeda Warsi last night frantically trying to revise up her
definition of Labour success. 700 seats? Higher! 1,000? Higher! By the end I
half expected Bruce Forsyth to run on and say: "You don't getting anything for a
pair of councillors in Harlow, Sayeeda, not in this game".

Labour officials had privately set themselves a target of between 500 and 550
new councillors, and 40 per cent of the national vote share. It looks they will
have exceeded that in number of seats, and may still just edge it on the popular
vote. What's more, the gains have been secured across the country, and if Labour
is not quite on the march in those key southern battlegrounds, it is putting
down some first encouraging footsteps.

All the normal health warnings apply. Turnout was very low. Many of Labour's
successes, especially in the South, were secured with the helping hand of Ukip
voters, the bulk of whom will grudgingly return to the Tory fold come election
time. Bradford remains a basket case, and the party's Glasgow fortress is likely
to be breached.

But in many ways this was Ed Miliband's perfect result. He secured strong enough
gains to suppress, for the rest of the week at least, grumblings about his
leadership. The elections were framed as a test for him, and it's a test he has
passed. At the same time the wins were not of such a magnitude that Labour is
suddenly going to let success go to its head and start casting around for a
leader to pull itself those last few yards over the finishing line. This
represents steady progress that will give Miliband and his party time to calmly
sit back and take stock.

The same cannot be said for the Tories. If Labour is not letting success go to
its head, there are already signs that David Cameron's party are intent on
losing theirs. This morning the Right are already moving to frame the narrative;
Cameron's not Tory enough, he's not bold enough, he's not Boris enough. We need
to be more radical on crime, on tax, on Europe.

Well, good luck with that. If the Conservatives want to run hard on crime, in
the middle of a recession, with rising unemployment, Abu Qatada roaming around,
and police numbers being slashed, they should go ahead and make Yvette Cooper's
day. If they want Cameron to be more robust on Europe, fine. But what's he
supposed to do at the next Eurosummit, punch Francois Hollande?

The real problem for Cameron is that he is in a hole, but his party is demanding
he carries on digging. They just aren't interested in facing the fact it was
blue-in-tooth-and-claw policies like NHS reform and cuts to the top rate of tax
that got them into this mess in the first place.

Last night was very good for Labour, but the political fundamentals remain
unchanged. We are three Budgets from the next election, there are tentative
signs that the double dip recession - which Labour has so far failed to
adequately exploit - may only be a paper one, and people's doubts about Ed
Miliband are far from being assuaged.

But if the Conservative Party want to run around like headless chickens, why
should Labour's leader stop them? These election results do not represent a
breakthrough, but they are a genuine opportunity. If Ed Miliband wants to grab
his party by the scruff of its neck, put aside his caution and point his tanks
towards the momentarily vacated Tory trenches, then he might, just might, have a
chance of defying his critics.

As Friday wears on the champagne at Labour HQ will start to go slightly warm -
except possibly in the glass of the party's new General Secretary Iain McNicol,
who has successfully come through his own first taste of real combat. The SNP
are bullish. Boris Johnson is set to fulfil his dream of watching Wiff-Waff
return home.

But if today is going to be Boris Johnson's day, it was Ed Miliband's night. A
new dawn has not yet broken. But the Labour leader's eyes may finally be
adjusting to the darkness.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:59 AM GMT

Ed Miliband's red dawn is rising - sort of

BYLINE: By Dan Hodges

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 747 words


So, a new dawn has broken, has it not? Tories in disarray, Labour resurgent, the
Lib Dems an afterthought. It's like 1997 all over again.

Well, not quite. But be under no illusions, this was a very good night for
Labour, and a very bad night for the Conservative Party.

As I wrote last week, the key to local elections is expectation management.
Twelve months ago, Ed Miliband's inexperienced team let the Tories sucker them
into predicting gains that were never achievable. This morning the Tories have
suckered themselves. It was quite comical watching embattled Conservative
co-chairman Sayeeda Warsi last night frantically trying to revise up her
definition of Labour success. 700 seats? Higher! 1,000? Higher! By the end I
half expected Bruce Forsyth to run on and say: "You don't getting anything for a
pair of councillors in Harlow, Sayeeda, not in this game".

Labour officials had privately set themselves a target of between 500 and 550
new councillors, and 40 per cent of the national vote share. It looks they will
have exceeded that in number of seats, and may still just edge it on the popular
vote. What's more, the gains have been secured across the country, and if Labour
is not quite on the march in those key southern battlegrounds, it is putting
down some first encouraging footsteps.

All the normal health warnings apply. Turnout was very low. Many of Labour's
successes, especially in the South, were secured with the helping hand of Ukip
voters, the bulk of whom will grudgingly return to the Tory fold come election
time. Bradford remains a basket case, and the party's Glasgow fortress is likely
to be breached.

But in many ways this was Ed Miliband's perfect result. He secured strong enough
gains to suppress, for the rest of the week at least, grumblings about his
leadership. The elections were framed as a test for him, and it's a test he has
passed. At the same time the wins were not of such a magnitude that Labour is
suddenly going to let success go to its head and start casting around for a
leader to pull itself those last few yards over the finishing line. This
represents steady progress that will give Miliband and his party time to calmly
sit back and take stock.

The same cannot be said for the Tories. If Labour is not letting success go to
its head, there are already signs that David Cameron's party are intent on
losing theirs. This morning the Right are already moving to frame the narrative;
Cameron's not Tory enough, he's not bold enough, he's not Boris enough. We need
to be more radical on crime, on tax, on Europe.

Well, good luck with that. If the Conservatives want to run hard on crime, in
the middle of a recession, with rising unemployment, Abu Qatada roaming around,
and police numbers being slashed, they should go ahead and make Yvette Cooper's
day. If they want Cameron to be more robust on Europe, fine. But what's he
supposed to do at the next Eurosummit, punch Francois Hollande?

The real problem for Cameron is that he is in a hole, but his party is demanding
he carries on digging. They just aren't interested in facing the fact it was
blue-in-tooth-and-claw policies like NHS reform and cuts to the top rate of tax
that got them into this mess in the first place.

Last night was very good for Labour, but the political fundamentals remain
unchanged. We are three Budgets from the next election, there are tentative
signs that the double dip recession - which Labour has so far failed to
adequately exploit - may only be a paper one, and people's doubts about Ed
Miliband are far from being assuaged.

But if the Conservative Party want to run around like headless chickens, why
should Labour's leader stop them? These election results do not represent a
breakthrough, but they are a genuine opportunity. If Ed Miliband wants to grab
his party by the scruff of its neck, put aside his caution and point his tanks
towards the momentarily vacated Tory trenches, then he might, just might, have a
chance of defying his critics.

As Friday wears on the champagne at Labour HQ will start to go slightly warm -
except possibly in the glass of the party's new General Secretary Iain McNicol,
who has successfully come through his own first taste of real combat. The SNP
are bullish. Boris Johnson is set to fulfil his dream of watching Wiff-Waff
return home.

But if today is going to be Boris Johnson's day, it was Ed Miliband's night. A
new dawn has not yet broken. But the Labour leader's eyes may finally be
adjusting to the darkness.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:59 AM GMT

Ed Miliband's red dawn is rising - sort of

BYLINE: By Dan Hodges

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 747 words


So, a new dawn has broken, has it not? Tories in disarray, Labour resurgent, the
Lib Dems an afterthought. It's like 1997 all over again.

Well, not quite. But be under no illusions, this was a very good night for
Labour, and a very bad night for the Conservative Party.

As I wrote last week, the key to local elections is expectation management.
Twelve months ago, Ed Miliband's inexperienced team let the Tories sucker them
into predicting gains that were never achievable. This morning the Tories have
suckered themselves. It was quite comical watching embattled Conservative
co-chairman Sayeeda Warsi last night frantically trying to revise up her
definition of Labour success. 700 seats? Higher! 1,000? Higher! By the end I
half expected Bruce Forsyth to run on and say: "You don't getting anything for a
pair of councillors in Harlow, Sayeeda, not in this game".

Labour officials had privately set themselves a target of between 500 and 550
new councillors, and 40 per cent of the national vote share. It looks they will
have exceeded that in number of seats, and may still just edge it on the popular
vote. What's more, the gains have been secured across the country, and if Labour
is not quite on the march in those key southern battlegrounds, it is putting
down some first encouraging footsteps.

All the normal health warnings apply. Turnout was very low. Many of Labour's
successes, especially in the South, were secured with the helping hand of Ukip
voters, the bulk of whom will grudgingly return to the Tory fold come election
time. Bradford remains a basket case, and the party's Glasgow fortress is likely
to be breached.

But in many ways this was Ed Miliband's perfect result. He secured strong enough
gains to suppress, for the rest of the week at least, grumblings about his
leadership. The elections were framed as a test for him, and it's a test he has
passed. At the same time the wins were not of such a magnitude that Labour is
suddenly going to let success go to its head and start casting around for a
leader to pull itself those last few yards over the finishing line. This
represents steady progress that will give Miliband and his party time to calmly
sit back and take stock.

The same cannot be said for the Tories. If Labour is not letting success go to
its head, there are already signs that David Cameron's party are intent on
losing theirs. This morning the Right are already moving to frame the narrative;
Cameron's not Tory enough, he's not bold enough, he's not Boris enough. We need
to be more radical on crime, on tax, on Europe.

Well, good luck with that. If the Conservatives want to run hard on crime, in
the middle of a recession, with rising unemployment, Abu Qatada roaming around,
and police numbers being slashed, they should go ahead and make Yvette Cooper's
day. If they want Cameron to be more robust on Europe, fine. But what's he
supposed to do at the next Eurosummit, punch Francois Hollande?

The real problem for Cameron is that he is in a hole, but his party is demanding
he carries on digging. They just aren't interested in facing the fact it was
blue-in-tooth-and-claw policies like NHS reform and cuts to the top rate of tax
that got them into this mess in the first place.

Last night was very good for Labour, but the political fundamentals remain
unchanged. We are three Budgets from the next election, there are tentative
signs that the double dip recession - which Labour has so far failed to
adequately exploit - may only be a paper one, and people's doubts about Ed
Miliband are far from being assuaged.

But if the Conservative Party want to run around like headless chickens, why
should Labour's leader stop them? These election results do not represent a
breakthrough, but they are a genuine opportunity. If Ed Miliband wants to grab
his party by the scruff of its neck, put aside his caution and point his tanks
towards the momentarily vacated Tory trenches, then he might, just might, have a
chance of defying his critics.

As Friday wears on the champagne at Labour HQ will start to go slightly warm -
except possibly in the glass of the party's new General Secretary Iain McNicol,
who has successfully come through his own first taste of real combat. The SNP
are bullish. Boris Johnson is set to fulfil his dream of watching Wiff-Waff
return home.

But if today is going to be Boris Johnson's day, it was Ed Miliband's night. A
new dawn has not yet broken. But the Labour leader's eyes may finally be
adjusting to the darkness.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:52 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2577 words


09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:52 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2577 words


09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:52 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2577 words


09.00: Fraser Nelson has interesting thingsto say about Boris. One thing he
doesn't mention is that Boris has signed the People's Pledge: in other words, he
has committed himself to vote for an In/Out referendum. Look at the results in
Thurrock, where the People's Pledge held the first of a hundred scheduled
constituency-wide referendums. Look at the way Labour is moving. Look at the
rise of UKIP. I'm not sure how the lesson could be clearer.

08.46: Many congratulations to Winchester Conservatives on a fine victory. I
look forward to thanking some of you in person in two weeks time, on 19 May.

08.00: Labour has taken another step toward to an In/Out referendum. The
question now is which party gets there first and reaps the electoral benefit.

07.49: John Redwood points out, again, that UKIP is unlikely to form a
government and take us out of the EU. This is obviously true. At the same time,
the Coalition is just as unlikely to take us out of the EU, or even secure any
repatriation of powers. The defection of Eurosceptic activists from the
Conservative Party to UKIP has weakened the anti-Brussels tendency within the
ranks of the governing party without strengthening an alternative party of
government. Consider, for example, Plymouth, where UKIP plainly put Labour in
office. Why should a general election be any different? I'll say it one more
time: the way forward is through a Canada-style Unite the Rightaccord. Both
sides would stand to gain. UKIP would get its In/Out referendum; the
Conservatives would be far more likely to be in power. Much more important, the
United Kingdom would be wealthier, freer and more democratic.

7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet porn; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know what they're doing. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, voters need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:00 AM GMT

A good night for Ed Miliband that could be ruined in London and Glasgow

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 338 words


With half the local election results in, Labour is on track to end up with
around 700 gains. Strip away the spin from both major parties and that is a
good, but not show-stoppingly spectacular, result for Ed Miliband. It shows that
Labour in real elections can poll in line with its current strong lead in
opinion surveys.

The Tories will not be surprised that they have taken heavy losses, although the
party's spokesmen who a few weeks ago said that Miliband had to win 700 seats to
be credible will wish they had set the bar a little higher. But at this stage of
the cycle one would certainly expect a governing party to be suffering losses.
During its long years in opposition the Conservatives rebuilt their base in
local government. It is perfectly natural for an incumbent party at Westminster
to suffer a steady erosion of its vote out in the country once its has been in
office for a while.

The Lib Dems are doing their best not to sound miserable. Tim Farron, the
party's president, said that the Lib Dems scored 16 per cent last year and 16
per cent this year so at least the decline isn't getting any worse. Nice try,
but the Lib Dems are losing the strong foothold they established by decades of
local campaigning.

Ukip is taking much encouragement from its results, quite rightly. In the seats
where it stood candidates it seems to have averaged a 13 per cent share of the
vote. That is 5 per cent up on last time, a statistic that should deeply trouble
the Tory leadership. Not all Ukip voters are disillusioned Conservatives, but at
this rate the party is on track to add substantially to the 900,000 votes it
garnered at the last general election. Only a Cameroon with his or head stuck in
the sand could say that this is not a serious problem for the Tories.

But Ed Miliband's good luck may not last the day. If his party loses Glasgow to
the SNP and fails to take back the London mayoralty, he will have to suspend his
celebrations and explain why he cannot win in Labour's traditional heartlands.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:00 AM GMT

A good night for Ed Miliband that could be ruined in London and Glasgow

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 338 words


With half the local election results in, Labour is on track to end up with
around 700 gains. Strip away the spin from both major parties and that is a
good, but not show-stoppingly spectacular, result for Ed Miliband. It shows that
Labour in real elections can poll in line with its current strong lead in
opinion surveys.

The Tories will not be surprised that they have taken heavy losses, although the
party's spokesmen who a few weeks ago said that Miliband had to win 700 seats to
be credible will wish they had set the bar a little higher. But at this stage of
the cycle one would certainly expect a governing party to be suffering losses.
During its long years in opposition the Conservatives rebuilt their base in
local government. It is perfectly natural for an incumbent party at Westminster
to suffer a steady erosion of its vote out in the country once its has been in
office for a while.

The Lib Dems are doing their best not to sound miserable. Tim Farron, the
party's president, said that the Lib Dems scored 16 per cent last year and 16
per cent this year so at least the decline isn't getting any worse. Nice try,
but the Lib Dems are losing the strong foothold they established by decades of
local campaigning.

Ukip is taking much encouragement from its results, quite rightly. In the seats
where it stood candidates it seems to have averaged a 13 per cent share of the
vote. That is 5 per cent up on last time, a statistic that should deeply trouble
the Tory leadership. Not all Ukip voters are disillusioned Conservatives, but at
this rate the party is on track to add substantially to the 900,000 votes it
garnered at the last general election. Only a Cameroon with his or head stuck in
the sand could say that this is not a serious problem for the Tories.

But Ed Miliband's good luck may not last the day. If his party loses Glasgow to
the SNP and fails to take back the London mayoralty, he will have to suspend his
celebrations and explain why he cannot win in Labour's traditional heartlands.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:00 AM GMT

A good night for Ed Miliband that could be ruined in London and Glasgow

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 338 words


With half the local election results in, Labour is on track to end up with
around 700 gains. Strip away the spin from both major parties and that is a
good, but not show-stoppingly spectacular, result for Ed Miliband. It shows that
Labour in real elections can poll in line with its current strong lead in
opinion surveys.

The Tories will not be surprised that they have taken heavy losses, although the
party's spokesmen who a few weeks ago said that Miliband had to win 700 seats to
be credible will wish they had set the bar a little higher. But at this stage of
the cycle one would certainly expect a governing party to be suffering losses.
During its long years in opposition the Conservatives rebuilt their base in
local government. It is perfectly natural for an incumbent party at Westminster
to suffer a steady erosion of its vote out in the country once its has been in
office for a while.

The Lib Dems are doing their best not to sound miserable. Tim Farron, the
party's president, said that the Lib Dems scored 16 per cent last year and 16
per cent this year so at least the decline isn't getting any worse. Nice try,
but the Lib Dems are losing the strong foothold they established by decades of
local campaigning.

Ukip is taking much encouragement from its results, quite rightly. In the seats
where it stood candidates it seems to have averaged a 13 per cent share of the
vote. That is 5 per cent up on last time, a statistic that should deeply trouble
the Tory leadership. Not all Ukip voters are disillusioned Conservatives, but at
this rate the party is on track to add substantially to the 900,000 votes it
garnered at the last general election. Only a Cameroon with his or head stuck in
the sand could say that this is not a serious problem for the Tories.

But Ed Miliband's good luck may not last the day. If his party loses Glasgow to
the SNP and fails to take back the London mayoralty, he will have to suspend his
celebrations and explain why he cannot win in Labour's traditional heartlands.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:42 AM GMT

Local elections: Ukip and Respect gain ground;
The UK Independence Party has enjoyed its best ever local election results,
piling pressure on David Cameron to distance himself from his Coalition
partners.

BYLINE: By Murray Wardrop

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 901 words


The Eurosceptic party averaged about 14 per cent of the vote where its
candidates were standing, mainly at the expense of the Conservatives.

The result is likely to be seen as an ultimatum to the Prime Minister that his
party is alienating right wing voters and will increase calls for the Coalition
to hold an EU referendum.

George Galloway's Respect Party also delivered an upset by following up its
shock by-election victory and winning five seats on Bradford Council, including
that of the Labour leader.

UKIP's result is five points higher than a year ago although it has yet to
translate it increased share of the votes into significantly more council seats.

With about half of the 181 councils in England and a third of the 21 councils in
Wales having declared, Ukip had returned seven councillors - one more than four
years ago when these seats were last up for grabs.

Gains in Thurrock, Rushmoor and East Lincolnshire were offset by losses in
Dudley, Sefton and Plymouth.

Separately, the party's candidate for mayor of Liverpool, Adam Heatherington,
came eighth with 2.3 per cent of the vote.

Conservative MP Gary Streeter blamed defections to Ukip for his party losing
control of Plymouth to Labour.

"We need to work out a strategy, certainly in the west country, for dealing with
the issue of traditional voters shuffling off and voting Ukip because they don't
think our leadership is Conservative enough," he said.

"The Ukip vote is not just about Europe," he added.

"It's also about a hardcore of traditional Conservative voters saying, 'actually
we don't like the kind of small 'l' liberal decisions this government is
beginning to take - it offends our values and we're going to protest and vote
Ukip"

Ukip, which wants the UK to leave the European Union, has traditionally
performed poorly at local polls and their leader Nigel Farage has made it an
objective to boost representation in local government.

Ukip, which fielded a record 700 local election candidates, is attempting to
broaden its message beyond its traditional anti-EU platform. It has pledged to
cut council tax and build more grammar schools.

A row broke out between the Tories and Ukip after Conservative Party chairwoman
Baroness Warsi linked the Eurosceptic party's rise with the decline of the
far-right British National Party.

Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
Euro-sceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link which provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her "a bitch".

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: "Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact."

She added: "There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates."

Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a "bitch" to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his "unparliamentary language".

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and apologised, tweeting: "Deleted, out
of order on my part".

He later added: "Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise."

In Bradford, Councillor Ian Greenwood lost his Little Horton seat after three
recounts to Respect's Alyas Karmani.

Mr Galloway, who upset Labour by winning the Bradford West parliamentary seat in
a March by-election, was absent for the count, which saw his party successful in
five out of the 12 wards it contested.

If Mr Greenwood had won his seat it would have seen his party take overall
control of the council.

Before the result, no party had overall control in Bradford and Labour ran the
authority as a minority administration.

On the night, Labour increased its councillors from 43 to 45 meaning it will
need the votes of one other member to give it a majority.

There were jubilant scenes in the Richard Dunn Sports Centre as Respect
supporters celebrated each of their victories.

Mr Galloway said he boycotted the count following a dispute with the council
over how many passes Respect were allowed.

Speaking after his defeat, Mr Greenwood said he did not think the result meant
Respect now held the balance of power in the city.

He said he thought the key to Respect's success was Mr Galloway coming to the
city and energising a mass of youngsters.

"He's made promises that I hope that he can keep but I doubt that he can," he
said.

Mr Greenwood said he feared Mr Galloway's energisation would not last and
Bradford would be left with a "generation of disfranchised and alienated young
people".

Speaking at his campaign HQ, Mr Galloway said: "By anyone's calculation it's
been a fantastic night for Respect.

"We took seats off all three of the mainstream parties.

"We took seats in Bradford West, my constituency, but also outside of Bradford
West.

"And we took the head off the rotten fish that is the Bradford City Council.

"We defeated a council leader who sat there, apparently impregnable and utterly
complacent, for a decade and a half or more."

He said Respect offered voters a "viable alternative to the tweedledee,
tweedledum, tweedledee-and-a-half politics that the three mainstream leaderships
are offering them".

Mr Galloway said: "I think that the Labour Party in Bradford will be taken into
special measures by the Labour national headquarters."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:34 AM GMT

Senior Tory links BNP and Ukip, provokes foul-mouthed spat: but does Baroness
Warsi understand percentages?

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 431 words


You don't need me to tell you that it's been a horrible night for the
Conservatives, and a hilariously bad one for the Lib Dems. Labour have managed
to meet expectations, it appears, which is all that you can ask for when you're
facing an open goal like this one, although Boris is still on course to beat
Ken. Nothing, really, that you couldn't have predicted 24 hours ago.

But the interesting thing has been the fiery (and foul-mouthed) little spat
between Baroness Warsi, the Conservative Party co-chairman, and one of the
Eurosceptic party's senior figures, and what it apparently reveals about Lady
Warsi's grasp of figures.

Lady Warsi, on the BBC last night, pointed out that Ukip are fielding 14 per
cent more candidates at this election than at the last one, while the BNP are
fielding the same percentage fewer. She called this "interesting" and asked if
there was a "link or an overlap" between the two. Nick Robinson, the BBC's
political editor, asked if she meant that there has been some sort of deal
between the two. Here's her quote in full:

What's interesting about Ukip this year is that they are actually fielding
something like 14 per cent more candidates this year than they did last time.
But interestingly the British National Party are fielding exactly 14 per cent
less candidates this time than they did last time. So whether there is some sort
of link, an overlap, there.

Robinson asked if she was suggesting that former BNP candidates are now Ukip
candidates, saying that it was "noteworthy" that a senior Conservative was
hinting at such a link. Warsi would not elaborate, simply repeating that it was
"interesting".

I haven't got the figures to hand, but it seems there's an immediate problem
with Warsi's claim. Two numbers changing by the same percentage doesn't mean
that they've changed by the same number, obviously. Unless Ukip and the BNP
fielded exactly the same number of candidates last time, then the fact that one
has gone up 14 per cent and the other has gone down 14 per cent doesn't mean
they've changed by the same actual number of candidates, so it's just a
coincidence that the percentage point change is the same. Unless Warsi knows the
absolute numbers, this is all pretty irrelevant. I'll try to get the numbers
later.

But whatever the truth of it, it has not gone down well with the Ukip high
command. The party spokesman Gawain Towler tweeted "Warsi f*** off, how dare
you. B****." He rapidly deleted it and apologised, but can you imagine a senior
Conservative or Labour figure losing it in quite such spectacular fashion?

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:34 AM GMT

Senior Tory links BNP and Ukip, provokes foul-mouthed spat: but does Baroness
Warsi understand percentages?

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 431 words


You don't need me to tell you that it's been a horrible night for the
Conservatives, and a hilariously bad one for the Lib Dems. Labour have managed
to meet expectations, it appears, which is all that you can ask for when you're
facing an open goal like this one, although Boris is still on course to beat
Ken. Nothing, really, that you couldn't have predicted 24 hours ago.

But the interesting thing has been the fiery (and foul-mouthed) little spat
between Baroness Warsi, the Conservative Party co-chairman, and one of the
Eurosceptic party's senior figures, and what it apparently reveals about Lady
Warsi's grasp of figures.

Lady Warsi, on the BBC last night, pointed out that Ukip are fielding 14 per
cent more candidates at this election than at the last one, while the BNP are
fielding the same percentage fewer. She called this "interesting" and asked if
there was a "link or an overlap" between the two. Nick Robinson, the BBC's
political editor, asked if she meant that there has been some sort of deal
between the two. Here's her quote in full:

What's interesting about Ukip this year is that they are actually fielding
something like 14 per cent more candidates this year than they did last time.
But interestingly the British National Party are fielding exactly 14 per cent
less candidates this time than they did last time. So whether there is some sort
of link, an overlap, there.

Robinson asked if she was suggesting that former BNP candidates are now Ukip
candidates, saying that it was "noteworthy" that a senior Conservative was
hinting at such a link. Warsi would not elaborate, simply repeating that it was
"interesting".

I haven't got the figures to hand, but it seems there's an immediate problem
with Warsi's claim. Two numbers changing by the same percentage doesn't mean
that they've changed by the same number, obviously. Unless Ukip and the BNP
fielded exactly the same number of candidates last time, then the fact that one
has gone up 14 per cent and the other has gone down 14 per cent doesn't mean
they've changed by the same actual number of candidates, so it's just a
coincidence that the percentage point change is the same. Unless Warsi knows the
absolute numbers, this is all pretty irrelevant. I'll try to get the numbers
later.

But whatever the truth of it, it has not gone down well with the Ukip high
command. The party spokesman Gawain Towler tweeted "Warsi f*** off, how dare
you. B****." He rapidly deleted it and apologised, but can you imagine a senior
Conservative or Labour figure losing it in quite such spectacular fashion?

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:34 AM GMT

Senior Tory links BNP and Ukip, provokes foul-mouthed spat: but does Baroness
Warsi understand percentages?

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 431 words


You don't need me to tell you that it's been a horrible night for the
Conservatives, and a hilariously bad one for the Lib Dems. Labour have managed
to meet expectations, it appears, which is all that you can ask for when you're
facing an open goal like this one, although Boris is still on course to beat
Ken. Nothing, really, that you couldn't have predicted 24 hours ago.

But the interesting thing has been the fiery (and foul-mouthed) little spat
between Baroness Warsi, the Conservative Party co-chairman, and one of the
Eurosceptic party's senior figures, and what it apparently reveals about Lady
Warsi's grasp of figures.

Lady Warsi, on the BBC last night, pointed out that Ukip are fielding 14 per
cent more candidates at this election than at the last one, while the BNP are
fielding the same percentage fewer. She called this "interesting" and asked if
there was a "link or an overlap" between the two. Nick Robinson, the BBC's
political editor, asked if she meant that there has been some sort of deal
between the two. Here's her quote in full:

What's interesting about Ukip this year is that they are actually fielding
something like 14 per cent more candidates this year than they did last time.
But interestingly the British National Party are fielding exactly 14 per cent
less candidates this time than they did last time. So whether there is some sort
of link, an overlap, there.

Robinson asked if she was suggesting that former BNP candidates are now Ukip
candidates, saying that it was "noteworthy" that a senior Conservative was
hinting at such a link. Warsi would not elaborate, simply repeating that it was
"interesting".

I haven't got the figures to hand, but it seems there's an immediate problem
with Warsi's claim. Two numbers changing by the same percentage doesn't mean
that they've changed by the same number, obviously. Unless Ukip and the BNP
fielded exactly the same number of candidates last time, then the fact that one
has gone up 14 per cent and the other has gone down 14 per cent doesn't mean
they've changed by the same actual number of candidates, so it's just a
coincidence that the percentage point change is the same. Unless Warsi knows the
absolute numbers, this is all pretty irrelevant. I'll try to get the numbers
later.

But whatever the truth of it, it has not gone down well with the Ukip high
command. The party spokesman Gawain Towler tweeted "Warsi f*** off, how dare
you. B****." He rapidly deleted it and apologised, but can you imagine a senior
Conservative or Labour figure losing it in quite such spectacular fashion?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:28 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2289 words


7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet port; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know where they're going. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, people need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision,

viz the dropping of the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote
Conservative again if a referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:28 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2289 words


7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet port; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know where they're going. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, people need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision,

viz the dropping of the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote
Conservative again if a referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:28 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2289 words


7.30: Memo to fellow Conservatives. Here are some things which yesterday's vote
wasn't about: Internet port; gay marriage; House of Lords reform. There may be
perfectly good arguments for and against all these things, but please don't try
to press the results into your existing campaigns on these issues. The one new
factor is the rise of UKIP at non-European elections. In general, though, it's
about the economy. Any government at a time of austerity has to exude
competence. People will put up with a great deal provided they sense that their
leaders know where they're going. Going without jam today is fine if we can
credibly expect a recovery. When the suspicion arises that the government is
headline-driven, at the mercy of events or - worst of all - simply inept, the
goodwill disappears. Put bluntly, people need to see that the deficit is
falling, prices stabilising and growth returning.

07.08: Catching something on the radio, the six-year-old says 'Daddy, Gordon
Brown isn't in charge of Labour anymore, is he?' No, darling. 'Well then
obviously they're doing better.' Obvious to you, me and her, but not to every
pundit. The party was at an artificial low in 2008. It could hardly avoid
recovering. But it still doesn't look like a government in waiting. If, as seems
likely, these results shore up Ed Miliband, the main beneficiary will be David
Cameron.

2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 7:12 AM GMT

Election results: live;
Live coverage of the results of local elections and the London Mayoral race.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1653 words


· Labour Party makes sweeping gains in grim night for Coalition
· Lab gain 457 seats and 21 councils, Tories down 274 seats
· Vote share: Lab 38%, Tories 30%, Lib Dem 16
· Apathy wins the day: turnout just 32%, BBC predicts
· Respect unseat Labour council leader in Bradford
· Labour wins Mayor of Liverpool but other cities reject plan
· London Mayor result expected around 6pm
· Defeated Tory council leader's fury at Cameron

07.05 A recap of tonight's results.

With 97 of 181 councils declared, the Labour Party has made sweeping gains. It
has won 49 councils, a gain of 21. It has seen 1087 councillors elected, a gain
of 457.

Labour are on track to gain more than 700 seats - ahead of the Tories' private
briefings of around 500.

The Conservatives have lost 11 councils and held 26, and lost 274 councillors,
taking them to 548.

The Liberal Democrats have lost control of one council and lost 127 councillors,
with 212 elected.

Turnout is projected to be around 32 per cent, the lowest since 2000.

07.00 Cllr Vivien Pengelly, outgoing Conservative leader of Plymouth City
Council, has chastised David Cameron.

"David Cameron will be knowing in the next week or so exactly how I feel," she
said, citing the "Jeremy Hunt fiasco".

She said Cameron must listen to how the deficit reduction is "affecting very
vulnerable people, especially here in the south west."

06.50 Labour is on course for a strong performance in Wales, where all bar one
of the nation's 22 councils have been put to the poll.

Labour will have outright control of six councils, up two.

Welsh Labour leader Carwyn Jones said: "The momentum is clearly with Welsh
Labour tonight. We are taking seats from every party across the country - with
impressive gains in Wrexham, Caerphilly, Newport and a total Lib Dem wipe out in
Merthyr. We have reconnected with people and our community campaigning has
resonated with voters right across Wales."

The Lib Dems who lost a number of seats in Cardiff, Wales' biggest council.

The biggest drama of the night was at the Cardiff Central count in Pentwyn -
where Lib Dem council leader Rodney Berman appeared to be desperately trying to
cling on to his seat.

A second recount of the Plasnewydd ward, where Mr Berman stands, is due to take
place this afternoon - with sources telling the Press Assocation there were
"around a dozen votes in it".

A Tory party spokesman said it "may not be an easy night in parts of the
country" - after it lost its majority on Monmouthshire and the Vale of
Glamorgan.

Plaid Cymru described its fortunes as mixed bag, with some areas "being
difficult" and others being "easier".

06.45 A Labour source has told the Press Association: : "These are strong
results for Labour. A clear win on national share of the vote - best local
election result for Labour since 1997. Taking councils no-one expected us to -
Great Yarmouth and Dudley. Winning councils in the South - Southampton and
Plymouth. Winning in areas as where there are currently no Labour MPs - Harlow
and Thurrock."

05.28 The Bradford Spring rolls on: George Galloway's Respect Party has won the
seat of Ian Greenwood, the Labour leader of Bradford Council.

The party has taken four other seats on the council.

Councillor Ian Greenwood lost his Little Horton seat after three re-counts to
Respect's Alyas Karmani.

03.45 The Government's proposals for elected Mayors have been rejected in
Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry, and it looks likely the idea will be
rejected in Birmingham as well.

But in Liverpool the city has elected Joe Anderson, Labour, to be its first
elected Mayor. It brings £130m extra government funding to the City. He took 57
per cent of the vote.

The results are embarrassing for the Prime Minister, who had thrown his weight
firmly behind the changes in a series of speeches and interviews.

Mr Cameron had attempted to use the example of London Mayor Boris Johnson,
saying he wanted a "Boris in every city".

Housing Minister Grant Shapps defended the mayoral referendums, telling Sky
News: "People should have the right to decide how they are governed in their
local area."

He added: "The whole point is to give people a say. No-one is forcing mayors on
anyone."

03.05 Labour has celebrated a rout of its rivals in Birmingham, winning overall
control and ousting the Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition which has ruled the city
since 2004. The comfortable victory, which became clear well before results had
been declared in all the 40 seats being contested, saw Labour's share of the
vote increase to around 51%.

02.55 Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claims the election was
"always going to be a difficult one" for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

"Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up," she said.

"We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening."

02.50 Liberal Democrat foreign minister Jeremy Browne pointed to his party's
success in holding Cheltenham and remaining the largest party in Cambridge, even
though the authority slipped to no overall control.

He told Sky News: "I have some sort of encouragement for the Lib Dems.

"I'm not saying it's easy for us - it's tough being in government in midterm,
making difficult decisions to get the country on its feet again.

"But where we have the longest track record, where we have been running councils
or a dominant force on councils we have been remarkably resilient, we've held up
very well."

02.40 The Liberal Democrats have lost overall control of Cambridge - a
stronghold for more than a decade.

02.15 Police have been forced to break up a late night election fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat. There were no arrests.

01.54 Nottingham has rejected the idea of an elected mayor by 57.5 per cent to
42.5 per cent, on a turnout of just 24 per cent.

Nottingham City Council's Labour Leader, Jon Collins, said: "This was a
referendum imposed on us by the Coalition Government which the majority of local
people clearly did not agree with. I am pleased with this outcome because an
elected mayor would have been expensive and unnecessary."

01.47 The Tories have won the council ward of Chertsey South and Rowtown of
Runnymede Borough Council by drawing lots after the candidates were found to be
tied after three recounts.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

01.25 Cameron has lost seats in his own backyard of West Oxfordshire with Labour
making gains in Chipping Norton, Witney Central and Witney East. The Tories
retain control of the council.

01.14 Eric Pickles says Labour's gains are to be expected. "When a party is rock
bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to rain on Labour's
parade."

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: "It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

"But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this."

00.45 Tory chairman Baroness Warsi has caused outraged by linking the rise of
UKIP to the decline of the BNP.

Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her "a bitch".

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: "Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact."

She added: "There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates."

Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a "bitch" to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his "unparliamentary language".

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: "Deleted,
out of order on my part".

He later added: "Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise."

00.25 Labour has made gains in Basildon, Great Yarmouth and Southampton, while
the Liberal Democrats face losses in Sunderland, Lincolnshire and Manchester. It
is rumoured Galloway's Respect party has defeated the Labour leader of Bradford
council, Ian Greenwood.

00.05 Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the results of the local
elections and vote for Mayor of London, which took place yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 6:56 AM GMT

Election results: live;
Live coverage of the results of local elections and the London Mayoral race.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1087 words


· Labour gain more than 450 seats and 21 councils
· Lab gain 457 seats, Tories down 274, Lib Dems down 127 · Vote share: Lab 38%,
Tories 30%, Lib Dem 16% · Apathy wins the day: turnout just 32%, BBC predicts
· Respect unseat Labour council leader in Bradford
· Labour wins Mayor of Liverpool but other cities reject plan · London Mayor
result expected around 6pm · Defeated Tory council leader's fury at Cameron

03.45 The Government's proposals for elected Mayors have been rejected in
Manchester, Nottingham and Coventry, and it looks likely the idea will be
rejected in Birmingham as well.

The results are embarrassing for the Prime Minister, who had thrown his weight
firmly behind the changes in a series of speeches and interviews.

Mr Cameron had attempted to use the example of London Mayor Boris Johnson,
saying he wanted a "Boris in every city".

Housing Minister Grant Shapps defended the mayoral referendums, telling Sky
News: "People should have the right to decide how they are governed in their
local area."

He added: "The whole point is to give people a say. No-one is forcing mayors on
anyone."

03.05 Labour has celebrated a rout of its rivals in Birmingham, winning overall
control and ousting the Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition which has ruled the city
since 2004. The comfortable victory, which became clear well before results had
been declared in all the 40 seats being contested, saw Labour's share of the
vote increase to around 51%.

02.55 Conservative Transport Secretary Justine Greening claims the election was
"always going to be a difficult one" for her party - and was unsurprised by
Labour's success.

"Realistically there was only one way they could go and that was up," she said.

"We've had a tough couple of months and we were expecting this to be a difficult
evening."

02.50 Liberal Democrat foreign minister Jeremy Browne pointed to his party's
success in holding Cheltenham and remaining the largest party in Cambridge, even
though the authority slipped to no overall control.

He told Sky News: "I have some sort of encouragement for the Lib Dems.

"I'm not saying it's easy for us - it's tough being in government in midterm,
making difficult decisions to get the country on its feet again.

"But where we have the longest track record, where we have been running councils
or a dominant force on councils we have been remarkably resilient, we've held up
very well."

02.40 The Liberal Democrats have lost overall control of Cambridge - a
stronghold for more than a decade.

02.15 Police have been forced to break up a late night election fracas.

A row broke out as Liberal Democrats in Labour-controlled St Helen's suffered a
series of setbacks, leading to disappointment for the party's leader on the
council, Brian Spencer who lost his seat.

According to witnesses at St Helen's Town Hall there was a confrontation between
Mr Spencer and Labour candidate Mark Johnson, who fell across a table and landed
on his mother.

Lib Dem councillor Michael Haw said Mr Spencer, the council's ex-opposition
leader, was upset at losing his seat. There were no arrests.

01.54 Nottingham has rejected the idea of an elected mayor by 57.5 per cent to
42.5 per cent, on a turnout of just 24 per cent.

Nottingham City Council's Labour Leader, Jon Collins, said: "This was a
referendum imposed on us by the Coalition Government which the majority of local
people clearly did not agree with. I am pleased with this outcome because an
elected mayor would have been expensive and unnecessary."

01.47 The Tories have won the council ward of Chertsey South and Rowtown of
Runnymede Borough Council by drawing lots after the candidates were found to be
tied after three recounts.

John Edwards of the Conservatives, and Independent candidate Gillian Ellis both
received 503 votes, so they agreed to draw lots.

Their names were placed in a drum, and returning officer Paul Turrell, the
council's chief executive, picked out Mr Edwards's name.

01.25 Cameron has lost seats in his own backyard of West Oxfordshire with Labour
making gains in Chipping Norton, Witney Central and Witney East. The Tories
retain control of the council.

01.14 Eric Pickles says Labour's gains are to be expected. "When a party is rock
bottom there's only one way to go. But I'm not seeking to rain on Labour's
parade."

Labour's shadow justice minister Sadiq Khan told Sky: "It has been a good night
for Labour because people who have been concerned about some of the decisions of
this coalition Government are punishing them by voting for Labour candidates all
around the country.

"But we mustn't be complacent or smug about this."

00.45 Tory chairman Baroness Warsi has caused outraged by linking the rise of
UKIP to the decline of the BNP.

Lady Warsi appeared to suggest the number of candidates fielded by the
eurosceptics had risen in line with a fall in the number standing for the BNP -
a link with provoked Ukip's spokesman to brand her "a bitch".

Speaking on the BBC's election night coverage, Lady Warsi said: "Where Ukip is
fielding candidates this time that the BNP did last time but they're not this
time, I think that will have an impact."

She added: "There are members of Ukip who are from all sorts of political
parties, but it is an interesting mix there in terms of the number of
candidates."

Ukip spokesman Gawain Towler vented his anger at Lady Warsi's comments on
Twitter, calling her a "bitch" to his 1,700 followers, some of whom criticised
his "unparliamentary language".

The spokesman quickly deleted the post and and apologised, tweeting: "Deleted,
out of order on my part".

He later added: "Shouln't (sic) have said that, apologise."

00.25 Labour has made gains in Basildon, Great Yarmouth and Southampton, while
the Liberal Democrats face losses in Sunderland, Lincolnshire and Manchester. It
is rumoured Galloway's Respect party has defeated the Labour leader of Bradford
council, Ian Greenwood.

00.05 Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the results of the local
elections and vote for Mayor of London, which took place yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:07 AM GMT

Local elections: Tories suffering 'bad night' as Labour celebrates;
Labour claimed a "significant breakthrough" in council elections early this
morning as voters punished the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats for a series
of crises in the last month.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross and Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2058 words


· Labour gain from Tories and Lib Dems across England

· Rain blamed for low turnout as councils report "quiet" polls
· Conservatives expect to lose 450 seats
· Results in London Mayor election due by 6pm tomorrow

Twitter: Nick Sutton - Now up to 100 key wards. Average change since 2008: Con
-9%, Lab +18%, LD -9%. Change since 2011: Con -4%, Lab +3%, LD -1%. #BBCVote2012

Tory Cabinet ministers admitted the Conservatives were braced for a "bad night"
of heavy defeats, with the only bright spot for the party expected to be the
re-election of Boris Johnson as Mayor of London.

Early poll results suggested large swings to Labour in wards across England.

Ed Miliband's aides hailed victory in Harlow, Essex, and Great Yarmouth, where
Labour won control of councils from the Conservatives, as a "significant
breakthrough" and evidence that "people who used to vote Labour are returning".

The early results will fuel calls for David Cameron to reshuffle his ministerial
team and add to pressure on the Prime Minister and his deputy, Nick Clegg, to
outline a compelling programme for government in the Queen's Speech next week.

Some Conservative activists began questioning whether the popular Mr Johnson
could one day be a more successful leader than Mr Cameron.

George Galloway's Respect Party followed up his shock victory in the recent
Bradford West by-election, with the party's first seat in the city council. Many
speculated that Respect would win at least four council seats by the end of the
count.

Almost 5,000 seats are being contested at 181 councils in England, Wales and
Scotland.

Election experts predicted that Labour was "within sight" of gaining up to 700
council seats once all the results are known.

Council results declared overnight were always expected to favour Labour, but
many authorities, and the London mayoral election, do not begin counting votes
until morning.

With results confirmed for 94 councils just before 5am, the emerging picture
showed:

:: The Conservatives had control of 26 councils, and lost control of nine. There
were 510 Tory councillors, a loss of 250 seats overall. Conservatives lost
control of councils including Hart, Worcester and Wyre Forest to no overall
control.

:: Labour had control of 49 councils, up 21 from 2008, with a total of 1042
councillors, an increase of 441.

Labour gained power over Great Yarmouth and Harlow councils from the
Conservatives, and Nuneaton and Bedworth, and Exeter from no overall control.

:: The Liberal Democrats controlled three councils and lost one, with 199
councillors elected across the country, down 130 since the last elections in
2008.

:: The UK independence party had six councillors, while the BNP had lost three.

Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, said the victory in Harlow was "a very
significant result" for the party. Labour sources were also confident that the
party was on course to take control of Birmingham.

The Shadow Justice Secretary, Sadiq Khan, one of Mr Miliband's closest
colleagues, said: "It has been a good night for Labour because people concerned
about some of the decisions made by the coalition government are punishing
them."

In an intervention which will add to pressure on the Prime Minister, Gary
Streeter, the Conservative MP for Devon South West, suggested that the Tories
were suffering because the government was not being "Conservative enough".

Elections are also taking place for mayors in London, Liverpool and Salford and
referendums on the introduction of elected mayors in 10 other cities.

Mr Johnson, who was on course to be re-elected Mayor of London, was looking like
the only significant crumb of comfort for the Tories, as senior figures
suggested the party could lose up to 450 council seats.

Baroness Warsi, the co-chairman of the Conservative Party said it would be "a
tough night".

"It's going to be a bad night for the Conservatives," she told the BBC as the
first results came in.

She also appeared to suggest that early signs of growing popularity for the UK
Independence Party could be linked to a surge in support from voters who had
previously supported the BNP.

Michael Fallon, the Conservatives' deputy chairman, admitted that voters were
punishing the Conservatives for a series of failures in recent weeks by the
Coalition government.

However, he dismissed suggestions that Mr Johnson would make a better party
leader and Prime Minister than David Cameron.

The Conservatives' bleak analysis came after polls closed in local government
elections in England, Wales and Scotland.

Labour sources are confident that the party will have a "strong" performance in
areas of the country which currently have no Labour MPs.

Appearing on the BBC's Newsnight programme, before any results had been
announced, Mr Fallon accepted that the Conservatives were facing a tough outcome
and had suffered from a series of crises since the Budget in March.

"Obviously we have got to look at the results and learn from the results," he
said. "Obviously the last month has not been good."

He said he "wholly accept[ed]" that the government needed to be "more
competent".

"We can always improve the way that we communicate our message and the way that
we try and focus people on the really big achievements of this government."

Mr Fallon acknowledged that there was disquiet among Conservative activists, who
want the party to focus on the Coalition's achievements, such as new limits on
immigration and welfare spending, rather than "the little rows over pasties".

"They want us to explain our achievements, they want us to explain how we are
tackling the appalling deficit we inherited, how we are rebalancing the economy
and how we are reforming the public services that people rely on and not to get
distracted by some of these noises off, on some of these very minor issues."

Opinion polls suggest that Mr Johnson should retain control of City Hall and
defeat Labour's Ken Livingstone, although the final result will not be known
until Friday evening.

Lib Dems are resigned to losing up to 300 councillors once all ballots have been
counted.

However, Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' deputy leader, told the BBC he
would not "read any great implications for the coalition" into the results.

Election experts suggested Labour should aim to gain 700 council seats, although
the party was attempting to limit expectations to 500 more councillors in
England and Wales.

The council seats up for election this year were last contested in 2008, when
the Conservatives were at the peak of their popularity and Gordon Brown was in
Downing Street.

Voters were also casting their ballots in referendums on whether to create
elected mayors in 10 English cities, while directly elected mayors will be
chosen in Liverpool and Salford for the first time.

As the polls opened yesterday, Labour was naming key targets, including taking
control of Conservative-run councils, or joint Tory-Lib Dem authorities such as
Birmingham, Derby, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Wirral, Plymouth and Southampton.

Mr Miliband was hoping to make gains in parts of southern England where Labour
currently has no MPs, such as Reading and Harlow.

However, Labour feared the party would suffer at the hands of Alex Salmond's SNP
in Scotland and could lose control of Glasgow, which has been in Labour control
for decades.

Tessa Jowell, former Olympics minister, told BBC Newsnight: "We hope to make
progress. There are obviously parts of the country like the south of England
where we hope to make progress from our position."

Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain stood for election in 181 councils but
turnout was expected to be low across much of the country with rain in southern
and central England putting off voters.

Twitter: Paul Waugh - CCHQ source: "It's going to be a difficult night. Tho we
don't make predictions, Eric [Pickles] has already sd we cd easily lose 450
seats"

In London, turnout was estimated to be around 33 per cent, according to the
Press Association forecast based on early voting patterns in Streatham, south
London. This compared with 45.3 per cent across the capital for the 2008 mayoral
poll and 42.1 per cent at the Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which
covers Streatham.

Edinburgh City Council said the turnout this morning was "quieter than expected"
while there were reports of a turnout as low as 20 per cent in some wards.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie said a record low turnout would
be "bad for democracy".

He said: "People shouldn't take their vote for granted and it is up to us all to
convince people of the value of taking part in elections."

Twitter: Dan Hodges - My view: Lab 500 seats good, 700 v.good. 40%+ national
share good. Boris win worse news for Cam than Ed.

Before polling stations closed at 10pm, Labour was 10 points ahead of the
Conservatives and was expected to take 43 per cent of the vote, according to
YouGov polling for The Sun carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Tories were
on 33 per cent while the Liberal Democrats and Ukip were both on eight per cent.

Twitter: Jonathan Walker - Labour almost certain to win back control of
Birmingham - will provide good news for Ed tomorrow if Boris holds London for
Tories

Some 63 per cent of voters said they disapproved of the Government's record,
with 24 per cent approving. The disapproval rating was up from 59 per cent found
in polling conducted on Monday and Tuesday.

Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, 31 per cent of 1749 adults said
David Cameron, 22 per cent said Ed Miliband, 5 per cent said Nick Clegg and 42
per cent said they did not know.

Twitter: Christopher Pincher - Off to the Tamworth count. Tamworth has won the
race to declare results several times since 2004 so let's see if we can do it
again.

The trend was reversed in the battle for where London Mayor Boris Johnson, the
Conservative candidate, was leading his Labour rival Ken Livingstone by 53 per
cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin by which he won four
years ago, according to the latest YouGov poll.

The poll for the London Evening Standard surveyed 2,119 London voters between
Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result was neck and neck, with
Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction under. But 68 per cent of
Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to vote, compared to 62 per cent
of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

Harriet Harman, deputy Labour leader, told BBC's Question Time she was
disappointed in the mayoral campaign.

"There has been massive personal onslaught and I just hope Londoners will have
seen through that and vote for policies that will improve their lives," she
said.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hoped to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

Earlier today, Lord O'Donnell, the former Cabinet Secretary, criticised
broadcasters for excluding independent London mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita
from televised debates.

"Would I stand as an independent under these rules as interpreted by the
broadcasters? Absolutely not. Basically, there is a massive bias towards the
status quo in the system," he told The House magazine.

"The current rules can't pick up on new candidates who haven't stood before and
new candidates who haven't gained in strength."

In the London Assembly, Labour enjoyed a 10-point lead over the Tories and were
expected to gain three seats, to 11. The Tories were expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP was forecast to lose their one seat and
Ukip to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in 10 Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in 10 said they would stay at home.

Of the Labour supporters considering voting for Mr Johnson, 65 per cent said the
reason was "I dislike Ken", while just two per cent said it was because their
family would be better off with Mr Johnson as Mayor. Some 23 per cent it was
because they "like Boris".

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:18 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2054 words


2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:09 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2272 words


2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow)

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON                                          Harlow: Lab 20
(+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18 (-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC                     Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8
(-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS                     Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0
(=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6); LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50
(+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0 (-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8);
Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1);
LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24 (+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58
(+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1 (=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC                     Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8
(+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1); Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1);
Oth 0 (-2)

CON HOLD                     Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con
27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant:
Con 34 (-1); Lab 3 (+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD                     Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8
(-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:09 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2273 words


2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow)

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON                                          Harlow: Lab 20
(+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18 (-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC                     Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8
(-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS                     Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0
(=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6); LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50
(+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0 (-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8);
Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1);
LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24 (+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58
(+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1 (=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC                     Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8
(+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1); Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1);
Oth 0 (-2)

CON HOLD                     Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con
27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant:
Con 34 (-1); Lab 3 (+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD                     Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8
(-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 2:09 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2272 words


2.12: A good night for Labour, a bad night for the Conservatives, a terrible
night for the LibDems. Alright, I could have told you all that before the first
ballot was cast. Still, the precise nature of the switches is interesting. In
the north, Labour is winning support directly from the LibDems. Further south,
Labour is winning seats from the Tories, because the Tories are losing votes to
UKIP. According to John Curtice, where UKIP gets above ten per cent, the
Conservative vote falls by five per cent.

Why assume that something similar wouldn't happen at a general election? That's
the scenario I warned against last month: a Canada-style divided Right, which
allows the Left to win with a minority of the vote. I've always argued that the
Conservatives should hold an In/Out referendum because it is right in principle.
However, the tactical case for one is now overwhelming. When so level-headed a
veteran from the party Left as Gary Streeter says so, it's surely just a matter
of time. On which optimistic note, I'm taking a break until tomorrow, when the
London results come in. ¡Hasta la victoria siempre!

1.49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow)

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON                                          Harlow: Lab 20
(+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18 (-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC                     Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8
(-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS                     Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0
(=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6); LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50
(+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0 (-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8);
Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1);
LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24 (+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58
(+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1 (=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC                     Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8
(+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1); Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1);
Oth 0 (-2)

CON HOLD                     Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con
27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant:
Con 34 (-1); Lab 3 (+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD                     Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8
(-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:59 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2083 words


1.49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow):

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON                                          Harlow: Lab 20
(+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18 (-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC                     Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8
(-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS                     Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0
(=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6); LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50
(+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0 (-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8);
Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1);
LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24 (+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58
(+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1 (=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC                     Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8
(+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1); Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1);
Oth 0 (-2)

CON HOLD                     Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con
27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant:
Con 34 (-1); Lab 3 (+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD                     Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8
(-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:59 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2083 words


1.49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow):

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON                                          Harlow: Lab 20
(+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18 (-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC                     Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8
(-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS                     Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0
(=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6); LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50
(+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0 (-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8);
Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1);
LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24 (+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58
(+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1 (=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC                     Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8
(+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1); Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1);
Oth 0 (-2)

CON HOLD                     Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con
27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant:
Con 34 (-1); Lab 3 (+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD                     Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8
(-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:59 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2083 words


1.49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow):

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON                                          Harlow: Lab 20
(+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18 (-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC                     Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8
(-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS                     Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0
(=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6); LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50
(+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0 (-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8);
Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1);
LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24 (+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58
(+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1 (=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC                     Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8
(+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1); Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1);
Oth 0 (-2)

CON HOLD                     Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con
27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant:
Con 34 (-1); Lab 3 (+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD                     Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8
(-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:49 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2071 words


1. 49: The situation so far (hat-tip, Andrew Sparrow):

LABOUR GAIN FROM CON

Harlow: Lab 20 (+5); Con 13 (-4); LD 0 (-1)Great Yarmouth: Lab 21 (+5); Con 18
(-4); Oth 0 (-1)

LABOUR GAIN FROM NOC

Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab 25 (+8); Con 8 (-6); Green 1 (+1); Oth 3 (-3)

LABOUR HOLDS

Knowsley: Lab 63 (+4); LD 0 (-4); Con 0 (=)Sunderland: Lab 64 (+8); Con 8 (-6);
LD 0 (-1); Oth (3 (-1)Halton: Lab 50 (+6); LD 4 (-2); Con 2 (-1); Oth 0
(-3)South Tyneside: Lab 48 (+9); Oth 4 (-8); Con 1 (=); UKIP 1 (=); LD 0
(-1)Sandwell: Lab 68 (+8); Con 2 (-6); Oth 2 (-1); LD 0 (-1)Lincoln: Lab 24
(+7); Con 8 (-6); Oth 1 (=); LD 0 (-1)Rotherham: Lab 58 (+4); Con 4 (-3); Oth 1
(=); BNP 0 (-1)

CON LOSS TO NOC

Hart: Con 15 (-4); LD 10 (=); Res Asoc 8 (+3); Oth 2 (+1)Worcester: Con 17 (-1);
Lab 15 (+3); LD 2 (-1); Green 1 (+1); Oth 0 (-2)CON HOLD

Castle Point: Con 25 (=); Lab 16 (=)Broxbourne: Con 27; Lab 3 BOUNDARY
CHANGESTamworth: Con 18 (-4); Lab 11 (+4); Oth 1 (=)Havant: Con 34 (-1); Lab 3
(+2); LD 1 (-1)

NOC HOLD

Weymouth & Portland: Con 14 (-2); Lab 11 (+4); LD 8 (-2); Oth 3 (=)

1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:39 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1858 words


1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:39 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1858 words


1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:39 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1858 words


1.36: Another thought. The LibDems are being pushed into fourth and fifth place
in wards they recently held - particularly in southern England. 'Grassroots' was
rather a good metaphor: however often they were mown down, the LibDems could
regenerate from their base in the soil. Now, those roots have withered.

1.32: Low turnout, 'no' votes in several mayoral contests. Spot the common
thread? In its present mood, the country doesn't want any politicians.

1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signed the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Subliminally, Corporation staff think
that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not, and they read the polls
through that filter. How do I know? Because I can remember the shocking way the
BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009 (see here). When the result
came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend its ways. Since then, as all
human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:20 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1777 words


1.20: Deeply disappointing to see the LibDems clinging on in Eastleigh. Of
course, there might be a by-election there before long.

1.12: Ten thousand people in Thurrock signed the People's Pledge. Now UKIP have
won a ward there and come second in many of the others. 'Ah, but you've just put
Labour in,' won't do as a response. Most Labour councillors in Thurrock had also
signd the Pledge.

1.10: Great to see Gary Streeter, whom no one could ever call a Euro-obsessive,
speaking warmly of  an In/Out referendum.

1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Why? Because, subliminally,
Corporation staff think that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not,
and they read the polls through that filter. How do I know? Because I can
remember the shocking way the BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009
(see here). When the result came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend
its ways. Since then, as all human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their
prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:05 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1682 words


1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Why? Because, subliminally,
Corporation staff think that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not,
and they read the polls through that filter. How do I know? Because I can
remember the shocking way the BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009
(see here). When the result came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend
its ways. Since then, as all human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their
prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:05 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1682 words


1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Why? Because, subliminally,
Corporation staff think that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not,
and they read the polls through that filter. How do I know? Because I can
remember the shocking way the BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009
(see here). When the result came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend
its ways. Since then, as all human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their
prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 1:05 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1682 words


1.05: If UKIP's performance is repeated in London, the BBC will have a lot of
explaining to do. It won't do to say 'No one could have seen this coming'. The
opinion polls have been indicating for months that UKIP was roughly level with
the LibDems - and far, far ahead of the Greens. It's true that, in the past week
or so, the Beeb has tried to compensate for its earlier slanted coverage. But
you can bet your last devalued euro that, next time, the clock will be zeroed,
and the Beeb will be back to its old ways. Why? Because, subliminally,
Corporation staff think that the Greens are reasonable and that UKIP are not,
and they read the polls through that filter. How do I know? Because I can
remember the shocking way the BBC covered the Norwich North by-election in 2009
(see here). When the result came in, a genuinely abashed Beeb promised to mend
its ways. Since then, as all human beings do, its staff have defaulted to their
prejudices.

12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:54 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1520 words


12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:54 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1520 words


12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:54 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1520 words


12.54: Respect is Tweeting confidently from Bradford. (Again, see cartoon!)

12.50: Another under-reported fact. The BNP seems to be losing every seat it
holds.

12.45: Alright, I'm going to go out on a limb here. The rise of UKIP is the real
story of the night so far. Until now, their presence in local government has
been made up overwhelmingly of defectors from other parties. Just occasionally,
these defectors hold their seats under UKIP colours. More often, they don't, but
their numbers are sustained by new defections. Tonight that changed. UKIP has
been winning seats outright, and coming second all over the place. They are so
far averaging around 14 per cent in the wards where they had a candidate - not
enough to win in many places, but often enough to determine who does. This is a
new political phenomenon, and one to which all parties need to adjust.

12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:36 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1366 words


12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:36 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1366 words


12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:36 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1366 words


12.36: Curiously under-reported so far has been the position of the various
Resident, Ratepayer and Independent slates. These do especially well in southern
England when the Tories are unpopular nationally. During the dire John Major
years, they controlled swathes of the Home Counties. Over the past two weeks, I
scented their return in various parts of my region, particularly Surrey. I'm
hearing that they have cost the Conservatives control of Hart, a beautiful and
prosperous part of northeastern Hampshire. The national implications are
limited: most Residents back the Tories at general elections. Still, it all
makes the same point: see above cartoon.

12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:32 AM GMT

Local elections: Lib Dems face wipe-out at poll as Tories prepare for 'bad
night';
The Conservatives are braced for a "bad night" of heavy defeats in council
elections across the country, a Cabinet minister has said.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross and Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1534 words


· Labour leads by nine points, according to YouGov
· Rain blamed for low turnout as councils report "quiet" poll
· Conservatives expected to lose hundreds of seats
· First results due in shortly after midnight as counting starts
· Results in London Mayor election due by 6pm tomorrow

Boris Johnson, who was on course to be re-elected Mayor of London, was looking
like providing the only significant source of comfort for the Tories, as senior
figures suggested the party could lose up to 450 council seats.

Coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats, were also expected to face a
difficult night as early results showed the party losing all of its seats in
South Tyneside, Knowsley and Sunderland.

Labour sources, meanwhile, were boasting of a "strong" performance across
England, especially in areas where the party currently has no MPs, in the
biggest electoral test since the general election.

Baroness Warsi, the co-chairman of the Conservative Party said it would be "a
tough night" as early results showed Labour holding Sunderland and Halton
councils, with Ed Miliband's aides claiming wins elsewhere.

"It's going to be a bad night for the Conservatives," she told the BBC.

Michael Fallon, the party's deputy chairman, admitted that voters were punishing
the Conservatives for a series of failures in recent weeks by the Coalition
government.

However, he dismissed suggestions that Mr Johnson would make a better party
leader and Prime Minister than David Cameron.

Twitter: Nick Sutton - Now up to 100 key wards. Average change since 2008: Con
-9%, Lab +18%, LD -9%. Change since 2011: Con -4%, Lab +3%, LD -1%. #BBCVote2012

The Conservatives' bleak analysis came after polls closed in local government
elections in England, Wales and Scotland.

Almost 5,000 council seats are being contested, along with elections for mayors
in London, Liverpool and Salford and referendums on the introduction of elected
mayors in 10 other cities.

Appearing on the BBC's Newsnight programme, before any results had been
announced, Mr Fallon accepted that the Conservatives were facing a tough outcome
and had suffered from a series of crises since the Budget in March.

"Obviously we have got to look at the results and learn from the results," he
said. "Obviously the last month has not been good."

He said he "wholly accept[ed]" that the government needed to be "more
competent".

"We can always improve the way that we communicate our message and the way that
we try and focus people on the really big achievements of this government."

Mr Fallon acknowledged that there was disquiet among Conservative activists, who
want the party to focus on the Coalition's achievements, such as new limits on
immigration and welfare spending, rather than "the little rows over pasties".

"They want us to explain our achievements, they want us to explain how we are
tackling the appalling deficit we inherited, how we are rebalancing the economy
and how we are reforming the public services that people rely on and not to get
distracted by some of these noises off, on some of these very minor issues."

Opinion polls suggest that Mr Johnson should retain control of City Hall and
defeat Labour's Ken Livingstone, despite the unpopularity of the national
Conservative Party, which is trailing Labour across the country by about 10
points in recent surveys.

But Mr Fallon refused to engage with the question of whether the Mayor would
make a good Prime Minister.

"It's far too early to start speculating about the next leader of the Tory
party," he said.

The latest YouGov poll showed that Labour was nine points ahead of the
Conservatives on 41 per cent to the Tories' 32 per cent. The Liberal Democrats
and Ukip both trailed with nine per cent.

A senior Labour source said early signs were that the party had performed
"strongly".

They expressed confidence about gains in the Midlands and South, including key
battlegrounds such as Harlow and Reading.

In the first result to be declared, Labour kept control of Sunderland, gaining
eight seats, while early results from Basildon, Essex, indicated a large swing
to Labour since last year, according to the BBC.

Tessa Jowell, former Olympics minister, told BBC Newsnight: "We hope to make
progress. There are obviously parts of the country like the south of England
where we hope to make progress from our position."

Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain stood for election in 181 councils but
turnout was expected to be low across much of the country with rain in southern
and central England putting off voters.

Twitter: Paul Waugh - CCHQ source: "It's going to be a difficult night. Tho we
don't make predictions, Eric [Pickles] has already sd we cd easily lose 450
seats"

In London, turnout was estimated to be around 33 per cent, according to the
Press Association forecast based on early voting patterns in Streatham, south
London. This compared with 45.3 per cent across the capital for the 2008 mayoral
poll and 42.1 per cent at the Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which
covers Streatham.

Edinburgh City Council said the turnout this morning was "quieter than expected"
while there were reports of a turnout as low as 20 per cent in some wards.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie said a record low turnout would
be "bad for democracy".

He said: "People shouldn't take their vote for granted and it is up to us all to
convince people of the value of taking part in elections."

Twitter: Dan Hodges - My view: Lab 500 seats good, 700 v.good. 40%+ national
share good. Boris win worse news for Cam than Ed.

Before polling stations closed at 10pm, Labour was 10 points ahead of the
Conservatives and was expected to take 43 per cent of the vote, according to
YouGov polling for The Sun carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Tories were
on 33 per cent while the Liberal Democrats and Ukip were both on eight per cent.

Twitter: Jonathan Walker - Labour almost certain to win back control of
Birmingham - will provide good news for Ed tomorrow if Boris holds London for
Tories

Some 63 per cent of voters said they disapproved of the Government's record,
with 24 per cent approving. The disapproval rating was up from 59 per cent found
in polling conducted on Monday and Tuesday.

Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, 31 per cent of 1749 adults said
David Cameron, 22 per cent said Ed Miliband, 5 per cent said Nick Clegg and 42
per cent said they did not know.

Twitter: Christopher Pincher - Off to the Tamworth count. Tamworth has won the
race to declare results several times since 2004 so let's see if we can do it
again.

The trend was reversed in the battle for where London Mayor Boris Johnson, the
Conservative candidate, was leading his Labour rival Ken Livingstone by 53 per
cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin by which he won four
years ago, according to the latest YouGov poll.

The poll for the London Evening Standard surveyed 2,119 London voters between
Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result was neck and neck, with
Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction under. But 68 per cent of
Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to vote, compared to 62 per cent
of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

Harriet Harman, deputy Labour leader, told BBC's Question Time she was
disappointed in the mayoral campaign.

"There has been massive personal onslaught and I just hope Londoners will have
seen through that and vote for policies that will improve their lives," she
said.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hoped to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

Earlier today, Lord O'Donnell, the former Cabinet Secretary, criticised
broadcasters for excluding independent London mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita
from televised debates.

"Would I stand as an independent under these rules as interpreted by the
broadcasters? Absolutely not. Basically, there is a massive bias towards the
status quo in the system," he told The House magazine.

"The current rules can't pick up on new candidates who haven't stood before and
new candidates who haven't gained in strength."

In the London Assembly, Labour enjoyed a 10-point lead over the Tories and were
expected to gain three seats, to 11. The Tories were expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP was forecast to lose their one seat and
Ukip to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in 10 Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in 10 said they would stay at home.

Of the Labour supporters considering voting for Mr Johnson, 65 per cent said the
reason was "I dislike Ken", while just two per cent said it was because their
family would be better off with Mr Johnson as Mayor. Some 23 per cent it was
because they "like Boris".

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:29 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1253 words


12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:29 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1253 words


12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:29 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1253 words


12.30: Andy Sparrow on the Guardian relays an extraordinary report of violence
and intimidation in Bradford. I did try to warn you.

12.25: Taking as read all the caveats about inferring too much from limited
data, UKIP seem to be having an extraordinarily strong night. It's true that you
can't extrapolate too much contests in fewer than a third of the seats:
obviously, those seats tend to be where UKIP is strongest. Even so, the party is
now doing well enough to vindicate the argument I set out here. A permanent
Tory-UKIP rift is in no one's interest. Except Cleggie's.

12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:09 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1150 words


12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:09 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1150 words


12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2012 Friday 12:09 AM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1150 words


12.12: You know what? There's no point in having a blog if you can't
occasionally congratulate your mates, so well done to Sally Marks, who has just
been re-elected in gorgeous Woldingham.

12.02: Labour takes Sunderland, doing well in Plymouth, Reading, Basildon,
Sefton, Southampton. Grrr. Southampton is a superb local council, with a great
leader in Royston Smith. I'm spending three days there next week for various
constituency events. Volveremos!

11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Get ready to join euro, says Mandelson

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 504 words


Britain should be ready to join the euro within a decade, Lord Mandelson will
say today when he calls for a referendum to reshape the UK's relationship with
Europe for the next generation.

As part of a "wake-up call" to those who assume that the eurozone is doomed, the
Labour peer will use a speech to say that the single currency will probably
emerge stronger from its present woes.

Britain faces life in "a sort of European annexe" if eurozone countries pool
more sovereignty to form a solid fiscal bloc. "The EU will have been rebooted
with the UK on the outside," he is expected to say. His counterintuitive
intervention comes in the week that David Cameron questioned the survival of the
euro and warned that the Continent was not yet halfway through its sovereign
debt problems.

But Lord Mandelson, a former Secretary of State for Business and a European
Commissioner for trade, will use the Hands lecture in Oxford to defy hostility
to the euro, including from within the Shadow Cabinet.

He will argue that the present difficulties are likely to prove the key to the
currency's success, forcing the necessary reforms and institutional changes on
member states.

"The economic logic for staying outside the eurozone can, and probably will,
change," he will say. This would require Germany to bear the bulk of the rescue
costs. Indebted countries such as Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal and the
Republic of Ireland would have to embrace austerity and market reforms as a
necessary choice rather than blame Brussels or Berlin.

Such a change would force Britons "to confront our own ambiguous feelings about
the Union", he will say. "A nation of 'reluctant' Europeans will have to
confront a choice between taking part in greater integration, including joining
the euro, or an uncertain future."

Staying outside such a bloc or quitting the European Union altogether would
amount to the same thing, Lord Mandelson will say. Either way, Britain would
have to meet EU standards to trade with Europe but would have little or no voice
in defining them.

The peer is also expected to say that the public needs to engage with what is at
stake. He is the most senior Labour figure to back a referendum on Britain's
future relationship with Europe, arguing that the mandate secured by Edward
Heath in the 1970s has run out. "It belongs to another time and another
generation."

Some Shadow Cabinet figures believe that Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, should
call for a referendum on Europe before the Prime Minister can put it in the next
Tory manifesto.

Lord Mandelson will say that such a poll should not be a "panicky" response to
the rise of UKIP. It would only be relevant when the shape of a new Europe and
the success or otherwise of a re-booted euro is apparent, in five or ten years.
"At that stage, a referendum would be a healthy means of reestablishing a
consensus about Britain's place in the world and the role Europe should play in
that."

Britain will have to confront the uncertain future " choice between taking part
or having an

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 142 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kick them in ballots

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 111 words


TODAY Cameron and Clegg should be quaking in their boots.

Brits up and down the country go to the polls for the local elections.

And it looks like the Coalition partners could get clobbered.

Labour is on course to take a lead over the Tories.

And Clegg's Lib Dems are on shaky ground and likely to finish fourth behind
UKIP.

But should they expect anything else? What have they achieved for the country -
and ordinary Brits? The economy is slipping into a double-dip recession.

And just last month Chancellor George Osborne handed down a tough-love Budget
and taxed our pasties.

Now it's time for you to show them how you really feel.

Kick them where it hurts - in the ballots.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 142 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

ARMACLEGGON;
Nick and Cam face election battering

BYLINE: GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 261 words


DAVID Cameron and Nick Clegg face election meltdown today as Brits are due to
give them a good kicking in the ballots.

Polls show both men will be severely punished as voting gets under way at 181
councils in England, Wales and Scotland.

The Tories are set for heavy losses after the PM was branded an "arrogant posh
boy" following outcry over the pasty tax in the Budget.

And Deputy PM Nick Clegg and his Lib Dems are dreading a repeat of last year's
bloodbath when they lost 800 councillors.

Polls give Ed Miliband's Labour a huge lead, while Clegg's Lib Dems could finish
fourth behind Ukip as voters show renewed anger over immigration.

Mr Cameron yesterday urged voters not to clobber his party over the economy.

With Labour tipped to gain up to 700 seats, a Tory source close to the PM said:
"We are expecting a very difficult night."

The only ray of hope for the Tories is if Boris Johnson beats Labour's Ken
Livingstone to stay on as London mayor.

Referendums will also be held on whether to have elected mayors in Birmingham,
Bradford, Bristol, Coventry, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham, Sheffield
and Wakefield.

In a final push for votes Mr Cameron accepted it was a "tough time for families"
but said Conservative councils offered the best value for money.

He added: "Don't let Labour do to your council what they did to the country."

Mr Miliband promised Labour would "stand up for the many" rather than the "rich
and powerful", while Mr Clegg said votes for Lib Dems were a "step towards a
more liberal country".

The Star Says: Page 6 gary.nicks@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE: Nick Clegg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Scottish local election turnout could fall to record low

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 607 words

ABSTRACT

Party leaders have been trying to rouse voters, especially for the SNP-Labour
fight for control of Glasgow

FULL TEXT

Scottish political leaders were out in force throughout polling day in a final
effort to rouse apathetic voters amid predictions of a low turnout.

Despite bright sun and warm temperatures across central Scotland, senior figures
in all the mainstream parties fear the turnout could hit a record low for recent
local council elections, slumping to less than 40% of Scotland's 4 million
eligible voters.

The most intense battle for votes was in Glasgow, where the influential Scottish
National party MSP Humza Yousaf predicted his party could win a shock victory
over Labour after seeing substantial support for nationalists at polling
stations.

With the SNP widely expected to make further gains across Scotland, taking
control of smaller cities and councils, Glasgow is the greatest prize for first
minister Alex Salmond. He and party executives have been carefully playing down
their early hopes of winning Glasgow, but Yousaf said their supporters were out
in strength on polling day.

He told the Guardian the party was poised to wrest control of Scotland's largest
city after decades of Labour domination, allowing the SNP to form a coalition or
run a minority administration if it failed to build a large enough cross-party
alliance.

"We're getting a good reaction. My prediction is we will be two to three seats
ahead of Labour. A majority is going to be tough but I think we will get the
mandate we need to form an administration," he said.

His predictions were contested by the Scottish Labour party, which is defending
a 20-seat majority over the SNP in Glasgow and has been specially targeting 10
areas where the party hopes to win all or most seats in the multi-member wards.

Anas Sarwar MP, the deputy Scottish Labour leader, said he was unwilling to make
firm predictions but said: "I have been in five of the key wards today and the
mood has been very positive on the doors. The message coming across is about
putting the city of Glasgow first, rather than worrying about an SNP
independence referendum."

There was caution from Gordon Matheson, Glasgow's Labour leader and current
council leader. While predicting victory in an interview with the Guardian last
week, Matheson would not call the result while he visited Labour voters on
Thursday.

"I'm very positive," he said. "We're at a stage where we're benefiting from all
the months of effort identifying our vote."

Ruth Davidson, the Scottish Tory leader, who was out seeing Tory voters in
southern Glasgow, said the race in the city was so tight it was possible that
one seat could divide Labour and the SNP. Told about Yousaf's prediction,
Davidson said: "I think it will be closer than that. I still think Glasgow is
too close to call between the big two."

The parties are competing for 1,223 seats in 32 Scottish councils in Thursday's
election. The SNP is currently the largest party, defending 368 seats and
control of 13 councils through coalitions or minority administrations. After
standing 612 candidates against 497 for Labour, Salmond's target is to increase
that number of seats and the SNP's share of the vote by outstripping Labour.

It is widely expected that the Lib Dem vote will slump across much of Scotland:
the party has only 247 candidates; the Tories have 362, Scottish Greens have 86
and691 independents and minority party candidates are standing including the UK
Independence party and Solidarity.

Votes in Scotland are being counted on Friday, with the major cities expected to
declare final results during Friday afternoon and early evening.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

London mayor and local elections 2012 - live polling day coverage

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6994 words

ABSTRACT

Rolling coverage as voters in England, Scotland and Wales go to the polls - and
Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone prepare to find out who will be London's next
mayor

FULL TEXT

7.13pm: My colleague Peter Walker sends this from his polling station in south
London:

If Simon Jeffery had the prettiest polling station earlier--

Hang on. I don't concede that at all. I still think mine is the nicest. Anyway.
Sorry Peter. Please go on.

If Simon Jeffery had the prettiest polling station earlier, mine, in Denmark
Hill, south London, is surely the ugliest. I believe the architectural style is
known as "70s POW".

Here it is.

6.53pm:Here's Severin Carrell's full story on polling day in Scotland so far.

6.15pm: Some more views from the polls:

From MindOverMatter:

Just came in from voting in the Darton East (Barnsley) election. Not massive
turnout it seems so far.

I think this must be the first time I've seen a voting slip where female
candidates outnumber male (Labour, Barnsley Independent Group, and the EDL
fielding female candidates).

From DJT1Million:

I've just returned from voting here in north London and was pleasantly surprised
at how busy the polling station was, apparently it has been steady all day. Good
to see though how that translates into turnout I obviously have no idea. A pity
if turnout is low, we need more people to get involved and use their vote as
politicians need to remember that they are not our rulers but our elected
representatives.

From Mertyl:

Just voted in the Bristol Mayoral referendum (You remember national media, that
other two-syllable city with a river) but it's hard to say much about general
turn out; it's always quite low in my ward anyway, and the most that the
registrars at my polling booth would say was "it's been quiet, and I expect the
rain is putting people off"; we have gun-metal solid skies here at the moment.

However I must say the referendum question is extremely badly written, perhaps
almost verging on biased.

5.46pm: Here's a video of Boris Johnson, Ken Livingstone, David Cameron, Nick
Clegg and Ed Miliband casting their votes.

5.09pm: Our community coordinator Hannah Waldram has this update from readers
helping to cover the local election campaigns.

Our #Mayor2012 map allowed readers to help us track the London mayoral
candidates - and the map shows Jenny Jones was quite active, according to users
to tracked her progress.

Here it is.

We also tracked Joris Luyendijk's local election journey from John O'Groats to
Cheltenham via the Google map below - we've plotted some of our readers'
thoughts and comments on the local elections in their area alongside Joris's
notes.

You can add yours to the map too here.

4.48pm: The big question in Wales is whether Labour will sweep back into power
in heartland seats such as some of the valley councils and traditionally
left-leaning cities in the south like as Newport and Swansea, writes Steven
Morris. It lost power in many such places at the time of Gordon Brown's
unpopular premiership.

This time it has run a two-pronged campaign asking the electorate to use the
election as a referendum on the Tory-Lib Dem coalition. But it has also tried to
put control in the hands of activists, asking local parties to produce
individual manifestos tailored to the needs of their own communities.

It is expected to be a tough night for the Liberal Democrats, who have had power
- in various partnerships - in councils including Newport, Swansea and Wrexham.
A key test will be whether they can retain control of their jewel-in-the-crown
council, Cardiff.

There are elections in 21 of the 22 unitary local authorities. Anglesey misses
out this time following a critical report on how the island was being run by the
auditor general for Wales.

Another interesting element to look out for is how the nationalists, Plaid
Cymru, fare having just elected a new leader, Leanne Wood, whose radical and
republican views have attracted UK-wide headlines.

Labour strategists were disappointed by the weather. There was heavy rain - and
flooding in some parts. The fear was that the waverers might be tempted to stay
in and stay dry.

4.45pm: My colleague Simon Jeffery reckons his polling station is better looking
than mine (see 9.26am).

He's sent me this picture.

4.41pm: For anyone who missed it, and because it will be out of date tomorrow,
here is my animated version of the London mayoral race.

4.39pm: In Liverpool, Alexandra Topping interviews Joe Anderson, the Labour
candidate and favourite for elected mayor.

Anderson tells her:

I think having a mayor for the city is good because it engages and involves
everybody right across the city in making the decision on who should run the
city on their behalf ... If the mayor doesn't deliver on the promises that
they've made, then they can vote them out and it's not somebody that is actually
there at the behest of a group of supporters from their same party. It will be
up to the people of Liverpool to decide when and if to get that person out
because they haven't delivered.

4.16pm: Hamza Yousaf, the SNP's Glasgow MSP, has made a bold prediction, writes
Severin Carrell: he thinks the SNP will beat Labour by two to three seats in
Glasgow - taking the city after decades of Labour dominance.

Yousaf, out campaigning in the constituency held by Scottish Labour leader
Johann Lamont, said: "We're getting a good reaction. My prediction is we will be
two to three seats ahead of Labour. A majority is going to be tough but I think
we will get the mandate we need to form an administration.

"I'm getting great news from the west end [of Glasgow]. I'm hearing that the SNP
are getting a lot of people on the ground."

One SNP voter in Corkerhill, Lamont's Holyrood seat, is Ishtiaq Ahmad. He used
to vote Labour. No longer. "I feel bitterly betrayed by Labour because of the
way they've conducted themselves at Westminster. They took us into an
unnecessary war in Iraq and they've demonised the Muslim community: everyone
thinks every Muslim is a terrorist, and that's something which really pissed me
off."

4.12pm: Over at the Northerner blog, political experts and politicians are
debating how the Tories can win voters' trust in the north of England again. To
my mind Geoff Lawler of Leeds-based political consultancy the Public Affairs
Company, former Conservative MP for Bradford North, gets closest to the truth:

For the electorate in [northern suburbia], the Tories did not quite de-toxify
enough by the last election, despite what the likes of Tim Montgomerie assert.
The problem is that given that many of these constituencies have large numbers
of the more comfortably-off, public sector electors, in the current climate they
are hardly likely to be enthused about voting Tory. Coupled with a completely
and unnecessarily politically misjudged budget, the Conservatives have gone two
steps back.

There is no silver bullet solution but certainly some astute advisers at No.10
and the Treasury who either know, or genuinely understand, what it is like to
consider that 20p on a pasty actually is a lot, would help. A large rebalancing
of the amount spent on infrastructure away from the south and towards the north,
so creating jobs both in the short-term and in the long-term through making the
region more attractive for investment, would also help.

4.05pm: Gordon Matheson struck lucky twice as he geed up voters in Townhead,
writes Severin Carrell from Glasgow: firstly he found lifelong Labour voter
Catherine Corson, who celebrated her 90th birthday today and is a beneficiary of
[#xfffd]100 Glasgow council funded winter fuel payment, and secondly engineering
graduate Alasdair Smith, from Ness on Lewis, who was on his way to vote, and as
a Glasgow-based graduategets city-funded work grants.

Corson was succinct. Is she voting Labour? "Yes. Of course." Smith had never
heard of Glasgow's Commonwealth fund for graduates, but Matheson's speil had
worked: he would get Smith's second vote. But he had this to say about Matheson:
"I found him very good: he wasn't too forward. He did sound a little bit too me,
me, me. I thought he would've said 'me and my team'."

3.56pm:Salford council has been Labour-controlled for decades and the party's
candidate Ian Stewart is the bookmakers' favourite to win today's race for
elected mayor, reports Helen Carter.

Stewart wants to develop a co-operative city with local food co-ops. But the
Liberal Democrat candidate Norman Owen and Conservative Karen Garrido are
equally keen to win the post of mayor. Garrido says she wants to deliver lower
council tax without harming services, and declared the city open for business.

Owen said he would ensure every child's education counted and would fight
poverty and deprivation.

The self-styled "Mr Big" of Salford, ex-con turned businessman Paul Massey,
could also grab votes with his promise to be the voice of Salford. English
Democrat candidate Michael Felse has campaigned on slashing council tax by half
and recalling a [#xfffd]730m regeneration programme to assess whether it
represents value for money.

Ukip candidate Bernard Gill describes himself as a pensioner concerned about the
decline of the city. Michael Moulding, of the Community Action Partyn said 2011
was Salford's annus horribilis due to the riots and the murder of student Anuj
Bidve. John O'Neill, of the Green party, wants to reduce the poverty gap as well
as protecting the environment and public services. Independent candidate Pat
Ward's policies are "zero tolerance, helping our children and elderly." The BNP
is also fielding a candidate, Edward O'Sullivan.

The count for Salford's first directly elected mayor begins tomorrow at 11am and
the result is expected between 3 and 5pm.

3.30pm:Correction: my colleague Helen Carter has just phoned to say that the
count for the Salford mayoral race won't begin until 11am tomorrow and the
result is due in between 3pm and 5pm.

3.27pm: More views from readers post-voting:

From Primaballerina:

Big turnout in Camden - was rather moved to vote straight after three
generations of Muslim women.

From Belgy67:

I am now back from voting in East Kilbride - Wonderfully sunny up here today
with temp around 18 celsius.

Looking at the names crossed off in my ward, the turnout so far is extremely
low; hopefully it will increase later on.

From thespecmeister:

just got back from voting (in Birmingham). only the big three parties and the
Greens are standing, I was surprised that Respect didn't stand anyone but I
should have guessed since we weren't getting leaflets.

3.16pm: Here is some more information about when we might get some results in.

The polls close everywhere at 10pm.

About two thirds of councils are counting overnight in the traditional manner,
with results expected to start coming in at around midnight and be complete by
about 5am.

The Liverpool mayoral result is due around 5am, but the count for the Salford
mayoral race won't begin until 11am tomorrow and the result is due in between
3pm and 5pm tomorrow.

The London mayoral election and about a third of councils are counting votes
during the day tomorrow. Results should start coming in around 11am tomorrow and
continue until about 7.30pm.

The London mayoral result is expected between 6pm and midnight.

The updates on the London mayoral count mentioned earlier will be for the first
round only - before the second preferences of the losing candidates are
redistributed. So it's possible they may be misleading.

(My feeling is that Ken Livingstone will gain fewer first-preference votes, and
more second-preference votes, than expected, as many leftwingers express their
dissatisfaction with him by voting for someone else in the first round.)

3.04pm: Guardian photograph Christopher Thomond has just phoned to report from
Bradford, where George Galloway's Respect party is hoping to unseat council
leader Ian Greenwood in his Little Horton ward.

Thomond spoke to Greenwood at the Shree Hindu temple polling station in Little
Horton, and the council leader told him Galloway was not going to show his face
tonight because he knew he would face defeat. Galloway was in London, Greenwood
said.

Right that minute a green Respect party double-decker battlebus came round the
corner with Galloway at the front shouting through a megaphone. "That kind of
thing just pisses everyone off," said Greenwood, making no reference whatsoever
to his earlier comments.

Helen Pidd sends this video report from Little Horton.

2.37pm:Alexandra Topping has just arrived in "the marvellous Victorian glory" of
Liverpool city centre, where she has already heard some opposing views about the
city's first vote for an elected mayor today.

These are the candidates:

[#xfffd] Joe Anderson (Lab).[#xfffd] Jeff Berman (Liverpool independent
party).[#xfffd] Tony Caldeira (Con).[#xfffd] John Coyne (Green).[#xfffd] Liam
Fogarty (independent).[#xfffd][#xfffd]Adam Heatherington (Ukip).[#xfffd] Richard
Kemp (Lib Dem).[#xfffd] Tony Mulhearn (Trade Unionist and Socialist
Coalition).[#xfffd] Steve Radford (Liberal).[#xfffd] Paul Rimmer (English
Democrats).[#xfffd] Peter Quiggins (National Front).[#xfffd] Mike Whitby (BNP).

Lexy writes:

Gary Baker, 47, a taxi driver in the city said having a elected mayor had to be
a good thing for the city. His first argument in favour was in keeping with many
Liverpudlians' belief that they live in the People's Republic of Liverpool. "It
takes a lot of the budget from Whitehall and I would rather Liverpool
distributes its own money, rather than having those decisions taken in London,"
he said.

Having a mayor would have other benefits too, he thought. "It cuts out a load of
the bureaucracy, and it's good for business because there is only one bloke in
charge; if he says it's going to get done then it will get done."

He was supporting Joe Anderson, current Labour leader of Liverpool city council
and the clear favourite to win today's election. "I like Joe; he's local, he's
charismatic and he talks a lot of sense," he said.

Another taxi driver (they're cheap here - honest, ed) said he wasn't going to
bother voting because "it doesn't matter who gets in power, nothing ever
changes". He felt that there should have been a referendum on the decision to
have an elected mayor.

"It's been pushed on us, it would have been better to have had a choice. They
talk about the extra money, but we won't see it. And we don't know how much this
new mayor will be paid yet," he said.

2.05pm: Gus O'Donnell, the former head of the civil service who is supporting
independent Siobhan Benita in the London mayoral race, has complained about
broadcasting rules that prevented her from getting equal coverage to other
candidates.

I'm afraid to say my experience of this London mayoral election is that ...
would I stand as an independent under these rules as interpreted by the
broadcasters? Absolutely not. Basically, there is a massive bias towards the
status quo in the system. The current rules can't pick up on new candidates who
haven't stood before and new candidates who haven't gained in strength. They
haven't worked out how to manage these circumstances. In the absence of previous
electoral support, how do you determine whether someone's got support or not?

I was having a discussion with a member of the BBC the other day; in the absence
of solid evidence about support, there's very much a chicken and egg situation
here, a whole Catch-22 as well. I was saying the betting odds were one thing you
might want to look at. They said "you can't possibly do that". Or the polls
even.

We've now got a situation where there are people polling in the London mayoral
election who've been involved in all the debates, and got party election
broadcasts, and some others who are polling virtually the same who didn't get
any of those things. That can't be a sensible electoral system.

Either the interpretation of the rules is wrong or the rules themselves need to
change. It could be a lasting legacy of this campaign that we could actually
think very carefully about whether these rules are fit for purpose for the 21st
century.

Lib Dem Brian Paddick and Green Jenny Jones were invited to take part in many of
the mayoral debates that have taken place over the last few weeks, such as this
ITV one. Yet their polling figures in today's YouGov poll are not much better,
or actually worse, than candidates such as Benita and Lawrence Webb (Ukip), who
were not invited to take part.

To recap, Brian Paddick (Lib Dem) is on 7%, Lawrence Webb (Ukip) on 4%, Siobhan
Benita (independent) on 4%, Jenny Jones (Green) on 3%, and Carlos Cortiglia
(BNP) on 1%.

O'Donnell raises some interesting points about how the media generally deals
with smaller parties and candidates, and how it decides who is and isn't worthy
of full coverage.

It's an issue that will soon raise its head at a national level, too, if
YouGov's poll numbers for Ukip are more than just a blip. YouGov had Ukip
polling at 8%, the same level as the Lib Dems. If the Lib Dems fail to regain
the ground they have lost since the general election and Ukip holds its ground,
it will be hard for the media to justify concentrating on the so-called "three
main parties" in the conventional way.

2.01pm:The Scotsman's report this morning appears to have captured the theme
about the parties working hard to bring out their voters amid fears of a low
turnout, Severin Carrell reports.

It helpfully points out that the turnout in 1995, the last time there were
stand-alone council elections in Scotland, was 44.9%, a figure few parties
expect to hit today.

The paper reports: "Party campaigners will stage a near 17-hour marathon today
in a bid to bring disinterested voters to polling stations."

The Scotsman's website has a story on each party leader's arrival at polling
stations this morning, with Scottish Labour leader Johann Lamont voting in
Pollock, deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon in Uddingston, Scottish Tory
leader Ruth Davidson in west Glasgow and Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem
leader casting his in Pitreavie, Fife.

First minister Alex Salmond is at a family funeral today: we can assume he voted
by post, if not in person.

Helpfully for all the parties pushing out their voters in Glasgow, the sun is
shining brightly; forecasters anticipate temperatures hitting 18 or 19C this
afternoon.

2.00pm: A number of readers have asked why David Cameron and Ed Miliband voted
in London - surely they are registered to vote in their own constituencies
(Witney and Doncaster North respectively)?

The answer, according to the Electoral Commission, is that you can be registered
to vote in more than one place if the electoral registration officer deems you
spend a good deal of time - "a considerable degree of permanence" is the phrase
used - in both locations.

This means that in a general election people such as Cameron and Miliband will
get polling cards delivered to two addresses, and must choose which one to use
and where to vote. But they are only allowed to vote in one place.

1.32pm: Does the weather affect voter turnout, asks Polly Curtis on her Reality
check blog. Strathclyde academic and election specialist John Curtice says it
doesn't:

We've had one or two general elections when it's been raining in some parts of
the country and not in another and there has been no significant variation in
turnout. Nobody has ever really done the analysis for local elections. It's one
of the most common theories of turnout but nobody has ever found the evidence to
back it up. We tend to avoid elections in December and January because snow can
make a difference. Just because there's a little bit of rain in the south east
people think it's relevant.

In the comments below this blog, meljomur asked:

I wonder why it is, when turnout is high it is more likely that the vote goes to
the more left leaning candidates? I know in the USA, that the Republicans love
to put barriers in the way of voting for people, because when voter turnout is
high, the Democrats tend to win the elections.

Curtice can answer that one too:

It's certainly true that turnout tends to be lower in places where the Labour
party is stronger. There is a correlation between social deprivation and
turnout. However as long as that turnout differential is between wards rather
than within wards it doesn't make a difference. If people in Labour areas are
less likely to vote whether they are Labour or Tory it's not relevant.

1.15pm: My colleague Laura Oliver has put together this Storify showing the
London mayoral candidates getting out the vote today.

She'll be updating it throughout the day.

1.13pm: Boris Johnson has put up another short low-budget video exhorting
Londoners to vote for him.

He urges them not to "lurch back to the waste and arrogance and divisiveness of
the Ken Livingstone years".

In a message on Facebook, Ukip leader Nigel Farage asks his party's supporters
in London to give their second preference votes to Mr Johnson. In a post which
starts off in a deceptively mild tone and then goes straight off the deep end,
Farage writes:

Londoners - please vote Ukip first and Boris second to keep the Socialists out
of City Hall - that includes all the others. Let's get Ayatollah Livingstone out
of London politics once and for all.

12.59pm:Here are some pictures from polling stations around the country.

12.45pm:Adam1d asks:

Paul, you wrote that "in London, the count for the mayor and the assembly will
not start until tomorrow morning".

Does that mean that we will have to wait till tomorrow to get even partial
results??

Or will there be some EXIT POLL results tonight so that we can go to sleep with
a rough idea on who's going to rule the city??

I have just spoken to the Electoral Commission, the BBC, and Sky News and none
of them are aware of or are commissioning any exit polls tonight - so I'm afraid
you will have to go to sleep with the results still up in the air. We won't know
for sure who is the next London mayor until between 7pm and midnight on Friday
evening.

12.28pm: In the comments, some of our readers have been telling us about their
experience of voting this morning:

From Sparebulb:

My local council elections in Newport (that south Wales place, you know, near
Ireland) is of interest since it is a traditionally strong Labour area but the
council is at the moment run under Conservative/Liberal coalition- in a sense
the local politics reflects the national (as in UK) politics.

The comparisons are tenuous but are still there. Labour have been relatively low
key in their canvassing while the Conservatives have barely bothered in my ward.
Driving around I've seen more Liberal electioneering - this makes sense since
Wales in general has been traditionally quite Liberal although in recent years
Plaid have eaten into that support.

While I won't be waiting up all night it will be interesting to see the results.
For Newport I predict a shoe-in for Labour but on a wider scale I'm pondering
the results for independents in many parts of Wales, I think there might be a
few surprises. Equally one might speculate that Plaid should make gains from the
Liberals in predominantly Welsh speaking regions.

From JamesCracknell:

I have already voted "Dems vote early" and all that. Did not take a picture
unfortunately but a quite nice polling station in Hammersmith.

Not much to report. Other than in the run up absolutely not a peep from the Lib
Dems (my area is usually a contest between Labour and Lib Dems) but Tories
eventually popped a leaflet through last night. Not that you could tell it was
the Tories until you got to the very minute print. A lot of red and orange in
the leaflet too. Anyway no picture of Boris, just all stuff about Ken's taxes
and Alan Sugar quotes.

12.18pm: Tony Blair is keen to "re-engage" with UK politics, according to the
Independent. He has apparently hired a spin doctor as part of an attempt to
raise his domestic profile. Comment is free is running a poll isking if you
would welcome his return to British politics.

12.11pm: Severin Carrell sends more from Scotland. He says that with the stakes
so high for both the SNP and Labour in today's council elections, one key
question troubling the parties is turnout.

There are fears, shared somewhat by the Tories too, that the turnout could be
low. Some predict it may fall even as far as 25%; the SNP and Labour are
predicting somewhere around the 33% mark while Tory sources point to 40%. So
across Scotland, with Glasgow in particular, the parties are working their core
vote very hard: all the party leaders are "getting the vote out".

Labour is putting particular stress on the high number of postal ballots: there
are about 550,000 issued this year, for an electorate of 4m, and postal voters
do so early and often. The postal voting rate hit 77% in 2011. Many are
pensioners, a key audience for Labour in Glasgow.

The key issue here is that for the first time since 1995, this is the first
stand-alone Scottish council vote. There was some chaos in 2007 when voters
struggled with two different proportional voting systems for Holyrood and
councils; 140,000 ballot papers were spoilt. So council and Holyrood polls were
"decoupled" to avoid confusion.

Even for Holyrood in 2011, when voters were faced with arguably the most
successful and charismatic Scottish leader in a generation, Alex Salmond, the
turnout was just over 50%.

Even so, the weather today is unlikely to influence matters and John Curtice,
the elections expert at Strathclyde university, is extremely dismissive of
predictions of a low turnout.

With council voting levels in England and Wales now back up around 45%, he
cannot see any reason why Scotland should be different, particularly given
Salmond's push on independence. "Given the degree to which there has been
political excitement in Scotland in the last few months, it's not obvious me why
this [low turnout] should be," he said.

If it does drop to 30% or less that will be a failure by Scotland's parties:
"there would have to be questions collectively to the Scottish political classes
to persuade voters of the importance of what they're doing ... It would
constitute a significant snub to Scottish political classes."

Curtice is deeply sceptical too about the notion that high postal votes makes
any difference to turnout, or any particular party's performance: "It's true
that those who vote by post are more likely to vote, however, it's also true
that those who vote by post are also more likely to vote anyway. There's very
little evidence that the growth of postal voting has actually increased overall
turnout."

12.10pm: A possibly premature inquest is already under way among supporters of
city mayors over the lacklustre campaign run by central government and its
refusal to set out mayoral powers, reports Patrick Wintour.

Referendums are being held in 10 cities in England, and Birmingham, once seen as
a certainty to follow London and back its own mayor, is said to be a much closer
contest than expected despite strong yes champions, including business leaders,
Labour and Tory parties, and the local media. There has been a patchy no
campaign, and Labour has said little at national level.

Those who support the idea of city mayors are upset with a lack of clarity over
the role's powers and a general anti-politics mood.

11.52am: Senior politicians had their wives at the ready for the traditional
polling station photo-opportunities this morning.

Here are Mr and Mrs Cameron (great outfit - not you Dave).

Here is Ed Miliband and his wife Justine.

Here is Ken Livingstone and his wife Emma Beal.

And here is Boris Johnson and his wife Marina.

Ignoring all convention and precedent, Nick Clegg failed to bring his wife along
to vote with him this morning - but he did have some photos taken in front of
this lovely tree.

11.29am: Ken Livingstone has responded to today's YouGov poll, which gives Boris
Johnson a health six-point lead in the London mayoral race. Livingstone said:

Today, Londoners can vote Labour to cut their fares and save themselves on
average [#xfffd]1,000, and in doing so ensure that the Conservative party is not
rewarded. Every Labour voter must turn out today or the Tories will get away
with it - they will carry on with policies that have led to recession, fare
rises and police cuts.

The [#xfffd]1,000 figure is a reference to his plans to cut the capital's
transport fares by 7%, which he says will save the average Londoner
[#xfffd]1,000.

He has also written a blogpost on the LabourList website. He writes:

Of course, we are the underdogs. The Tories were always going to benefit
financially, in terms of media backing, and in terms of support from the most
powerful. Though it doesn't carry the imprint of the Tory party, London's only
daily paper [the Evening Standard] has now become a true blue freesheet.

The piece returns by returning to the theme of financial self-interest:

By spending just a few minutes at the polling station the average fare-payer can
make themselves [#xfffd]1,000 better off. There are not many ways you can make
[#xfffd]1,000 in less than half an hour. But that is what the average London
fare-payer can do from 7am to 10pm today ... Polling day poses the clearest
possible choice - four years of Tory fare rises, or a Labour fares cut that will
save the average fare-payer [#xfffd]1,000.

11.24am: There is lots of good coverage of the elections in today's Guardian.

[#xfffd] H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland looks back at the London mayoral race,
quoting this analysis of Ken Livingstone's campaign from Tony Travers, director
of the Greater London group at the London School of Economics:

It looks as if the Labour party has asserted some authority over what has been a
below-par Livingstone campaign. It is a powerful traditional political
intervention and it was the right thing to do because it was clear it was
Livingstone who has been badly underperforming under a resurgent Labour party,
while Boris was outperforming a seriously wounded Conservative party, so they
had to turn it into a straight Labour versus Conservative fight.

[#xfffd] Michael White looks at the English cities where voters are taking part
in referendums today on whether or not to have elected mayors. He finds that in
city after city "the yes campaign seems to have failed to generate enough
momentum to overthrow scepticism, apathy and the status quo". Meanwhile, voters
in Doncaster are being asked today to abandon their mayoral experiment: there is
a deadlock between councillors and their elected English Democrat mayor.

[#xfffd] Dutch journalist Joris Luyendijk has been travelling around the UK
asking people what they think about politics.

With one or two exceptions people seemed to look at politics as a talent show
with really boring contestants. You could follow it, or you could ignore it - a
lifestyle choice. Either way, it would make no difference to your life. "Without
wanting to sound ageist," a girl in Newcastle told me, "I suggest you go find
some older people if you want to talk about the elections. That generation still
cares about these things."

[#xfffd] Helen Pidd returns to Bradford, the scene of George Galloway's recent
byelection triumph, and finds a political race dominated by the firebrand
leftwinger - even though he isn't standing. He might run for mayor if Bradford
votes yes in its referendum, though, Pidd reports.

[#xfffd] Andrew Sparrow has been in Liverpool meeting Joe Anderson, the Labour
candidate for elected mayor.

Voters ... who were backing Anderson often cited his achievement in bringing a
cruise liner facility to the Mersey as their reason for supporting him. But the
terminal is just one item in an Anderson manifesto that is remarkably upbeat,
given that he runs a council badly hit by the coalition's cuts, and also
pro-business to a degree that would make Peter Mandelson proud. It starts with
the declaration: "This is an exciting time for Liverpool" and promises 20,000
new jobs, partly generated by a mayoral development corporation. Anderson
refuses to be pigeon-holed as New Labour or Old Labour, but he's passionate
about investment, and quite happy to say he would like the private sector to
account for a larger slice of the Liverpool economy.

[#xfffd] And Martin Kettle writes that England needs to decide whether it cares
about the rest of the UK.

The London press must get out more. It needs to make a much more conscious and
deliberate effort to report Scotland and Wales to England, as well to discharge
a British responsibility to report to and for Scotland and Wales
themselves.England needs to decide whether it cares. Watch the way the local
election results are debated over the coming days. For the metropolitan
political class, left and right, it will all be about two things: the London
mayor and the overall impact on Westminster politics. But local elections are
actually about local government everywhere. A better way to assess the 2012
local elections might be to measure what they say about the slow disintegration
of British politics and political institutions.

10.51am: The Scottish council elections have far greater significance than usual
this year, Severin Carrell, the Guardian's Scotland correspondent, writes: with
the Scottish National party pushing on towards the independence referendum due
in 2014, its performance today will be a key test of public opinion and its
wider vitality.

This is the first major test of popularity for Alex Salmond, the first minister,
and the SNP since their landslide election victory in last May's Holyrood
elections. He is expected to launch his independence referendum campaign in a
matter of weeks. Also, he is expected to win today too, on numbers of votes and
councillors at least.

Winning control of Glasgow is the biggest single prize - and most expect a very
tight race with Labour there, but Salmond insists the main goal is to be
Scotland's largest party by number of councillors and share of the vote.

Given Scotland's use of the single transferable voting system in large
multi-member wards for council elections, the SNP slogan has rhythm and
simplicity: Vote SNP, 1, 2, 3.

The SNP is defending 368 seats against Labour's 337, but was marginally behind
Labour on first preference votes in 2007. This time - even the Scottish Labour
leader Johann Lamont predicts this - the SNP are expected to increase that
number comfortably. If the opinion polls are reflected today, it will win most
first preference votes too.

It is standing 612 candidates - well up on 2007, against 497 for Labour, 362
Tories and 247 Lib Dems. The Scottish Greens have 86 candidates while 691
independents and others, such as UKIP and Tommy Sheridan's party Solidarity, are
standing too.

The trick then is for the SNP to convert that lead into council control: it is
in coalition or minority control of 13 of Scotland's 32 councils, while Labour
is control or coalition at 11. All Scottish votes are being counted on Friday,
with the final results due during the afternoon and into the early evening for
larger councils such as Glasgow. So the first thing to watch for on Friday is:
could the SNP win enough to run Scottish cities on its own?

In Dundee, Edinburgh, Perth, Aberdeen or Stirling for instance? In Glasgow, most
observers believe the SNP could just form a ruling coalition, unless Labour's
intense efforts there pull off the victory Lamont and Ed Miliband crave. In
these cities, turnout is key.

10.33am: YouGov have published two new polls.

Their national voting intention figures are:

Lab: 43%Con: 33%Lib Dem: 8%Ukip: 8%SNP/Plaid Cymru: 3%Green: 3%BNP: 1%Others: 1%

That's a 10-point Labour lead, with a very strong showing for Ukip.

YouGov's final London elections poll for the Evening Standard shows Boris
Johnson on 53% and Ken Livingstone on 47% with the other candidates removed.

In the first-choice vote, Johnson is on 43%, Livingstone on 38%, Brian Paddick
(Lib Dem) on 7%, Lawrence Webb (Ukip) on 4%, Siobhan Benita (independent) on 4%,
Jenny Jones (Green) on 3%, and Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) on 1%.

In the 2008 London mayoral election, Johnson won 42.48% of first-preference
votes to Livingstone's 36.38%. In the second round, Johnson won 53.17% and
Livingstone 46.73%. The results of today's poll are strikingly similar.

The YouGov poll found that where Londoners were asked to vote for a party,
rather than a person, their views were very different:

Lab: 47Con: 34Lib Dem: 7Others: 12

That means Johnson's personal popularity and Livingstone's unpopularity have the
effect of outweighing a 13-point Labour lead.

YouGov's prediction for the 25-seat London assembly is:

Lab: 11 (up 3 from 2008)Con: 8 (down 3)Lib Dem: 2 (down 1)Ukip: 2 (up 2)Green: 2
(no change)BNP: 0 (down 1)

10.18am: I just checked with the Electoral Commission when all the results are
expected.

In London, the count for the mayor and the assembly will not start until
tomorrow morning.

It will take place at three centres across London: Olympia, Alexandra Palace and
the Excel centre in the Docklands.

We will gradually get a sense of who is winning over the course of the day. As
soon as results from four constituencies are in, those results - including
mayoral results for those areas - will be announced. When the next four are in,
these will be announced, and the same with the next four, and then the final
two. It could be quite an exciting process. The final result is expected at some
point between 7pm and midnight on Friday night.

The London Elects website is going to produce live bar charts showing who is
winning throughout the day.

Some councils across the country are beginning their counts straight after the
polls close, in the traditional way, and those results will be in at some point
in the early hours of tomorrow morning. Other councils are going to wait until
tomorrow morning to begin counting, meaning those results will be in at some
point tomorrow afternoon.

9.47am: The London voting system is different from that used at general
elections, and seems to be causing a fair bit of confusion on Twitter.

Here is an article explaining it in full, but the key points in voting for the
mayor are below.

For this contest, you can cast two votes: one vote in the first column for your
first choice, the second vote in the second column for your second choice. Vote
with a cross not a number.

If a candidate receives more than 50% of the first-choice votes, he or she is
elected.

If not, the two candidates with the most first-choice votes - almost certainly
Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone - go to a run-off, with all the other
candidates eliminated.

All the ballot papers where eliminated candidates are down as first choice are
looked at again, and any second-preference votes for the top two candidates are
added to the totals for those candidates.

The candidate with the most first- and second-choice votes combined wins.

Tactical tips

1. If you are voting for Livingstone or Johnson as your first preference, your
second preference will almost certainly not count. Second preferences are only
redistributed when a ballot paper has as its first preference someone who was
eliminated in the first round - and neither Livingstone nor Johnson are likely
to be eliminated in the first round.

2. If you are in favour of Lib Dem Brian Paddick, Green Jenny Jones, independent
Siobhan Benita, Ukip's Lawrence Webb, or the BNP's Carlos Cortiglia, put them as
your first preference rather than your second. This is the only way they stand a
chance of making it into the second round. If you give them a second-preference
vote, this will only count if they get enough first-preference votes from other
people to get into the second round.

3. Because the second round is likely to be between Ken and Boris, if you have
voted for any other candidate as your first choice, it might be a good idea to
choose between Labour and the Conservatives for your second - as then you will
still get some say in who will run London even if your real favourite is
eliminated.

Some people have asked me (and I'm afraid this question may betray some
anti-Boris bias) whether giving their first preference vote to Brian Paddick,
Jenny Jones, or one of the other minor candidates, rather than to Livingstone,
makes it more likely that Johnson will get above 50% of the vote in the first
round, and thus win outright. The answer is no. Whoever you vote for, it does
not make any difference to Johnson's vote or his share of the vote (as long as
you vote for someone).

To give a clear example, let's say 8 people vote for Johnson, and there are 10
other voters.

If 5 of those others vote for Livingstone and 5 for Jones, there are still 8
votes for Johnson and 10 for other candidates, meaning Johnson does not get 50%
of the vote.

If 7 of the non-Johnson votes go to Jones and 3 to Livingstone, there are still
8 votes for Johnson and 10 for other candidates, meaning Johnson does not get
50% of the vote.

Please post any other questions below the line and I'll try to answer them too.
They can even be about how to keep Ken Livingstone out.

9.26am: Hello and welcome to today's election day live coverage. Andrew Sparrow
and I will be live-blogging around the clock from today, when voters start going
to the polls in local elections in England, Scotland and Wales, until late on
Friday night, when we expect to find out whether Boris Johnson or Ken
Livingstone will be the next mayor of London.

As well as the battle for London mayor and elections to the London assembly,
which acts as a check on the mayor, there are also elections to 130 councils in
England (of a total of 353), all 32 councils in Scotland, and 21 of 22 Welsh
councils (elections to Anglesey Council postponed to next May).

Meanwhile two other cities are voting for an elected mayor: Salford and
Liverpool.

And 10 cities will hold referendums to decide whether they should have an
elected mayor: Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Coventry, Leeds, Manchester,
Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, Nottingham, Sheffield and Wakefield.

My colleagues on the Datablog have put together this map that shows which
councils are voting and who controls them now.

And here are details of every candidate standing in the London assembly and
London mayoral elections.

I cast my vote this morning at a polling station in the surprisingly pretty
Laycock Centre, a conference venue, in Islington, London.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 3:14 PM GMT

Voting underway across the country for local and mayoral elections

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 1127 words


Boris Johnson is heading for victory in the race to be re-elected as Mayor of
London today according to a poll on the eve of the election.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London -
was set for victory over Ken Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%.

But holding on to City Hall may be the only silver lining on a cloudy day for
Prime Minister David Cameron, with voters elsewhere expected to dish out a
mid-term bruising to the Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners.

Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are braced to lose hundreds of the around
5,000 seats at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland and Wales.
Voters in 10 cities holding referendums on whether to have elected mayors are
expected to give a lukewarm response to the idea, which is enthusiastically
backed by Mr Cameron, who yesterday said he would like to see "a Boris in every
city".

And the YouGov poll suggested Labour will pick up three seats in the 25-member
London Assembly, becoming the largest party on 11, to the Tories' eight (down
three), Lib Dems' two (down one) and Greens' two (unchanged). The UK
Independence Party could be heading for its first seats in the Assembly,
according to the survey, which predicted the eurosceptic party could secure two.

The poll indicated as many as two in 10 Labour supporters may not back Mr
Livingstone, despite calls from party figures for them to "hold their noses" and
give him their votes.

In response, a spokesman for Mr Livingstone said: "Today, Londoners can vote
Labour to cut their fares and save themselves on average £1,000, and in doing so
ensure that the Conservative Party is not rewarded. Every Labour voter must turn
out today or the Tories will get away with it - they will carry on with policies
that have led to recession, fare rises and police cuts."

Voters in the capital made their way to the booths under leaden skies today amid
signs of a turnout drop since Tory Boris Johnson and Labour's Ken Livingstone
last battled to be mayor four years ago.

At a Streatham polling station, in south London, 115 voted in the first three
hours.

Using a formula that takes into account the fact that traditionally half of
those voting do so after 5pm and making allowance for postal votes, this
suggests the final turnout there could be around 33%.

This compares with 45.3% London-wide for the 2008 mayoral poll and 42.1% at the
Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which covers Streatham.

Voting got under way this morning in polls to elect councils across England,
Scotland and Wales, as well as mayors for London, Liverpool and Salford.

Mr Johnson made a final bid for votes with a video message on YouTube on what he
said was "a critical day in the life or our city".

Citing plans to create 200,000 jobs and 250,000 apprenticeships and get more
police on to the streets, Mr Johnson said he had "the best plan to take London
forward over the next four years" and urged Londoners not to "lurch back to the
waste and arrogance and divisiveness of the Ken Livingstone years".

Mr Livingstone used left-leaning blog Labour List to send an election day
message stressing his plans to cut public transport fares.

"By spending just a few minutes at the polling station the average fare-payer
can make themselves £1,000 better off," said the Labour candidate.

"There are not many ways you can make £1,000 in less than half an hour. But that
is what the average London fare-payer can do from 7am to 10pm today."

In a message on Facebook, Ukip leader Nigel Farage urged his party's supporters
in London to give their second preference votes to Mr Johnson.

"Londoners - please vote Ukip first and Boris second to keep the Socialists out
of City Hall - that includes all the others," said Mr Farage. "Let's get
Ayatollah Livingstone out of London politics once and for all."

* YouGov polled 2,119 Londoners between April 30 and May 2.

Voting got under way this morning in polls to elect councils across England,
Scotland and Wales, as well as mayors for London, Liverpool and Salford.

Mr Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband were also early visitors to polling
stations in London, accompanied by wives Samantha and Justine, while Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg cast his ballot alone in Sheffield, as Spanish wife Miriam
does not have a vote.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties.

Respected election experts Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth
University say Labour's advantage should translate into a dramatic gain of as
many as 700 seats.

That number was seized on by Tory Communities Secretary Eric Pickles who said
Labour could reach the target "just by turning up" as he attempted to minimise
the impact of any heavy defeat.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour were hit hard.

In turn, Labour tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for
between 300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with continued losses to
the SNP in Scotland.

The Liberal Democrats are braced for a second consecutive year of losses, though
they hope to avoid a repeat of the hammering they suffered last year and do not
fear coming fourth behind Ukip.

Mr Cameron yesterday urged people to focus on local rather than national issues
in the wake of a turbulent spell for the coalition.

"I recognise it's a difficult time for families, it's a tough time for
families," he said.

"I just hope that people will look at these elections and recognise it's about
electing your local council - who is going to keep the council tax down, who's
going to provide value for money, who's going to look after your area?"

Mr Miliband promised Labour would "stand up for the many" rather than the "rich
and powerful" he said were the priority of the coalition.

"Labour is showing that we can make different choices, decisions which help
people through these tough times," he said on the campaign trail.

And Deputy Prime Minister Mr Clegg said every Liberal Democrat councillor
elected was a "step towards a more liberal country" in a letter to activists
lauding the party's town hall record.

While many councils will begin counts after the polls close tonight, helping to
give a clear picture of the parties' performance, a large number have delayed
until tomorrow.

A delayed count will also mean a wait to find out the result of the
highest-profile contest as Mr Livingstone attempts to seize back the London
mayoralty he lost four years ago.

The final decision of Londoners is not expected to be known until tomorrow
evening.

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 1:48 PM GMT

Voting underway across the country for local and mayoral elections

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 996 words


Voting got under way this morning in polls to elect councils across England,
Scotland and Wales, as well as mayors for London, Liverpool and Salford.

London mayor Boris Johnson and his Labour rival Ken Livingstone were among the
first to head for the polling stations under drizzly skies.

An eve-of-poll survey for the Evening Standard suggested that Mr Johnson - who
gave a confident thumbs-up as he arrived to cast his ballot in north London -
was set for victory over Mr Livingstone, by a margin of 53% to 47%.

But holding on to City Hall may be the only silver lining on a cloudy day for
Prime Minister David Cameron, with voters elsewhere expected to dish out a
mid-term bruising to the Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners.

Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are braced to lose hundreds of the around
5,000 seats at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland and Wales.
Voters in 10 cities holding referendums on whether to have elected mayors are
expected to give a lukewarm response to the idea, which is enthusiastically
backed by Mr Cameron, who yesterday said he would like to see "a Boris in every
city".

And the YouGov poll suggested Labour will pick up three seats in the 25-member
London Assembly, becoming the largest party on 11, to the Tories' eight (down
three), Lib Dems' two (down one) and Greens' two (unchanged). The UK
Independence Party could be heading for its first seats in the Assembly,
according to the survey, which predicted the eurosceptic party could secure two.

The poll indicated as many as two in 10 Labour supporters may not back Mr
Livingstone, despite calls from party figures for them to "hold their noses" and
give him their votes.

In response, a spokesman for Mr Livingstone said: "Today, Londoners can vote
Labour to cut their fares and save themselves on average £1,000, and in doing so
ensure that the Conservative Party is not rewarded. Every Labour voter must turn
out today or the Tories will get away with it - they will carry on with policies
that have led to recession, fare rises and police cuts."

Mr Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband were also early visitors to polling
stations in London, accompanied by wives Samantha and Justine, while Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg cast his ballot alone in Sheffield, as Spanish wife Miriam
does not have a vote.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear national lead for Labour - often in
double digits - as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of
difficulties.

Respected election experts Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth
University say Labour's advantage should translate into a dramatic gain of as
many as 700 seats.

That number was seized on by Tory Communities Secretary Eric Pickles who said
Labour could reach the target "just by turning up" as he attempted to minimise
the impact of any heavy defeat.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour were hit hard.

In turn, Labour tried to downplay expectations, suggesting its hope was for
between 300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with continued losses to
the SNP in Scotland.

The Liberal Democrats are braced for a second consecutive year of losses, though
they hope to avoid a repeat of the hammering they suffered last year and do not
fear coming fourth behind Ukip.

Mr Cameron yesterday urged people to focus on local rather than national issues
in the wake of a turbulent spell for the coalition.

"I recognise it's a difficult time for families, it's a tough time for
families," he said.

"I just hope that people will look at these elections and recognise it's about
electing your local council - who is going to keep the council tax down, who's
going to provide value for money, who's going to look after your area?"

Mr Miliband promised Labour would "stand up for the many" rather than the "rich
and powerful" he said were the priority of the coalition.

"Labour is showing that we can make different choices, decisions which help
people through these tough times," he said on the campaign trail.

And Deputy Prime Minister Mr Clegg said every Liberal Democrat councillor
elected was a "step towards a more liberal country" in a letter to activists
lauding the party's town hall record.

While many councils will begin counts after the polls close tonight, helping to
give a clear picture of the parties' performance, a large number have delayed
until tomorrow.

A delayed count will also mean a wait to find out the result of the
highest-profile contest as Mr Livingstone attempts to seize back the London
mayoralty he lost four years ago.

The final decision of Londoners is not expected to be known until tomorrow
evening.

Mr Johnson made a final bid for votes with a video message on YouTube on what he
said was "a critical day in the life or our city".

Citing plans to create 200,000 jobs and 250,000 apprenticeships and get more
police on to the streets, Mr Johnson said he had "the best plan to take London
forward over the next four years" and urged Londoners not to "lurch back to the
waste and arrogance and divisiveness of the Ken Livingstone years".

Mr Livingstone used left-leaning blog Labour List to send an election day
message stressing his plans to cut public transport fares.

"By spending just a few minutes at the polling station the average fare-payer
can make themselves £1,000 better off," said the Labour candidate.

"There are not many ways you can make £1,000 in less than half an hour. But that
is what the average London fare-payer can do from 7am to 10pm today."

In a message on Facebook, Ukip leader Nigel Farage urged his party's supporters
in London to give their second preference votes to Mr Johnson.

"Londoners - please vote Ukip first and Boris second to keep the Socialists out
of City Hall - that includes all the others," said Mr Farage. "Let's get
Ayatollah Livingstone out of London politics once and for all."

:: YouGov polled 2,119 Londoners between April 30 and May 2.

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Liberal Democrat councillors remain pessimistic about party's electoral future

BYLINE: Charlie Cooper, Jane Ryan

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 417 words


Liberal Democrat councillors remain pessimistic about their party's electoral
future as voters go to the polls today, after weeks' of doorstep campaigning
revealed voter hostility towards local candidates tarnished by their
leaderships' role in an increasingly unpopular Government.

The Independent spoke to 57 Liberal Democrat councillors from 43 local councils.
Sixteen believed that a change of leadership would improve the party's chances
at the next General Election.

More than a quarter believe that their party would do better at the next General
Election without Nick Clegg as leader, a survey for The Independent suggests.

A third of respondents remained neutral on the question of Nick Clegg's
leadership, while 19 councillors - nearly 40 per cent - backed the Deputy Prime
Minister to lead his party into the next election.

The Liberal Democrats lost 700 councillors in English council elections one year
ago and are still polling consistently poorly. One poll result last month placed
the party in fourth place behind UKIP.

"The Lib Dems have lost trust nationally," said one councillor from
Conservative-run St Albans District Council. "The national politics pull us down
locally. At the next election, we will become our own party again."

A third of councillors expect the party to do badly or very badly nationally at
today's elections. Grassroots party members have encountered hostility on the
doorstep while campaigning in the past few weeks.

"There are strong feelings against the budget and the Conservatives," said a
councillor on Daventry District Council. "I hope we will bounce back by 2015 but
it will depend on how closely we are allied or seen to be allied to Conservative
policies. There is a feeling on the ground that we have sold out our basic
beliefs."

Many local Liberal Democrat councillors, most of whom won their seats in
pre-Coalition years, remain confident that their record as local public servants
will see them re-elected. Less than a fifth expect to fare badly in their own
area but fear that nationally, voters might treat the election as a referendum
on the party leadership's record in Government.

"The Lib Dems have got to get down to the grassroots and move away from the
things they have done in coalition" said one councillor on Conservative-run
Trafford Council. "I am unhappy about the increase in tuition fees and unhappy
about the VAT rise. [The Westminster party] need to pull themselves together
and, if necessary, bring in a new leader to make change."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: The candidate even UKIP found too embarrassing

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 625 words


Steve Moxon was a Home Office civil servant who won plaudits five years ago when
he sacrificed his career to reveal that the immigration service in Sheffield had
been asked to "fast track" applications by migrants from East Europe. A month
after Mr Moxon blew the whistle, the Immigration Minister Beverley Hughes
resigned.

Not much has been heard from him since, though he has written a book called The
Great Immigration Scandal and is writing another called The Woman Racket,
expounding his thesis that men are the disadvantaged sex.

He was also running for a seat on Sheffield council, as a candidate for the UK
Independent Party, but he was dropped as he has proved to be too embarrassing,
even for the party that David Cameron once characterised as a collection of
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly".

Mr Moxon had blogged that the "manifesto" written by the Norwegian mass murderer
Anders Breivik was "fully in line" with "scholarship on the origin and
development of 'political correctness' fascism (and that is an accurate
application of that term)".

For the record, Mr Moxon does not believe that mass murder is the proper way to
advance the ideas that he and Breivik have in common. "Breivik's actions were
clearly appalling and insupportable," he said.

Electors in Sheffield's Dore and Totley ward can still cast their votes for Mr
Moxon, if they wish, but in doing so they won't be voting UKIP.

Widdy wades into 'posh boys' debate

Ann Widdecombe, arguably the second best known woman Tory politician of our
lifetime, does not wholly go along with that famous description of David Cameron
and George Osborne by Nadine Dorries, also a well known Tory, who called them
"two arrogant posh boys".

"Mr Cameron's background is a plus," Ms Widdecombe argued in yesterday's Daily
Express. "The country doesn't mind posh but it sure as heck minds arrogance and
incompetence and at the moment it thinks it is getting a large dose of both."
Very helpful.

Is it time to dust off Big Ben's cell?

While committee clerks scratch their heads over what to do about three former
executives from Rupert Murdoch's business empire who are accused of giving
misleading evidence the Culture Select Committee, one option seems to have been
discarded.

There is a cell underneath the tower that holds Big Ben. No one has been locked
up in it since the humanist MP Charles Bradlaugh created a disturbance in 1880
by trying to take his seat after refusing on principle to swear the Oath of
Allegiance.

Though it has fallen into disuse, I doubt whether the power of the Commons to
lock up miscreants in that cell has ever been rescinded.

So, who will vote for Salford's 'Mr Big'?

One of the places where voters will be choosing a directly elected Mayor today
is Salford, near Manchester. There are ten candidates. It can be said without
fear of contradiction that the most controversial is a 52-year-old Salford
businessman, Paul Massey.

He has been known around Salford for at least 20 years. When the council was
discussing a riot that broke out there in July 1992, during which police were
lured into an ambush and attacked by men in balaclavas, a councillor - rightly
or wrongly - named Mr Massey in the council chamber as "Salford's Mr Big".

In 1999, he stabbed a man in the groin, leaving him for dead, and fled to
Amsterdam to avoid justice. He was extradited and served a 14-year jail
sentence.

Last December, he was one of five men and a woman arrested by Greater Manchester
police investigating money laundering, but he has not been charged and insists
that he is innocent. He is entitled to run for Mayor because he has not had any
criminal convictions in the past five years.

If elected, Mr Massey has generously offered to do the job for no salary. What a
gent.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 7:15 PM GMT

Boris takes his girls to the polls as he is poised to beat Ken in London Mayor
race... but Tories prepare for a bruising in the rest of the country

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1533 words



     ·    Final poll before ballots close puts Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats
     ·    Mayor results expected tomorrow after 7pm and council elections
          overnight and throughout the day


Boris Johnson cast his vote alongside his wife and daughter today as he appeared
on course to buck the national trend and beat Ken Livingstone in the race for
London mayor.

Mr Johnson voted with his wife Marina and daughter Lara, 18, who was voting for
the first time, at a North London polling station.

This afternoon a final poll suggested he had accrued a six point lead over his
rival, with two in ten Labour voters rejecting Mr Livingstone.

Mr Johnson's possible success in the mayoral election is unlikely to be
reflected across the country as the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are
braced to lose hundreds of the around 5,000 seats at stake on 181 local councils
across England, Scotland and Wales.

As the capital goes to the ballot box, a YouGov survey for the Evening Standard
mirrored exactly the election result four years ago which gave Mr Johnson the
keys to City Hall.

One in ten Labour supporters who are certain to vote today said they would back
Boris. The same number again said they would not vote for either of the main
candidates.

And the YouGov poll suggested The UK Independence Party could be heading for its
first seats in the London Assembly by securing two.

In response to the findings, a spokesman for Mr Livingstone said: 'Today,
Londoners can vote Labour to cut their fares and save themselves on average
£1,000, and in doing so ensure that the Conservative Party is not rewarded.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

'Every Labour voter must turn out today or the Tories will get away with it -
they will carry on with policies that have led to recession, fare rises and
police cuts.'

Mr Johnson made a final bid for votes with a video message on YouTube on what he
said was 'a critical day in the life or our city'.

Citing plans to create 200,000 jobs and 250,000 apprenticeships and get more
police on to the streets, Mr Johnson said he had 'the best plan to take London
forward over the next four years' and urged Londoners not to 'lurch back to the
waste and arrogance and divisiveness of the Ken Livingstone years'.

Mayors will also be chosen in Liverpool and Salford, with 10 other major English
cities holding referendums on whether to adopt the system of directly-elected
civic leaders.

But polls suggest that voter's will reject Mr Cameron's idea of a 'Boris in
every city'.

Recent polls have shown that two thirds of voters would prefer to stick with the
current system where councillors from political parties run local affairs.

Mr Cameron has personally thrown his weight behind the plans for directly
elected mayors - holding similar powers to Boris Johnson in London - in the 12
largest cities outside of London.

Both Birmingham and Manchester are on a knife-edge with polls showing that
opposition to the plans has grown in recent weeks.

Anecdotal evidence from city councillors and party activists out campaigning for
the local elections have reported growing hostility to the idea of a mayor.

A recent Guardian/ICM poll of West Midlands voters found that 64 per cent
intended to vote 'no' to elected mayors.

The complex electoral map is completed by ballots for the London Assembly.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear lead for Labour - often in double digits
- as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of difficulties.

Respected election experts Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth
University have said Labour's advantage should translate into a dramatic gain of
as many as 700 seats.

That number was seized on by Tory Communities Secretary Eric Pickles who said
Labour could reach the target 'just by turning up' as he attempted to minimise
the impact of any heavy defeat.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour were hit hard.

In turn Labour, in a bid to accentuate any such major victory, suggested its
hope was for between 300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with
continued losses to the SNP in Scotland.

The Liberal Democrats are braced for a second consecutive year of losses though
hope to avoid a repeat of the hammering they suffered last year and do not fear
coming fourth behind Ukip.

The three main party leaders mounted a final push yesterday, with Prime Minister
David Cameron appealing to voters not to punish the Tories for Britain's
economic woes.

The Prime Minister urged people to focus on local rather than national issues in
the wake of a turbulent spell for the coalition.

'I recognise it's a difficult time for families, it's a tough time for
families,' he said.

'I just hope that people will look at these elections and recognise it's about
electing your local council - who is going to keep the council tax down, who's
going to provide value for money, who's going to look after your area?'

Opposition leader Ed Miliband promised that Labour would 'stand up for the many'
rather than the 'rich and powerful' he said were the priority of the coalition.

'Labour is showing that we can make different choices, decisions which help
people through these tough times,' he said on the campaign trail.

And Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said every Liberal Democrat councillor
elected was a 'step towards a more liberal country' in a letter to activists
lauding the party's town hall record.

'Our record on freezing council tax, protecting local libraries and giving pay
rises for the lowest paid council workers shows the difference we make when we
run local councils.'

While many councils will begin counts after the polls close tonight, helping to
give a clear picture of the parties' performance, a large number have delayed
until tomorrow.

A delayed count will also mean a wait to find out the result of the
highest-profile contest as Labour's Ken Livingstone attempts to seize back the
London mayoralty he lost four years ago.

The final decision of Londoners is not expected to be known until tomorrow
evening.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 5:16 PM GMT

Boris poised to beat Ken in London Mayor race... but Tories prepare for a
bruising in the rest of the country

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1549 words



     ·    Final poll before ballots close puts Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats
     ·    Mayor results expected tomorrow after 7pm and council elections
          overnight and throughout the day


Boris Johnson is on course to buck the national trend and beat Ken Livingstone
in the race to be London Mayor as across the country voters prepare to dish out
a mid-term bruising to Conservatives in local elections.

Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are braced to lose hundreds of the around
5,000 seats at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland and Wales.

But the Tories will hope for a better result in the capital, where Mayor Boris
Johnson remains favourite to retain City Hall and secure a second term as London
Mayor.

A final poll revealed the Mayor is six points ahead and preparing to deliver a
53:47 win, after an astonishing two in ten Labour voters rejected Ken
Livingstone.

The pair of them braved drizzly skies this morning as they arrived at polling
stations with their wives.

As the capital goes to the ballot box, a YouGov survey for the Evening Standard
mirrored exactly the election result four years ago which gave Mr Johnson the
keys to City Hall.

One in ten Labour supporters who are certain to vote today said they would back
Boris. The same number again said they would not vote for either of the main
candidates.

And the YouGov poll suggested The UK Independence Party could be heading for its
first seats in the London Assembly by securing two.

TOWER HAMLETS 'FRACAS' AS POLICE ARE CALLED OVER 'THREATS' BETWEEN RIVALS

Trouble-hit Tower Hamlets had to call police reinforcements today after a
candidate claimed that he had been threatened by activists from rival parties.

The London borough has been hit by allegations of voting fraud currently being
investigated by the Met and police were in place throughout the day. There have
been claims of voter intimidation.

Reinforcement arrived after Chris Smith, standing for the Greens in the London
Assembly elections, claimed that one activist threatened to 'punch his lights
out' when he complained about the crowd handing out Respect and Labour leaflets
outside St Matthias Primary, off Brick Lane.

It was feared today that activists were 'harassing' potential voters. Mr Smith
said: 'I came down here at about 10am and there were at least 20 Labour and
Respect activists handing out leaflets just outside.

'Election rules state very clearly that each party is only allowed one teller
outside each polling station, the rest must be a safe distance away.'

'I complained to the official inside and when I came back out the Respect guy
started mouthing off to me. When I told him what they were doing is not allowed,
he threatened to punch my lights out.'

In response to the findings, a spokesman for Mr Livingstone said: 'Today,
Londoners can vote Labour to cut their fares and save themselves on average
£1,000, and in doing so ensure that the Conservative Party is not rewarded.

'Every Labour voter must turn out today or the Tories will get away with it -
they will carry on with policies that have led to recession, fare rises and
police cuts.'

Mr Johnson made a final bid for votes with a video message on YouTube on what he
said was 'a critical day in the life or our city'.

Citing plans to create 200,000 jobs and 250,000 apprenticeships and get more
police on to the streets, Mr Johnson said he had 'the best plan to take London
forward over the next four years' and urged Londoners not to 'lurch back to the
waste and arrogance and divisiveness of the Ken Livingstone years'.

Mayors will also be chosen in Liverpool and Salford, with 10 other major English
cities holding referendums on whether to adopt the system of directly-elected
civic leaders.

But polls suggest that voter's will reject Mr Cameron's idea of a 'Boris in
every city'.

Recent polls have shown that two thirds of voters would prefer to stick with the
current system where councillors from political parties run local affairs.

Mr Cameron has personally thrown his weight behind the plans for directly
elected mayors - holding similar powers to Boris Johnson in London - in the 12
largest cities outside of London.

Both Birmingham and Manchester are on a knife-edge with polls showing that
opposition to the plans has grown in recent weeks.

Anecdotal evidence from city councillors and party activists out campaigning for
the local elections have reported growing hostility to the idea of a mayor.

A recent Guardian/ICM poll of West Midlands voters found that 64 per cent
intended to vote 'no' to elected mayors.

The complex electoral map is completed by ballots for the London Assembly.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear lead for Labour - often in double digits
- as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of difficulties.

Respected election experts Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth
University have said Labour's advantage should translate into a dramatic gain of
as many as 700 seats.

That number was seized on by Tory Communities Secretary Eric Pickles who said
Labour could reach the target 'just by turning up' as he attempted to minimise
the impact of any heavy defeat.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour were hit hard.

In turn Labour, in a bid to accentuate any such major victory, suggested its
hope was for between 300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with
continued losses to the SNP in Scotland.

The Liberal Democrats are braced for a second consecutive year of losses though
hope to avoid a repeat of the hammering they suffered last year and do not fear
coming fourth behind Ukip.

The three main party leaders mounted a final push yesterday, with Prime Minister
David Cameron appealing to voters not to punish the Tories for Britain's
economic woes.

The Prime Minister urged people to focus on local rather than national issues in
the wake of a turbulent spell for the coalition.

'I recognise it's a difficult time for families, it's a tough time for
families,' he said.

'I just hope that people will look at these elections and recognise it's about
electing your local council - who is going to keep the council tax down, who's
going to provide value for money, who's going to look after your area?'

Opposition leader Ed Miliband promised that Labour would 'stand up for the many'
rather than the 'rich and powerful' he said were the priority of the coalition.

'Labour is showing that we can make different choices, decisions which help
people through these tough times,' he said on the campaign trail.

And Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said every Liberal Democrat councillor
elected was a 'step towards a more liberal country' in a letter to activists
lauding the party's town hall record.

'Our record on freezing council tax, protecting local libraries and giving pay
rises for the lowest paid council workers shows the difference we make when we
run local councils.'

While many councils will begin counts after the polls close tonight, helping to
give a clear picture of the parties' performance, a large number have delayed
until tomorrow.

A delayed count will also mean a wait to find out the result of the
highest-profile contest as Labour's Ken Livingstone attempts to seize back the
London mayoralty he lost four years ago.

The final decision of Londoners is not expected to be known until tomorrow
evening.

SAMCAM'S £40 LUCKY TROUSERS FROM HIGH STREET STORE ZARA

It was a gloomy day at Westminster today when Samantha Cameron accompanied David
to the polling stations where they were to vote in the London Mayoral election.

But the Prime Minister's wife made sure to cut a swathe through the grey as she
stepped out in a pair of bright orange trousers.

She paired the tapered style, a pair of £39.99 cigarette pants from Zara, with
an ivory blouse, grey round-necked Joseph jumper and a pair of suede grey heels,
also from Zara.

Westminster's Central Methodist Hall for the London Mayoral and local elections

It was a striking look for SamCam, and clearly one that she is fond of given
that she wore the exact same ensemble, give or take a neckline, for the
Conservative Party Conference last year.

Samantha debuted the vibrant cigarette pants back in October, when she paired
them with a grey V-neck sweater from Zara, and the same grey Zara pumps she wore
today.

The look is an interesting, albeit tried-and-tested, one for the PM's wife, and
it skilfully treads that delicate line between adventurous and sensible.

The sobering effect of the schoolgirl grey sweater acts as the perfect foil for
the tropical tone of her bottom half, and the grey shoes pull the look together
neatly.

It is an outfit that says 'I'm fashionable, quirky, contemporary - but
dependable and approachable'.

The juicy tangerine toned trousers are a welcome break from the norm, given that
Samantha Cameron, while frequently fashion-forward, more often than not favours
her trusty black Joseph cigarette pants for public events.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 12:49 PM GMT

Boris poised to beat Ken in London Mayor race... but Tories prepare for a
bruising in the rest of the country

BYLINE: RICK DEWSBURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1027 words



     ·    Final poll before ballots close puts Boris on course for a 53:47 win -
          the same result as in 2008
     ·    Two thirds of voters on course to reject plans for elected mayors
     ·    Election experts say Labour could gain up to 700 local council seats


Boris Johnson is on course to buck the national trend and beat Ken Livingstone
in the race to be London Mayor as across the country voters prepare to dish out
a mid-term bruising to Conservatives in local elections.

Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are braced to lose hundreds of the around
5,000 seats at stake on 181 local councils across England, Scotland and Wales.

But the Tories will hope for a better result in the capital, where Mayor Boris
Johnson remains favourite to retain City Hall and secure a second term as London
Mayor.

A final poll revealed the Mayor is six points ahead and preparing to deliver a
53:47 win, after an astonishing two in ten Labour voters rejected Ken
Livingstone.

The pair of them braved drizzly skies this morning as they arrived at polling
stations with their wives.

As the capital goes to the ballot box, a YouGov survey for the Evening Standard
mirrored exactly the election result four years ago which gave Mr Johnson the
keys to City Hall.

One in ten Labour supporters who are certain to vote today said they would back
Boris. The same number again said they would not vote for either of the main
candidates.

And the YouGov poll suggested The UK Independence Party could be heading for its
first seats in the London Assembly by securing two.

In response to the findings, a spokesman for Mr Livingstone said: 'Today,
Londoners can vote Labour to cut their fares and save themselves on average
£1,000, and in doing so ensure that the Conservative Party is not rewarded.

'Every Labour voter must turn out today or the Tories will get away with it -
they will carry on with policies that have led to recession, fare rises and
police cuts.'

Mr Johnson made a final bid for votes with a video message on YouTube on what he
said was 'a critical day in the life or our city'.

Citing plans to create 200,000 jobs and 250,000 apprenticeships and get more
police on to the streets, Mr Johnson said he had 'the best plan to take London
forward over the next four years' and urged Londoners not to 'lurch back to the
waste and arrogance and divisiveness of the Ken Livingstone years'.

Mayors will also be chosen in Liverpool and Salford, with 10 other major English
cities holding referendums on whether to adopt the system of directly-elected
civic leaders.

But polls suggest that voter's will reject Mr Cameron's idea of a 'Boris in
every city'.

Recent polls have shown that two thirds of voters would prefer to stick with the
current system where councillors from political parties run local affairs.

Mr Cameron has personally thrown his weight behind the plans for directly
elected mayors - holding similar powers to Boris Johnson in London - in the 12
largest cities outside of London.

Both Birmingham and Manchester are on a knife-edge with polls showing that
opposition to the plans has grown in recent weeks.

Anecdotal evidence from city councillors and party activists out campaigning for
the local elections have reported growing hostility to the idea of a mayor.

A recent Guardian/ICM poll of West Midlands voters found that 64 per cent
intended to vote 'no' to elected mayors.

The complex electoral map is completed by ballots for the London Assembly.

Recent opinion polls have shown a clear lead for Labour - often in double digits
- as the Government has wrestled with a month-long string of difficulties.

Respected election experts Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth
University have said Labour's advantage should translate into a dramatic gain of
as many as 700 seats.

That number was seized on by Tory Communities Secretary Eric Pickles who said
Labour could reach the target 'just by turning up' as he attempted to minimise
the impact of any heavy defeat.

Most of the contested seats were last up for grabs in 2008 - when the
Conservatives made significant gains and Labour were hit hard.

In turn Labour, in a bid to accentuate any such major victory, suggested its
hope was for between 300 to 350 gains in England and 100 in Wales - with
continued losses to the SNP in Scotland.

The Liberal Democrats are braced for a second consecutive year of losses though
hope to avoid a repeat of the hammering they suffered last year and do not fear
coming fourth behind Ukip.

The three main party leaders mounted a final push yesterday, with Prime Minister
David Cameron appealing to voters not to punish the Tories for Britain's
economic woes.

The Prime Minister urged people to focus on local rather than national issues in
the wake of a turbulent spell for the coalition.

'I recognise it's a difficult time for families, it's a tough time for
families,' he said.

'I just hope that people will look at these elections and recognise it's about
electing your local council - who is going to keep the council tax down, who's
going to provide value for money, who's going to look after your area?'

Opposition leader Ed Miliband promised that Labour would 'stand up for the many'
rather than the 'rich and powerful' he said were the priority of the coalition.

'Labour is showing that we can make different choices, decisions which help
people through these tough times,' he said on the campaign trail.

And Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said every Liberal Democrat councillor
elected was a 'step towards a more liberal country' in a letter to activists
lauding the party's town hall record.

'Our record on freezing council tax, protecting local libraries and giving pay
rises for the lowest paid council workers shows the difference we make when we
run local councils.'

While many councils will begin counts after the polls close tonight, helping to
give a clear picture of the parties' performance, a large number have delayed
until tomorrow.

A delayed count will also mean a wait to find out the result of the
highest-profile contest as Labour's Ken Livingstone attempts to seize back the
London mayoralty he lost four years ago.

The final decision of Londoners is not expected to be known until tomorrow
evening.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE AXE FACTOR;
D-DAY FOR DAVE AS VOTERS GO TO POLLS Tories face hammering Boris is still set to
win PM prepares reshuffle Labour face bad night

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1269 words


DAVID Cameron has drawn up his first Cabinet reshuffle ahead of a much feared
drubbing for both Coalition parties in local elections across Britain today.

The Premier plotted the major Government shakeup with aides in a bid to turn the
page on an "omnishambles" series of disasters since the Botched Budget six weeks
ago.

But with the axe on a host of flops ready to fall, he last night decided to put
it on hold for a Coalition "relaunch" next week.

Instead, the staged "love-in" between the Tory PM and his Lib Dem deputy Nick
Clegg will be mounted after what is likely be a very grim set of results - with
as many as 1,000 Tory and Lib Dem councillors being wiped out.

The only shard of light is Tory Boris Johnson's near certain victory in London
over Labour rival Ken Livingstone.

After the dust has settled, the governing duo will make a joint appearance on
Tuesday to highlight their "shared values".

A series of new bills will be unveiled in the Queen's Speech on Wednesday in an
attempt to prove the two parties still have a unified purpose.

Furious backbench Tory MPs are demanding an injection of new blood so the
Government can be seen to regain control.

A Government source said: "The option of a reshuffle is now there and it has
been studied quite closely.

"The PM took the decision to put it off until later in the summer, after the
Olympics is still his preference. It could be brought forward at any time though
if he feels the need for it, or it is forced on him by Jeremy Hunt's predicament
over the BSkyB affair."

Today's series of votes are the most important since the 2010 General Election.
The control of 181 councils is up for grabs, as well as the London Assembly.

There are elections for mayors in London, Liverpool and Salford - with the
showdown between Johnson and Livingstone in the capital set to dominate
attention.

And there are also referendums in ten cities on whether to have elected mayors;
in Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, Sheffield, Bradford, Coventry,
Nottingham, Bristol VOTING and Wakefield. The results will have a massive morale
effect on the three party leaders' prospects in Westminster.

A YouGov poll for The Sun has given Labour a ten-point lead going into the
polls, with the Lib Dems again embarrassingly tying for third with UKIP.

It puts the Conservatives on 33 per cent, Labour on 43 per cent, and the Lib
Dems and UKIP on eight per cent. Anti-EU party UKIP are expected to do well by
capitalising on a public mood of deep antipathy with traditional Westminster
politics.

And there were electoral nerves across all three main parties last night with
fears that everyone may suffer a kicking. Of the 5,000 up for election, the
Tories expect to lose a painful 400 council seats. Labour have been tipped to
gain as many as 700.

But if they lose power in the once-super safe bastion of Glasgow and also fail
to take Cardiff - on top of Mr Livingstone's expected humiliation - Ed Miliband
will come under pressure as a loser who can never win.

The Lib Dems are bracing themselves for another blistering clear-out that could
be as bad as the 760 seat massacre they suffered a year ago, or half of all
their councillors standing.

But Lib Dem minister Jeremy Browne yesterday insisted: "We've bottomed out. We
will do a lot better than the polls suggest."

Party leaders last night made a frantic final bid to persuade voters.

Mr Cameron said: "My message to people is clear, don't let Labour do to your
council what they did to the country."

Ed Miliband countered: "I urge people to vote Labour for real change to help
people in tough times."

Mr Clegg said: "Labour may lie in what they tell people about our record in
government, but I remain very proud of what we have achieved."

Three Cabinet flops who have been long tipped for the axe are gaffe-prone
Justice Secretary Ken Clarke, Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman and Wales
boss Cheryl Gillan.

Veteran Leader of the House Sir George Young is also expected to step aside to
make way for new talent.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "We don't comment on reshuffles."

t.newtondunn@the-sun.co.uk

FIVE LOSERS IN THE RESHUFFLE...

KEN CLARKE

Justice Secretary

SOFT policies and shocking rape comments ruined the Tories' tough reputation on
law.

CAROLINE SPELMAN

Environment Secretary

HUMILIATING U-turn on forest sell-off and angered Brits with hosepipe ban in
rainy April.

SIR GEORGE YOUNG

Commons leader

KEPT Commons ticking over, but probably time for the 70-year-old Old Etonian to
stand aside.

CHERYL GILLAN

Welsh Secretary

COULD pay the price for threatening to quit over plans for high-speed rail in
her constituency.

ANDREW LANSLEY

Health Secretary

FAVOURITE for chop at depths of NHS reform debacle, but some think he could
survive.

... AND THE C0ALITION'S FIVE WINNERS

MARIA MILLER

Work & Pensions Minister

HAS impressed No10 with handling of disability benefit reform and appears well
on TV.

NICK HERBERT

Home Office & Justice Minister

PROVED mettle in handling controversial plans to cut police numbers and reform
cop pay.

CHRIS GRAYLING

Work & Pensions Minister

HAS pushed through one of the Coalition's most ambitious projects - the Work
Programme.

DAVID LAWS

Ex-Treasury Chief Secretary

FORCED to quit front line over expenses scandal, now expected to return to
Cabinet.

GRANT SHAPPS

Housing Minister

TIRELESS and highly effective communicator, he has proved himself worthy of step
up ladder.

SUN CABBIE BACKS BORIS

THE Sun's cabbie gave Boris Johnson the backing of London's 25,000 black taxi
drivers last night.

Grant Davis - chairman of the London Cab Drivers Club - said: "Every cabbie will
be voting for Boris, apart from a few who'll go for UKIP.

"We loathe Ken for what he's done to motorists and our trade.

"Boris speaks up for hard working people just trying to earn a living."

The boost for Boris came as bookies Paddy Power started to pay out on him
staying mayor after a collapse in rival Ken Livingstone's support.

David Cameron also gave Boris his backing last night - with a hint about their
bitter behind the scenes rows.

The PM said: "Boris is the only candidate who represents London's future. He
delivers for Londoners and fights the city's corner. Believe me - I know."

THE 10 KEY BATTLEGROUNDS

GLASGOW

LABOUR bastion for more than 30 years, but Scotland's biggest city could fall to
SNP.

SALFORD

ONE in five backed plans for a mayor - and ex-Labour MP Ian Stewart is odds-on
favourite.

LIVERPOOL

LABOUR council leader Joe Anderson is hot fave to be city's first elected mayor.

SWANSEA

LABOUR dominate with 27 seats and are on course to increase their lead over the
Lib Dems.

CARDIFF

THIRD-placed Labour look likely to benefit from voter anger at the Coalition.

NORTH LANARKSHIRE

LABOUR stronghold - but SNP are hard on their rivals' heels.

BRADFORD

GEORGE Galloway's Respect Party will seek to capitalise on his by-election
victory.

BIRMINGHAM

ONE of ten cities where voters are being asked if they want a directlyelected
mayor.

LONDON

BORIS Johnson set to defy poor Tory poll ratings to beat Labour's Ken
Livingstone.

PORTSMOUTH

COALITION parties go head-to-head in this key battleground. Lib Dems have
six-seat lead.

'Borie speaks up for hard-working people just trying to earn a living'

MAY 3 POLLS -WHAT'S UP FOR GRABS WHAT HAPPENED IN 2008 ELECTIONS +257
Councillors +12 Councils +1 Councils Councils TORIES LIB DEM LABOUR Councils
-334 -9 +33 Councillors Councillors Councillors TORIES LIB DEM LABOUR
128councils with some or all seats 25 seats on the London Assembly Mayor
elections in London, Liverpool and Salford Referendums on creating elected
mayors in 10 cities 32 unitary district councils SCOTLAND 21 of 22 unitary
district councils WALES

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Demand ... Ed Miliband Warning ... David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:59 PM GMT

Local elections: Labour expecting 'strong' performance;
Labour was expected to make gains against the coalition parties in today's
election with early claims of local victories when polls closed at 10pm.

BYLINE: By Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1016 words


· Labour leads by nine points, according to YouGov
· Rain blamed for low turnout as councils report "quiet" poll
· Conservatives expected to lose hundreds of seats
· First results due in shortly after midnight as counting starts
· Results in London Mayor election due by 6pm tomorrow

The latest YouGov poll showed Labour nine points ahead of the Conservatives on
41 per cent to the Tories' 32 per cent. The Liberal Democrats and Ukip both
trailed with nine per cent.

The Conservatives were braced for a damaging evening, with party officials
anticipating a loss of 400 seats out of the 5,000 being contested.

A senior Labour source said early signs were that the party had performed
"strongly".

They expressed confidence about gains in the Midlands and South, including key
battlegrounds such as Harlow and Reading.

In the first result to be declared, Labour kept control of Sunderland, gaining
eight seats, while early results from Basildon, Essex, indicated a large swing
to Labour since last year, according to the BBC.

Tessa Jowell, former Olympics minister, told BBC Newsnight: "We hope to make
progress. There are obviously parts of the country like the south of England
where we hope to make progress from our position."

Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain stood for election in 181 councils but
turnout was expected to be low across much of the country with rain in southern
and central England putting off voters.

Twitter: Paul Waugh - CCHQ source: "It's going to be a difficult night. Tho we
don't make predictions, Eric [Pickles] has already sd we cd easily lose 450
seats"

In London, turnout was estimated to be around 33 per cent, according to the
Press Association forecast based on early voting patterns in Streatham, south
London. This compared with 45.3 per cent across the capital for the 2008 mayoral
poll and 42.1 per cent at the Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which
covers Streatham.

Edinburgh City Council said the turnout this morning was "quieter than expected"
while there were reports of a turnout as low as 20 per cent in some wards.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie said a record low turnout would
be "bad for democracy".

He said: "People shouldn't take their vote for granted and it is up to us all to
convince people of the value of taking part in elections."

Twitter: Dan Hodges - My view: Lab 500 seats good, 700 v.good. 40%+ national
share good. Boris win worse news for Cam than Ed.

Before polling stations closed at 10pm, Labour was 10 points ahead of the
Conservatives and was expected to take 43 per cent of the vote, according to
YouGov polling for The Sun carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Tories were
on 33 per cent while the Liberal Democrats and Ukip were both on eight per cent.

Twitter: Jonathan Walker - Labour almost certain to win back control of
Birmingham - will provide good news for Ed tomorrow if Boris holds London for
Tories

Some 63 per cent of voters said they disapproved of the Government's record,
with 24 per cent approving. The disapproval rating was up from 59 per cent found
in polling conducted on Monday and Tuesday.

Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, 31 per cent of 1749 adults said
David Cameron, 22 per cent said Ed Miliband, 5 per cent said Nick Clegg and 42
per cent said they did not know.

Twitter: Christopher Pincher - Off to the Tamworth count. Tamworth has won the
race to declare results several times since 2004 so let's see if we can do it
again.

The trend was reversed in the battle for where London Mayor Boris Johnson, the
Conservative candidate, was leading his Labour rival Ken Livingstone by 53 per
cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin by which he won four
years ago, according to the latest YouGov poll.

The poll for the London Evening Standard surveyed 2,119 London voters between
Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result was neck and neck, with
Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction under. But 68 per cent of
Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to vote, compared to 62 per cent
of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

Harriet Harman, deputy Labour leader, told BBC's Question Time she was
disappointed in the mayoral campaign.

"There has been massive personal onslaught and I just hope Londoners will have
seen through that and vote for policies that will improve their lives," she
said.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hoped to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

Earlier today, Lord O'Donnell, the former Cabinet Secretary, criticised
broadcasters for excluding independent London mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita
from televised debates.

"Would I stand as an independent under these rules as interpreted by the
broadcasters? Absolutely not. Basically, there is a massive bias towards the
status quo in the system," he told The House magazine.

"The current rules can't pick up on new candidates who haven't stood before and
new candidates who haven't gained in strength."

In the London Assembly, Labour enjoyed a 10-point lead over the Tories and were
expected to gain three seats, to 11. The Tories were expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP was forecast to lose their one seat and
Ukip to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in 10 Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in 10 said they would stay at home.

Of the Labour supporters considering voting for Mr Johnson, 65 per cent said the
reason was "I dislike Ken", while just two per cent said it was because their
family would be better off with Mr Johnson as Mayor. Some 23 per cent it was
because they "like Boris".

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:54 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1068 words


11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:54 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1068 words


11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:54 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1068 words


11.53: Peter Henley reports that Labour has doubled its representation in
Winchester. It now has, er, two councillors in England's ancient capital.

11.45: Turnout seems to be slightly down on last year. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

11.42: How can any man not be cheered up by the sight of Emily Maitlis?

11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 800 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.15: Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I
think he knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning
(above) summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months.
Rather like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:37 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 996 words


11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 700 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I think he
knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning (above)
summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months. Rather
like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:37 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 996 words


11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 700 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I think he
knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning (above)
summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months. Rather
like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:37 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 996 words


11.37: A few early wards being tweeted in from Sunderland, Great Yarmouth,
Tunbridge Wells, Bury and elsewhere. Too early to extrapolate anything very
meaningful, but, for what it's worth, Labour is doing well, the Tories and
LibDems badly. UKIP seems to be doing very well where it's standing; then again,
like all smaller parties, it tends to contest only its stronger wards.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 700 of the 3,600-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wonders Guido. The short answer, surely,
is that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I think he
knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning (above)
summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months. Rather
like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:20 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 929 words


Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I think he
knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning (above)
summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months. Rather
like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wondersGuido. The short answer, surely, is
that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 700 of the 5,000-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:20 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 929 words


Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I think he
knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning (above)
summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months. Rather
like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wondersGuido. The short answer, surely, is
that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 700 of the 5,000-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:20 PM GMT

Elections 2012: Liveblog

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 929 words


Christian Adams, the Telegraph's political cartoonist, stands - and I think he
knows it - at the pinnacle of his profession. His cartoon this morning (above)
summarises what I've been hearing on doorstep after doorstep for months. Rather
like the pound, the euro and the dollar, the three main parties have all
plummeted together, which makes it hard to infer very much from, as it were,
their exchange rate relative to one another.

In the circs, it would be silly to make bold predictions. My impression, based
on canvassing my admittedly unrepresentative Home Counties region, is that my
own party will have a bad night. The Lib Dems, too, will struggle, though the
recent depreciation of the Tory vote will disguise the extent of their
unpopularity. And Labour will, faute-de-mieux, pick up a great many seats.

You might think that I'm pre-spinning, but long-standing readers of this blog
will know that, in 2008 and 2009, I was enormously optimistic about the
Conservatives' prospects, and said so. Indeed, one of the reasons that we are
certain to lose seats is that we are defending results secured at the height of
the anti-Brown intifada.

This time, it felt very different. A couple of snapshots. In drizzly Worthing on
Saturday, six people in twenty minutes told me that they had abandoned the
Conservatives because of Europe. Now it may well be that, as the two amused
local MPs contended, my presence brought out people for whom Europe was the
issue. Perhaps they'd have brought up queues at Heathrow if I'd been Damian
Green, or tuition fees if I'd been Nick Clegg. But I don't think so. They were
very specific about the moment they had made the decision, viz the dropping of
the referendum commitment. All but one said they'd vote Conservative again if a
referendum were held.

Yeah, yeah, you say. South Coast, UKIP heartland, grumpy pensioners: Hannan's
core vote. But two days later, I was in one of the most affluent places in my
patch: the Betjemanesque tennis club at St George's Hill, Weybridge. Canvassing
the brown-limbed, white-clad Surrey mums on the terrace, I heard the same
complaints that I'd heard in Worthing. Why was the PM letting Clegg push him
about? Why couldn't Britain deport Abu Qatada? Why were we bailing out the euro
while making cuts at home? This from what you'd have thought was a core Cameroon
constituency: tennis-playing mums in their forties.

So what do I expect? A massive victory for the Stay-at-Home Party, which will
outpoll all the others combined. Indeed, outside London, I expect that twice as
many registered voters will decline to cast their ballots as will support all
the parties put together.

In London, for all the concerns over complacency, and for all Ken Livingstone's
skill as a machine politician, Boris ought to clinch it. There may be an
interesting battle for third place. The BBC decided from the start that Brian
Paddick, the LibDem, would be treated as one of the big three candidates, and
that the Green, Jenny Jones, would also be included in most debates, but that
UKIP's Lawrence Webb wouldn't. Other media tend to take their cue from the Beeb
about this sort of thing. Yet the polls put the three remarkably close together.

If - inshallah - Boris does win he might find that the opposition parties have a
two-thirds blocking majority on the London Assembly. Which would pose an
interesting dilemma for the Conservatives: to ally with the Lib Dems or with
UKIP. Sooner or later, the same decision might have to be faced nationally.

Elsewhere, it's worth keeping an eye on whether Respect can consolidate George
Galloway's victory in Bradford. Interesting, too, to see whether the SNP can
beat Labour in Glasgow. If you're at a count and hear anything, the comment
thread is open.

10.34: Why didn't Labour choose Oona? wondersGuido. The short answer, surely, is
that the decision was made by party activists, whereas Boris was chosen by a
London-wide primary. If Boris wins tomorrow, and François Hollande on Sunday,
it'll be a double victory for open primaries.

10.45: With maximum respec' to Gilligan, I don't believe that Boris has been
hurt by a low turnout in his London heartlands. If turnout in Putney really is
as poor as he says, it's because busy professionals now habitually vote by post.

10.50: Disappointing if, as rumour suggests, Birmingham has voted against an
elected mayor. I voted against having an elected mayor in London. I was wrong.
It didn't lead, as I had feared, to extra government and more bureaucracy.
Instead, it engaged Londoners in the political process. Both Ken and Boris
disregarded the notional limits on their authority and made full use of the
moral mandate bestowed by direct election. In consequence, decisions that might
have been in the hands of bureaucrats were instead made by the people's
tribunes. There was no shortage of serious, high-profile Labour contenders: Siôn

 Simon, Gisela Stewart, Liam Byrne. An opportunity missed.

11.20: There is some excitement about the polls showing UKIP and the LibDems
neck-and-neck, but the two parties' position in local government is not
comparable. The LibDems have a 150-year-old infrastructure in place. UKIP is
contesting fewer than 700 of the 5,000-odd seats up for grabs - fewer than the
Greens. The closest thing to a straight fight between the two parties is in
London, whose results won't be declared until tomorrow evening. If Webb were to
beat Paddick - not a likely outcome, but possible -  it really would be the
story of the election.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 10:29 PM GMT

Local elections: Labour expecting 'strong' performance;
Labour was expected to make gains against the coalition parties in today's
election with early claims of local victories when polls closed at 10pm.

BYLINE: By Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 865 words


· Labour expects 'strong performance' in local elections
· Rain blamed for low turnout as councils report "quiet" poll
· Conservatives expected to lose hundreds of seats
· First results due in shortly after midnight as counting starts
· Results in London Mayor election due by 6pm tomorrow

The latest YouGov poll showed Labour nine points ahead of the Conservatives on
41 per cent to the Tories' 32 per cent. The Liberal Democrats and Ukip both
trailed with nine per cent.

The Conservatives were braced for a damaging evening, with party officials
anticipating a loss of 400 seats out of the 5,000 being contested.

A senior Labour source said early signs were that the party had performed
"strongly".

They expressed confidence about gains in the Midlands and South, including key
battlegrounds such as Harlow and Reading.

Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain stood for election in 181 councils but
turnout was expected to be low across much of the country with rain in southern
and central England putting off voters.

Twitter: Paul Waugh - CCHQ source: "It's going to be a difficult night. Tho we
don't make predictions, Eric [Pickles] has already sd we cd easily lose 450
seats"

In London, turnout was estimated to be around 33 per cent, according to the
Press Association forecast based on early voting patterns in Streatham, south
London. This compared with 45.3 per cent across the capital for the 2008 mayoral
poll and 42.1 per cent at the Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which
covers Streatham.

Edinburgh City Council said the turnout this morning was "quieter than
expected."

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie said a record low turnout would
be "bad for democracy".

He said: "People shouldn't take their vote for granted and it is up to us all to
convince people of the value of taking part in elections."

Twitter: Dan Hodges - My view: Lab 500 seats good, 700 v.good. 40%+ national
share good. Boris win worse news for Cam than Ed.

Before polling stations closed at 10pm, Labour was 10 points ahead of the
Conservatives and was expected to take 43 per cent of the vote, according to
YouGov polling for The Sun carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Tories were
on 33 per cent while the Liberal Democrats and Ukip were both on eight per cent.

Some 63 per cent of voters said they disapproved of the Government's record,
with 24 per cent approving. The disapproval rating was up from 59 per cent found
in polling conducted on Monday and Tuesday.

Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, 31 per cent of 1749 adults said
David Cameron, 22 per cent said Ed Miliband, 5 per cent said Nick Clegg and 42
per cent said they did not know.

Twitter: Christopher Pincher - Off to the Tamworth count. Tamworth has won the
race to declare results several times since 2004 so let's see if we can do it
again.

The trend was reversed in the battle for where London Mayor Boris Johnson, the
Conservative candidate, was leading his Labour rival Ken Livingstone by 53 per
cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin by which he won four
years ago, according to the latest YouGov poll.

The poll for the London Evening Standard surveyed 2,119 London voters between
Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result was neck and neck, with
Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction under. But 68 per cent of
Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to vote, compared to 62 per cent
of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hoped to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

Earlier today, Lord O'Donnell, the former Cabinet Secretary, criticised
broadcasters for excluding independent London mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita
from televised debates.

"Would I stand as an independent under these rules as interpreted by the
broadcasters? Absolutely not. Basically, there is a massive bias towards the
status quo in the system," he told The House magazine.

"The current rules can't pick up on new candidates who haven't stood before and
new candidates who haven't gained in strength."

In the London Assembly, Labour enjoyed a 10-point lead over the Tories and were
expected to gain three seats, to 11. The Tories were expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP was forecast to lose their one seat and
Ukip to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in 10 Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in 10 said they would stay at home.

Of the Labour supporters considering voting for Mr Johnson, 65 per cent said the
reason was "I dislike Ken", while just two per cent said it was because their
family would be better off with Mr Johnson as Mayor. Some 23 per cent it was
because they "like Boris".

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 10:21 PM GMT

Boris on course to win second term as London Mayor;
Boris Johnson is on course to win a second term as London mayor but the
Conservatives are braced for heavy losses in council elections throughout the
rest of the country.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


Mr Johnson was given a six-point lead over Ken Livingstone, his Labour rival for
control of the capital, in the latest poll published yesterday.

However, Labour was hoping to exploit a 10-point lead over the Conservatives in
the national opinion polls, with 43 per cent of the vote. Nick Clegg's Liberal
Democrats were level with the UK Independence Party on eight per cent, according
to the YouGov/Sun survey.

The London mayoralty commands the largest personal mandate in British politics,
and the contest to run the capital is central to the Conservatives' strategy.

Senior Tories admit that defeat would be "a disaster" for David Cameron's hopes
of winning a majority at the next general election in 2015.

On Thursday night, party strategists appeared confident that the "Boris effect"
would work to their advantage, allowing Mr Johnson's personal popularity to
outweigh the difficulties that have hit the Conservatives' national poll ratings
in recent weeks.

Mr Cameron and Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, were early visitors to polling
stations in London yesterday, accompanied by wives Samantha and Justine.

Mr Clegg cast his ballot alone in Sheffield, as his Spanish wife Miriam does not
have a vote.

Polls were held for almost 5,000 council seats in 181 councils in England,
Scotland and Wales. Conservatives and Liberal Democrats were expecting bad news
when the results are declared during the course of today.

The council seats up for election this year were last contested in 2008, when
the Conservatives were at the peak of their popularity and Gordon Brown was in
power.

Tory officials privately expect the party to lose 400 council seats this time,
while the Lib Dems are resigned to losing up to 300.

Labour has been playing down Mr Livingstone's chances of defeating Mr Johnson,
while attempting to dampen hopes of a landslide for the party in council
elections elsewhere.

Labour is expecting to do well elsewhere in the capital and could overtake the
Conservatives to become the largest party on the 25-member London Assembly.

This would leave a re-elected Mr Johnson struggling to force his policies into
action.

Nationally, election experts have said Mr Miliband should expect to win 700
council seats but party officials insist a more "realistic" expectation would be
to gain 350.

Key targets for Labour include gaining Conservative-run councils, or joint
Tory-Lib Dem-controlled authorities, including Birmingham, Derby,
Newcastle-under-Lyme, Wirral, Plymouth and Southampton. Mr Miliband also hopes
to make gains in parts of the South where Labour has no MPs, such as Reading and
Harlow.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 4:11 PM GMT

Labour ten points clear of Tories as Britain goes to the polls;
Labour is ten points ahead of the Conservatives in voting intention polls as
elections are held in 181 councils today.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 585 words


Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain are standing for election in 181
councils, which are expected to be bruising for the government parties.
Conservative officials expect the party to lose 400 seats out of 5,000 being
contested.

Labour are forecast to take 43 per cent of the vote, according to YouGov polling
for The Sun conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Tories are on 33 per cent,
the Liberal Democrats on 8 per cent and UKIP also on 8 per cent.

Some 63 per cent of voters said they disapproved of the Government's record,
with 24 per cent approving. The disapproval rating is up from 59 per cent found
in polling conducted on Monday and Tuesday.

Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, 31 per cent of 1749 adults said
David Cameron, 22 per cent said Ed Miliband, 5 per cent said Nick Clegg and 42
per cent said they did not know.

The trend is reversed in the battle for where London Mr Johnson, the
Conservative candidate, is leading his Labour rival Mr Livingstone by 53 per
cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin by which he won four
years ago, according to the latest YouGov poll.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hope to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

Today Lord O'Donnell, the former Cabinet Secretary, criticised broadcastesr for
excluding independent London mayoral candidate Siobhan Benita from televised
debates.

"Would I stand as an independent under these rules as interpreted by the
broadcasters? Absolutely not. Basically, there is a massive bias towards the
status quo in the system," he told The House magazine. "The current rules can't
pick up on new candidates who haven't stood before and new candidates who
haven't gained in strength."

In the London Assembly Labour enjoy a ten-point lead over the Tories and are
expected to gain three seats, to 11. The Tories are expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP are forecast to lose their one seat and
UKIP to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in ten Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in ten said they would stay at home. Of the
'Boris Labour' camp, 65 per cent said the reason was "I dislike Ken", while just
two per cent said it was because their family would be better off with Mr
Johnson as Mayor. Twenty-three per cent it was because they "like Boris".

The YouGov poll for the London Evening Standard                      surveyed
2,119 London voters between Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result
is neck and neck, with Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction
under. But 68 per cent of Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to
vote, compared to 62 per cent of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

Turnout in much of Britain is expected to be down due to the rain forecast for
much of southern and central England and much of Wales.

The turnout in London is expected to be around 33 per cent, the Press
Association forecast based on early voting patterns in Streatham, south London.
This compares with 45.3% London-wide for the 2008 mayoral poll and 42.1% at the
Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which covers Streatham.

Edinburgh City Council said the turnout this morning was "quieter than
expected."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 2:56 PM GMT

Boris six points ahead of Ken in the battle for London;
Boris Johnson is six points clear of his rival Ken Livingstone in the race for
London Mayor, as voters across Britain head to the polls.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 632 words


Mr Johnson, the Conservative candidate, is leading his Labour rival Mr
Livingstone by 53 per cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin
by which he won four years ago, according to the latest YouGov poll.

Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain are standing for election in 181
councils, which are expected to be bruising for the government parties.
Conservative officials expect the party to lose 400 seats out of 5,000 being
contested.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hope to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

The London Mayoral election is conducted in several rounds under the
'supplementary vote' system. In the first round Mr Johnson leads against Mr
Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38 per cent. Brain Paddick, the Liberal Democrat
candidate, trials in third at 7 per cent, down from 10 per cent in 2008.

In the London Assembly Labour enjoy a ten-point lead over the Tories and are
expected to gain three seats, to 11. While the Tories are expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP are forecast to lose their one seat and
UKIP to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in ten Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in ten said they would stay at home. Of the
'Boris Labour' camp, 65 per cent said the reason was "I dislike Ken", while just
two per cent said it was because their family would be better off with Mr
Johnson as Mayor. Twenty-three per cent it was because they "like Boris".

The YouGov poll for the London Evening Standard                      surveyed
2,119 London voters between Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result
is neck and neck, with Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction
under. But 68 per cent of Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to
vote, compared to 62 per cent of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

Turnout in much of Britain is expected to be down due to the rain forecast for
much of southern and central England and much of Wales.

The turnout in London is expected to be around 33 per cent, the Press
Association forecast based on early voting patterns in Streatham, south London.
This compares with 45.3% London-wide for the 2008 mayoral poll and 42.1% at the
Lambeth and Southwark assembly constituency, which covers Streatham.

Mr Johnson made a final bid for votes with a video message on YouTube on what he
said was "a critical day in the life or our city".

Citing plans to create 200,000 jobs and 250,000 apprenticeships and get more
police on to the streets, Mr Johnson said he had "the best plan to take London
forward over the next four years" and urged Londoners not to "lurch back to the
waste and arrogance and divisiveness of the Ken Livingstone years".

Mr Livingstone used left-leaning blog Labour List to send an election day
message stressing his plans to cut public transport fares.

"By spending just a few minutes at the polling station the average fare-payer
can make themselves £1,000 better off," said the Labour candidate.

"There are not many ways you can make £1,000 in less than half an hour. But that
is what the average London fare-payer can do from 7am to 10pm today."

In a message on Facebook, Ukip leader Nigel Farage urged his party's supporters
in London to give their second preference votes to Mr Johnson.

"Londoners - please vote Ukip first and Boris second to keep the Socialists out
of City Hall - that includes all the others," said Mr Farage. "Let's get
Ayatollah Livingstone out of London politics once and for all."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 1:16 PM GMT

Thank you, wise leaders, for telling us how you voted

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 284 words


Today, we have been blessed. We have learned how the philosopher-kings of our
nation, or "opinion writers" as they are called in the modern parlance, have
voted. You can't move for it on Twitter: it's basically a list of first and
second preferences, scrolling forever down my screen like the world's most
boring 1980s arcade shoot-em-up. "Brian Paddick 1, Ken 2", says a Guardian
columnist; "Jenny Jones 1, Boris 2", says someone off the Times; "Herman Van
Rompuy 1, Edward Heath 2", says Ed West; "Siobhan Whatsername 1, Ned Stark 2";
"Comply or Die 1, Kauto Star to place"; "Barney the Dinosaur 1, the Treaty of
Westphalia 2", that sort of thing.

Even better, we get to know the manner in which they voted. "Held my nose and
voted for Ken"; "gritted my teeth and voted for Boris"; "stood on one leg while
wearing an adult nappy and voted for the Ukip guy", etc etc. And the reasons:
"If you don't vote for Ken, you'll get Boris." "A vote for Siobhan encourages
independents." "I'm showing support for the Greens with my first preference." "I
literally don't know who any of these people are."

What's brilliant about this is, right, that it means we know the correct way to
vote! Thank you, great saviours, for your guidance - the path to righteousness
is lit by your shining truth. We peons can follow in your footsteps, sure in our
stride, knowing that we can err no longer if we just step in line. Perhaps in
future, instead of actually voting, we can simply mail a voting slip to the
columnist of our choice, and they can make our democratic decision for us.

(And, since I know you're all wondering, I went 1) Nick Griffin 2) What Do You
Mean Nick Griffin Isn't Standing, I Said Nick Griffin, Goddammit.)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 1:16 PM GMT

Thank you, wise leaders, for telling us how you voted

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 284 words


Today, we have been blessed. We have learned how the philosopher-kings of our
nation, or "opinion writers" as they are called in the modern parlance, have
voted. You can't move for it on Twitter: it's basically a list of first and
second preferences, scrolling forever down my screen like the world's most
boring 1980s arcade shoot-em-up. "Brian Paddick 1, Ken 2", says a Guardian
columnist; "Jenny Jones 1, Boris 2", says someone off the Times; "Herman Van
Rompuy 1, Edward Heath 2", says Ed West; "Siobhan Whatsername 1, Ned Stark 2";
"Comply or Die 1, Kauto Star to place"; "Barney the Dinosaur 1, the Treaty of
Westphalia 2", that sort of thing.

Even better, we get to know the manner in which they voted. "Held my nose and
voted for Ken"; "gritted my teeth and voted for Boris"; "stood on one leg while
wearing an adult nappy and voted for the Ukip guy", etc etc. And the reasons:
"If you don't vote for Ken, you'll get Boris." "A vote for Siobhan encourages
independents." "I'm showing support for the Greens with my first preference." "I
literally don't know who any of these people are."

What's brilliant about this is, right, that it means we know the correct way to
vote! Thank you, great saviours, for your guidance - the path to righteousness
is lit by your shining truth. We peons can follow in your footsteps, sure in our
stride, knowing that we can err no longer if we just step in line. Perhaps in
future, instead of actually voting, we can simply mail a voting slip to the
columnist of our choice, and they can make our democratic decision for us.

(And, since I know you're all wondering, I went 1) Nick Griffin 2) What Do You
Mean Nick Griffin Isn't Standing, I Said Nick Griffin, Goddammit.)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 1:16 PM GMT

Thank you, wise leaders, for telling us how you voted

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 284 words


Today, we have been blessed. We have learned how the philosopher-kings of our
nation, or "opinion writers" as they are called in the modern parlance, have
voted. You can't move for it on Twitter: it's basically a list of first and
second preferences, scrolling forever down my screen like the world's most
boring 1980s arcade shoot-em-up. "Brian Paddick 1, Ken 2", says a Guardian
columnist; "Jenny Jones 1, Boris 2", says someone off the Times; "Herman Van
Rompuy 1, Edward Heath 2", says Ed West; "Siobhan Whatsername 1, Ned Stark 2";
"Comply or Die 1, Kauto Star to place"; "Barney the Dinosaur 1, the Treaty of
Westphalia 2", that sort of thing.

Even better, we get to know the manner in which they voted. "Held my nose and
voted for Ken"; "gritted my teeth and voted for Boris"; "stood on one leg while
wearing an adult nappy and voted for the Ukip guy", etc etc. And the reasons:
"If you don't vote for Ken, you'll get Boris." "A vote for Siobhan encourages
independents." "I'm showing support for the Greens with my first preference." "I
literally don't know who any of these people are."

What's brilliant about this is, right, that it means we know the correct way to
vote! Thank you, great saviours, for your guidance - the path to righteousness
is lit by your shining truth. We peons can follow in your footsteps, sure in our
stride, knowing that we can err no longer if we just step in line. Perhaps in
future, instead of actually voting, we can simply mail a voting slip to the
columnist of our choice, and they can make our democratic decision for us.

(And, since I know you're all wondering, I went 1) Nick Griffin 2) What Do You
Mean Nick Griffin Isn't Standing, I Said Nick Griffin, Goddammit.)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:45 AM GMT

Boris six points ahead of Ken in the battle for London;
Boris Johnson is six points clear of his rival Ken Livingstone in the race for
London Mayor, as voters across Britain head to the polls.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 398 words


Mr Johnson, the Conservative candidate, is leading his Labour rival Mr
Livingstone by 53 per cent to 47 per cent in the run-off vote, the same margin
by which he won four years ago.

Nearly 15,000 candidates across Britain are standing for election in 181
councils, which are expected to be bruising for the government parties.
Conservative officials expect the party to lose 400 seats out of 5,000 being
contested.

In Glasgow, Alex Salmond's SNP hope to end Labour's three-decade control of the
city. Mayoral elections are taking place in Salford and Liverpool, and
referendums to create elected mayors are being held in 10 other English cities.

The London Mayoral election is conducted in several rounds under the
'supplementary vote' system. In the first round Mr Johnson leads against Mr
Livingstone by 43 per cent to 38 per cent. Brain Paddick, the Liberal Democrat
candidate, trials in third at 7 per cent, down from 10 per cent in 2008.

In the London Assembly Labour enjoy a ten-point lead over the Tories and are
expected to gain three seats, to 11. While the Tories are expected to lose three
seats, taking them to eight. The BNP are forecast to lose their one seat and
UKIP to gain their first two seats.

If all those voting Labour in the Assembly backed Mr Livingstone, he would win
with an eight-point margin. But YouGov found one in ten Labour supporters would
vote for Boris, while another one in ten said they would stay at home. Of the
'Boris Labour' camp, 65 per cent said the reason was "I dislike Ken", while just
two per cent said it was because their family would be better off with Mr
Johnson as Mayor. Twenty-three per cent it was because they "like Boris".

The YouGov poll for the London Evening Standard                      surveyed
2,119 London voters between Monday and Wednesday. Amongst all voters, the result
is neck and neck, with Boris a fraction over 50 per cent and Ken a fraction
under. But 68 per cent of Mr Johnson's supporters said they were certain to
vote, compared to 62 per cent of Mr Livingstone's supporters.

Turnout in much of Britain is expected to be down due to the rain forecast for
much of southern and central England and much of Wales.

The turnout in London is expected to be around 33 per cent, the Press
Association forecast based on early voting patterns, down from 45.3 per cent in
2008.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

City mayors may get powers to rule over wider regions

BYLINE: Jill Sherman ; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1065 words


City mayors could get a much bigger regional remit with powers over several
councils, under plans being backed by ministers.

Amid signs that few if any cities are likely to opt for directly elected mayors
in referendums today, Greg Clark, the cities minister, now supports the idea of
regional mayors.

In an interview with The Times, Mr Clark said that regional mayors "could
happen" if neighbouring boroughs agreed to give a city mayor a larger base.
Asked whether he would back plans for such mayors, Mr Clark said: "If people in
an area make a united case next time round to embrace a mayor over a larger
area, then of course that is something we would consider and want to
facilitate."

This would mean that mayors could have powers over areas such as Greater
Manchester and Greater Birmingham, covering ten or so authorities rather than
just the city council.

The policy shift comes after indications that at best only two or three of the
ten cities holding referendums today will vote in favour of a mayor. The most
likely to do so are Birmingham and Bristol.

However, government sources suggested yesterday that there is uncertainty even
in these two cities. One senior figure said of the Birmingham referendum: "If
it's looking close, my gut feeling is people will say no."

Mayoral elections are being held in Liverpool and Salford, where Labour
candidates are likely to win power.

Lord Heseltine has long argued for a bigger base for city leaders and a recent
report by the Warwick Commission, from Warwick University, also backed wider
geographical areas.

Both argued that individuals needed to span broader boundaries to oversee
investment, transport and economic policy, although the plan has been resisted
by the Government in the current wave of elections.

Mr Clark's shift yesterday suggests that the Government has realised it needs to
rethink its mayoral policy to make the posts more attractive and probably better
paid.

No salaries have been set for this year's mayors. In Birmingham, which has a
budget of £3 billion, the package could be less than £150,000.

Mr Clark made it clear that a move to city regional mayors would be "organic"
and would emerge from existing mayoralties. He suggested that the first wave of
mayors to be elected in November would still be based on a city council but this
could change when they seek re-election in four years' time.

"If there is a local move for the boundary to be more encompassing that could
happen but only if it had the agreement of neighbouring authorities," Mr Clark
said.

One of the key difficulties in the mayoral referendums has been the Government's
failure to spell out the powers that would be handed to the mayors. Mr Clark
claims that mayors will be able to negotiate what they want when they are
elected. These could, for example, include powers over transport, housing,
benefits, investment and skills.

But Whitehall departments have been resisting any pressure to cede power to
mayors and would be even more opposed if they evolved into regional leaders.

No one voting in the referendums today will have any idea what powers will be
given to an individual if a mayor is given the go-ahead.

The current mayoral policy has split the Tory and Labour parties and has been
actively opposed by most Liberal Democrat councillors, including in Nick Clegg's
Sheffield constituency.

Senior Lib Dems admit that there is conflict between their belief in localism
and their opposition to elected mayors.

"The reality is that we are a party of councillors, and this would see powers
removed from them and handed to a City mayor," one source said.

The party in Westminster has kept quiet about its opposition to mayors with Nick
Clegg deliberately sidestepping the subject in a speech on localism in December.

Leading article, page 2 Vote 2012 Local elections ENGLAND 39 Labour 28 Other 8
Lib Dem what to 128 local council elections and their current political stance
watch for Shetlands Islands Orkney Islands 53 Conservative TONIGHT Key
Conservative 10.00pm Polls close Independent Labour No overall control 12.00
midnight First results start to come in 2,419 Lib Dem Not voting total number of
seats WALES 1.00am Eastleigh Seven UKIP candidates are up for election in Chris
Huhne's constituency SCOTLAND Mayoral 21 local elections 32 local elections
referendums 14 Other 27 Other 1.00am Stockport Lib Dems could lose minority
control 3 Ind 2 Lab 3 Ind 2 Con 2 Lab 2.00am Cambridge Lib Dems face a Labour
challenge 1,224 1,222 1 2.00am Plymouth Tories could suffer their first big loss
to Labour Contenders in the mayoral elections 12345 6 7 8 9 10 11 ¦ewcastle
Birmingham Bristol Sheffield Leeds Manchester Wakefield Bradford Coventry
Nottingham Doncaster SALFORD 2.30am Southampton Another potential southern gain
for Labour Ian Stewart, right Labour Michael Felse English Democrats Paul Massey
Independent Bernard Gill UK Independence Party Michael Moulding Community Action
Party 5 8 711 3.00am Bradford Labour hope to take control despite a Respect
challenge Karen Garrido, right Conservative Joe O'Neill Green Party Edward
O'Sullivan British National Party Norman Owen Liberal Democrat Pat Ward
Independent Anglesey council elections have been postponed until May 2013 4.00am
Birmingham Labour likely to take control from Tory/Lib Dem coalition 6 4
LIVERPOOL TOMORROW 10 2 9 7.00am Cardiff A bad night for the Lib Dems could let
Labour in Joe Anderson, right Labour John Coyne Green Party Liam Fogarty
Independent Adam Heatherington UK Independence Party Tony Mulhearn Trade
Unionist and Socialist Coalition Steve Radford Liberal 1.00pm Reading Labour
expected to gain this key seat in the South Tony Caldeira, right Conservative
Paul Rimmer English Democrats Richard Kemp Liberal Democrat Jeff Berman
Liverpool Independent Party Peter Quiggins National Front Mike Whitby British
National Party 4.00pm Birmingham Result of the mayoral vote 3 5.00pm Edinburgh
Heavy Lib Dem losses expected LONDON 5.00pm Glasgow Labour set to lose in a
battle with SNP London Assembly Boris Johnson, right Conservative Siobhan Benita
Independent Carlos Cortiglia British National Party Jenny Jones 25 seats are
being contested 14 are directly elected and an additional 11 are allocated on a
London-wide top up 8.30pm-10.00pm London Mayoral result expected Green Party Ken
Livingstone, right Labour Brian Paddick Liberal Democrat Lawrence Webb
Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron lets slip as Tories prepare for poll defeats

BYLINE: Jill Sherman ; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 438 words


David Cameron caused dismay among Conservatives yesterday by suggesting that
they may not win outright victory at the next election. During an interview, the
Prime Minister referred to the choice between Labour and a "Conservative-led
Government".

This prompted a swift clarification from Downing Street, which told the
Conservative Home website that Mr Cameron was still working for an outright
majority in 2015. The Prime Minister was drawn on whether he would go into
coalition with the UK Independence Party. "I don't think that is what is going
to happen. When it comes to the next election, do you want a Conservative-led
Government or to go backwards with Labour or waste your vote on one of the other
parties, that is the key question."

The remark comes at a sensitive time, with local elections today in which the
Tories could suffer setbacks in the North of England and the West Midlands,
suggesting that they are unlikely to be on course for an overall majority at the
next election.

Labour hopes to seize control of more than a dozen councils and gain at least
500 seats even if fails to keep Glasgow or win the London mayoralty.

The party is banking on taking Birmingham, which has been led by a Tory-Lib Dem
coalition since 2004. In addition it hopes to make gains in a series of councils
in Tory marginals with the aim of taking these parliamentary seats at the 2015
general election. Many experts suggest that the party needs to gain between 700
and 800 seats across England and Wales to restore Ed Miliband's credibility
after the poor showing at the Bradford by-election where it was defeated by
Respect. Yesterday party strategists tried to lower expectations by claiming
they would get only 450 to 500 seats.

Labour did well in the local elections in 2011 but failed to make the
breakthrough it needed in the south to give it an activist base to build up to
2015.Key battles in the South include Harlow, Reading, Thurrock, and Hastings.
Fights farther north involving Tory marginals are in Leeds and Bradford.

In addition the party should gain or become the major party in Derby, Newcastle
under Lyme and Wirral, Nuneaton and Bedworth, Rossendale and Cannock Chase.

A key contest will be Stockport, the Lib Dems' last Metropolitan authority. The
Tories are expected to do worse than predicted and sources said they would lose
at least 400 to 500 seats as they fall victim to a reaction against the
coalition. One Tory official said: "The party is at a high watermark and we're
defending over 1,000 seats, and the last time these seats were fought Labour was
polling at 24 per cent, now it is polling in the mid-forties."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 142 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

ANDREW ALEXANDER COLUMN

LENGTH: 830 words


THE NATIVES ARE GETTING RESTLESS ALL OVER EUROPE

Local government elections in Britain tomorrow, Presidential elections in France
on Sunday, Parliamentary elections in Greece that same day, Germany due for
state elections later, Holland selecting a date for its poll Ñ this spring is
proving a psephologist's dream. Everywhere he is begged for his expert analysis.

There is even the potential for some light entertainment from the Boris v Ken
show in London. Whether the next few days are dream or nightmare is rash to
predict, but our own local elections certainly have one intriguing possibility.

The big question is why would anyone want to vote Lib Dem? I do not mean this in
an offensive way but simply suggest we examine the logic of this.

To vote Lib Dem suggests support for the Coalition and its current achievements
(or lack of them). You cannot avoid this interpretation.

It is all very well for a voter to say he backs the Lib Dem candidate purely on
local issues. But that position, worthy as it might be, is now tainted. The
unpopularity of the Coalition will make the elector think twice about voting Lib
Dem, however admirable its candidates.

We also have to ask what great issues the Lib Dems stand for now Ñ apart from
keeping the Coalition in office?

The Alternative Vote, which was to bring about a new era in British politics,
has been scornfully dismissed by voters. House of Lords reform is only treading
water. An end to university fees has gone by the board. But there is one cause
the Lib Dems stand for unequivocally Ñ ever deeper integration into Europe.

There are probably less popular causes in politics, but it is hard to think of
them.

Which naturally brings us to UKIP, level pegging with the Lib Dems in the
opinion polls. At least we know what they stand for.

If the Lib Dems fall behind UKIP tomorrow then they will have to worry about the
party's very survival at the next General Election. It would signal the time for
deals, perhaps time to seek refuge with one of the main parties.

A poor Lib Dem performance would leave the party clinging to the Coalition out
of desperation. David Cameron would not need to heed his Lib Dem ministers. And
about time too, would be the theme among Tory back-benchers.

As for those elections across the Channel, Francois Hollande looks a good bet
for the presidency, sending waves of uncertainty through the markets before they
find that his bark is worse than his bite.

In Athens, the government of Lucas Papademos is expected to fall and
unemployment to rise to almost Spanish proportions, the worst in the EU.

The elections have a common theme Ñ the rising revolt against austerity. Some
tough but temporary measures are always tolerable. But with nothing on the
horizon but further cuts, the people of Europe are getting dangerously restless.

It is an ideal environment for the growth of extremist parties in several
eurozone countries Ñ though, ironically, not in Germany.

EVEN CAMERON CAN'T CURB THE POWER OF THE LOBBYISTS

The proximity of the local elections makes this the season for storms in teacups
and even in teaspoons. The Labour Party has risen to huge levels of moral
indignation over the supposed role of Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt in the BskyB
affair.

Perhaps the most remarkable thing about this row is Hunt's indefatigable
cheerfulness. Why, you would think the fellow was completely innocent! This is
not what the Opposition expects of a minister under pressure. He is supposed to
be grim-faced and miserable. Fighting, yes, but only in a desperate defence.

David Cameron, too, has not looked the proper part of a prime minister caught
out in carelessness. He lost his temper on Monday. I think he should do it more
often.

For those of us who have been round the block a few times, it was painfully
obvious what was happening in the BskyB business when the TV screen flashed up
excerpts from the letters between BskyB and the Culture Secretary's department.

All too obviously a Spad (special political adviser) and a lobbyist at the
Murdoch empire were chatting to each other, taking care to sound important,
informed and close to the centre of power.

That is the sort of thing these people do. One might shrug it aside and merely
muse on how much the career of the hastily resigning Spad, Adam Smith, and the
analyst might be advanced by their supposed role in getting the BskyB bid
through.

Some time ago, David Cameron promised to curb the power of the lobbyists. But
that has not gone much beyond an insistence that lobbyists admit to being
lobbyists.

This has not resulted in any diminution in their number. Up to a point they have
their uses to us, too, in the Press. If we want to know which firm makes what,
and where, we know who will be an eager source of information.

As ever, long spoons are necessary. No country has found the ideal way of
herding and controlling lobbyists. They are just something we must put up with,
though the surfacing of their mail, as in the BskyB case, is a useful warning.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

Sheffield UKIP candidate sacked over Breivik comments

BYLINE: Martin Wainwrightguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 462 words

ABSTRACT

Former Home Office whistleblower Steve Moxon, who triggered a ministerial
resignation in 2004, will stay on ballot as an independent

FULL TEXT

Here's an interesting twist in the career of Steve Moxon, who made headlines in
2004 as the 'Home Office whistleblower' who revealed confidential details over
immigration checks being waived.

The row which involved applicants for entry from eastern European countries
which were on the threshold of joining the EU at the time, led to the
resignation of the junior Home Office minister Beverley Hughes.

Moxon was feted for a time, but many of his initial sympathisers such as Michael
Howard and David Davis backed off rapidly after revelations of his extreme view
and the publication of his book The Great Immigration Scandal. This went well
beyond revelations from the world of Sir Humphrey; its take on immigration more
widely was described by Simon Wolley of Operation Black Vote as "a poisonous
rant."

Moxon's opinions have now cost him his place as UKIP's candidate in Sheffield's
local elections, where he is standing for the Dore and Totley ward, a Liberal
Democrat stronghold in Nick Clegg's constituency. The party has dropped him
after attention was drawn to a post he wrote on his blog last August which
endorsed the reasoning in the testament of the Norwegian mass-murderer Anders
Breivik.

He wrote, inter alia:

That pretty well everyone - myself not excluded - recoiled at his actions, does
not belie the accuracy of Breivik's research and analysis in his 'manifesto',
which is in line with most scholarship in respect of both Political Correctness
and Islam.

It is clear that the mass of ordinary people are considered with utter contempt
by the government-media-education uber-class across the Western world; this as
the result of 'cultural Marxism'. So we are, in effect, 'at war' within our
societies over PC, as Breivik claims.

Moxon has repeated this week that he rejects Breivik's terrible actions, but his
inability to understand that approval of the killer's analysis, whose
publicising and promotion from obscurity appears to have been the purpose of the
murders, is too much for UKIP. Suspending his candidature, the party says:

We note that Steve Moxon has not condoned the actions of the maniac Breivik.
However, he has made a number of remarks on subjects such as the Breivik
manifesto and Islam that are at odds with UKIP policy and perspective.

Moxon will stay on the ballot paper as an independent. He told BBC Radio
Sheffield that he remained a member of UKIP but:

In the unlikely event I get elected, I guess I would be an independent at least
for a while.

The other candidates for Dore and Totley are Hafeas Rehman (Labour), Colin Ross
(Liberal Democrat), Anne Smith (Conservative) and Rita Wilcock (Green)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

Brian Coleman: will the edifice of indignation fall?

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 492 words

ABSTRACT

If Ken Livingstone loses on Thursday, some might be consoled by the defeat of an
outspoken Boris Johnson lieutenant - but not much.

FULL TEXT

Should Boris Johnson prevail over Ken Livingstone in Thursday's mayoral vote,
enemies of ultra-Conservativism in London might be served a cup of consolation
in the form of the defeat of his noisiest City Hall ally. Brian Coleman, at
present the London Assembly member for Barnet and Camden and Boris's appointee
as chair of the London fire authority, long ago cemented his status as the
metropolitan Tory that Tory-haters most love to loathe.

Legendary for his rudeness, his gigantic expenses claims and his dyspeptic
outbursts over anything and anyone he deems an enemy of everything he holds to
be decent and true, Coleman is thought at considerable risk of having his seat
stolen by the former Labour MP for Hendon, Andrew Dismore.

I hope Coleman loses. But at the same time I would be sad to see him go. That is
partly because bad behaviour in a man so utterly convinced of his own
righteousness is weirdly compelling. It is also because Coleman personifies
vividly a comedic suburban affrontedness rarely found outside of television
sitcoms. The spectacle of someone completely in the grip of his own,
inexhaustible indignation provides an unexpected intellectual satisfaction - an
ideal type made flesh. I'm really very fond of him.

Will it happen? Will the man who billed the taxpayer for £10,000 in taxi fares,
told an email correspondent she was blackshirt material, and the fire brigade
union "thick" finally get his comeuppance at the ballot box and face the
nightmare of having only one taxpayer funded job - as a Barnet borough
councillor - instead of three? If it does, the famous Barnet blogosphere - see
here and here and here and here and here and here and no doubt elsewhere - will
explode into total ecstasy.

A recent poll suggested - albeit on the strength of rather small samples - that
Coleman isn't the only assembly Tory who could fall on Thursday. Richard Barnes
in Hillingdon and Ealing and even Kit Malthouse in West Central were reckoned to
be under pressure from Labour challengers. The Tories also seem on course to
lose a London-wide list member, raising the prospect of there being only eight
Conservatives on the new assembly out of the total of 25.

If Boris Johnson remains Mayor he could therefore find himself in a position
where he needs the support of members from other parties to get his budgets
passed, as a two-thirds majority voting against could block them. I'm not
getting too excited, though. UKIP could very well end up with a seat or two, and
I imagine Boris wouldn't have too much trouble doing business with them. Given
their car-favouring, tax-cutting and, of course, Euro-sceptic pre-occupations he
might even relish it.

My, what a state we could be in by Friday evening when all the results are in.
Even the demise of Brian wouldn't shrink into insignificance.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

Ed Miliband should seize the chance to call time on a failed consensus

BYLINE: David Clarkguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1122 words

ABSTRACT

David Clark: As in the 1970s, British politics is in a state of upheaval.
Miliband needs to challenge Labour if he is to reap electoral success

FULL TEXT

Ukip outpolling the Liberal Democrats, victory for Respect in Bradford West, the
BNP in Strasbourg, Britain's first Green MP, an SNP government in Edinburgh,
local elections that look set to point in several different directions at once.
What's going on? Two things, actually. One is a long-term change in the
political behaviour of voters; the other is specific to moments of deep crisis
and strain in British society.

Support for the two main parties has been in secular decline for more than half
a century; a trend punctuated by regular eruptions of protest voting - the Green
party in the 1989 European elections, Jim Sillars at the Govan byelection, the
Referendum party in 1997. But not since the mid-1970s have we seen this level of
fragmentation at different points of the political spectrum simultaneously.

Fondly recounted by Dominic Sandbrook in his timely BBC series The 70s, this was
the era of the Liberal party's first modern breakthrough, leaping from 7% to 19%
of the vote and the brink of power in February 1974. More dramatic still was the
rise of nationalism, with the SNP gaining 30% of the Scottish vote and 11 seats
(plus another three for Plaid Cymru) in a second election eight months later.

The far right also made its post-war comeback, thanks to Powellism, with the
National Front winning 16% of the vote in the 1973 West Bromwich byelection and
averaging 1,400 votes in seats contested in October 1974. The era even marked
the arrival of green politics in the shape of what was then called the Ecology
party.

Liberals today are the main casualties rather than the main beneficiaries of
political disillusionment, but in most other respects there are striking
similarities with the circumstances of 1974. All the established parties are
under pressure and voters are actively shopping around for alternatives.

The underlying reasons are also the same. In 1974, the country was just coming
out of a painful recession that was about to turn into a double-dip. Moreover,
the downturn was symptomatic of a deeper malaise to which conventional politics
appeared to offer no remedy. This was the tail-end of the post-war "Butskellite"
consensus that bound Labour and Conservative governments to a similar mix of
Keynesianism and social spending. Prosperity and public welfare had been
significantly enhanced, but a lack of economic modernisation and poor industrial
relations ultimately led to stagflation and decline.

The significance of the UK's first double-dip recession since the mid-70s is
that it marks the passing of the political order that replaced it - the
"Blatcherite" consensus in favour of deregulation, the super-rich and markets as
the answer to everything. This promised an ever expanding horizon of economic
freedom and material progress, but instead lowered growth, depressed incomes,
fuelled debt and redistributed wealth to the wealthy on an epic scale. It ended
with an aspiration-crushing slump from which the country will take many more
years to recover.

Just like Labour in the mid-70s, the government has spent the past two years
trying to put Humpty Dumpty back together again, and it has failed. So where
will the ideas come from to lead us out of this dire predicament? Certainly not
from the thought collective of free market Conservatives, Orange Book Liberals
and New Labourites who have set themselves up as arbiters of the possible. They
embody the discredited assumptions of the new model consensus.

In the 70s, the call for an alternative to crisis and stagnation was eventually
answered from within the political mainstream by Margaret Thatcher. She
challenged the establishment of her party and openly mocked its attachment to
the jaded consensus of the times. Her ideas may have led to our current malaise,
but at the time they seemed like a breath of fresh air. Her reward was an
election victory in which she beat Labour and saw off the third party challenge.

The only party leader with the outlook and resources to effect a similar
transformation today is Ed Miliband. He alone seems willing to break with the
orthodoxies of our age: that markets always know best, that inequality is
inevitable and probably necessary, that economic recovery requires us to cut
taxes for the wealthy and public services for everyone else. That is why he is
so viciously assailed by the gatekeepers of consensus.

They advance various reasons for their hope that Miliband's challenge is doomed:
he is too far from the centre-ground, he is less popular than the prime
minister, his performances in parliament are not strong enough. It is worth
recalling that all of these things were said about Thatcher in opposition. Party
insiders regularly briefed journalists that she would be replaced before a
general election.

Miliband has started cautiously, but then so did Thatcher. She calibrated her
radicalism to the course of events, peaking with the Winter of Discontent. But
her real genius was to recognise that in moments of profound crisis the
centre-ground is an empty construct. She didn't move her party to the right so
much as change our understanding of what it means to be right and left. At least
part of her appeal tapped into the yearning for personal liberation and the
revolt against the mass society that had animated the New Left.

Miliband has spotted a similar opportunity for Labour to connect with
authentically conservative concerns about the corrosive impact of our morally
degraded form of capitalism and its tendency to reward the wrong people for
doing the wrong things. There is a winning coalition to be built around broad
popular demands for greater economic security and social responsibility.

But converting that opportunity into a majority will require Miliband to keep
two further lessons of the Thatcher era in mind. The first is that dismantling
an entrenched consensus demands persistence and self-belief. As late as the
autumn of 1978 it looked like Thatcher would fail. But by focussing on how to
change the country instead of how to win the election, she reaped the reward.
The second lesson is that you don't get anywhere as a leader by pandering to the
voices of caution and desperation in your own party. Miliband needs to be more
challenging to Labour to make his breakthrough with the electorate.

We are in the middle of a crisis that is still a long way from being resolved
and voters are turning away from conventional politics in their droves. If
Miliband is to succeed, he must do so as the only leader willing to call time on
a failed consensus.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

Local elections: On the stump: For the man on the street, it is the little
things that will swing it

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 657 words


Retired kitchen fitter Dave Davidge beckons to "Big" James Byrnes, the Tory
candidate for Winchester city council's Littleton and Harestock ward. "I want a
word with you," he says sternly.

Voter and would-be councillor chat for 10 intense minutes. Not about jobs or the
swingeing budget cuts, but about the gaping holes that were left in the pavement
when new street lights were installed on the estate.

"Those holes are the sort of thing ordinary people are really interested in,"
Davidge insists afterwards. "All the stuff in the media about the granny tax and
the price of pasties is just hype."

Byrnes, a prison officer by day, tells Davidge he has already emailed the county
council about the holes. He says he rarely gets asked about national politics on
the doorstep. "If I am asked, I say that I'm not really qualified to talk about
those sort of things. I want to concentrate on what I can do locally."

Winchester is the setting for one of the tightest battles between the Tories and
the Liberal Democrats. The parties hold the same number of seats - 27 - and
since May last year the Tories have ruled as a minority party.

Meanwhile, a Liberal Democrat team is banging on doors in Parchment Street. Here
too, in St Bartholomew ward, it is Winchester issues that the residents want to
talk about. Sophia, a consultant in the heritage industry, says she will vote
Lib Dem again because she likes the way they have worked to tackle traffic and
pollution. "I don't like what the Liberal Democrats are doing on a national
level. But I like what they do here."

Jane Rutter, a Lib Dem councillor for 10 years, admits she tries not to mention
Nick Clegg's name on the doorstep. "I'm quite happy to defend our leader, but it
tends to take an extra half-hour. You could spend that time better talking about
the issues that matter here."

Of course, it is not just about the Lib Dems and Tories. In St Bartholomew the
Green party is hoping to do well. In the neighbouring ward of St John and All
Saints, Labour hopes to start its Winchester comeback. Chris Pines, the only
Labour councillor on the council (nickname: Lonesome Pines), believes housing is
the big issue in the city centre. "Local kids simply can't afford to live here
and have to move away from their families."

Twelve miles down the M3, Labour has greater ambitions. It is hoping to take
Southampton city council from the Tories and has been working hard, speaking to
30,000 people on the doorstep since January.

Party workers say people are raising national issues such as the "granny tax"
and that the memory of last summer's 12-week bin strike is still raw. Labour
leader Ed Miliband has visited twice - an indication that the party sees it as
the sort of place it must do well if his party is to regain power at
Westminster.

As in Winchester, smaller parties may have an impact. In Southampton the Trade
Unionist and Socialist Coalition is fielding 13 candidates in the 16 wards where
seats are being fought for. It may not take seats, but it could tempt some
left-leaning voters away from Labour.

Wedged between Southampton and Winchester is another intriguing council:
Eastleigh, where the Lib Dems hold 36 of the 44 seats. The Lib Dem MP for the
constituency, Chris Huhne, has been charged with perverting the course of
justice in connection with a speeding offence. Keith House, the leader of the
borough council, says Huhne's stepping down from the cabinet had helped rather
than hindered the local party because he was dedicating more time to his
constituency work.

Ukip is fielding 14 candidates in the 15 contested wards here. Campaign manager
Ray Finch is optimistic it could take a seat or two from voters who were
dismayed by the Lib Dem/Tory coalition but could not bring themselves to support
Labour. "Some voters are tribal - the Tory golf club member, the Labour union
rep. It's up to the likes of us and the Greens to take advantage of the
weaknesses of the three parties."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 2, 2012 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Threat of London defeat prompts Miliband to attack 'typical Tory';
Labour leader hits out at Johnson amid fears that national gains could be
overshadowed by Livingstone losing

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1082 words


Ed Miliband has accused Boris Johnson of trying to fool Londoners into thinking
he is not a Conservative by distancing himself from David Cameron.

In a last-minute intervention ahead of tomorrow's mayoral election in London, Mr
Miliband launched an outspoken attack on Mr Johnson. He told The Independent:
"Boris Johnson's strategy for these mayoral elections is based on pretending he
is not a Tory. He tries not to be seen in public with David Cameron and most of
his election literature makes no reference to him being the Conservative
candidate. But Boris Johnson has proven to be a typical Tory as mayor, raising
fares, cutting services and standing up only for the powerful or wealthy in
London."

Mr Miliband's move reflects Labour's private fears that the party's expected
gains across Britain in tomorrow's local elections could be overshadowed by Mr
Johnson seeing off the challenge from Labour's former Mayor Ken Livingstone.
Senior Labour figures insist the big test for the party will not be a
personality contest in London but whether Labour gains ground in councils
covering the key marginal seats that will decide the 2015 general election.

Mr Johnson's allies argue that he is a liberal Conservative in tune with
London's multicultural make-up who has embraced liberal values such as gay
rights. But as the mayoral race enters its last lap, Labour is portraying him as
a man who hoodwinks voters by hiding his right-wing Tory instincts.

Mr Miliband added: "He [Mr Johnson] led the campaign for a tax cut for
millionaires in the Budget. He even wanted to go further than George Osborne by
reducing the rate for those earning £150,000 a year not just to 45p, but to 40p.

"People must not be misled. They should not let Boris Johnson get away with it.
They have a choice between a Tory mayor with a track record of standing up for
the privileged few or a Labour mayor in Ken Livingstone with a proven track
record of making lives better for working people in London."

Yesterday Mr Johnson put the economy at the top of his list of priorities for a
second four-year term as mayor.

His nine-point plan included cutting the Mayor's share of council tax by at
least 10 per cent; cutting £3.5bn of waste at City Hall; creating 200,000 jobs;
reducing Tube delays by 30 per cent; putting 1,000 more police on the beat; and
investing £221m to transform local high streets.

"This election comes when we have been going through the toughest times that
anyone can remember," Mr Johnson said. "The big question is therefore blindingly
simple. It is about who has the best plan for the jobs and growth that will help
bring prosperity to all. It is about who will deliver the investment - from
central government - that will take London forward. It is about who you can
trust to spend that money wisely - and who will be honest with you about where
the money is coming from, and how it is spent."

In his final campaign pitch today, Mr Livingstone will appeal to Londoners'
pockets, saying people can save £1,000 by backing him because of his pledge to
cut fares by 7 per cent in October.

He will say: "The only guarantee you get with Tory Boris Johnson would be
another four years of above-inflation fare increases. Why else would the Tory
Mayor refuse to reveal any details of his fares policy if he wasn't planning a
huge fare hike?"

Brian Paddick, the Liberal Democrat candidate, promised yesterday that he would
make London a more equal city. He said: "Inequality has been a way of life for
too long in London. Some of the most deprived places in the United Kingdom are
just a stone's throw from the biggest financial centre in Europe. I don't
believe in placing a limit on people's ambitions but I do believe in a floor
beneath which people cannot be allowed to drop."

He pledged to help London's poorest workers, with targeted fare cuts to help
people who travel early in the morning, work part-time or use buses instead of
trains. Mr Paddick also pledged a huge social housebuilding programme to give
every Londoner a decent and genuinely affordable place to live, and to end
discrimination.

Local elections: Five key questions

1. Will the London Mayor Boris Johnson defy the Conservatives' falling opinion
poll ratings by defeating Labour's Ken Livingstone?

2. Will Labour fight back in the south of England, to show it is on course for a
general election victory?

3. Will the Liberal Democrats suffer a repeat of their heavy losses last year,
or will they be able to claim they have halted the slide?

4. Will the rise and rise of Alex Salmond's Scottish National Party continue by
ending Labour's 35-year reign in control of Glasgow City Council?

5. Will the UK Independence Party make significant inroads into the Conservative
vote?

National picture: The battlegrounds

Glasgow Scottish National Party hoping to boot Labour out of power in Scottish
heartland for the first time since 1977.

Birmingham Labour hoping to oust ruling Conservative-Lib Dem coalition in
biggest local authority in forerunner of battle at next general election.

Bradford Labour hopes of overall control could be threatened by George
Galloway's Respect Party.

Plymouth Two-way battle could see Conservatives lose control to Labour.

Cardiff Lib Dems in danger of losing their grip as a minority administration.

Stockport Lib Dem town hall stronghold is now a minority administration and
could be at risk.

Southampton Labour hoping to make progress in Conservative-run area to show it
can win seats in the south.

Portsmouth Lib Dems are in control but a net gain of four seats would put the
Conservatives in the driving seat.

Carlisle Labour should comfortably gain overall majority.

Reading Labour hoping to turn minority administration into overall majority.

Thurrock Close two-way battle between Conservatives and Labour, which currently
has two-seat advantage.

Cambridge Lib Dems hope to hang on to power in what will be a key marginal seat
at 2015 general election.

Swansea Labour hoping to challenge Lib Dem control.

Harlow Key parliamentary battleground which Labour will look to wrest from
Conservatives, who have tiny majority.

Exeter Three-way contest in hung council where Labour is hoping to emerge on
top.

Derby Labour is largest party in three-way fight; winning overall majority would
be cause for celebration.

Aberdeenshire Scottish National Party looking to become largest party in area
now run by Conservative-Lib Dem administration.

South Ayrshire Scottish National Party hoping to challenge Conservative-run
minority administration.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 2, 2012 Wednesday 7:34 AM GMT

Could we finally be saying farewell to Sarkozy and Ken in the same week?

BYLINE: JANICE ATKINSON-SMALL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 489 words


This weekend we may well say farewell to Monsieur Sarkozy and finally kick Ken
Ayatollah Livingstone out of London politics.

Sarkozy, you had the presidency in your grasp and now you will be the first
president not to win a second term.

You said today: 'Our system of integration doesn't work. Why? Because before we
were able to integrate those who were received on our territory, others arrived.

You added: 'Having taken in too many people, we paralysed our system of
integration. I will never argue for zero immigration, but the reality is that
when you invite more people than you can handle, you no longer integrate them.'

Too late Mr Sarkozy. The immigration argument is dead in the water and there is
nothing you can do to stop it other than coming out of the EU. You cannot stop
the eastern Europeans coming to your country and working for less than the
living wage paid to your workers. There is nothing you can do to stop them
claiming social security and taking your housing. You are part of the Shengen
agreement, so your borders are open.

You were part of the European ideal, you have been president of the EU, you are
one of its architects. So please do not cry wolf now because you are frightened
of losing the election.

You have only yourself to blame if your people vote Socialist this weekend.  I
fear for your proud people as the left is united under Francoise Holland and
likely to get elected. The PR drive doesn't work anymore because you haven't
delivered.

Your country will go deeper into debt, there will be an assault on the banking
system and the credit agencies will downgrade you.

We too have elections this week. I am involved in the London elections and
hoping that Ayatollah Livingstone will wave farewell to politics.  Immigration
is one of the biggest issues in London, along with jobs and housing. The UK
electorate doesn't like or trust the coalition but I hope they don't kick Boris
in the ballot box.

The only party making common-sense on immigration and telling the truth is
UKIP's Nigel Farage.  When he told last week's BBC's Question Time audience that
newly-arrived eastern Europeans can apply for National Insurance numbers and
become eligible for housing, the rest of the panel squirmed.  Dianne Abbott sat
there with a nonchalant look and didn't disagree because her constituents are
unable to get on the housing ladder and find jobs.  Polly Toynbee, doyenne of
the left, sat po-faced but didn't argue.  Chris Grayling knew the truth but it
took Simon Hughes, the lefty Liberal Democrat to try and put the coalition's
spin on this.  It failed.  The BBC tried to flag it up for a couple of days
afterwards to discredit Farage. Listen BBC and the Question Time Panel and the
lefties in the audience, the game is up, the cat out of the bag, the voters have
you rumbled.

I appeal to Londoners to cast your votes wisely on 3rd May to stop the
Socialists getting back into power in this great City.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 2, 2012 Wednesday 4:54 PM GMT

London Mayor Elections: Cameron denies rivalry with Boris;
David Cameron has played down reports of his rivalry with Boris Johnson,
insisting that he would like "a Boris" as mayor of every major city in the
country.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 454 words


The Prime Minister urged voters to turn out in London tomorrow to stop Labour's
Ken Livingstone regaining his old job running City Hall.

Mr Cameron said he "greatly admires" Mr Johnson, whom some have tipped as the
next Conservative Prime Minister.

The Tory leader insisted his party was not giving an easy time to the Liberal
Democrats in the local elections.

Polls are taking place in 180 councils across England, Wales and Scotland on
Thursday, with mayoral elections in London, Liverpool and Salford, and
referendums on whether to create elected mayors in 10 other English cities.

Mr Johnson is ahead of Mr Livingstone in most opinion polls for the London
mayoralty, although Conservative aides are stressing that the result could still
be close.

Mr Johnson, the current mayor, has been accused of seeking to distance himself
from the Conservative brand, and is consistently shown to be more popular than
his party.

In an interview with London's Evening Standard newspaper, Mr Cameron denied that
he felt threatened by Mr Johnson's wide public appeal.

"Boris is his own man," the Prime Minister said. "We are in the same team, in
the same party. When I see Boris succeed I think, 'good.'"

The newspaper claimed that Mr Johnson had recently described his relationship
with the Prime Minister as "very competitive", but Mr Cameron rejected this.

Asked whether he agreed with bookmakers that Mr Johnson was a likely future Tory
leader, Mr Cameron said voters should not "believe the bookmakers" and should
make sure they vote in the election.

"Boris is a great politician. He has a huge amount to give this country in all
sorts of ways," Mr Cameron said. "He is someone I greatly admire but the first
thing is to let him carry on with the very good work he is doing for London."

Labour admits that Mr Livingstone, who was mayor between 2000 and 2008, remains
the "underdog" in the contest.

However, Labour has attempted to capitalise on the Coalition's unpopularity by
linking Mr Johnson to the Prime Minister and George Osborne in an election
poster depicting the trio as blue-faced aliens from another planet.

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, said Mr Johnson was "a typical Tory" who would
cut public services while being a friend to the richest and most powerful people
in London.

Recent polls have suggested that Mr Johnson is four points ahead of Mr
Livingstone, when crucial second preference votes are taken into account.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Brian Paddick, and Jenny Jones, for the Green
Party, are lagging far behind the two major figures.

The independent candidate, Siobhan Benita, has achieved around 3% in recent
surveys. The UK Independence Party and the BNP are also fielding candidates for
London mayor.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Folk musicians of Britain: an apology;
For many years Will Hodgkinson urged the world to listen to folk. Now he
realises his dreadful mistake

BYLINE: Will Hodgkinson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 804 words


For the past few years, I've been singing the praises of folk music and trying
to rescue it from the ghetto it has been trapped in since the 1970s. Now it's
everywhere, and I've realised something: I made a terrible mistake. Is there any
way it could get back into the ghetto again? A little over a decade ago, British
folk music changed my life. Chiefly because it made me think of the school
biology teacher shaking her tasselled skirt to All Around My Hat by Steeleye
Span at the end of term disco, I had grown up avoiding folk, only to find in
adulthood that it is filled with ancient mystery, romance and an eerie sort of
beauty.

Folk music inspired me to pick up guitar for the first time, learn at the feet
of the late masters of folk guitar Davey Graham and Bert Jansch, travel across
Britain to make field recordings, and think differently about history itself.
Contained within centuries-old, anonymous ballads such as The Oxford Girl,
Barbara Allen and The Cruel Mother are stories of murder, rape, sex,
infanticide, witchcraft and all the other things that have fascinated people
since they worked out how to talk to each other. The folk singers of the Sixties
revival, such as Anne Briggs and Shirley Collins, had bohemian glamour, as did
the Gypsy singers they learnt from. This was music that captured the dark
corners of British life.

These strange old songs had long been confined to the margins of society, of
interest only to a few UKIP-voting Morris dancers and angry women in sensible
footwear. The folk scene didn't appear to welcome outsiders, leading me to make
some disparaging comments about it being taken over by dysfunctional men with
bladder issues who smelt of warm beer and wee.

Unsurprisingly, they didn't take kindly to this and I was ostracised from the
scene, just like so many interlopers before.

Now all that has changed. Folk music is everywhere. You cannot turn on the
television without hearing a winsome acoustic tune being used to sell anything
from dating sites to Nectar cards to bank accounts. Festivals across Britain are
marketing themselves as the living embodiment of the pub scene in The Wicker
Man, but with organic meat from the River Cottage. Elderly farmers, downtrodden
Gypsies and disaffected communists were the one-time heroes of the folk world.
Now good-looking public schoolboys in waistcoats and willowy women with harps
are its stars.

Please come back, you dysfunctional men with bladder issues, and claim what's
rightfully yours, because despite your limited social skills and the damp patch
on your trousers you are infinitely more attractive than this army of
well-meaning go-getters that has taken over with such astonishing success.
Mumford & Sons, presentable, polite young men with an understanding of the
importance of public relations, have nicked the look and sound of British folk
and used it to become a global phenomenon. Each week seems to throw up another
pretty, lank-haired young woman with an acoustic guitar, a faltering voice and
her dad's copy of Fairport Convention's Unhalfbricking.

In July last year Vogue did a shoot featuring various photogenic folkie types,
including a pair of privileged teens called Lydia and Cuthbert Noble who claimed
to be Britain's youngest dry-stone wallers. That was surely the sign that folk
had completed its gentrification and reached its tipping point, but no. There
was more to come, in the shape of a lovable scruff from Suffolk who looked like
Ron Weasley from Harry Potter.

It's unthinkable that Ed Sheeran could have become a superstar just a few years
earlier. Sheeran is a likeable guy, but playing an acoustic guitar and singing
about the dangers of drugs has never been a surefire way to make it as a teen
idol. That was before folk music, with its conservative associations of
unchanging comfort, satiated contemporary culture at a time when all things
reassuring were appealing. Sheeran may have little in common with traditional
folk, but its inf luence allowed a pop star of this type - an everyday,
unthreatening fellow with a guitar and something to say, however banal - to take
over the minds of the nation's youth. Only a few years ago, dangerous junkie
figures like Pete Doherty were the stars. That seems a lifetime away now.

I still love British and Irish folk music. I'm currently working my way through
an incredible series of albums called The Voice of the People, featuring field
recordings of traditional singers from the Forties and Fifties, and there is a
wild quality to these old ballads which you just don't hear in songs that end up
on bank advertisements. But it's taken the likes of Mumford & Sons and Ed
Sheeran to make me realise that folk music thrives in dank little cellars, away
from the glare of commercial appeal - and that it goes better with real ale than
a Starbucks latte.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mumford & Sons have monetised the music beloved by Bert Jansch, below
JEFF KRAVITZ / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 142 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Out as we lavish £10m on EU's jet set;
CRUSADE GET US OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 620 words


WASTEFUL EU chiefs have provoked fury after it emerged that they have signed a
£10million deal to fly them around the world in private jets.

While hard-pressed taxpayers are struggling to pay their weekly bills, the
European foreign affairs supremo Baroness Ashton and other unelected eurocrats
will be globe-trotting in luxury at the public's expense.

From today, the Labour peer will have a choice of aircraft - including a Falcon
7X jet and a Boeing 737 - when she travels abroad on EU business.

Demanded

Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, and Herman van
Rompuy, president of the European Council, are among other dignitaries who will
benefit from the agreement with Belgian firm Abelag.

News of the insensitive deal - believed to be worth up to £10.3million over four
years - came as the EU demanded a staggering seven per cent increase in its
budget to nearly £114billion.

British taxpayers would see their 12.5 per cent share of the bill rise more than
£1billion to £16.6billion.

Lady Ashton, who does not pay UK taxes on her £230,000 EU salary, last week
demanded an extra £23million to run the commission's diplomatic service despite
having promised the department would be "budget neutral" when she took up the
post of Europe's foreign minister in 2009.

The 5.7 per cent increase takes the annual bill for her raft of EU diplomats and
embassies around the world to £422million, at a cost to British taxpayers of
£52million a year.

Analysis of European commissioners' spending revealed they racked up a
£6.6million bill for hiring private jets between 2006 and 2010. An example of
the waste generated by the Commission emerged last year when it was revealed
that Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton travelled to the same meeting in Russia in
two separate privately chartered planes leaving Brussels within four hours of
each other.

Speaking of the new jet deal, Euro MP and leader of Ukip Nigel Farage yesterday
said: "They are just plain stupid not to see how this looks. They look like the
French aristocracy just before the revolution.

"While the public and national governments are making cuts to their budgets it
is an insult to think that these unelected eurocrats are improving their lives
at our expense."

Daniel Hannan, Tory MEP for South East England, said: "It seems that austerity
is for the classroom assistant in my constituency not for these gilded
princelings who live their luxurious lives at the taxpayers' expense."

Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "While Baroness
Ashton enjoys the high life, ordinary taxpayers are tightening their belts and
searching for savings. Brussels appears to be living on another planet when it
comes to being prudent with taxpayers' money."

An EU spokesman said: "The contract that comes into effect on Tuesday will run
for up to four years. It sets a total ceiling of 12 million euros over four
years.

Criticism

"This is therefore the maximum possible expenditure for all EU institutions. We
don't pay anything when we do not use this service."

Baroness Ashton, who is also the vice-president of the European Union, has
suffered widespread criticism since her appointment.

Critics have branded her post unnecessary.

Last October, she came under fire after heading off on a "totally irrelevant"
fivestar trip to Australia while European leaders struggled to save the euro.

And last month it emerged that she had hired a £150,000-a-year media advisor to
shore up her disastrous public image.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Should Britain just quit the EU?

YES: 0901 792 5302

Yes text DXTUEYES to 86611

Texts cost 35p plus network operator rates. Calls cost 36p from a BT landline.
Lines close at midnight tonight.

NO: 0901 792 5303

No text DXTUENO to 86611

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Unelected Baroness Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 142 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Outrage as we lavish £10m on EU's jet set

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 582 words


WASTEFUL EU chiefs have provoked fury after it emerged that they have signed a
£10million deal to fly them around the world in private jets.

While hard-pressed taxpayers are struggling to pay their weekly bills, the
European foreign affairs supremo Baroness Ashton and other unelected eurocrats
will be globe-trotting in luxury at the public's expense.

From today, the Labour peer will have a choice of aircraft - including a Falcon
7X jet and a Boeing 737 - when she travels abroad on EU business.

Demanded

Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, and Herman van
Rompuy, president of the European Council, are among other dignitaries who will
benefit from the agreement with Belgian firm Abelag.

News of the insensitive deal - believed to be worth up to £10.3million over four
years - came as the EU demanded a staggering seven per cent increase in its
budget to nearly £114billion.

British taxpayers would see their 12.5 per cent share of the bill rise more than
£1billion to £16.6billion.

Lady Ashton, who does not pay UK taxes on her £230,000 EU salary, last week
demanded an extra £23million to run the commission's diplomatic service despite
having promised the department would be "budget neutral" when she took up the
post of Europe's foreign minister in 2009.

The 5.7 per cent increase takes the annual bill for her raft of EU diplomats and
embassies around the world to £422million, at a cost to British taxpayers of
£52million a year.

Analysis of European commissioners' spending revealed they racked up a
£6.6million bill for hiring private jets between 2006 and 2010. An example of
the waste generated by the Commission emerged last year when it was revealed
that Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton travelled to the same meeting in Russia in
two separate privately chartered planes leaving Brussels within four hours of
each other.

Speaking of the new jet deal, Euro MP and leader of Ukip Nigel Farage yesterday
said: "They are just plain stupid not to see how this looks. They look like the
French aristocracy just before the revolution.

"While the public and national governments are making cuts to their budgets it
is an insult to think that these unelected eurocrats are improving their lives
at our expense."

Daniel Hannan, Tory MEP for South East England, said: "It seems that austerity
is for the classroom assistant in my constituency not for these gilded
princelings who live their luxurious lives at the taxpayers' expense."

Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "While Baroness
Ashton enjoys the high life, ordinary taxpayers are tightening their belts and
searching for savings. Brussels appears to be living on another planet when it
comes to being prudent with taxpayers' money."

An EU spokesman said: "The contract that comes into effect on Tuesday will run
for up to four years. It sets a total ceiling of 12 million euros over four
years.

Criticism

"This is therefore the maximum possible expenditure for all EU institutions. We
don't pay anything when we do not use this service."

Baroness Ashton, who is also the vice-president of the European Union, has
suffered widespread criticism since her appointment.

Critics have branded her post unnecessary.

Last October, she came under fire after heading off on a "totally irrelevant"
fivestar trip to Australia while European leaders struggled to save the euro.

And last month it emerged that she had hired a £150,000-a-year media advisor to
shore up her disastrous public image.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Unelected Baroness Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

Politics live blog: Tuesday 1 May 2012

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5636 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen

FULL TEXT

1.30pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.[#xfffd] A Commons committee has said that
Rupert Murdoch is "not a fit person" to exercise stewardship of a major
international company.As Dan Sabbagh and Josh Halliday report, the Commons
culture, media and sport select committee also concluded that James Murdoch
showed "wilful ignorance" of the extent of phone hacking during 2009 and 2010 -
in a highly charged document that saw MPs split on party lines as regards the
two Murdochs. Labour MPs and the sole Liberal Democrat on the committee, Adrian
Sanders, voted together in a bloc of six against the five Conservatives to
insert the criticisms of Rupert Murdoch and toughen up the remarks about his son
James. But the MPs were united in their criticism of other former News
International employees. The MPs also want the Commons to vote on the way News
International misled parliament.As Patrick Wintour reports, this could create
problems for David Cameron. There's more coverage on our phone hacking live
blog.

[#xfffd] Boris Johnson, the London mayor, has defended his decision to seek
commercial deals with News International while Scotland Yard was investigating
the company over phone hacking.

[#xfffd] Damian Green, the immigration minister, has said that 80 extra border
staff will start work this month to help to reduce the delays at Heathrow. He
made the announcement on a visit to the airport.

The problem is that people, at certain times, on certain days, have to wait too
long. We're addressing that problem. Border Force need to change the way they
operate, we need to work better with the operator BAA and with the airlines,
and, as of today, we are instituting some changes as the summer starts. During
the course of May we're employing 80 more people.

It has also been revealed that airport authorities are drawing up a plan to sort
out Heathrow's passport chaos by levying higher landing fees to fund more border
staff, in a move that is believed to have the backing of David Cameron. But
Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, said the government was being
shockingly complacent. "It's time for the Home Office to publish their full
figures on waiting times at every terminal at Heathrow and other airports, so
they can be scrutinised by passengers and airlines to see if they match with
public experience," she said. "If ministers won't even admit to the scale of the
problem, how on earth can they solve it?"

[#xfffd] Solar panel installations have fallen by almost 90% in the weeks since
the government halved cut the subsidy available, the Department for Energy has
revealed.

[#xfffd] Ken Livingstone has appealed to Lib Dem supporters to use their second
vote to back him in the London mayoral contest. "Stephen Knight said that as a
LibDem he is not going to use his second preference vote in the London Mayor
election for the Tories - and called on voters to 'sack Boris.' Stephen Knight
is one of the LibDems' top candidates for the London Assembly, and their leader
in Richmond," Livingstone said in the message being emailed to Lib Dem
supporters.

It's quiet this afternoon, and I've got a local elections piece to write, and so
I'm wrapping up early. But I'll be back again tomorrow.

Thanks for the comments.

1.08pm: Here's a short politics reading list.

[#xfffd] Jackie South at all that's left thinks the polls could be wrong about
Boris Johnson's chances in London.

One thing I think few commentators are doubting is that turnout will be down
this time on 2008. The temperature of the contest is a lot cooler this time
around: none of the candidates has shined and although the Evening Standard came
out today in support of Johnson, there has been no where near the level of
anti-Ken vitriol on its front pages that disfigured the 2008 contest.

That lower turnout would look to harm Johnson more. Polls of course measure the
intentions of voters, not whether they actually get to vote - the turnout work
of parties will be critical, and the Conservatives are not in a good place to do
that in the current climate.

This is not just guesswork: we have heard reports from well-informed sources
that the early postal votes opened in one inner-London borough looked
surprisingly good for Livingstone and certainly at odds with what the polls are
showing.

[#xfffd] Jonathan Rutherford at Shifting Grounds says Labour politicians are
increasingly interested in the concept of the common good.

There is a growing recognition that its emphasis on relationships, democracy,
community and locality can address the problems of social fragmentation and
popular estrangement from mainstream politics. But it requires some definition
of meaning, and about what its key policy might be.

Cameron's Big Society was governed by voluntarism; Labour's common good is
governed by reciprocity ...

The 2012 Welfare Reform Act tidied up a complicated system and ignored its flaws
and economic realities. In the coming decade a democratic politics of the common
good and a new Labour covenant involve fundamental changes in Britain's welfare
state and economy. The times require ambition - and something more than
tinkering around the edges.

[#xfffd] Mark D'Arcy on his BBC blog names the MPs and peers who have been the
heroes of this session of parlament.

[#xfffd] Lord Tebbit on his Telegraph blog says he is glad he was in government
in charge of media competition policy in the 1980s, when there were no emails
and few PR men, and not now.

If a business wished to make some representation, a senior executive would
write, ask to call on me in my office, or telephone. Phone calls would come
through the switchboard and were normally monitored by my private secretary.
Officials would normally be present at meetings. Written records would be kept.
I would either draft letters or ask my officials to do so and take time to
consider the draft before authorising a reply.

At the end of difficult meetings with the representatives of outside interests,
I would usually suggest we had a cup of tea or a drink whilst my private
secretary wrote a draft minute of the meeting which I asked my visitors to agree
and sign before they left. That sometimes re-opened the discussion, but by the
time they left my visitors and I had identical written records of the meeting.

It was a procedure which helped to resolve many tricky issues, even the
application of the late Bob Maxwell to buy the Daily Mirror.

12.14pm: In the comments bilbocroft asked about the debate on Lords reform which
stated in the Lords yesterday and which wound up this morning. As far as I can
tell, not a word of it has been reported in the papers. That's not particulary
surprising. There have been endless Lords reform debates in the Lords over
recent years, and it is well known that many peers are strongly opposed to
change. But it's still worth knowing what was said. Here are some of the
highlights, which I've taken from the reports filed by the Press Association.

Lady Royall, Labour's leader in the Lords, said it was "risible" to suggest
Lords reform was the most pressing issue facing the country.

People across the country are deeply worried - worried about their jobs, about
prices, about whether they can afford to put meals on the table .... and this
government's response is House of Lords reform. No wonder the polls are day by
day a disaster for this government. Reform of the Lords is an important issue
and one we need to get right. But the idea that it's the most pressing issue
facing the country is frankly risible.

She also said there should be a referendum on Lords reform.

Lord Strathclyde, the leader of the Lords, said there was "only one way to test
whether a consensus for the second phase of reform exists or can emerge and that
is to introduce a bill and then allow parliament to take a view". Lord Ashdown,
the former Lib Dem leader, said he was in favour of a referendum on Lords
reform.

This place is an anachronism and an undemocratic anachronism as well. I am in
favour of a fully elected second chamber, but if the proposition put forward by
[the joint committee on the draft Lords reform bill] as a compromise is the best
one we can get through, then I will happily vote for that and I believe it
should be supported by a referendum as well ...

We are placemen, we are the creatures of patronage. There are only two ways to
get into this place. One is that you are a friend of the prime minister, or at
least he doesn't object to you, and the other is that your great-grandmother
slept with the king ...

We are graciously permitted to follow along with a gilded poop scoop to clear up
the mess behind the elephant at the other end of the corridor [the Commons]. But
when it comes to stopping the elephant doing things, when it comes to turning
them round, when it comes to delaying on really big things that matter, we do
not succeed. How can we challenge the executive on big things when we are a
creature of the executive.

Labour's Lord Grenfell said: "The government has had its chance and blown it
with this deeply flawed draft bill."

Lady Miller of Hendon, a Conservative, said: "Is it likely that members of the
Commons will meekly vote for losing their acknowledged primacy? We are still
where we were a century ago."

Lord Crickhowell, a Conservative, said it would be "political madness and deeply
unsound constitutional practice were the Government, after only the briefest
consideration, to commit itself in the Queen's Speech to the introduction of the
[draft bill] or one that is closely similar."

Lord Steel, the former Liberal leader, said it would be "very dangerous" to hold
a referendum on the Lords reform. "We could end up with nothing at all," he
said.

Viscount Astor, a Conservative and David Cameron's father-in-law, said electing
peers by STV could lead to the BNP getting a seat in parliament.

In fact UKIP could have more peers than the Lib Dems. UKIP stand to gain most
and, the rather frightening thought, the BNP might for the first time be
represented in Westminster. One would have thought that was the very last thing
the coalition would want.

He also said that the form of Lords reform proposed was "heading for an almighty
train crash".

Lord Marlesford, a Conservative, described the reform proposals as "a rather
sordid" deal between the coalition partners.

In the history of doomed enterprises, it brings to mind the advance of Napoleon
and Hitler on Moscow and the recent repeated attempts to subdue Afghanistan.

Lord Forsyth, a Conservative, said the Commons should reject the government's
plans.

The House of Commons should look out for this bill. It will be decided in the
House of Commons, not here, and it's right that it should be decided in the
House of Commons because the House of Commons is sovereign. But as it sees its
powers being taken by Europe, by assemblies, by parliaments, by external courts
and others, it should look at this bill and realise what it is: a Trojan horse
at the centre of our democracy and it should be rejected, and rejected
comprehensively, by every MP who cares about that great institution the House of
Commons.

Lord Tyler, a Lib Dem peer, said the Lords should be reformed.

More people are in favour of the abolition of this House - maybe three times
more - than are in favour of retaining a fully-appointed House and I hope
members will recognise that is the real danger ahead of us. That is why I think
here will come a time, if this House resists clear public pressure for reform,
for the public to have their say. The longer we seek to obstruct the public then
I believe the will of the public will have to be given an opportunity.

12.00pm: And here's what Harriet Harman (pictured), Labour's deputy leader and
the shadow culture secretary, has said about the culture committee report.

The findings of today's Select Committee report add new urgency and importance
to Ofcom's current review of whether News Corporation is "fit and proper" to
hold a broadcasting licence.

When you hold a broadcasting licence you are in a position of power and with
that must come responsibility. I have no doubt that Ofcom will examine today's
findings with the utmost seriousness.

Harman, of course, has already said that in her view Rupert Murdoch is not a
"fit and proper" person to hold a broadcast licence.

11.57am: Ofcom have put out a statement about the culture committee report. Here
it is.

Ofcom has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 to be satisfied that
any person holding a broadcasting licence is, and remains, fit and proper to do
so. Ofcom is continuing to assess the evidence - including the new and emerging
evidence - that may assist it in discharging these duties.

11.47am: And here's some instant Twitter reaction to the culture committee
report.

From the Economist's Janan Ganesh

Murdoch not fit to run major company say MPs, who clearly speak with the
authority of having built firms and employed thousands themselves

- Janan Ganesh (@JananGanesh) May 1, 2012

From Sky's Sophy Ridge

Interesting to note the Tory MPs dissent from much of the inflammatory findings
- but haven't gone as far as producing minority report

- Sophy Ridge (@SophyRidgeSky) May 1, 2012

From the BBC's Nick Robinson

How will US shareholders react to parliamentary committee declaring that Rupert
Murdoch not fit to run BSKYB?

- Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson) May 1, 2012

Tom Watson shifts target from Murdoch to Cameron. Says he, GB & TB should
publish texts & emails to News Corp execs. Is GB already on board?

- Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson) May 1, 2012

From Sky's Joey Jones

Minutes of cttee appear to show tom watson wrote the entire damning section
about rupert murdoch

- joeyjones (@joeyjonessky) May 1, 2012

From ITV's Lucy Manning

Wow Committee MPs really ripping themselves apart on this report.

- lucy manning (@lucymanning) May 1, 2012

From the Guardian's Patrick Wintour

Cameron faces a whipping problem when this report is put in front of Commons.He
will have to vote to back Rupert Murdoch or abstain.

- Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour) May 1, 2012

From Labour MP Chris Bryant

If the dcms committee has concluded parliament has been lied to then commons
should refer to cttee on standards and privileges ASAP

- Chris Bryant (@ChrisBryantMP) May 1, 2012

11.42am: And this is what the committee is saying about the need of a Commons
vote on what to do about the way News International misled parliament.

The integrity and effectiveness of the Select Committee system relies on the
truthfulness and completeness of the oral and written evidence submitted. The
behaviour of News International and certain witnesses in this affair
demonstrated contempt for that system in the most blatant fashion. Important
lessons need to be learned accordingly and we draw our Report to the attention
of the Liaison Committee which is considering possible reforms to Select
Committees.

We note that it is for the House to decide whether a contempt has been committed
and, if so, what punishment should be imposed. We note that it makes no
difference- in terms of misleading this Committee-that evidence was not taken on
oath. Witnesses are required to tell the truth to committees whether on oath or
not. We will table a motion inviting the House to endorse our conclusions about
misleading evidence.

11.39am: Here's the key paragraph about Rupert Murdoch. It's paragraph 229.

On the basis of the facts and evidence before the Committee, we conclude that,
if at all relevant times Rupert Murdoch did not take steps to become fully
informed about phone-hacking, he turned a blind eye and exhibited wilful
blindness to what was going on in his companies and publications. This culture,
we consider, permeated from the top throughout the organisation and speaks
volumes about the lack of effective corporate governance at News Corporation and
News International. We conclude, therefore, that Rupert Murdoch is not a fit
person to exercise the stewardship of a major international company.

11.37am:Here's the committee's phone hacking report (pdf).

11.34am: Here's more on the findings in the culture committee's report, which
I've taken from our live blog about committee and its press conference.

Rupert Murdoch is "not a fit person" to exercise stewardship of a major
international company, a committee of MPs concluded this morning in a report
highly critical of the mogul's and his son's role in the News of the World
phone-hacking affair.

The culture, media and sport select committee also concluded that JamesMurdoch
showed wilful ignorance of the extent of phone hacking during 2009 and 2010 - in
a highly charged document that saw MPs split on party lines in regards to the
two Murdochs.

Labour MPs and the sole Liberal Democrat, Adrian Sanders, voted together in a
bloc of six against the five Conservatives to insert the criticisms of Rupert
Murdoch and toughen up the remarks about his son James. But the MPs were united
in their criticism of other former News International employees.

The cross-party group of MPs said that Les Hinton, the former executive chairman
of News International, was complicit in a cover-up at the newspaper group, and
that Colin Myler, former editor of the News of the World, and ex-legal boss Tom
Crone deliberately withheld crucial information and answered questions falsely.
All three were accused of misleading Parliament.

Rupert Murdoch, the document said, did not take steps to become fully informed
about phone hacking and that he turned a blind eye and exhibited wilful
blindness to what was going on in his companies and publications.

The committee concluded that the culture of the newspapers permeated from the
top and spoke volumes about the lack of effective corporate governance at News
Corporation and News International.

That prompted the MPs report to say: "We conclude, therefore, that Rupert
Murdoch is not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of major international
company."

11.32am: Here's the key conclusion from the report.

BREAKING Rupert Murdoch is "not a fit person" to exercise stewardship of major
international company - MPs conclude #hacking

- ian katz (@iankatz1000) May 1, 2012

11.29am: We're covering the publication of the Commons culture committee report
into phone hacking on a media live blog.Here it is.

11.11am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some articles and stories that are
particuarly interesting.

[#xfffd] Rachel Sylvester in the Times (paywall) says there is a sense of chaos
at the heart of government.

Even David Cameron, normally so calm and glossy-cheeked, is looking rattled, his
hair uncharacteristically dishevelled in the House of Commons. "We've lost our
reputation for both competence and fairness," says a Cabinet minister. "That's a
toxic double hit" ...

The Notting Hill Tories are a group of friends who find themselves in power,
more than they are a collection of political allies with a shared ideological
project. They are godparents to each others' children, sharing holidays, power
playdates and iPod playlists - communicating via text message, on personal
rather than government BlackBerries, which is less formal than minuted meetings.
I recently counted 10 Old Etonians and 14 people who were at Oxford with Mr
Cameron or Mr Osborne at the higher levels of the Tory Party, with several more
who worked with the Prime Minister in the Conservative Research Department. When
the coalition was formed, it felt natural to No 10 to portray the relationship
between the Conservative and Liberal Democrat leaders as a rose-garden romance,
rather than a hard-headed political alliance. There is a toe-curlingly
patronising attitude to "outsiders" such as Eric Pickles and Sayeeda Warsi. Iain
Duncan Smith jokes that he is part of the "Chingford set". "We don't borrow
police horses, we borrow policemen," he says pointedly.

[#xfffd] Steve Richards in the Independent says John Bercow was right to make
David Cameron answer questions about Jeremy Hunt in the Commons yesterday.

The Speaker, John Bercow, was not biased against the Conservatives in calling
Cameron to put his case in the Commons yesterday. He was biased in favour of the
Commons and that means he is biased in favour of the electorate which votes for
MPs of any party. Bercow was brave and right to make the elected chamber the
forum for scrutiny over an unresolved issue. Ultimately, Prime Ministers are
accountable to the Commons and not the BBC or newspapers, especially in a hung
parliament when Cameron does not necessarily command majority support in
relation to Hunt. Some senior Liberal Democrats wonder aloud whether Hunt has
broken the ministerial code and should be investigated by the relevant civil
servant.

[#xfffd] Daniel Martin in the Daily Mail says a report published by MPs argues
that Britain has the worst social mobility in the Western world.

Social mobility in Britain is the worst in the Western world and the gap between
rich and poor has become ingrained in children as young as three, MPs conclude
today.

They quote a study showing that the prospects of half of all children born in
the UK can be almost entirely linked to the circumstances of their parents -
compared to only 15 per cent of those in Denmark.

Differences are also noticeable at a very young age, with toddlers doing far
better in vocabulary tests if they grow up in a more affluent household.

[#xfffd] Gerri Peev in the Daily Mail says Frank Field has accused David Cameron
of ignoring a report Field wrote for the government on how to tackle poverty.

The Prime Minister's anti-poverty tsar has accused David Cameron of wasting the
first half of his term in government by ignoring a study into how to smash the
cycle of deprivation.

Frank Field said Mr Cameron had squandered two years by failing to implement any
of his suggestions.

The former welfare minister said the Prime Minister 'has yet to show he has even
read' the study he commissioned into bridging the class divide for youngsters.

[#xfffd] Martin McGuinness, Northern Ireland's deputy first minister, has told
the Times (paywall) in an interview that Scottish indepedence is inevitable.

In an interview with The Times, Mr McGuinness said that "the end of the Union as
we know it" was signalled by the 1998 Good Friday agreement in Belfast. Faced
with a subsequent rise in Scottish and Welsh nationalism, the British status quo
was crumbling, he insisted. "Whatever happens during the course of the vote,
whether people vote for it or if they don't, they will take another major step
towards independence," he said. "There is an air of inevitability in that
regard. That in itself will change the whole nature of the Union, and further
encourage people."

[#xfffd] The Financial Times (subscription) says the government is considering
raising landing fee charges for airlines using Heathrow to fund more border
staff.

Airlines using London's Heathrow airport would pay higher landing fees to help
sort out Britain's border chaos under a plan backed by David Cameron.

BAA, Heathrow's owner, is studying the proposal, which foresees airlines funding
extra Border Force staff through the charges they pay the airport operator ...

BAA levies annual landing charges worth more than [#xfffd]1bn on airlines at
Heathrow to pay for infrastructure investment, including some equipment at the
border, such as e-passport gates, but the company is now interested in the
possibility of also using the fees to pay for additional Border Force staff.

The Border Force's headcount is due to be cut 18 per cent by 2015 compared with
2010 levels, and the reductions are contributing to the long queues at passport
control at Heathrow.

Willie Walsh, chief executive of International Airlines Group, British Airways
parent, said on Tuesday morning that he had offered in the past to pay for more
staff but Home Office officials had rejected the plan.

[#xfffd] Terri Judd in the Independent says new Jordanian torture allegations
have cast doubt over efforts to deport Abu Qatada.

The Government's attempts to deport Abu Qatada appeared increasingly fragile
last night as it was revealed that the Jordanian regime is facing fresh
allegations of torture.

A group of anti-regime protesters claim they were subjected to barbaric beatings
in custody, which took place just days before Home Secretary Theresa May told
Parliament she had received assurances from Jordan that a constitutional change
in the country meant torture evidence would no longer be used.

Yesterday an already embattled Ms May, who was forced to deny accusations the
matter had descended into farce over whether the radical cleric had submitted an
appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in time, was accused of overseeing
a flawed strategy, relying on assurances from Jordan that lacked credibility.

Four anti-regime demonstrators, who insist they were stripped naked, severely
beaten and sexually humiliated while in custody in Amman are submitting a formal
complaint of torture via their lawyers on Thursday.

[#xfffd] The Times (paywall) says a Populus poll gives Boris Johnson a 12-point
lead over Ken Livingstone in the London mayoral contest.

A surge of support for Mr Johnson in outer London, where his lead extends to 20
points, looks set to hand him the keys to City Hall for another four years on
Thursday.

In the first round of voting, Mr Johnson pulls comfortably ahead on 46 per cent
of the vote against Mr Livingstone's 34 per cent.

Jenny Jones, the Green candidate, comes third with 6 per cent, pushing Brian
Paddick, the Liberal Democrat, into joint fourth place with Siobhan Benita, the
independent, on 5 per cent. UKIP's Lawrence Webb is polling 3 per cent, while
the BNP's Carlos Coriglia has 1 per cent.

Mr Johnson keeps the 12-point lead in the second round of voting. With all the
other candidates apart from Mr Livingstone eliminated, the Tory incumbent wins
56 per cent against 44 per cent for Mr Livingstone.

[#xfffd] And Kaya Burgess in the Times (paywall) says Johnson offended at an
event organised by the Times, which has been campaining for better facilities
for cyclists.

Unlike other candidates, Mr Johnson cycled to the hustings on his own bike, but
he was drowned out by howls of protest as he told the audience: "I can humbly
say to you, I may not conform to your idea of a stereotypical cyclist. I do not
have whippet-thin brown legs or dreadlocks, I do not charge around in Lycra, I
do not jump lights ... and nor are you, but ... I ask you to recognise that I
have cycling in my heart. I love cycling. I think it is wonderful and I will
continue to invest in cycling."

One invited guest heckled: "When in holes, stop digging."

The atmosphere hardly improved when Mr Johnson said: "We have got to move away
from the idea that - and I am sorry to say this, you can lynch me now - that
cyclists are somehow morally superior to other road users."

10.40am: Most headteachers are not convinced that the pupil premium will make a
difference to the achievement of poorer pupils, according to a union survey out
today. Here's what the Press Association have filed.

Schools are being forced to use the Government's flagship pupil premium to plug
cuts to their budgets, headteachers are warning.More than four-fifths of heads
say the money has either equalled or not made up for financial losses elsewhere,
according to a survey carried out by the National Association of Head Teachers
(NAHT) for the Press Association.Many also remain unconvinced that the premium
will be beneficial to their poorest pupils, with just over a third saying they
do not think it will make a difference to a student's achievement ...The NAHT's
survey, which questioned more than 2,000 heads, found that a third (32.4%) said
the premium had equalled losses elsewhere in their budget, while more than half
(53.3%) said it had not made up for losses elsewhere.Just 14.3% of those
questioned said the premium had exceeded losses elsewhere in their budget.As the
funding follows a pupil through their schooling, schools with large numbers of
FSM youngsters will receive more money, while others get less.NAHT general
secretary Russell Hobby said: "The pupil premium seems to us to be the right
thing to do as a concept, it's the right idea. But in today's climate it is
simply redistributing funds in the system, not adding more."He said it could be
argued that it is extra money for the poorest pupils, but added "some children
will get less as a result"."You could argue that's fine and they need it less,"
Hobby said.The survey findings, which come as the NAHT prepares to meet for its
annual conference in Harrogate this weekend, show that nearly half of those
questioned (48.9%) did not think the pupil premium was enough money, a third
(33.6%) were not sure, and 17.6% said it was enough.And just over a quarter
(26.8%) said it would make a difference to a pupil's achievement.More than a
third (35.4%) said it would make no difference, while a similar proportion
(37.9%) were unsure.

10.12am: The Commons culture committee is holding what's called a "lock-in" for
reporters who want to read the phone hacking report before it's published. That
means they can go to a room in the Commons to read the report, but that they are
not allowed to file or broadcast anything until the embargo is lifted at 11.30.
The "lock-in" has just started, and some of my colleagues are in there now.

Unusually, one member of the committee has published what is effectively his own
minority report. That's the Labour MP Tom Watson, who published a book on the
phone hacking affair, Dial M for Murdoch, that he wrote jointly with the
Independent journalist Martin Hickman last week. It was well reviewed (in both
senses) for the Guardian by Peter Wilby.Here's how it concludes.

In the end, this story is about corruption by power. Some of Murdoch's enforcers
departed from the company line (it's all about business) and pursued personal
agendas and vendettas, even against minor politicians ... They listened to phone
messages, of course, but they also blagged, bribed, spied and bullied, and
imposed their will through blackmail, corruption and intimidation. The names of
their agents spoke of the darkness: Silent Shadow, Shadowmenuk. Rupert Murdoch
was not running a normal business, but a shadow state. Now exposed by the
daylight, it has been publicly humbled, its apparatus partially dismantled and
its executives in retreat, at least for the moment. It stands shaken and
ostensibly apologetic, but it is still there, and Rupert Murdoch is still in
charge.

9.39am:Damian Green (pictured), the immigration minister, was on the Today
programme this morning talking about the delays at Heathrow.He accepted that
passengers were waiting too long.

Official Border Force figures show that [the time some passengers have had to
wait] is about an hour and a half. I agree that that is too long. I can see why
people are annoyed by that. We are taking significant steps to make sure that
Border Force is more flexible so that we have the right people in the right
place at the right time.

9.20am: Nick Clegg was on Radio 5 Live this morning. He said that he expected
the Lib Dems to do better in this year's local elections than they did in last
year's because the mood was different.

I have actually been round the country talking to many, many people and I
actually find that there a different mood compared to last year. Yes, there is a
lot of anxiety about the economy. Yes, there is a lot of uncertainty about what
the future holds, but I actually think we are getting a hearing. People are
listening to us this year in a way that wasn't always the case last year.

9.04am: For the record, here are the YouGov GB polling figures from last night.

Labour: 42% (up 2 points from YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 35% (up
6)Lib Dems: 8% (down 3)

Labour lead: 7 points

Government approval: -36

At UK Polling Report, Anthony Wells says that Sunday's poll, which had the
Tories on 29%, and this poll, which has the Labour lead narrower than it has
been in other recent YouGov polls, may both be outliers.

8.40am: It's almost three years since the Guardian reporter Nick Davies
reignited the phone hacking controversy with the publication of a story
containing evidence of a cover-up at the News of the World and the Commons
culture committee has been looking at the issue ever since that story first
appeared. (Here's what happened when Davies gave evidence to them in July 2009.)
The committee published a report in February 2010. But today we're getting
another report with its final verdict on the matter - or at least as much of its
final verdict as it feels it can publish without prejudicing any possible
forthcoming prosecutions. My Guardian Media colleagues will be leading our
coverage of this, but I'll be following it too.

Otherwise, it's quiet. Here's the agenda for the day.

10am: Peers will conclude a debate on Lords reform.

11.30am: The Commons culture committee publishes its long-awaited report on
phone hacking. As Dan Sabbagh and Patrick Wintour report in the Guardian today,
James Murdoch will be formally criticised. Members of the committee are holding
a press conference.

1.30pm: Parliament will prorogue. A short ceremony will mark the end of the
current session of parliament, which has lasted almost two years. A new session
will start with the Queen's Spech next week.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm. But I'll be wrapping up early because I've got
a local election article to write this afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

And if you're a hardcore fan, you can follow@gdnpoliticslive. It's an automated
feed that tweets the start of every new post that I put on the blog.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

London mayor live blog - what do you think of the candidates' Olympic policies?

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 3694 words

ABSTRACT

Join regeneration expert Professor Steven Cummins to discuss the Olympic games
and their legacy - and where Ken and Boris stand - from 1-2pm

FULL TEXT

9am: With just two days to go until the London mayoral election, we debate the
upcoming Olympics and its legacy - and where Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson
stand on the issues - with Professor Steven Cummins of Queen Mary, University of
London, who is leading a study into the Olympics-led regeneration of east
London. He will be here for an online Q&A from 1-2pm. Please post your questions
for him below.

The Olympics and regeneration

Bidding to host the Olympics, London sold itself partly on the basis that it
would use the games to regenerate poor areas of the city. Previous Olympics have
been criticised for creating "white elephant" sports facilities that are barely
used afterwards.

Jacques Rogge, the president of the International Olympic Committee, said in
March that London had "raised the bar" on regeneration, providing a "legacy
blueprint" for future hosts. The games were praised by the IOC for a [#xfffd]1bn
youth and community support strategy targeting 15- to 24-year-olds, an
"International Inspiration" programme giving money to sporting charities around
the world, and for awarding the majority of Olympic Park construction contracts
to British companies, thus providing jobs.

The Olympics have resulted in a major regeneration of Stratford, where the games
will take place, and improvements to nearby services, venues and public
transport - including the expansion and upgrading of the Docklands Light Railway
and the East London and North London lines (now rebadged as the "Overground"),
and a high-speed service between St Pancras, Stratford and Ebbsfleet. There will
also be a cable car between Greenwich peninsula and the Royal Docks, although
this has been criticised for costing too much public money.

The Olympic Village will be converted into 3,600 flats, most of which will be
"affordable", and there are plans for more homes to be built within the Olympic
Park, which will be turned into an enormous public park, with waterways cleaned
and widened.

Almost all the Olympic venues either have a post-games future planned or have
been built as temporary venues, and some events will take place at existing
venues (the football tournament, for example, will be staged at several existing
grounds around the country, while Wembley Arena will be used for badminton and
gymnastics). After the games, the Aquatics Centre will be open to local people
and will host swimming events. The Velopark will become a cycling centre. The
Olympic Stadium will continue to be a sports and athletics centre, and will host
the 2017 World Athletics Championships -[#xfffd]but its permanent future role
has not yet been decided. While these stadiums are all likely to be used after
the Olympics, it is worth noting that they are all probably much bigger and more
expensive than they would have been if they were purely designed for local
needs. [#xfffd]

Criticisms and questions

The right to stage the Olympics was won during an economic boom, but the games
will take place during an era of austerity. Against this background there have
been some criticisms of the cost of the Olympics.

The money for staging the games is raised privately, and has been put at
[#xfffd]2bn, while the building of the venues and infrastructure is paid for
with public money, including a council tax surcharge for all Londoners of
[#xfffd]20 a year on a band D property from 2006 to 2018.

The original budget for the infrastructure, venues and regeneration was
[#xfffd]2.375bn, but this was increased in 2007 to [#xfffd]9.345bn.

The coalition cut its budget by [#xfffd]27bn as part of its austerity drive, and
Hugh Robertson, the Olympics minister, said last year he expected the games to
come in under budget. However, a report by the Commons public accounts committee
in March found that increased security costs had helped push the cost of the
Olympics towards a likely [#xfffd]11bn. [#xfffd]

The regeneration of east London and encouragement of sport across the country
have been held up by Ken Livingstone, Boris Johnson, and the Labour and
coalition governments as major reasons for all this spending. But would it have
been better and cheaper to have simply invested directly in school sport across
the UK, and new housing, transport links and sports facilities in Stratford? Or
would these things never have been done if they had not been tied to such an
enormous international event?

Will London's already overcrowded transport system struggle to cope during the
Olympics, or will the fact that the games will take place during the summer
holidays mitigate any problems? Are Olympic security guards being
over-intrusive? Are restrictions to protect sponsors' brands much too stringent?
Some lanes of some roads (details here) will be barred for all but athletes,
officials and VIPs during the games, and have been mockingly called "Zil lanes"
after a similar system in the Soviet Union - what are your views on this system?

Here are the policies of the mayoral candidates in brief.

Boris Johnson (Conservative)

As co-chair of the Olympic board and mayor since 2008, Boris Johnson takes
credit for keeping costs "low", scrapping venues that might have become white
elephants and putting in place the Olympic legacy plan. He also says he has
reduced the amount of Zil lanes from 240km to 75km, and opened them up to
ordinary motorists during times of low use. [#xfffd]

He recently set up the London Legacy Development Corporation to take
responsibility for the post-games future of the area, and he has established the
London Community Sports Board and invested [#xfffd]15.5m in grassroots sport.
Johnson has given [#xfffd]50,000 to each London borough to help improve the
"look and feel" of the capital.

Going into Thursday's election, Johnson promises that the Olympics will not cost
Londoners any more money through council tax, and to publish all expenditure on
legacy plans. He promises the legacy of the Olympics will result in 11,000 new
homes and 10,000 new jobs, and he floats the idea of creating a science
institute in part of the Olympic Park. He says he will make sure the future of
the Olympic Stadium is decided before the games begin.

He says he was "worked hard" with Locog, the London Organising Committee of the
Olympic Games, to minimise disruption on the transport system during the games,
and has "instructed Transport for London to put in place detailed planning".
This includes a "blue light" system on the tube, to carry out repairs quickly by
using the emergency services to transport spare parts and engineers to repair
sites.

Read his manifesto in full here.

Ken Livingstone (Labour)

Ken Livingstone was mayor in 2005 when London won the contest to stage the
Olympics. Two years earlier, he told me: "It would be wonderful to drive the
[2012] Olympics through." In 2008 it looked like he had lost that chance - he
may now get his wish.

Livingstone said earlier this month that he had "never really had any interest
in sport. We didn't bid for the Olympics to bring sport to London." He expanded
on this in a press release: "We won the Olympic bid for one reason - to benefit
ordinary Londoners for years to come. If the right decisions are taken now the
Olympics will bring thousands of new jobs and homes to London and provide a much
needed boost to thousands of businesses in the capital."

Livingstone has attacked the Zil lanes, saying that "corporate hangers-on" (as
opposed to athletes) should not be driven along the lanes in BMWs "when London
has the finest taxi service in the world". He says "if it is not too late by
May" he will negotiate with the IOC to ensure "the maximum possible access" for
black cabs to the games lanes.

He adds that "much more should have been done to secure the sporting legacy, so
that every young Londoner gets a chance to emulate their athletic heroes". He
says there is enough time after the election to resolve this, if the government
reverses its cuts to school sport.

Read his manifesto in full here.

Brian Paddick (Lib Dem)

Brian Paddick wants to set up a new, annual "London games", wants to make sure
the Metropolitan police are fully prepared from any rise in human trafficking
connected to the Olympics, and wants to ensure the London Legacy Development
Corporation sets "exacting targets" to build affordable homes and create jobs
for Londoners in the Olympic Park. "The record of getting unemployed Londoners
to work on constructing the Olympic venues was disappointing," he says. He has
also accused Johnson of risking turning the Olympics into a "shambles" by
refusing to negotiate properly with tube unions over their demands for a bonus
during the games.

Read his manifesto here.

Jenny Jones (Green)

Jenny Jones wants a 20mph speed limit on the Zil lanes and wants to allow
cyclists and buses to use them. After the games they should be converted into
cycle lanes or wider pavements "where possible". She calls for all bus stops
near games venues to be made accessible, and for unused corporate tickets to be
given to young Londoners on the day of events. She wants all green spaces to be
returned to community use or turned into wildlife habitats after the games, and
wants at least half the homes, businesses and facilities in the Olympic Park to
be developed through a community land trust, where communities own the land
where houses are built, sell the houses cheaply, and the owners agree to sell
them back to the trust at a fixed rate when they move on. She wants the Olympic
Park to be zero carbon and "zero waste" by 2025, and wants to offer properties
and land unused for more than six months to community sports organisations at a
peppercorn rent.

Read her manifesto here.

Lawrence Webb (Ukip)

Lawrence Webb wants taxis to be allowed to use the games lanes.

Read his manifesto here.

Siobhan Benita (independent)

Siobhan Benita says the next mayor should use the games to attract foreign
business and tourism, especially from "the countries whose emerging economies
are strongest", and says she will reallocate City Hall resources to boost this.
The tube will run 90 minutes later every day during the Olympics, and she wants
this to continue on Fridays and Saturdays afterwards.

Read her manifesto here.

Post your questions on the Olympics and its legacy for regeneration expert
Steven Cummins of Queen Mary, University of London, below.

9.59am: The owner of a flats complex to be used as an army missile base during
the Olympics is facing a legal challenge over its decision to lease roof space
to the military, report Robert Booth and Nick Hopkins.

Some residents fear the high-velocity missile system, to be fitted on a water
tower with clear views of the skies above the Olympic park, could make the
complex more vulnerable to attack. Ten soldiers will operate the weapons at all
times, possibly with armed police protection ...

General Sir Nick Parker, in charge of co-ordinating the armed forces during the
Games, also announced that high-velocity missiles will be located on top of the
17-storey Fred Wigg tower in Waltham Forest, sparking safety fears among
residents there.

"This is a dense residential area with three schools nearby," said Flash
Bristow, chairwoman of the Ferndale area residents' association, which
represents people neighbouring the block. "I find it shocking we could even
contemplate hosting missiles on residential tower blocks during peacetime."

An eight-day rehearsal for protecting the Olympics starts tomorrow.

Parker said military snipers are to be deployed in helicopters to shoot pilots
of low-flying aircraft that might be involved in terrorist attacks. He said that
as well as the missiles on tower blocks, larger Rapier surface-to-air missiles
could be located at Blackheath, Lee Valley reservoir, Shooters Hill and Epping
Forest. He said the missiles would only be fired as "a very last resort" and a
decision to do so would have to come from the "very highest level" - on the
authority of the prime minister.

"The focus is on the air security of the Olympic Park," he said. "The two
threats are a large 9/11 type threat, which is integrated into existing security
plans. Then there's the smaller, what we'd describe as the 'low and slow', that
is particularly what we need to practise over London."

Do we need this kind of security for the Olympics? Are the military going over
the top? Is it all part of a strategy to intimidate anyone thinking of attacking
the games into dropping their plans?

There are a lot of mayoral stories around today too.

H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland and Dave Hill report on Boris Johnson's latest
outburst of swearing.

Here H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland runs through the manifesto pledges of each
of the major mayoral candidates.

And here Dave Hill writes that Ken Livingstone "might still mobilise enough
support to pip his rival at the post".

But a Times poll today gives Johnson a 12-point lead. In the first round the
survey shows Boris on 46% to Ken's 34%. With other candidates stripped out,
Johnson has 56% and Livingstone 44%.

The Guardian today endorses Livingstone for mayor, although with reservations.

Thanks to the mayoral voting system, in which voters can put a cross beside both
a first and a second choice, this is an election in which opponents of Mr
Johnson can safely choose between Mr Livingstone and one of these other
candidates for their first choice. But those who do not choose Mr Livingstone
first must give him their second preferences. They should do so in spite of Mr
Livingstone's flaws, putting him on notice that, if elected, he is on probation,
especially over his ethnic politicking, and ensuring that he is answerable to a
London assembly which contains all voices. In the end, though, this is a contest
between Mr Johnson and Mr Livingstone. There is no ducking it. And that means
voting for Mr Livingstone as London's next mayor.

Polly Toynbee also argues for Ken:

Ignore the Boris and Ken worst character contest, and consider what matters: who
will run London best and most fairly? We have the records of both men. Boris has
empty vanity projects - absurdly expensive designer buses, a putative cable car,
and bikes (that were Ken's legacy) camouflaging an intensified car culture that
has made London's air pollution among the worst in Europe. Boris lobbied loudly
for City oligarchs to get their top tax cut, while his London has built just 56
affordable homes in the past six months - in the midst of a housing crisis.
Ken's plans for lower fares, more homes, more buses, cheaper electricity and a
new EMA are called impossible, but so was his congestion charge. His record
shows he gets things done. I'll vote for him enthusiastically - and not just
because he's not a Tory.

11.00am: Boris Johnson has defended his decision to seek commercial deals with
News International while Scotland Yard was investigating the company over phone
hacking. H[#xfffd]l[#xfffd]ne Mulholland has the full story here. Johnson said:

Don't forget that actually what we were being given as advice by the police ...
was that there was nothing new in the whole business ... I won't make any secret
of it. I have talked to all kinds of people ... to get investment, to get
projects moving. Things have been very tough. The days when the state, Uncle
Sugar, could just step forward and write colossal cheques, that's gone.

It was this issue that provoked his swearing yesterday.

11.31am: It's not just the London mayoral election on Thursday.

There are also elections to 131 councils in England (of a total of 353), all 32
councils in Scotland, and 21 of 22 Welsh councils (elections to Anglesey Council
postponed to next May).

Meanwhile two other cities are voting for an elected mayor: Salford and
Liverpool.

And 11 cities will hold referendums to decide whether they should have an
elected mayor: Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Coventry, Leeds, Manchester,
Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, Nottingham, Sheffield and Wakefield.

My colleagues on the Datablog have put together this map that shows which
councils are voting and who controls them now.

12.05pm: Ladbrokes has sent its odds on Thursday's London mayoral election. The
bookmaker says 88% of the total cash bet on the race so far has been on Boris
Johnson, with only 7% being staked on Ken Livingstone.

Johnson's odds are 1/7, with Livingstone at 4/1.

12.36pm: In the London Evening Standard today, Guardian columnist Simon Jenkins
comes out for Boris - "just".

Johnson has been disappointing ... He promised an end to Livingstone's erectile
fixation with luxury towers, and an end to the unregulated roadworks that have
turned almost every central London street into a builder's yard. Neither promise
has been fulfilled ...

Of the hard grind of modern mayoralty there has been little sign. Britain's
least efficient police force remains a law unto itself. Untamed transport unions
take a daily toll on the tolerance of Tube travellers. Nothing has been done to
inject some equity into London's property taxes, with rich residents
ridiculously undertaxed. Health, safety and building regulation imposes
horrendous cost on business.

But he argues that Johnson offers more dynamism than Livingstone, and should be
re-elected.

12.40pm: The London Evening Standard has published this map of six places where
missile batteries will be situated during the Olympics.

Starstreaks can be fired from the shoulder or armoured vehicles while Rapiers
are mounted on trailers. They will be aimed at defending the Olympic Park.

1.02pm: Professor Steven Cummins of Queen Mary, University of London, who is
leading a study into the Olympics-led regeneration of east London, is now online
in the comments and answering your questions.

angryeconomist asked:

What would have happened if we took the billions spent on the Olympics and
invested them in a 20 year programme for sport, health and nutrition in deprived
communities?

Steven Cummins responded:

This is an impossible question to answer as this has never happened (in the UK
at least). The London games gives us an opportunity to evaluate what the impact
on health and health inequalities might be. It also depends on what you mean by
"the Olympics". Do you just mean the games? Or do you mean "the Olympics" plus
regeneration/legacy?

However if we look at other area-based programme for health and social
development, eg the experience of Health Action Zones and Sure Start in deprived
communities show that positive impacts do happen but can can take time to
emerge. The same may be true of interventions like London 2012.

I asked whether the money that has gone to sport for young people and
regeneration of the area would ever have gone in these directions if it was not
tied to a huge event like the Olympics.

Cummins responded:

The evidence to date says - it might have done. However the added value of the
Olympics in terms of economic growth and employment is far from clear. You can
read this excellent paper about if for free here.

1.24pm: Ken Livingstone is sending an email to London Lib Dem voters this
afternoon to try to persuade them to give him their second-preference vote (the
London voting system is explained here). In the email he attempts to make common
cause with Lib Dems on transport and policing:

Both Brian Paddick and Ken Livingstone are in favour of cutting fares. They are
also both in favour of restoring cuts in police numbers made by the Tory mayor
Boris Johnson. By contrast, he is the only major candidate who is in favour of
hiking fares and cutting police numbers.

1.26pm: Meanwhile Boris Johnson has launched the full version of his manifesto.

There is one previously-unpublished section: "Uniting Londoners". In this
section Johnson seems to address criticism that in previously-published sections
of his manifesto the only references to black people were in relation to crime.
The manifesto reads: "I am proud that London is a fantastically diverse city,
boasting not just a great cultural and ethnic mix but also a great mix of ages
too." And by implication he attacks Ken Livingstone for "divid[ing] communities
and play[ing] them off against one another".

Johnson promises, among other things, to "encourage the Met commissioner's plans
to recruit more ethnic minority Londoners into the force as fully-warranted
officers, PCSOs, and special constables [volunteer, part-time officers], "make
significant progress towards a force that looks more like London", "ensure the
Met continues to crack down on hate crimes and homophobic crimes", recruit 1,000
volunteers to support young people at risk of joining gangs.

1.53pm: Here are details of every candidate standing in the London assembly and
London mayoral elections.

1.57pm: Coral bookmakers say that they haven't taken a bet on Ken Livingstone
winning the mayoral race for over a week. Their odds are 1/10 for Boris Johnson
and 11/2 for Livingstone.

2.18pm: Many thanks to Professor Steven Cummins of Queen Mary, University of
London, who is leading a study into the Olympics-led regeneration of east
London, for taking part in today's online Q&A.

3.40pm: Boris Johnson has posted a new party political broadcast.

The low-budget-style video shows Boris in a nondescript office exhorting
Londoners to vote for him, his eyes locked on the camera, his expression grimly
serious, his delivery aping the simple, direct, old-school methods of the past,
presumably in an effort to make him seem genuine and his message heartfelt:
"Boris Johnson, I hope I can count on you," he concludes, disarmingly.

In the video the mayor tells Londoners:

It is vital that London does not lurch back to the waste, the divisiveness, and
the, if I may say so, arrogance of the previous Ken Livingstone regime.

3.48pm: Boris Johnson's campaign for re-election as mayor of London has been
utilising the offices of an international mobile phone company that has paid no
corporation tax in Britain for three years, writes Rajeev Syal. Lycamobile's
Canary Wharf offices have been used on at least five occasions to conduct and
co-ordinate telephone canvassing sessions for the Back Boris 2012 campaign.

4.28pm: I'm going to call it a day there. Thanks again to our guest, Professor
Steven Cummins of Queen Mary, University of London, and thanks to you for all
your questions. See you tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

London mayoral race: The big issues: What the candidates say they will do:
Lawrence Webb Ukip

BYLINE: Helene Mulholland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 175 words


Transport Scrap congestion charge cameras (effectively scrap the congestion
charge, which Ukip sees as anti-business); fight the new HS2; introduce 20
minute parking across London; allow taxis to use the Olympic VIP lane; make all
new taxis VAT exempt and crack down on illegal minicabs.

Crime and policing Change procedures to make it easier for people to make a
citizen's arrest for vagrancy, drunkenness, weapons and low level disorder "to
help improve Met clear up rates", and introduce an "offend on Saturday, face
court on Monday" zero tolerance approach to gangs, knife crime and antisocial
behaviour.

Housing Halve council waiting lists by filling empty properties from a central
register and prioritising the needs of long term Londoners; cut VAT on
refurbishment of existing buildings.

Economy Prioritise Londoners for jobs and housing over migrants and asylum
seekers; cut rates for local businesses, fight EU red tape "strangling" London
businesses.

Pet Project Give landlords the power to decide if they want smoking rooms in
pubs and clubs.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

London mayoral race: Analysis: Neck and neck, and so it's all to play for

BYLINE: Dave Hill

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 574 words


Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone have been on a long and sometimes bitter slog
for votes - yet with the winning post approaching on Thursday, no one can be
sure of victory.

The latest poll, from YouGov, has given Johnson the latest in a succession of
narrow leads since January. Yet with economic news turning voters against the
Conservative-led government especially in the capital, the veteran Livingstone,
whom Johnson defeated in 2008, might still mobilise enough support to pip his
rival at the post.

Psephological orthodoxy has been challenged by Johnson's continuing popularity
in spite of the Tory dip. Livingstone paid for Labour's national unpopularity
four years ago. But the X-factor component of the contest in 2012 has kept
Johnson ahead.

While the Conservative's poll ratings have been higher than those of his party
in the capital, Livingstone's have lagged those of Labour. Ed Miliband has
accompanied him on the streets in a clear attempt to swing the London Labour
vote fully behind him.

Livingstone has been hampered by media interest after it emerged he had set up a
firm to channel his earnings, meaning he paid a lower rate of tax. His claim -
inaccurately, as it turned out - during a radio debate that Johnson had done
something similar in the past so angered the Conservative he called Livingstone
a "fucking liar" in a lift after the show. Accusations of dishonesty have flown
freely from the Johnson campaign and its allies in the press. These include the
Daily Telegraph, which pays him £250,000 a year for a weekly column - far more
than his £144,000 salary as mayor.

The clear strategy of Johnson's campaign has been to exploit perceptions, borne
out in polls, that Livingstone is the less trustworthy. Johnson has pointedly
echoed doubts about Livingstone's flagship pledge to reduce public transport
fares by 7% by October or resign, freeze them in 2013 and hold rises to the rate
of inflation for the next two years.

Polls show Johnson as charismatic. His celebrity and jovial public persona
appear to have insulated him against much of the unpopularity of Tory-led
coalition national policies, despite these impacting strongly on London in terms
of spending cuts and unemployment.

A YouGov poll earlier this month found a third of Londoners view Johnson as "a
mayor for the rich", yet many poorer voters preferred him.

The mayoral race is decided by supplementary vote, which gives electors a first
and a second preference. If no candidate receives a majority of first preference
votes, the top two alone proceed to a second round. Any second preferences are
added to their first preferences, and the one with the largest final total wins.

With attention focused closely on the race's leading men, other candidates have
struggled to make an impact. Brian Paddick, for the Lib Dems, was in a distant
third in the latest YouGov survey, with just 6% of first preference votes
compared with Johnson's 44% and Livingstone's 41%.

Independent Siobhan Benita and Lawrence Webb of Ukip came next on 4%, followed
by the Green party's Jenny Jones on 3%. With two campaign days left, tensions
are high.

There are signs that Johnson is being protected as far as possible from tough
media scrutiny as polling day nears. He declined to be interviewed live on the
BBC's Sunday Politics programme, claiming a prior "private engagement". However,
it emerged via Twitter he was campaigning in Wimbledon and Kingston while the
show was on air.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 1, 2012
                                 First Edition

The Opinion Matrix;
COMMENT FROM HOME & ABROAD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 678 words


THE RISE OF UKIP Immigration fuels Tory defections Financial Times The EU comes
only third on a list of issues that Ukip votes care about, according to evidence
from focus groups. Immigration came top, with crime second. They are part of a
group of ANTI voters: politically Angry; economically Neglected; socially
Traditional; focused on Immigration. (Paul Goodman) The Times The Lib Dem
collapse leaves a space for an alternative party of protest.

Who will fill it? The BNP is tainted. Ukip, which won 1m votes in 2010, is not.
Its voters made a clear choice to support a party whose identity was stamped
with the Union Jack and a big "No" to Europe. (Vernon Bogdanor) EURO IN CRISIS
AGAIN Declining support for austerity The Independent Storm clouds are again
massing over the eurozone, and now the problems are political. Public backing
for the painful austerity programmes is waning, taking support for mainstream
political parties with it. And with elections in Greece and France this weekend,
the political consensus on how to tackle the crisis is in danger of unravelling.
(Leading article) The Guardian The long-running debt catastrophe that has
stumbled from summit to bailout to the fall of governments has been transformed
into a far more corrosive crisis of legitimacy pitting electorates against the
established political castes. (Paul Beaumont) HODGSON FOR ENGLAND Is West Brom
boss the right man for job? The Sun His phenomenal European adventure at Fulham
showed he can coax star performances from players. But his brief unhappy spell
at Liverpool begged the question of whether he is the man to deal with the
dressing room's big egos. That's a skill Harry Redknapp has in spades. And it's
one we need if England's serial underperformers are to ever live up to their
hype. (Leading article) BBC Sport Online This is an appointment for the long
term with the FA looking at the wider picture. It's four weeks until the warmup
match for Euro 2012 but this decision is based on benefiting English football
for the next four years.

(Ian Dennis) CHAOS AT UK'S BORDERS Queues are damaging our image Daily Telegraph
The chaos at airports, where those trying to enter the UK have been queuing for
up to three hours at immigration control, has gone on for too long. It needs to
be sorted out now, as a matter of urgency. It is simply not good enough to say
that everything will be OK by the Olympics; this problem is damaging our
reputation now. (Leading article) Evening Standard The head of the UK Border
Force has dismissed concerns as "commercial" matters which must come second to
national security. The public expects him to do both: protect security and
process arrivals efficiently. Other countries manage it. (Leading article) CHEN
GUANGCHENG Dissident will test US-China relations TIME The current asylum
request of the blind activist, who escaped from house arrest in Shandong
province, is tricky. One country has to give ground: either Chen gets asylum and
is allowed to leave China, or he isn''t. But both Beijing and Washington have
much to lose from failing to stand their ground. (John Lee) Huffington Post
Obama should do what he does best: project principled, coolheaded pragmatism, a
trait Chinese deeply admire. He must guide leaders to a win-win solution.
Chinese culture is rooted in zhong yong, an ethos which equates progression with
avoidance of extremes. (Tom Doctoroff) DECLINE OF 'THE VOICE' Live episode was a
disaster The Mirror The Voice has been irresistible and a revelation, but the
first live episode was awful. Principally, it was boring. The refreshing
gimmicks that helped establish it as the nation's favourite new show, the blind
auditions and the boxing ring sing-offs, were missing. And instead, The Voice
reinvented itself as Just Another Talent Show. (Jim Shelley) BT Life BBC and ITV
have been at loggerheads since the talent shows started. Last week ITV accused
the BBC of deliberately overrunning The Voice's Saturday night slot by three
minutes to swipe millions off Britain's Got Talent's audience. (Gerry Kiernan)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 1, 2012
                                 First Edition

twitter sphere

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 233 words


mrjakehumphrey

I'd like to extend my congratulations to Roy Hodgson and I very much look
forward to representing my country under him(crosses fingers) (Jake Humphrey, TV
presenter)

nigel_farage

I think the EU flag should fly over the Palace of Westminster. That would at
least reflect what is going on. (Nigel Farage, UKIP leader)

stephenfry

They can call it scotch mist as much as they like. It's rain. It's cold, wet,
bothersome rain. Brrrrrr. (Stephen Fry, Actor)

hbaldwinmp

Women now make up 10.8% of the Rich List - come on ladies, another 39.2% to go.
Gov't's female business mentor scheme set up to help. (Harriett Baldwin,
Conservative MP for West Worcestershire)

dalailama

Fear, hatred, and suspicion narrow your mind - compassion opens it. (Dalai Lama,
Tibetan Buddhist leader)

DerrenBrown

Somehow nice to tweet ones feats to the Twitter winds: somehow creepy to meet
people who tell you everything you've been up to. (Derren Brown, TV sorcerer)

paulwaugh

No.10 spokesman blames severe weather conditions for Heathrow chaos. 'Wrong type
of rain?' I asked. No.10 deadpanned (Paul Waugh, editor of PoliticsHome.com)

ProfBrianCox

TV in my hotel room seems to consist entirely of adverts for colonic health
products, the weather and Jesus. (Brian Cox, scientist/TV presenter)

alancarr

There's a rat in me bird table what amma gonna do, there's a rat in me bird
table what amma gonna do (Alan Carr, TV Presenter)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 1, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: Councillor reaches new high with cannabis tourism drive

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 683 words


Ben Duncan, a Green Party councillor and member of the Sussex Police Authority,
has thought of a way to get Brighton's tourist trade on to a new high. In the
wake of a ruling by a Dutch judge, which means that foreign visitors can no
longer get stoned in Amsterdam's cafés without fear of arrest, he has suggested
that overseas potheads should be invited to come to Brighton and inhale more
than just the sea air.

"Cannabis use can be harmful, but all analysis shows that it's much less likely
to harm you than, say, driving a car, or crossing a road," Cllr Duncan argued on
his blog. "While there are cases of ill health caused by cannabis these are best
dealt with by bringing the use of cannabis "into the open". So what about it?
Brighton, the liberal, tolerant, tourist capital of Europe?"

The question is worth asking as a public health measure and for the sake of
Brighton's economy, he added. But "I expect to be misunderstood so I predict the
following headline soon: 'Green Councillor calls for Brighton to be the Pot
Capital of Europe'." If he gets drummed out of politics, he could think about a
career as a headline writer.

A question of yahoo's who

During yesterday's angry exchanges in the Commons, that priceless Tory backbench
MP Jacob Rees-Mogg denounced Ed Miliband as a "socialist yahoo". Some people
foolishly thought he was accusing the Labour leader of being an internet search
engine. That is obviously wrong. The internet is a contemporary phenomenon. Mr
Rees-Mogg does not live in the 21st century in any meaningful way. His cultural
reference was to Part IV of Gulliver's Travels, in which the hero arrives in a
land ruled by intelligent horses, where the humans, or "yahoos", are like
animals. In other words, he accused Ed Miliband of being uncouth but human.

That's enough for one Knight

Just because the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are in bed together in
Whitehall does not mean that they have all learnt to love one another. Stephen
Knight is a prominent Lib Dem councillor in London, leader of their group on
Richmond Council and second on their candidates' list for the London Assembly.
He tweeted yesterday: "This Lib Dem's second preference vote certainly isn't
going to the Tories! #sackboris."

Operation Lennon? Just imagine that

The military like to give their troop deployments names. Banner, Telic, Herrick,
and Ellamy are what they call their operations in, respectively, Northern
Ireland, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. But there is no name for the deployment
8,000 miles away in the Falkland Islands, where there have been troops stationed
for 30 years. The Labour MP Madeleine Moon,who has recently visited the islands,
said yesterday: "The service personnel think giving it an operational name would
raise public awareness and remind people we have men and women based in the
Falklands. It's pretty tough for them down there. Operational names are
important to people in the military; it's about recognition of their
contribution to something they consider to be of high value."

But she also acknowledged that it would not be a good idea to inflame opinion in
Argentina, where the 30th anniversary of the war is not being forgotten.

Yesterday, Argentina's ambassador to London, Alicia Castro, grabbed her chance
at the end of a meeting about human rights at Lancaster House to tackle William
Hague about the islands they call "Las Malvinas". She urged him to "give peace a
chance".

On that basis, why don't they call the Falklands mission Operation Lennon? If
Buenos Aires complains, London can say it was their idea.

When Gorman gushed about Tom

The news that Teresa Gorman, the 81-year-old former MP for Billericay, has
announced that she is backing the UK Independence Party, is an excuse to retell
a story from 20 years ago, when Tom Bradby, the ITN political editor, first
appeared in the Commons as a handsome young producer. In that role, he
approached Gorman, who at the time was undergoing hormone replacement therapy.
She was so charmed that she called one of ITN's political correspondents and
commanded: "Have that boy scrubbed and sent to my room!"

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 1, 2012 Tuesday 6:12 PM GMT

Cameron's father-in-law warns Lords reforms could lead to BNP peers;
David Cameron's father-in-law has attacked the Coalition's plans to reform the
House of Lords as a "train crash" that could give the British National Party its
first seats in Parliament.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup Deputy political editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


Viscount Astor, who is married to Samantha Cameron's mother, accused the
Government of a producing a "cobbled-together" reform plan to appease the
Liberal Democrats.

The Coalition has proposed introducing elections to a smaller upper house by
2015, a suggestion that has angered many Conservatives.

The Lib Dems, the main advocates of elections to the Lords, want the elections
to the reformed Lords to be conducted under a form of proportional
representation, the single transferable vote.

Conservative critics think that would create a significant and effectively
permanent voting bloc of Labour and Lib Dem peers in the upper house, severely
limiting the powers of any future Conservative government.

In a speech in the House of Lords, Viscount Astor noted that a joint committee
that examined the Government's proposals, has suggested the reformed Lords
should have of 450 members.

On the basis of recent opinion poll findings, that house would have about 45 UK
Independence Party members and 10 BNP members, he said.

"In fact Ukip could have more peers than the Lib Dems. Ukip stand to gain most
and, the rather frightening thought, the BNP might for the first time be
represented in Westminster. One would have thought that was the very last thing
the coalition would want."

Several Conservative government aides in the Commons have signalled they are
prepared to quit over the reform, and Viscount Astor urged ministers to listen
to those MPs.

He said: "The proposed Lords reform is heading for an almighty train crash. I
wonder whether sensible voices will be heard down the other end, or whether the
train will have to crash before a sensible plan appears."

This is not the viscount's first public attack on the policies of Mr Cameron's
Governmment.

In January, he claimed the proposed high-speed rail link between London and
Birmingham could end up "ruining the lives of thousands".

He is one of a significant number of senior peers to have raised doubts about
the proposed reforms.

Lord Forsyth of Drumlean, a former Cabinet miniters, told the Lords the plans
are a "Trojan horse" which would undermine the authority of the Commons

Lord Kakkar, a leading crossbench peer, said the Coalition has not answered many
of the fundamental constitutional questions raised by its proposals.

He said: "It seems very unwise to proceed with the creation of an elected second
chamber unless the important issues of the power of the two chambers, how
disputes are to be resolved, the potential role the Supreme Court may play in
resolving disputes - and therefore how Parliament maybe secured as sovereign in
the future - are properly defined."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Nationalist politics;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 216 words


Sir, Vernon Bogdanor (Opinion, Apr 30) may be correct. UKIP, which was founded
to protect the constitutional integrity and political traditions of the UK, has
degenerated into the party of tribal, ethnic English nationalism. Its flagship
policy at the last general election, amid economic crisis, of banning the burka,
spoke volumes. Since then it has blamed foreigners and immigrants for Britain's
social ills. In Scotland, with all other parties describing themselves as
Scottish, its UK perspective might have provided a different standpoint. Alas,
it is nowhere to be seen.

If UKIP is gaining ground over Europe, this is the greatest irony, since its
main electoral energies have been devoted to winning representation in the
European Parliament, where, of course, it has no influence.

Still, the major parties have themselves to blame for the shifting political
landscape. Their blind, indeed religious, devotion to the EU and their piecemeal
destruction of the traditional British constitution, introducing a number of
different electoral systems and sub-parliamentary assemblies, has caused their
almost terminal decline in Scotland, a process which may yet be repeated in
England. When will they learn from their mistakes? alan sked Professor of
International History, London School of Economics

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Mayor's attack on 'superior' cyclists could cost him the two-wheel vote;
Boris Johnson is jeered as the five main London mayoral candidates set out their
pedal policies, Philip Pank and Kaya Burgess report

BYLINE: Philip Pank; Kaya Burgess

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1614 words


Boris Johnson, the cycling Mayor of London, provoked a backlash from
bicycle-loving voters yesterday by suggesting that cyclists are typically
dreadlocked, Lycra-clad racers who jump red lights and believe themselves
"morally superior".

Mr Johnson, speaking at a hustings dedicated to cycling and road safety,
admitted that cycling in London was "imperfect" but defended his record in
office and set out a vision for re-election alongside the four other leading
mayoral candidates.

The Mayor, his Labour challenger Ken Livingstone, the Liberal Democrat candidate
Brian Paddick, Jenny Jones for the Green Party and Siobhan Benita, independent,
all made specific pledges to improve facilities for cyclists during a lively
debate in Westminster organised by The Times and Sustrans, the transport
charity.

Mr Johnson, who is tipped to pull off a narrow election victory in Thursday's
poll, promised to appoint a cycling commissioner to enact a pledge to improve
road safety. He also said that he would conduct a review of the 500 worst
junctions in London, in line with proposals made in the Times Cities Fit for
Cycling campaign.

He joined Mr Livingstone and Ms Jones to promise a feasibility study to see if
cycle lanes could be built into the Hammersmith flyover, a key London crossing
point that has been closed for emergency repairs in the run-up to the Olympics.

But the incumbent Mayor was then jeered by the capacity crowd at the Institute
of Civil Engineers in Central London for claiming that he did not conform to the
image of what he called a "stereotypical" cyclist.

Unlike other candidates, Mr Johnson cycled to the hustings on his own bike, but
he was drowned out by howls of protest as he told the audience: "I can humbly
say to you, I may not conform to your idea of a stereotypical cyclist. I do not
have whippet-thin brown legs or dreadlocks, I do not charge around in Lycra, I
do not jump lights... and nor are you, but... I ask you to recognise that I have
cycling in my heart. I love cycling. I think it is wonderful and I will continue
to invest in cycling."

One invited guest heckled: "When in holes, stop digging."

The atmosphere hardly improved when Mr Johnson said: "We have got to move away
from the idea that - and I am sorry to say this, you can lynch me now - that
cyclists are somehow morally superior to other road users."

The London Cycling Campaign said that it was a "bizarre performance", while the
Road.cc blog said that his comments were "spectacularly misjudged".

Mr Livingstone said that he would put the safety of cyclists back at the heart
of transport policy by prioritising cyclists and pedestrians over drivers in all
future transport modelling. He also promised to introduce daily smog reports to
warn Londoners when it was unsafe to take to the streets.

Mr Johnson was criticised by his Labour opponent for jeopardising cyclists'
safety with high transport fares that make it cheaper to travel by car.

Ms Jones also promised to improve air quality in the capital. She said that she
would increase by 10 the number of London boroughs committed to cutting speed
limits to 20mph on their roads. The Green candidate vowed to treble the budget
for traffic police to improve enforcement.

Mr Paddick, a former deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police,
said that as soon as he came into office he would prioritise bicycles over cars
and lobby central government to implement mandatory improvements to lorries
entering the city, including side sensors that can detect cyclists hidden on
their blind side.

The Liberal Democrat candidate added that he would look at the current
night-time ban on lorries as a way of removing heavy goods vehicles from the
roads during daylight hours.

Ms Benita promised to improve the worst road junctions and press for a default
20mph speed limit.

The Mayor's most strident disagreement came with the Green Party candidate, who
brandished figures that she said undermined the Mayor's claim to have improved
cycle safety.

Mr Johnson insisted that the rate of cyclists killed or seriously injured (KSI)
in London had fallen during his time in office. His figures show that the rate
of cyclists killed or seriously injured fell from 56 in 2008, his first year in
office, to 54 in 2009 and 52 in 2010 (the latest year for which data is
available) when measured as a proportion of traffic flows on the main roads
controlled by Transport for London (TfL).

However, Ms Jones said that figures compiled by the FactCheck website, using a
different way of measuring the total number of journeys taken by bicycle, showed
that the rate of KSIs had risen slightly since 2008.

Mr Johnson consistently denied this. However, the Mayor's own figures do show a
rise in total casualty rates among cyclists in each of the past three years when
slight injuries are included. TfL's all pedal cycle casualty rate index rose
from 52 in 2007 to 53 in 2008, 56 in 2009 and 57 in 2010.

Mr Johnson said: "We have seen a reduction in KSIs on TfL roads and across
London. That does not mean that things are perfect and that there is not more we
can do."

Mr Paddick criticised Mr Johnson's insistence that, although cyclist casualties
have increased in recent years on London roads, this is mitigated by the
increase in overall cyclist numbers, encouraged during his mayorship by
bike-hire schemes and cycle superhighways.

"Boris is talking like some irresponsible general, saying, 'It doesn't matter if
we take a few casualties, as long as we get more people cycling'," Mr Paddick
said.

The Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety said that its analysis
of official figures showed that while fatalities had fallen between 2008 and
2010, serious and slight injuries had risen.

The Mayor was also forced to defend policies that his critics say are
responsible for London missing European targets on air pollution. "Everybody
says I get nul points on air quality," Mr Johnson said. "London's air quality
has improved over the last four years."

Mr Livingstone quoted figures showing that 4,000 people a year were killed by
poor air quality. "It is a death toll that is bigger than 9/11. This has to be
an absolute priority for the next term," he said.

Ms Jones said: "Air pollution is a massive, massive problem and 80 per cent of
the pollution is from traffic, so we have to reduce the traffic." Mr Paddick
said that he would improve air quality by converting bus and taxi fleets to
electric power.

Despite the Mayor's use of stereotypes, cycling groups were delighted to see
cycling promoted to the heart of the election campaign. "He has got the
credibility of actually being a cyclist," said Martin Gibbs, policy and legal
affairs director at British Cycling. "I was pleased to see him commit to
appointing a cycling commissioner. That is what we consider to be the key."

Why I love my bike

Help The Times to celebrate cycling: send a picture and tell us why you love
your bike via Twitter, Flickr or Instagram with the hashtag #ilovemybike. Or
e-mail it to ilovemybike@thetimes.co.uk

And for the latest on The Times Cities Fit for Cycling campaign visit
www.thetimes.co.uk/cyclesafety

My bike, a Filibus cargo bike, combines my love of cycling with my love for
English Springer spaniels. The dogs simply adore their weekly trips to the park
Chris Lovitt (via email)

The freedom to explore, weaving past the traffic and the sun on my skin!Louisa
Townson (@LDTownson)

This is how to pack for a 150-mile cycle Tom Szekeres

I love my cycle because it's so inclusive. And it makes me happy Caroline Waugh
(via email)

Rain or shine I'm going to the big ride! Joshua Jones (@joshuajones90)

Because riding the one I have today gives me the same thrill as riding the one I
had 30 years ago Simon MacMichael

What I would do ...

" We are going to put in more cycle superhighways ... we will be reviewing loads
of roundabouts and junctions across London - that's already happening, we are
doing 500 at the moment.

""We will, of course, be expanding the cycle hire scheme.

"We have got to move away from the idea that - and I am sorry to say this, you
can lynch me now - cyclists are somehow morally superior to other road users."

Boris Johnson Conservative

"Immediately we will reinstate [Transport for London's] order of priorities, so
that cyclist and pedestrian safety goes back to No 1. "We will give priority to
cyclists at left turns so that they have five seconds to turn left before the
HGV runs over them.

"You can't make London safer for cyclists if you've got fares so high that it is
cheaper to get in your car."

Ken Livingstone Labour

"The TfL priority has to change from smoothing traffic flow - which is killing
cyclists - to one where pedestrian and cycle safety is the priority. On day two,
start putting pressure on the Government to have compulsory motion sensors down
the side of long vehicles so that drivers know when there is a cyclist on their
near side."

Brian Paddick Liberal

Democrat We have to have at least 10 boroughs join Islington as 20mph default
boroughs.

""Traffic police will treble their budget so that they can actually help to
enforce the law of the road and make sure, for example, that advance stop lines
are kept for the people who are meant to use them - more vulnerable road users
like cyclists."

Jenny Jones Green Party

" What will be different will be a complete, relentless focus on doing the
things that have been identified in these campaigns. We will look at the
junctions, we will put in completely physically separated routes where possible,
and where that isn't possible I will use creative ideas to make cycling more
safe in London."

Siobhan Benita Independent

Also standing for election: Carlos Cortiglia BNP Lawrence Webb UKIP

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "He's a natural Boris supporter"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 142 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Suburban support puts Boris in pole position for four more years

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 732 words


Boris Johnson is on course to win the race for London Mayor comfortably this
week, according to a Populus poll for The Times which gives him a 12-point lead.
A surge of support for Mr Johnson in outer London, where his lead extends to 20
points, looks set to keep him in City Hall.

In the first round of voting, Mr Johnson pulls comfortably ahead with 46 per
cent of the vote against Mr Livingstone's 34 per cent. Jenny Jones, the Green
candidate, comes third with 6 per cent, pushing Brian Paddick, the Liberal
Democrat, into joint fourth place with Siobhan Benita, the independent
candidate, tied on 5 per cent. UKIP's Lawrence Webb polls 3 per cent, while the
BNP's Carlos Cortiglia has 1 per cent.

When the other candidates are eliminated in the second round of voting, Mr
Johnson keeps the 12-point lead, beating his Labour rival by 56 per cent to 44
per cent.

The race for London Mayor will be determined by personality rather than policy
or party affiliation, with Mr Johnson's time in City Hall overwhelmingly
nominated as the most important reason for voters giving him their support this
Thursday.

Some 96 per cent of voters backing the Tory candidate cite his performance as a
deciding factor, while 84 per cent of backers for Mr Livingstone, the former
Labour Mayor, say his record as mayor is an important factor for them.

Voters for the two main candidates say that headline policies such as Mr
Livingstone's pledge to cut transport fares and Mr Johnson's pledge to cut the
Mayor's share of council tax bills are more significant to them than rows over
their tax affairs or difficulties with different community groups.

The Times/Populus poll also asked participants how they would vote in a general
election. It found Labour gaining at the expense of the Liberal Democrats.

The Conservatives poll 33 per cent (down 1 per cent since the election), Labour
on 44 per cent (up 7 per cent), Lib Dems on 11 per cent (down 11 per cent) and
other parties on 13 per cent (up 6 per cent).

Other findings include:

Little comfort for Mr Livingstone. Although narrowly ahead in Inner London (51
per cent against Mr Johnson's 49 per cent), he should be doing far better in
London's heartlands to come close to winning. The party is doing dramatically
better than their candidate for Mayor. While Labour is on 44 per cent in the
capital, Mr Livingstone is polling 34 per cent, 10 points behind.

Significant cross-party appeal for Mr Johnson. One in six voters (16 per cent)
who would vote Labour in a general election say they will vote for the Tory
Mayor, compared with one in 20 Tory supporters who say they'll vote for Mr
Livingstone. This means that Mr Johnson will emerge from the race a
significantly stronger figure in Tory circles.

Liberal Democrats are likely to be disappointed with the poll, which suggests
that they will fall behind the Green Party in the first round. The 11 per cent
of London voters who say they would vote Liberal Democrat in a general election
tomorrow split their votes evenly - 49 per cent for Mr Johnson, 51 per cent for
Mr Livingstone, in both first and second rounds.

The biggest single draw for Mr Livingstone's campaign is his promise to cut
transport fares by 7 per cent or resign, with 89 per cent citing this as
important.Mr Johnson's promise to reduce the Mayor's share of council tax is
nominated as important by 78 per cent of his backers.

Some 40 per cent of Mr Johnson's backers say Mr Livingstone's poor relations
with the Jewish community were an important factor, while 53 per cent cite the
way his Labour opponent organised his tax affairs. Some 58 per cent of Mr
Livingstone's supporters cite the economy as a defining issue.

The 12-point lead is the largest of any polling company so far, with YouGov
suggesting a 4-point lead yesterday in favour of Mr Johnson. The margin of error
is 2.6 per cent, so the result could be 53-47 or 59-41.

Populus interviewed 1,500 people living in London by telephone between April 27
and April 29. For more details see www.populus.co.uk

This means the result could be as close as 53-47 or as far apart as 59-41

Source: Populus

What the polling shows FIRST ROUND (%) Boris Johnson (Conservative) 46 Ken
Livingstone (Labour) 34 Jenny Jones (Green) 6 Brian Paddick (Lib Dem) 5 Siobhan
Benita (Ind) 5 Lawrence Webb (UKIP) 3 Carlos Cortiglia (BNP) 1 SECOND ROUND (%)
Boris Johnson 56 Ken Livingstone 44 The margin of error is 2.6%.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
