
                               1 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 29, 2012 Wednesday 9:24 AM GMT

Christopher Tappin makes first court appearance;


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 546 words


British businessman Christopher Tappin has made his first appearance in court
after being extradited to the US.

Mr Tappin, who lost his two-year battle against being sent to America last week,
faces up to 35 years in jail if convicted over arms dealing charges.

Last night he appeared for a five-minute preliminary hearing in the federal
court in El Paso, Texas, and was remanded in custody to appear for a bail
hearing on Friday.

Attorney General Dominic Grieve said his extradition had highlighted problems
with the treaty between the UK and US, which are not "readily curable".

He warned that Britons were left uneasy when faced with the seemingly harsh and
disproportionate sentences in the American justice system.

Mr Grieve said: "I think there's a lack of public confidence in the US justice
system, which is a rather wider issue and more complicated than the minutiae of
the treaty agreement.

"There are perceptions in this country that the US criminal justice system can
be harsh, its penal policy can be harsh, and its sentencing policy can appear
disproportionate by European and British standards.

"There are aspects of it therefore which tend to make people uncertain and
uneasy, and I'm not sure that that's readily curable."

Mr Grieve admitted the UK's extradition laws were not ideal, but said: "In a
world where we wish to see crime successfully combated, having a system by which
to facilitate transfer to countries which meet the necessary criteria of
fairness so as to curb crime is absolutely indispensable."

Mr Grieve was speaking as he gave evidence to MPs yesterday, minutes after Mr
Tappin's wife Elaine, 62, broke down in tears as she told them of her despair
that nobody was prepared to listen to his defence before "carting him off".

Mrs Tappin told the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee's review of
extradition arrangements that her family felt "incredulity, frustration,
heartrending sadness, despair and utter disbelief" as they faced a "wholly
uncertain future".

In a written statement which she was unable to finish reading, Mrs Tappin went
on: "At the heart of our despair is the fact that nobody was prepared to listen
to Chris's defence before carting him off.

"They ticked the boxes but were deaf and blind to the possibility of injustice."

Mrs Tappin, of Orpington, Kent, said she had still not been able to talk to her
husband since he was extradited and he was being held in isolation, "locked up
for 23 hours a day".

She said it was the "cruellest blow" when her husband lost his battle against
extradition, saying he "was stunned and totally devastated when his appeal was
rejected".

Just last week she tearfully accompanied her husband to Heathrow Airport, before
he was handcuffed and seated between two US marshals on a plane to America.

Mr Tappin, the president of the Kent Golf Union, denies attempting to sell
batteries for surface-to-air missiles which were to be shipped from the US to
Tehran via the Netherlands.

Human rights organisations have condemned his extradition while his MP, Tory Jo
Johnson, and UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, who has known the
businessman for nearly 40 years, have asked Home Secretary Theresa May to
intervene to ensure the US authorities do not object to bail when he appears in
court on Friday.

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Loophole gives migrants one-way ticket to Britain

BYLINE: Peter Allen;Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 684 words


THE refusal by France and Belgium to close a Eurostar loophole where illegal
migrants flood into the UK for under £70 has caused fury among British
politicians.

Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall accused the countries of continuing to allow
migrants entry in order to "get rid of people they don't want".

Answers are being demanded after a formal request by the Government in December
for high-speed railway operators to stop selling tickets from Brussels to Lille
in northern France was turned down.

Because both the Belgian capital and France are covered by the Schengen
Agreement - which allows borderless travel within certain European countries -
passengers do not have to show their passports on the route.

Under the so-called Lille Loophole, anyone can stay on the train when it reaches
Lille and travel on to London, where they can claim asylum or disappear into the
black economy.

Ukip MEP Mr Nuttall said: "France and Belgium talk about solidarity the whole
time but to them solidarity is a one-way street working in their favour. It
suits these people to keep the loophole open. It is clearly not in their
interest to help Britain close down this drain because it is a convenient way
for them to get rid of people they don't want."

Conservative MP and Home Affairs Select Committee member James Clappison said:
"This loophole is an issue that needs a comprehensive answer.

"We need to have some way of having the same border controls that everyone else
has. One would hope that in the spirit of European co-operation France and
Belgium would understand."

Keith Vaz MP, Select Committee chairman, called for the UK Border Agency to vet
passengers before they arrived in the UK.

He said: "Border security loopholes must be closed if Britain is to attempt to
control immigration flows. The Government is taking a very casual approach to
this very serious issue.

"Four months have now passed since the loophole was uncovered. I am extremely
concerned that it remains open.

"If the French and Belgian governments continue to refuse to close the loophole
the UK Border Agency should place border staff on every train to identify those
seeking to enter the UK illegally." A Belgian diplomatic source based in Paris
said his Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo was "completely opposed to the British wish
to end high-speed cross-Channel trains stopping at Lille".

The source said Mr Di Rupo had spoken to French President Nicolas Sarkozy and
Prime Minister Francois Fillon about the issue, and both supported him.

The source said the Lille Loophole was also discussed at this month's bilateral
Anglo-French summit attended by Prime Minister David Cameron and Mr Sarkozy in
Paris, but the French would not budge on the issue.

Arrested In Lille, no one checks whether passengers get off the train from
Brussels, so they can continue their journey to London.

There are no passport checks for the vast majority of Eurostar travellers
arriving at London's St Pancras station, meaning illegal entry into the UK is
relatively easy.

The cheapest-advertised Eurostar fare from Brussels to London is £69, with the
journey taking just under two hours. A UK Border Agency (UKBA) report leaked
last year to the BBC highlighted the problems caused by the loophole.

One UKBA officer said he stopped two Iranians at Brussels because they "bore all
the hallmarks of Lille Loopholers". But when Belgian police were called, one
told the UKBA staff: "This has got to stop. You are not in Britain now, you are
in Schengen.

If they [the Iranians] make a complaint, you will be arrested."

There have been further clashes between Belgian police and UKBA officers,
leading to most security staff now turning a blind eye to the "Loopholers".

A Home Office spokesman said: "While discussions are continuing we have strict
British immigration controls in place in France and Belgium for those travelling
to the UK.

"French rail security officers are also conducting additional checks on board
trains to ensure passengers are correctly documented for the UK, and we have
more officers at St Pancras to stop those attempting to enter the UK illegally."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrants queue for food in Calais. There are no checks at Lille, left,
on people leaving the Eurostar train, right
Picture: JONATHAN BUCKMASTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

Front: Power, corruption and lies: 'Culture of illegal payments' at Sun, say
police: Brooks told five years ago of 100 hacking victims

BYLINE: Dan Sabbagh

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words


Rupert Murdoch's flagship tabloid, the Sun, established a "network of corrupted
officials" and created a "culture of illegal payments", the police officer
leading the investigation into bribery and hacking at News International alleged
yesterday.

On a day of dramatic developments surrounding the investigations into the
tycoon's newspapers, Sue Akers, the deputy assistant commissioner of the
Metropolitan police, told the Leveson inquiry into press standards there had
been "multiple payments" by the Sun to public officials of thousands of pounds,
and one individual received £80,000 in alleged corrupt payments over a number of
years. One Sun journalist drew more than £150,000 over the years to pay sources.

Akers's intervention - a day after the Sun launched a Sunday edition - was
designed to rebut criticism of her investigation by Sun veterans, unhappy that
10 reporters and executives from the tabloid had been arrested since last
November.

She said Sun reporters largely published "salacious gossip" on the back of the
information received. The cases her team were investigating were not ones
involving the "odd drink or meal" with public officials, but regular payments
using an internal system designed to hide the identity of those allegedly
receiving money illegally.

In other developments:

* The Leveson inquiry was also told of an internal News International email that
showed how much Andy Coulson and Rebekah Brooks were told about News of the
World phone hacking in 2006, which contrasted with public statements of
ignorance made by both former editors of the Sunday tabloid subsequently.

* Charlotte Church, the singer, agreed a £600,000 settlement from News
International for phone hacking, including £300,000 in costs.

* It emerged that more than 200 further alleged victims of phone hacking,
ranging from former boxer Chris Eubank to the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, are
making claims against News International.

* Lord Justice Leveson took aim at Michael Gove, the education secretary and
former Times journalist, who had said that the inquiry was having a "chilling
effect" on Fleet Street. The judge said that he believed in freedom of speech
and freedom of the press, but added that journalism must obey the rule of law
and act in the public interest.

Murdoch himself is understood to have studied Akers's incendiary testimony, and
issued a short statement a couple of hours afterwards. He said: "As I've made
very clear, we have vowed to do everything we can to get to the bottom of prior
wrongdoings in order to set us on the right path for the future. That process is
well underway. The practices Sue Akers described at the Leveson inquiry are ones
of the past, and no longer exist at the Sun. We have already emerged a stronger
company." News International insiders also said the Sun had tightened up its
system for cash payments last summer, with any such payments now having to be
signed off by the title's editor, Dominic Mohan.

Murdoch was otherwise in a buoyant mood, tweeting about the Sun on Sunday's
debut sales. "Amazing! The Sun confirmed sale of 3,260,000 copies yesterday," he
wrote, as buyers ignored the corruption allegations to pick up the newspaper
that immediately became the market leader on Sunday. Sales of rival red top
titles slumped by between 15% and 30%. Akers was the first witness in the second
part of the Leveson inquiry, which aims to examine the relationship between the
press and the police. Earlier in the morning, Robert Jay QC, counsel to the
inquiry, read out an email dated September 2006 - five weeks after the Sunday
tabloid's royal editor Clive Goodman and a private investigator, Glenn Mulcaire,
had been arrested on hacking charges - which detailed how much Brooks and
Coulson were told about phone hacking. Brooks was then editor of the Sun and she
had been editor of the News of the World. Coulson was editor of the News of the
World at that time and was later David Cameron's director of communications in
No 10.

The note was written by Tom Crone, the former chief lawyer at the Sun and the
News of the World, and was sent to Coulson, based on information received from
the police by Brooks. Crone warned Coulson that the police had Goodman and
Mulcaire "bang to rights" on illegally intercepting voicemails of Buckingham
Palace staff - and that the police had discovered a list of "100-110 victims" on
the basis of evidence seized from Mulcaire's home.

Coulson was also told police had found records of payments to Mulcaire from News
International worth over £1m.

Goodman and Mulcaire pleaded guilty in 2006 and were jailed in January 2007, at
which time Coulson resigned his editorship, four months after the Crone email.
At that time Coulson said that while he knew nothing of hacking he took
"ultimate responsibility" for what had happened.

Brooks also repeatedly denied that she, or anybody within News International,
knew about the extent of phone hacking at the News of the World in the years
after the Goodman and Mulcaire convictions.

Responding to the first reports by the Guardian in July 2009 that hacking was
more widespread than the activities of a single "rogue reporter", she wrote to
the Commons culture committee to say: "The Guardian coverage has, we believe,
substantially and likely deliberately misled the British public."

Captions:

The face of Rupert Murdoch made from the faces of alleged and proven phone
hacking victims, created by Nathan Wyburn

Lord Justice Leveson said he believed in freedom of speech and freedom of the
press - but journalists must obey the law

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 28, 2012
                                 First Edition

NI to face 250 new hacking allegations;
DAMAGES CLAIMS

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 145 words


News International (NI) faces a second wave of damages claims from nearly 250
new victims of phone hacking, which are likely to cost the media empire at least
£10m to settle. New High Court claims are being prepared by 194 people, and
nearly 50 claims for hacking by the News of the World have been received by NI's
own internal compensation scheme, with 20 under active assessment prior to
settlement.

Among the new claimants are the footballer Kieron Dyer, Ukip politician Nigel
Farage, former prime minister Tony Blair's wife, Cherie, and former boxer Chris
Eubank.

The court heard that four cases from the first wave of claims may yet need to be
resolved with separate trials later this year. They include Nicola Phillips,
former assistant to PR guru Max Clifford; former royal butler Paul Burrell; and
Mary Ellen Field, the former adviser to supermodel Elle Macpherson.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 28, 2012 Tuesday 6:11 PM GMT

Christopher Tappin extradition 'highlights problems';


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 801 words


The extradition of a British businessman has highlighted problems with the
treaty between the UK and the United States which are not "readily curable", the
Attorney General said today.

Dominic Grieve QC said Britons were left uneasy when faced with the seemingly
harsh and disproportionate sentences in the American justice system.

His comments come as retired British businessman Christopher Tappin, who faces
up to 35 years in jail if convicted over arms dealing charges, will appear in a
US court tonight after losing his two-year battle against being sent to America
last week.

Earlier, Tappin's wife Elaine, 62, broke down in tears as she told MPs of her
despair that nobody was prepared to listen to his defence before "carting him
off".

Mr Grieve said: "I think there's a lack of public confidence in the US justice
system, which is a rather wider issue and more complicated than the minutiae of
the treaty agreement.

"There are perceptions in this country that the US criminal justice system can
be harsh, its penal policy can be harsh, and its sentencing policy can appear
disproportionate by European and British standards.

"There are aspects of it therefore which tend to make people uncertain and
uneasy, and I'm not sure that that's readily curable."

Mr Grieve admitted the UK's extradition laws were not ideal, but said: "In a
world where we wish to see crime successfully combated, having a system by which
to facilitate transfer to countries which meet the necessary criteria of
fairness so as to curb crime is absolutely indispensable."

He added: "Perhaps we are where we are today because we rushed things in 2003."

Asked about Tappin, he said: "Any circumstances in which a person of Mr Tappin's
age is going to be extradited to a country, a very long way from home, separated
from his family, to be involved in the criminal justice system with clearly an
uncertain outcome from his point of view... is going to be stressful and
distressing."

He said there was "rather considerable scrutiny" before Tappin was extradited,
but admitted the circumstances caused the public "disquiet".

"It may be linked to Mr Tappin's respectability... and his age, in contrast for
example to an individual who may attract public opprobrium and be seen in one
way or another as being rather undesirable."

Mr Grieve was giving evidence to MPs just minutes after Mrs Tappin, 62, of
Orpington, Kent, broke down in tears as she described how her family felt
"incredulity, frustration, heartrending sadness, despair and utter disbelief" as
they faced a "wholly uncertain future".

In a written statement which she was unable to finish reading, Mrs Tappin went
on: "At the heart of our despair is the fact that nobody was prepared to listen
to Chris's defence before carting him off.

"They ticked the boxes but were deaf and blind to the possibility of injustice."

Mrs Tappin said she had still not been able to talk to her husband since he was
extradited and he was being held in isolation, "locked up for 23 hours a day".

She said it was the "cruellest blow" when her husband lost his battle against
extradition, saying he "was stunned and totally devastated when his appeal was
rejected".

Mrs Tappin, who has chronic Churg-Strauss syndrome, was accompanied by her son,
Neil, when she gave evidence to the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee for
its review of extradition arrangements.

Just last week she tearfully accompanied her husband to Heathrow Airport, before
he was handcuffed and seated between two US marshals on a plane to America.

Tappin described the decision to extradite him a "disgrace", saying that the
radical cleric Abu Qatada, who poses a threat to the UK's national security, had
"more rights than I have" after he was allowed to stay in the UK.

Mr Tappin, the president of the Kent Golf Union, who is currently in custody, is
due in court in El Paso, Texas, for a procedural hearing at 2.30pm local time
(8.30pm GMT).

He is likely to be remanded in custody for three days when a bail hearing will
take place, according to lawyers.

His MP, Tory Jo Johnson, and UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, who has
known the businessman for nearly 40 years, have asked Home Secretary Theresa May
to intervene to ensure the US authorities do not object to bail.

Tappin denies attempting to sell batteries for surface-to-air missiles which
were to be shipped from the US to Tehran via the Netherlands.

Janis Sharp, the mother of computer hacker Gary McKinnon who is fighting
extradition to the US, and David Bermingham, one of the NatWest Three bankers
who spent 17 months in prison after being extradited to the US in 2006, were in
the public gallery for today's hearing.

A spokeswoman for the US Embassy in London said the American authorities do
allow video evidence to be taken "under appropriate circumstances".

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 28, 2012 Tuesday 1:43 PM GMT

Christopher Tappin's wife breaks down over extradition;


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 807 words


The wife of a retired British businessman extradited to the US for alleged arms
dealing broke down in tears today as she spoke of her despair that nobody was
prepared to listen to his defence before "carting him off".

Elaine Tappin said she could not believe her husband Christopher, 65, was not
given the chance to put his side of the case before losing his two-year battle
against being sent to America last week.

She was giving evidence to MPs in London as Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in
jail if convicted of selling batteries for Iranian missiles, faced his first
appearance in a US courtroom tonight.

Mrs Tappin, 62, of Orpington, Kent, broke down in tears as she described how her
family felt "incredulity, frustration, heartrending sadness, despair and utter
disbelief" as they faced a "wholly uncertain future".

In a written statement which Mrs Tappin was unable to finish reading, she went
on: "At the heart of our despair is the fact that nobody was prepared to listen
to Chris's defence before carting him off.

"They ticked the boxes but were deaf and blind to the possibility of injustice.

"Chris is simply another statistic.

"Britain has allowed this to happen to Chris - next time it could be someone
close to you.

"I now lie awake at night not daring to contemplate how Chris will fare if bail
is denied him at the end of this week."

Mrs Tappin, who has chronic Churg-Strauss Syndrome, was accompanied by her son,
Neil, when she appeared before the MPs on the Commons Home Affairs Select
Committee.

Just last week she tearfully accompanied her husband to Heathrow Airport, before
he was handcuffed and seated between two US marshals on a plane to America.

Tappin, who had been caring for her prior to his extradition, has said he was
"not very confident at all" about his case, primarily because his UK-based
witnesses will not travel to the US and the American authorities do not allow
video interrogation.

Before being forced to leave Britain under the controversial UK-US treaty,
Tappin said he had been failed by the Government, branding the decision to
extradite him a "disgrace".

He argued that the radical cleric Abu Qatada, who poses a threat to the UK's
national security, had "more rights than I have" after he was allowed to stay in
the UK.

The president of the Kent Golf Union, who is currently in custody, is due in
court in El Paso, Texas, for a procedural hearing at 2.30pm local time (8.30pm
GMT).

He is likely to be remanded in custody for three days when a bail hearing will
take place, according to lawyers.

His MP, Tory Jo Johnson, and UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, who has
known the businessman for nearly 40 years, have asked Home Secretary Theresa May
to intervene to ensure the US authorities do not object to bail.

Tappin denies attempting to sell batteries for surface-to-air missiles which
were to be shipped from the US to Tehran via the Netherlands.

He has said that, for justice to be done, he should be tried by a jury of his
peers in the UK, not a jury 3,000 miles away.

But magistrates and the High Court backed his extradition and he exhausted his
appeal options earlier this month when a last-ditch plea to human rights judges
was rejected.

Prime Minister David Cameron said last week that the Government would carry out
a "proper, sober and thoughtful" review of the UK's extradition arrangements
with the US.

An independent review of the UK's extradition arrangements by retired Court of
Appeal judge Sir Scott Baker last year found that the current treaty between the
US and the UK was both balanced and fair.

But critics claim it is one-sided, with MPs, peers and campaigners all calling
for reform.

Mrs Tappin said she had still not been able to talk to her husband since he was
extradited.

She said the UK Consulate called the family last night and "informed us that
Chris was being held in isolation, locked up for 23 hours a day, and denied
access to any reading material".

She said it was the "cruellest blow" when her husband lost his battle against
extradition, saying he "was stunned and totally devastated when his appeal was
rejected".

Mrs Tappin went on: "Shouldn't it be a basic requirement that a proper case be
made out against Chris in a UK court before subjecting him to total disruption
to his life, and freedom, that extradition entails?

"Isn't that the cornerstone of British justice?"

Asked about the US-UK extradition treaty which has been described as
"one-sided", Attorney General Dominic Grieve QC said there were "underlying
fundamental problems that are not very easy to address".

"I think there's a lack of public confidence in the US justice system," he said.

There were perceptions in Britain that the US justice and penal systems were
"harsh and disproportionate", leaving Britons "uneasy and uncertain", he added.

He told the MPs these concerns were "not readily curable".

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 28, 2012 Tuesday 5:22 PM GMT

Christopher Tappin's wife breaks down in despair over husband being 'carted
off';
Elaine Tappin, the wife of retired British businessman Christopher Tappin who
was extradited to the US for alleged arms dealing, broke down in tears today as
she spoke of her despair that nobody was prepared to listen to his defence
before "carting him off".

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 693 words


Mrs Tappin said she could not believe her husband Christopher, 65, was not given
the chance to put his side of the case before losing his two-year battle against
being sent to America last week.

She was giving evidence to MPs in London as Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in
jail if convicted of selling batteries for Iranian missiles, faced his first
appearance in a US courtroom tonight.

Mrs Tappin, 62, of Orpington, Kent, broke down in tears as she described how her
family felt "incredulity, frustration, heartrending sadness, despair and utter
disbelief" as they faced a "wholly uncertain future".

In a written statement which Mrs Tappin was unable to finish reading, she went
on: "At the heart of our despair is the fact that nobody was prepared to listen
to Chris's defence before carting him off.

"They ticked the boxes but were deaf and blind to the possibility of injustice.
Chris is simply another statistic.

"Britain has allowed this to happen to Chris - next time it could be someone
close to you. I now lie awake at night not daring to contemplate how Chris will
fare if bail is denied him at the end of this week."

Mrs Tappin, who has chronic Churg-Strauss Syndrome, was accompanied by her son,
Neil, when she appeared before the MPs on the Commons Home Affairs Select
Committee.

Just last week she tearfully accompanied her husband to Heathrow Airport, before
he was handcuffed and seated between two US marshals on a plane to America.

Tappin, who had been caring for her prior to his extradition, has said he was
"not very confident at all" about his case, primarily because his UK-based
witnesses will not travel to the US and the American authorities do not allow
video interrogation.

Before being forced to leave Britain under the controversial UK-US treaty,
Tappin said he had been failed by the Government, branding the decision to
extradite him a "disgrace".

He argued that the radical cleric Abu Qatada, who poses a threat to the UK's
national security, had "more rights than I have" after he was allowed to stay in
the UK.

The president of the Kent Golf Union, who is currently in custody, is due in
court in El Paso, Texas, for a procedural hearing at 2.30pm local time (8.30pm
GMT) today.

He is likely to be remanded in custody for three days when a bail hearing will
take place, according to lawyers.

His MP, Tory Jo Johnson, and UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, who has
known the businessman for nearly 40 years, have asked Home Secretary Theresa May
to intervene to ensure the US authorities do not object to bail.

Tappin denies attempting to sell batteries for surface-to-air missiles which
were to be shipped from the US to Tehran via the Netherlands.

He has said that, for justice to be done, he should be tried by a jury of his
peers in the UK, not a jury 3,000 miles away.

But magistrates and the High Court backed his extradition and he exhausted his
appeal options earlier this month when a last-ditch plea to human rights judges
was rejected.

Prime Minister David Cameron said last week that the Government would carry out
a "proper, sober and thoughtful" review of the UK's extradition arrangements
with the US.

An independent review of the UK's extradition arrangements by retired Court of
Appeal judge Sir Scott Baker last year found that the current treaty between the
US and the UK was both balanced and fair.

But critics claim it is one-sided, with MPs, peers and campaigners all calling
for reform.

Mrs Tappin said she had still not been able to talk to her husband since he was
extradited.

She said the UK Consulate called the family last night and "informed us that
Chris was being held in isolation, locked up for 23 hours a day, and denied
access to any reading material".

She said it was the "cruellest blow" when her husband lost his battle against
extradition, saying he "was stunned and totally devastated when his appeal was
rejected".

Mrs Tappin went on: "Shouldn't it be a basic requirement that a proper case be
made out against Chris in a UK court before subjecting him to total disruption
to his life, and freedom, that extradition entails? Isn't that the cornerstone
of British justice?"

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Paper's pursuit of family sickened me, singer says;
Phone hacking

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1004 words


Charlotte Church accepted £300,000 compensation for phone hacking by the News of
the World yesterday as it was revealed that more than 300 victims have sought
damages.

The singer, who also received £300,000 for her legal costs, said that she was
"disgusted and sickened" after finding out how she and her parents had been
pursued by the now-defunct Sunday paper since she was aged 16.

Ms Church, 26, said that "nothing was deemed off-limits" and her mother, Maria,
was bullied into giving an interview after the paper discovered private medical
details about her selfharming and attempted suicide.

Ms Church was at the High Court yesterday when it was revealed that a further
244 victims of phone hacking, including politicians, sportsmen and celebrities,
are seeking compensation after claims from an initial group of 61.

The court was told that the News of the World repeatedly hacked Ms Church's
mobile telephone to obtain private medical information, details of her
relationship with her family and information about her first boyfriend.

Ms Church said outside court that the newspaper had deliberately destroyed
documents to cover up "the industrial scale of their illegal activity".

"What I have discovered as the litigation has gone on has sickened and disgusted
me," she said.

"Nothing was deemed off limits by those who pursued me and my family, just to
make money for a multinational news corporation.

"Of course, I was a teenager at the time and my parents were not in the public
eye, they just happened to have a well-known daughter.

"Whatever I have had to go through, they have suffered as well. They have been
harassed, put under surveillance, and my mother was bullied into revealing her
own private medical condition for no other reason than they were my parents."

Ms Church told the Leveson inquiry into press standards last year that her
mother tried to kill herself shortly before the News of the World published a
story about her father having an affair and taking cocaine.

The singer said yesterday that there was no point taking her case to trial
because it was clear that no one from News International, which owned the News
of the World and still owns The Times, was prepared to stand in court to explain
their actions.

"These people were prepared to go to any lengths to prevent me exposing their
behaviour, not just in the deliberate destruction of documents over a number of
years, but also by trying to make this investigation into the industrial scale
of their illegal activity into an interrogation of my mother's medical
condition, forcing her to relive the enormous personal distress they caused her
back in 2005," she said.

"In my opinion, they are not truly sorry, only sorry they got caught."

The mother-of-two said that her claim was not about the money and she would use
her part of the settlement to protect herself and her children "from further
invasions of our privacy".

Michael Silverleaf, QC, for News Group Newspapers, the publisher of the News of
the World, said the company accepted that the family "should never have had to
endure what they have suffered". The family's £300,000 in damages and the same
amount in costs was the highest payout to any of the 56 claimants who have
settled their cases in court this year.

Scotland Yard has identified 829 "likely" victims of phone hacking by the News
of the World. Detectives have contacted 581 people, say they can not trace 231
and have not told a further 17 for "operational reasons".

All but five of the original 61 claims for compensation have been settled before
going to trial.

The outstanding cases are Nicola Phillips, a celebrity publicist whose case is
due to be heard in April, Paul Burrell, the former royal butler, Ryan Giggs, the
footballer, Mary-Ellen Field, a former adviser to the model Elle Macpherson, and
Jacqui Hames, the Crimewatch presenter and her husband David Cook.

New claims have already been lodged by 14 other people including Cherie Booth,
QC, the footballer Kieron Dyer, the UKIP leader Nigel Farage, the singer James
Blunt, the boxer Chris Eubank and his wife Karron Stephen-Martin.

Other claimants are the footballer Peter Crouch and his wife Abbey Clancy, the
TV presenter Jamie Theakston, Jeff Brazier, the former partner of Jade Goody,
Eimear Cook, the former wife of the golfer Colin Montgomerie, Colin Stagg, who
was wrongly accused of murdering Rachel Nickell, and Duncan Foster, a director
of Coronation Street.

Lawyers are drawing up 180 further claims and 50 people also have approached
News International's own compensation scheme, with 20 cases accepted but none
completed.

How damages are worked out

Behind the story David Brown

Victims of the News of the World phone hacking scandal and their lawyers are
receiving the sort of money that changes the lives of ordinary people.

Compensation has not been set by a judge but agreed by News Group Newspapers,
publisher of the defunct tabloid, in negotiations with the victims' lawyers to
avoid cases reaching trial. The £300,000 awarded to Charlotte Church and her
parents yesterday follows a pattern that began last year when Sienna Miller
accepted £100,000 having originally sought £400,000.

Michael Silverleaf, QC, representing the NoW, said that the £100,000 awarded to
Ms Miller was fair because it was more than the actress would receive if she had
suffered a "lifechanging experience" such as the loss of an eye or facial
scarring.

Those who were less frequently targeted or were assistants or relatives of the
celebrities involved are receiving between £25,000 and £40,000.

Often the compensation is dwarfed by the costs awarded to the victims' legal
teams. Ms Church's lawyers received £300,000.

Many of the lawyers in the hacking cases are working on conditional fee
arrangements, known as no-win no-fee, meaning that they receive up to twice
their normal rates if they are successful.

Mr Justice Vos yesterday expressed concern about the number of lawyers involved
when he faced more than 50 of them at the High Court during a hearing to discuss
future cases.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cherie Booth, QC, and Abbey Crouch are among hundreds making claims of
phone hacking
Charlotte Church, 26, said the paper deemed nothing "off-limits" and that her
mother was bullied into giving an interview after journalists found private
medical details about her attempted suicide
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 27, 2012 Monday 7:14 PM GMT

News International faces second wave of damages claims;


BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 437 words


Rupert Murdoch's News International is facing a second wave of damages claims
from nearly 250 new victims of phone hacking which are likely to cost the media
empire at least £10m to settle.

On the day that the first tranche of viable voicemail interception complaints
came to an end with the announcement that NI was paying singer Charlotte Church
and her family £600,000 in damages and lawyers' fees, the legal fall out from
the scandal continued apace with the revelation that 194 individuals are
preparing new claims in the High Court.

It also emerged that nearly 50 claims for hacking by the News of the World
(NOTW) have been received by NI's own internal compensation scheme, overseen by
a retired High Court judge, with 20 under active assessment prior to settlement.

During a pre-trial hearing, Mr Justice Vos, who has presided over the civil
phone hacking litigation since early last year, said he expected that NI would
make "superhuman efforts" to settle the valid cases against it just as it had
done with 56 of the first 60 claims made  by victims including the Church
family, actress Sienna Miller and the family of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler.

Hugh Tomlinson QC, representing victims, said that 14 new cases had been filed
against the NOTW with a further 180 who have "approached solicitors that we know
about and have said they are considering claims".

The court was told that a trial date for the new cases should be set for
February next year, by which stage Mr Justice Vos said he hoped that all
remaining phone hacking compensation schemes would have been dealt with.

News International, which had been due yesterday to face the disclosure of
embarassing details about its conduct at a trial of a Church claim, has hitherto
made a point of settling as many claims as it can without a formal trial and the
company is understood to have set aside a huge legal fund to allow it to draw a
line under civil litigation.

Scotland Yard's Operation Weeting, the investigation into phone hacking,
announced yesterday that it had identified a total of 829 actual or potential
victims of voicemail interception, of whom 231 were uncontactable.

Among the new claimants are the footballer Kieron Dyer, UKIP politician Nigel
Farage, former prime minister Tony Blair's wife Cherie and former boxer Chris
Eubank.

The court heard that four cases from the first wave of claims may yet need to be
resolved with separate trials later this year. They include Nicola Phillips,
former assistant to PR guru Max Clifford; former royal butler Paul Burrell; and
Mary Ellen Field, the former adviser to supermodel Elle Macpherson.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 27, 2012 Monday 1:39 PM GMT

Nearly 250 victims to sue over News of the World hacking;
Up to 244 more victims of phone hacking are to sue the publisher of the News of
the World, with court hearings set to continue until next year, it has emerged.

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner Chief Reporter

LENGTH: 444 words


Mr Justice Vos, the High Court judge who is dealing with damages claims by
hacking victims, was told today that 14 more people have issued writs against
News Group Newspapers, and another 180 have contacted solicitors with a view to
doing the same.

NGN, which has set up a compensation scheme for victims, has been contacted
directly by around 50 people, taking the total to 244, though some of the 50 may
also be among the 180 people who have contacted lawyers.

Mr Justice Vos has set a trial date for Feb 18 next year for any claims that
have not been settled out of court by then.

To date, around 60 victims of phone hacking have reached settlements with NGN,
including Charlotte Church and her parents, who accepted £600,000 in damages and
costs today.

Among the 14 new cases who have filed writs in recent weeks are Cherie Blair,
Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, and Colin Stagg, who was wrongly accused of
murdering a young mother, Rachel Nickell.

The others include Eimear Cook, the former wife of the golfer Colin Montgomerie,
Jamie Theakston, the broadcaster, James Blunt, the singer, and the footballers
Kieron Dyer and Peter Crouch.

Crouch's ex-girlfriend Abbie Clancy, Jade Goody's ex-boyfriend Jeff Brazier,
Duncan Foster, a former director of Coronation Street, and the former boxer
Chris Eubank and his ex-wife Karron Stephen-Martin have also lodged court
papers.

Mr Justice Vos said NGN appeared to be making "superhuman efforts" to avoid any
of the cases going to trial, but set the date in February 2013 for any litigants
who fail to reach out-of-court settlements.

Although 60 people have settled claims, five more cases are set to go to trial
later this year, including claims by Ryan Giggs, the footballer, and Paul
Burrell, the former royal butler, who have been unable to reach agreements with
NGN.

Giggs and Mr Burrell were among dozens of litigants who lodged court papers
before a cut-off date for the first batch of cases in October last year.

The Metropolitan Police has identified 829 potential victims of phone hacking
from notebooks kept by Glenn Mulcaire, the private investigator who was paid
hundreds of thousands of pounds by the News of the World to intercept
voicemails. Of those, 231 are said to be uncontactable.

It means that even if the 244 new cases are dealt with, NGN could still face
claims from almost 350 more people who have been contacted by Scotland Yard and
told they are potential victims of phone hacking.

Michael Silverleaf QC, for NGN, told the High Court that out of approximately 50
people who have contacted News Group directly, the company has accepted
responsibility for 20 victims, with the others yet to be decided.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               February 26, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GREECE got a second bail-out [...]

BYLINE: Sally Bercow

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 131 words


GREECE got a second bail-out last week. But the jury's out on whether the extra
£110billion "rescue package" will prevent the country defaulting and pulling out
of the single currency - or whether it will simply delay the inevitable.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, is hardly brimming with
confidence, tweeting: "When Greece get the Drachma back I will be booking a
fortnight's holiday there and doing my bit for their economy."

Now Nigel, right, is a good chap and amuses me greatly - not least because he
was misguided enough to stand against Mr B in Buckingham at the last General
Election (Nigel was trounced, obviously).

But although I'd like to see Nigel enjoy a bargain holiday in Corfu, I hope he's
wrong on this - for the sake of our economy, not just Greece's.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 26, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A comic who took laughter seriously;
FRANK CARSON Cultural snobs wrote him off as un-PC and passé - yet his humour
stemmed from a humane understanding of the absurdity of prejudice, says William
Langley

BYLINE: William Langley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 976 words


Frank Carson was a much cleverer man than his wobbly-chopped, boggle-eyed, salt
and vinegar-sweating stage persona suggested. Had he been raised in today's
glorious age of "opportunity for all", he might have gone to university, kitted
himself out with a pair of DayGlo braces and landed a job at the BBC
commissioning new comedy shows.

But, then, Frank probably wouldn't have been very funny. Nor, on the basis of
current trends, would the shows.

Any material he came up with would have been micro-filtered through layers of
joke checkers and sensitivity monitors, given a modish coating of social
realism, and presented by a hardened line-up of what Eric Sykes has called
"miserable looking gits swearing".

That Frank was interested in politics, history, religion, and, particularly, the
lives of other people doesn't count for much when the cultural snobocracy marks
you out as a "product of the northern club circuit".

This is more than a nuanced way of alerting sensitive readers to the fact that
the comedian, who died last week aged 85, was working class. It hints at the
ghastly truth that much of his humour dealt in what would now be called "racial,
gender or lifestyle stereotypes".

"An Irishman goes into a restaurant and orders a pizza," Frank would say. "When
it arrives the waiter asks: 'Do you want it in six slices or eight?' Paddy says,
'Just six please. I'm not hungry enough to eat eight'."

To performers of Carson's generation, this was the meat and veg of stand-up
comedy. Simple ideas, stock characterisations and a "gettable" punchline. The
notion that anyone might seriously object would have been considered surreal,
and even if they did, the right to cause offence had not, at that time, been
abolished.

Yet beyond those sulphurous "northern clubs", where the likes of Les Dawson,
Stan Boardman and Bernard Manning plied their trade, the world was changing.
Comedy, or at least television's realisation of it, fell to a middle-class
putsch, and the new, university-educated, artsy-progressive types in charge
talked not in terms of getting laughs, but of "edginess" and "pushing
boundaries".

Jokes about mothers-in-law, Irishmen or, so help us, anyone of a different hue,
were proscribed with a Zhdanovian fervour. The fat blokes in the NHS glasses and
cheap suits suddenly found themselves off the air. They were told that their
comedy was obsolete and that they had failed to adapt. But how does a man who
has left school at 14 adapt to the conceits and vanities of a middle-class
mindset that sees him as embarrassing, and his audiences as thick and bigoted?

For the old hands it was pure class warfare. Why, they wondered, was a show like
Little Britain, created by Matt Lucas (Haberdashers' Aske's School and Bristol
University) and David Walliams (Reigate Grammar and Bristol), able to attack the
stupid, the disabled, the incontinent, while traditional comics were barred on
the grounds of taste?

From his Blackpool lair, Big Frank, all 16 stone of him, watched developments in
disbelief. "Laughter is becoming a crime," he complained. "How can this be
happening? Laughter enriches life. Taking things seriously squeezes the
lifeblood out of it."

The poignancy of all this was that much of Carson's humour stemmed from a humane
understanding of the ridiculousness of prejudice. He had grown up poor in
Northern Ireland, lived with the consequences of sectarianism, and found his
escape through humour. A favourite joke was about a firebrand Unionist
addressing a rally in Belfast. "I was born a Protestant," he declared. "I've
lived all my life as a Protestant and by God I shall die a Protestant." At which
point, claimed Carson, a voice from the back shouted: "Jaysus, man, have you no
ambition?"

Not that anyone would describe him as a liberal. He loathed the manifestations
of the nanny state, especially the smoking ban, which he thought had wrecked
clubland, called for rapists to be castrated, and had lately taken to voting for
Ukip in the hope that Britain could escape the Human Rights Act. After Manning
became virtually unmentionable among the chattering classes, Frank stood by his
friend until the end. "How could anyone call Bernard a racist?" he wondered. "He
even had black horses at his funeral."

He was born, the son of a dustman, near the Belfast shipyards, into an extended
Catholic family of Italian descent. It was a tough neighbourhood. "You never in
your life saw so many people with busted noses and cauliflower ears," Frank
recalled. "And that was just the women."

He left school at 14, worked as an electrician and a plasterer, and later joined
the Parachute Regiment, serving for three years in what was then Palestine. The
Middle East conflict would continue to trouble and fascinate him for the rest of
his life. On his return to Ulster he began appearing in pubs and clubs,
discovering not only a talent for joke-telling but a near-symphonic ability to
talk - incessantly - whether on the stage or off it.

In the Sixties, with his wife, Ruth, whom he had known since the age of seven,
he moved to England, appearing on television in The Good Old Days, and winning
Opportunity Knocks three times. By the Seventies he was one of the biggest stars
of The Comedians, the groundbreaking Granada TV show that first brought the
roughhouse atmosphere of the northern clubs into the entertainment mainstream.

A comic like Carson could hardly be imagined now. The world that fashioned him
has largely vanished, and the tone of some of last week's obituaries was only
mildly regretful of his passing - the Guardian's sniffing at his "inability to
walk the fine line between what was acceptable and what was not". Acceptable to
whom, Frank would ask. Clever as he was, he never understood that a joke could
be anything but a joke.

'How could anyone call Bernard Manning a racist? He even had black horses at his
funeral'

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Abu Qatada has more human rights than me

BYLINE: MARC WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 416 words


BRIT'S FURY OVER US TRIAL A FURIOUS Briton ordered onto a plane to face trial in
America stormed last night: "Abu Qatada has more rights than I have."

Christopher Tappin slammed his extradition over allegedly selling weapon parts
to Iran as "a disgrace to our country".

And he hit out at Prime Minister David Cameron for allowing him to be
surrendered to US officials while terror suspect Qatada is free to walk the
streets of Britain. Mr Tappin was yesterday handed over to an American marshal
at London's Heathrow Airport and flown to Texas.

The 65-year-old, who faces 35 years in a US jail if con-victed, said: "I may
never come home to my own country again."

Mr Tappin, from Orpington, Kent, claims he believed batteries he passed on were
for the rogue state's car industry and that he is the victim of a sting by US
agents.

Failed "I looked to Mr Cameron to look after my rights and he has failed to do
so," he raged."I have no rights. Abu Qatada is walking the streets of London
today and we cannot extradite him. He has more rights than I have.

"The Conservative Government, while in opposition, promised to reform the law
and they failed to do so. They've let me down, you down, they've let the whole
country down."

Qatada remains free despite being wanted on terror charges in his native Jordan.
Yesterday Mr Tappin's wife Elaine sobbed as the couple arrived at the airport
after losing their two-year battle against his extradition.

Mr Tappin has been caring for his wife, who suffers chronic Churg-Strauss
Syndrome, and said he was "not very confident" about the case.

He said: "I won't be given leave to get any of my witnesses who are based in the
UK because they are not allowed to testify in America by virtue of the fact they
do not allow video interrogation."

And he said he was "philosophical" about ever seeing his home again, adding: "I
am 65. If I was to serve 35 years I would be 100 by the time I came back."

Asked if he knew where he was going, he said: "No idea."

Meanwhile, UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who has known Mr Tappin for nearly 40
years, said: "The time has come to stand up for Chris and other UK nationals and
tell the US we wish to amend this one-sided treaty.

"His treatment is disgraceful and it seems our Government would rather protect
the rights of those that wish us harm, such as Abu Qatada, than one of their own
people."

Yesterday Prime Minister Cameron's official spokesman said the cases of Qatada
and Mr Tappin were "completely different".

marc.walker@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ ALL TOO MUCH: Elaine sobs as she arrives with Christopher at Heathrow
yesterday
BETTER OFF: Abu Qatada safe in London
Picture: NICK RAZZELL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A man of impeccable taste

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 78 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage tells me of an entertaining scene that unfolded in the
European Parliament when the puppet Italian prime minister Mario Monti spoke
there recently. "The response of Tories was extraordinary," says Farage. "Some
joined in with the standing ovation, others sat applauding warmly. Eurosceptic
Roger Helmer remained seated, unimpressed, and continued reading the Daily
Express." Clearly Helmer is the one who will have absorbed the most good sense.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Preacher of hate has more rights than me says angry Briton sent for trial in US

BYLINE: John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 782 words


BRITISH businessman Christopher Tappin was extradited to face the American
courts last night - while hate cleric Abu Qatada is still free to live in the
UK.

Grandfather Mr Tappin, 65, will today wake up in a Texan jail facing charges
that he allegedly dealt arms to rogue state Iran.

At the same time, Qatada cannot be kicked out of the UK in a move that "shames"
British justice.

With his weeping wife Elaine beside him as he handed himself in to police at
Heathrow airport, Mr Tappin compared his treatment to that of the notorious Al
Qaeda sympathiser.

And Mr Tappin said it was "a disgrace" that the firebrand preacher, who poses a
threat to the UK's national security, has more rights than he has.

Leaning on a walking stick, he said Qatada, freed from jail and now living in
north London, had been allowed to stay in the UK while he was being forced to
leave.

The extradition of Mr Tappin, under the controversial UK-US treaty, will
increase pressure on Prime Minister David Cameron to review the arrangements.

Mr Tappin, from Orpington, Kent, denies attempting to sell batteries for
surface-to-air missiles which were to be shipped from the US to Tehran via the
Netherlands.

Facing up to 35 years in a jail notorious for brutal gangs, Mr Tappin said he
"could be 100" before he gets out. He added: "I looked to Mr Cameron to look
after my rights - and he has failed to do so.

"I have no rights. Abu Qatada is walking the streets of London today and we
cannot extradite him. He has more rights than I have.

"If I was a terrorist, I would not be going to America. I think it's a shame, a
disgrace.

"The Conservative Government, while in opposition, promised to reform the law
and they failed to do so. They've let me down, they've let you down, they've let
the whole country down."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who has known Mr Tappin for nearly 40 years, said:
"The time has come to stand up for Chris and other UK nationals and tell the USA
we wish to amend this one-sided treaty.

"His treatment is disgraceful and it seems that our Government would rather
protect the rights of those that wish us harm, such as Abu Qatada, than one of
their own people."

The Government has been blocked in its attempts to deport Qatada to Jordan,
where he faces terror charges, after the European Court of Human Rights ruled
that further assurances, that evidence gained through torture would not be used
against him, were needed before he could be sent back.

But the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "They are completely different
cases."

Mr Tappin, whose wife has health problems, said he was full of trepidation but
added that he was keen to prove his innocence.

He said he was "not confident" about his case because his UK-based witnesses
will not travel to the US and the American authorities do not allow video
interrogation.

Mr Tappin claims he is the victim of entrapment in a "sting" organised by US
government agents.

Speaking shortly before he was handcuffed and seated between two US marshals on
a plane to America, he said it seemed "ridiculous and a disgrace to our country"
that the US was allowed to extradite people "by virtue of an accusation".

His lawyer Karen Todner said Mr Tappin, former president of the Kent Golf Union,
would arrive in El Paso, Texas, where he will be remanded in a jail until
Monday, pending a bail hearing.

Ms Todner said: "He has been strong for his wife. He is quite calm but I think
he is just dismayed by it. I think he can't really quite take it all in, he
can't really quite comprehend what is happening to him. The extradition treaty
is inhumane."

Jo Johnson, Mr Tappin's MP, has asked Home Secretary Theresa May to intervene to
ensure US authorities do not object to his bail.

Mr Tappin says that he should be tried by a jury of his peers in the UK. But
magistrates and the High Court backed his extradition and a plea to human rights
judges was rejected.

Mr Cameron said this week that the Government would carry out a "proper, sober
and thoughtful" review of the UK's extradition arrangements with the US.

But he added extradition treaties "show respect to each other's judicial
processes."

But critics claim the arrangements are one-sided. Gary Mulgrew, one of the
"Natwest Three" jailed in 2002 in the US for fraud, said prisons in Texas were
"run by gangs".

He added: "For a British businessman, 65 years old, retired, one shudders to
think what will happen to him."

Q Should Abu Qatada be booted out of Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8348

No: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088

No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

'If I was a terrorist, I'd not be going. It's a shame, a disgrace'

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Christopher Tappin arrives at Heathrow last night. His wife, Elaine,
above, wept as he flew to the US. Below, hate preacher Abu Qatada
Pictures: MIKE PARTRIDGE, RUSSELL CLISBY and JONATHAN BUCKMASTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If I was a terrorist like Qatada they wouldn't let America take me;
KICKED-OUT GRANDAD SAYS:

BYLINE: EMILY ASHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 739 words


A GRANDAD extradited to America yesterday to face arms dealing charges accused
David Cameron of caring more about Abu Qatada's rights than those of UK
citizens.

Retired businessman Christopher Tappin said: "I looked to Mr Cameron to look
after my rights and he failed.

"I have no rights. Abu Qatada is walking the streets of London and we cannot
extradite him. He has more rights than I have.

"If I was a terrorist I would not be going to America. I think it's a shame, a
disgrace."

Mr Tappin, 65, faces up to 35 years in jail if convicted.

He was handcuffed between two US Marshals as he flew from Heathrow after being
handed over by British police. Our courts agreed to extradite him under a treaty
which critics say is unbalanced and allows America to trample UK citizens'
rights.

The decision was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights - whose judges
have banned us from extraditing terror suspect Abu Qatada for trial in Jordan.

Mr Tappin is the latest in a series of Britons to fall foul of the extradition
treaty.

He is accused of plotting to sell batteries used in Iranian missiles. He says he
believed the batteries were for cars - and claims US officials entrapped him in
a sting.

He said: "The Americans have never had to produce one piece of evidence. All the
evidence shown to court came from our side.

"We believe there is no evidence.

It's just an accusation. By virtue of an accusation they are allowed to
extradite people."

Mr Tappin's tearful wife Elaine went with him to Heathrow police station.

She has Churg-Strauss Syndrome - a lifethreatening condition that attacks the
heart and other major internal organs.

He said: "I am 65. If I was to serve 35 years then I would be 100 by the time I
came back.

"There aren't many people who reach 100 so I have to be philosophical. I may
never come home to my own country again."

Mr Tappin, a golf club president from Orpington, Kent, and his supporters claim
he should be tried in a UK court - not by a jury 3,000 miles away in Texas.

They say his witnesses will not be able to travel to El Paso and video-link
evidence is banned. Isabella Sankey, of civil rights group Liberty, said: "No
British court has ever been allowed to examine any evidence against Christopher
Tappin or consider whether he should be tried here.

"Even if a US jury eventually finds him not guilty, he'll still spend years in a
Texan jail awaiting trial - thousands of miles from his home and sick wife."

Tory MP Dominic Raab said: "A foreign criminal is harder to deport because of
human rights law than an innocent British citizen is to extradite. Many people
will find that perverse."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "The time has come to amend this one-sided
treaty. It seems our Government would rather protect the rights of those that
wish us harm than their own people." Mr Tappin was due to land in El Paso around
11pm last night and be remanded in custody.

His lawyer Karen Todner said he would not be able to apply for bail until
Thursday. She added: "I think he's been strong for his wife but I think he is
dismayed by it."

She later wrote on Twitter: "Mr Tappin has left for America. The extradition
treaty is inhumane." Mr Cameron's spokesman said the cases of Mr Tappin and
Qatada were "completely different."

Qatada was freed on bail almost two weeks ago. He is living on benefits in a
house in Wembley, North London.

e.ashton@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

HACKER WHO FACES 60 YRS

COMPUTER hacker Gary McKinnon is still fighting extradition to the States,
accused of illegally accessing Pentagon and Nasa computers.

McKinnon, 46, below, has claimed he was looking for evidence of alien life. He
has Asperger's syndrome and supporters claim he was "naive".

McKinnon, of North London - first arrested ten years ago - faces 60 years in
jail if convicted of sabotage but his lawyers want him tried in Britain.

Home Secretary Theresa May is "considering afresh" whether the extradition
request should be granted.

TERROR GURU UK CAN'T EXPEL

AN extradition order for hookhanded hate preacher Abu Hamza was first signed in
2008 - but he is still here.

Hamza, 53, below, faces 11 terror charges in the US and then-Home Secretary
Jacqui Smith approved the request to boot him across the pond.

But the move was halted while he appealed to the European Court in Strasbourg -
where his lawyers told judges in 2010 the extradition would breach his human
rights.

Unelected Euro judges have still not ruled on the bid.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tears . . Mr Tappin and wife Elaine
Rough justice . . Christopher climbs from police van at Heathrow yesterday.
Left, terror suspect Abu Qatada

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Frank Carson;
Obituaries Irrepressible comic whose quick-fire gags became one of Northern
Ireland's most famous exports

SECTION: FEATURES; OBITUARIES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 882 words


FRANK CARSON, who has died aged 85, was Northern Ireland's best-known comedy
export during the long, grim years of the Troubles, a standardbearer for the
province's wellspring of native humour and love of the craic.

Throughout the 1970s Carson's Tigger-like personality - over the top, and
occasionally tiresomely so - hugely amused viewers of such popular television
staples as The Comedians (1972-74) and The Wheeltappers and Shunters Social Club
(1974-76). These re-created the quick-fire gag format of the traditional
northern working men's clubs in the days before the demise of the mother-in-law
joke related over bottles of stout in smoke-filled rooms.

"It's a cracker!" and "It's the way I tell 'em!" were Carson's incessant
leitmotifs, the signatures which he attached to his jokes. Many of his gags were
"Irish" jokes, which is to say that they poked gentle fun at Carson's own
people, although the modern pieties of political correctness would probably now
prohibit many of them - especially those of the "thick Mick" variety - from
being broadcast.

With his heavy square spectacles, neatly cut hair, chubby cheeks and short,
squat frame, Carson looked every inch the twinkling tradesman that he had been
before winning Hughie Green's television talent show Opportunity Knocks no fewer
than three times.

It was a feat that established Carson as television's pre-eminent "motormouth" -
a crown that he never subsequently relinquished. Some producers became reluctant
to book Carson for live shows because he would inevitably deviate from the
pre-agreed script, would upstage any other comedian, interrupt any business that
did not involve himself, and flood the airwaves with non-stop gags of varying
vintages.

One of Spike Milligan's favourite jokes neatly encapsulated the problem: "What's
the difference between Frank Carson and the M1?" "You can turn off the M1." Hugh
Francis Carson was born on November 6 1926 in Belfast, to a family of Italian
descent; his grandmother was Sicilian.

His father, a lapsed Roman Catholic, was a newspaper distributor, and Frank
started performing with the Belfast News Boys' Club at the age of nine. He was
educated at St Patrick's primary school in the immigrant area of Belfast known
as Little Italy, now demolished. Although too young to serve in the war, in the
late 1940s he spent three years in the Middle East with the Parachute Regiment.

In Palestine in 1947 he was caught up in clashes in the militant Arab quarter in
Haifa, and as a fighting corporal he shot and killed one of a group of Jewish
prisoners who had broken out of jail and were making a run for it towards the
desert.

Carson had left school at 14 with no qualifications and became an apprentice
electrician, but at 16 had switched to being a plasterer. In his spare time he
worked on his spiel as a stand-up comic, a talent that earned him regular
appearances on Northern Ireland television. When he was 25 he sold some scripts
to the regional BBC station and became a professional entertainer, touring with
the Australian magician known as The Great Levante.

Encouraged to try his luck on the northern club scene on the mainland, Carson
was spotted by the television producer Barney Colehan and signed up for his
first network exposure on the music-hall tribute show The Good Old Days.
Meanwhile, on ITV, Carson - having thrice won Opportunity Knocks - was also
booked to appear on The Comedians, by the producer Johnny Hamp.

This was the show that transformed Carson from an obscure club comedian into a
comedy star. His blustering salvos of Northern Irish humour sat well in Hamp's
quickfire format of one comic after another. Carson's comedy confrÈres included
Bernard Manning, Roy Walker, Jim Bowen, George Roper and the black Yorkshire
comedian Charlie Williams.

Carson appeared in every series, and also toured with the record-breaking stage
version of the show. He found himself in demand for cabaret dates and club
bookings across Britain and abroad; his workload affected his health, and when
he underwent heart surgery in 1976, it was suggested that this would mean
inevitable, if premature, retirement.

But Carson continued working - he became a regular on the ATV children's' series
Tiswas - and also made television acting appearances and had roles in two
feature films. He claimed to be the Queen's favourite comedian and said that he
had met her more than 100 times.

In 2004 his planned appearance on the reality television show I'm a Celebrity,
Get Me Out of Here! was shelved by ITV executives on account of prohibitive
insurance costs due to Carson's age and concerns about his health.

He was planning to call his autobiography Rebel Without a Pause, and claimed it
ran to more than a million words.

In 1987 Pope John-Paul conferred on Carson a Knighthood of the Order of St
Gregory to recognise his extensive work for charity. He appeared in the Royal
Variety performance of 1992, and was the subject of This Is Your Life. He was a
member of the entertainment charity the Grand Order of Water Rats.

In later life he lived at Blackpool, and became involved with the Eurosceptic UK
Independence Party.

Carson, who underwent surgery for stomach cancer in July 2011, is survived by
his wife, Ruth, and three children.

Frank Carson, born November 6 1926, died February 22 2012

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carson: he won Opportunity Knocks on three occasions and appeared in
The Good Old Days
ITV/REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I've got nothing to hide, says MEP held over expenses 'fraud'

BYLINE: Nick Britten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 300 words


AN MEP vowed to clear her name yesterday after being arrested over alleged
expenses fraud at the European Parliament.

Nikki Sinclaire, 43, was questioned by police over allegations dating to 2010.

Yesterday, after being released on bail, the West Midlands MEP said the
allegations were made by a "disgruntled ex-employee" and said she would
cooperate fully with the police. When the claims first came to light two years
ago she asked the European Parliament's anti-fraud office to conduct an
investigation so she could clear her name.

The MEP , who lives in Solihull, was arrested when she voluntarily attended a
police station in Birmingham on Wednesday. Two women, aged 55 and 39, and a
19-year-old man who work for her were also arrested. All were released on bail.

She had previously denied allegations that arose in 2010 that she had claimed
nearly £840 for driving the 1,200 miles from her home to the parliament in
Strasbourg, when she had allegedly travelled by plane, which can cost as little
as £260.

In a statement she said: "Nikki Sinclaire MEP disputes all allegations put
towards her or her staff. Nikki Sinclaire MEP and her office will continue to
fully co-operate with the police on this matter.

"The allegations at hand are old allegations from a disgruntled ex-employee who
himself is under investigation and whose motives are entirely political to
pursue his advancement in Ukip."

She added that she was "eager to clear her name and has nothing to hide".

A police spokesman said the arrests were part of an "ongoing investigation which
followed an allegation made in 2010 into allowances and expenses''.

Miss Sinclaire was elected to the European Parliament as a Ukip MEP for the West
Midlands in 2009, but was later expelled from the party following rows over
policy and is now an independent.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nikki Sinclaire said she was 'eager to clear her name and has nothing
to hide'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU's sloppy accounts;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 134 words


SIR - George Osborne, the Chancellor, is refusing to sign off on the EU budget
in protest at its "material errors" (report, February 22). As a former EU
accountant, I know that the budget is riven with "black holes". Highlighting
this cost me my job.

Mr Osborne's actions are welcome, but they are pointless unless backed up by
meaningful intent. I have been calling for Britain to reduce its contributions
to the EU budget in line with the errors. The carrot approach of gently
encouraging change doesn't work. For over a decade, the EU's own Court of
Auditors has refused to give the budget a clean bill of health.

If the Chancellor wants to match words with action, he must scale back British
contributions to the EU until the European Commission puts its house in order.

Marta Andreasen MEP (Ukip)

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;

Expenses probe MEP arrested;
She denies travel fiddle

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 286 words


A EURO MP arrested by fraud squad detectives yesterday denied fiddling her
expenses.

West Midlands MEP Nikki Sinclaire was arrested at a Birmingham police station on
Wednesday along with three members of her office staff on suspicion of
conspiracy to defraud the European Union assembly.

The investigation was understood to relate to allegations of expenses fiddling
made in 2010, in which the MEP, who sits as an independent Eurosceptic,
allegedly claimed for road mileage when she actually took a cheap flight to her
destination.

Miss Sinclaire, 43, was quizzed by detectives from the West Midlands Police
Economic Crime Unit. Her office released a statement, which said: "Nikki
Sinclaire attended the police station voluntarily yesterday and has co-operated
with police. Nikki Sinclaire disputes all allegations put towards her or her
staff.

"The allegations at hand are old allegations from a disgruntled exemployee who
himself is under investigation.

"Due to the ongoing police investigation it would be inappropriate to comment
further at this time."

As well as Miss Sinclaire, two women, aged 55 and 39, and a 19-year-old man were
arrested at addresses in Solihull, Worcester and Birmingham and were taken to a
police station for questioning.

A police spokeswoman said searches had been carried out at the addresses of the
four people involved in the allegations.

All four have been released on police bail.

Miss Sinclaire was elected as a UK Independence Party MEP. She quit Ukip's group
in the European Parliament in a political row two years ago but remains a party
member.

A Ukip spokesman yesterday said: "It would be inappropriate for the party to
make any comment during the process of an ongoing police inquiry."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eurosceptic MEP Nikki Sinclaire
Picture: BPM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 24, 2012
                                 First Edition

MEP arrested over fraud conspiracy allegations;
POLICE

BYLINE: Emma Sword

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 160 words


An MEP has been arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud the European
Parliament.

West Midlands MEP Nikki Sinclaire, 43, was detained along with three others who
worked with her, the Ukip MEP Mike Nattrass said.

West Midlands Police confirmed a 43-year-old woman was arrested at a police
station in Birmingham yesterday along with three other people on suspicion of
conspiracy to defraud the European Parliament. Two women, aged 55 and 39, and a
19-year-old man were arrested and questioned. All four have since been released
on police bail.

On her Twitter page yesterday, a spokesman for Miss Sinclaire said the MEP
attended the police station in Birmingham voluntarily and co-operated fully with
the police.

The MEP "disputes all allegations put towards her or her staff", which were "old
allegations made by a disgruntled ex-employee who himself is under investigation
and whose motives are entirely political to pursue his advancement in Ukip", the
post said.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 24, 2012 Friday 4:17 PM GMT

Christopher Tappin brands his extradition a 'disgrace';


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Ellen Branagh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 817 words


A retired businessman said it was a "disgrace" that a radical cleric who poses a
threat to the UK's national security has more rights than he has as he was
extradited to the United States today.

Christopher Tappin, who lost his two-year battle against extradition last week,
said Abu Qatada had been allowed to stay in the UK while he was being forced to
leave.

The extradition of the 65-year-old Briton under the controversial UK-US treaty
will increase pressure on David Cameron's Government to review the arrangements.

Mr Tappin, who faces up to 35 years in jail if convicted of arms dealing
charges, said: "I look to Mr Cameron to look after my rights and he has failed
to do so.

"I have no rights. Abu Qatada is walking the streets of London today and we
cannot extradite him. He has more rights than I have.

"If I was a terrorist, I would not be going to America. I think it's a shame, a
disgrace.

"The Conservative Government, while in opposition, promised to reform the law
and they failed to do so and they've let me down, they've let you down, they've
let the whole country down."

The Government has been blocked in its attempts to deport Qatada to Jordan,
where he faces terror charges, after the European Court of Human Rights ruled
that further assurances that evidence gained through torture would not be used
against him were needed before he could be sent back.

But the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "They are completely different
cases."

Mr Tappin, whose tearful wife Elaine was at his side, said he was full of
trepidation and was "not sure what's going to happen", but added that he was
keen to prove his innocence.

Mr Tappin, who has been caring for his wife who has chronic Churg-Strauss
Syndrome, said he was "not very confident at all" about his case, mainly because
his UK-based witnesses will not travel to the US and the American authorities do
not allow video interrogation.

Speaking outside Heathrow police station shortly before he was handcuffed and
seated between two US marshals on a plane to America, he said it seemed
"ridiculous and a disgrace to our country" that the US was allowed to extradite
people "by virtue of an accusation".

He also revealed he had packed some "personal stuff" including books by TV
presenter Jeremy Clarkson and golfer Seve Ballesteros.

His lawyer Karen Todner said Mr Tappin, the former president of the Kent Golf
Union, would arrive in El Paso, Texas, around 4pm local time (about 10pm GMT),
where he will be remanded in a local jail until Monday, pending a bail hearing
at the US district court in the western district of Texas.

She added that it was "the procedure for the Americans to require three days
adjournment to consider the bail application so the earliest he can consider
obtaining bail is Thursday".

Ms Todner said: "He has been, I think, strong for his wife. He is quite calm but
I think he is just dismayed by it.

"I think he can't really quite take it all in, he can't really quite comprehend
what is happening to him.

"This whole procedure and situation is such an anathema to him and his life that
I think he can't take it in."

She added on Twitter: "Was v distressing when he said goodbye. The extradition
treaty is inhumane."

Mr Tappin's MP Jo Johnson has asked Home Secretary Theresa May to intervene to
ensure the US authorities do not object to his bail on Monday, Ms Todner said.

Mr Tappin, from Orpington, south east London, denies attempting to sell
batteries for surface-to-air missiles which were to be shipped from the US to
Tehran via the Netherlands.

He has said that, for justice to be done, he should be tried by a jury of his
peers in the UK, not a jury 3,000 miles away.

But magistrates and the High Court backed his extradition and he exhausted his
appeal options earlier this month when a last-ditch plea to human rights judges
was rejected.

Mr Cameron said on Wednesday that the Government would carry out a "proper,
sober and thoughtful" review of the UK's extradition arrangements with the US.

But he added that it was important to remember that extradition treaties "show
respect to each other's judicial processes and make sure that people who are
accused of crimes are tried for those crimes".

"Britain can benefit from that as well," he said.

An independent review of the UK's extradition arrangements by retired Court of
Appeal judge Sir Scott Baker last year found that the current treaty between the
US and the UK was both balanced and fair.

But critics claim it is one-sided, with MPs, peers and campaigners all calling
for reform.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who has known Mr Tappin for nearly 40 years, said:
"The time has come to stand up for Chris and other UK nationals and tell the USA
that we wish to amend this one-sided treaty.

"His treatment is disgraceful and it seems that our Government would rather
protect the rights of those that wish us harm, such as Abu Qatada, than one of
their own people."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

EXPENSES SCAM MEP ARRESTED;
SHE'S ACCUSED OVER DRIVING CLAIM

BYLINE: RICHARD SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 219 words


A EURO MP has been arrested over allegations she pocketed cash after flying to
Strasbourg then claimed for driving.

Independent MP Nikki Sinclaire, 43, is accused of claiming pounds 840 for
travelling 1,200 miles by car from Birmingham to the European Parliament in 2010
when she actually went by plane, which can cost as little as pounds 260.

Ms Sinclaire was arrested with three members of her staff, questioned then freed
on bail.

A spokesman for Ms Sinclaire said she went to a police station in Birmingham
voluntarily. A tweet on her page said she "disputes all allegations put towards
her or her staff", which were "old allegations made by a disgruntled
ex-employee".

Ms Sinclaire from Meriden, West Mids, was elected as a UKIP MEP for the West
Midlands in 2009. She was later expelled from the party but still represents the
region as an independent.

A West Midlands Police spokeswoman said: "The arrests are part of an ongoing
investigation which followed an allegation made in 2010 into allowances and
expenses."

British MEPs earn around pounds 80,000 a year. They can also claim up to pounds
205,000 annually in staffing allowance.

When the allegations were originally made Ms Sinclaire said: "I've never
intentionally claimed anything I wasn't entitled to and none of this money went
into my personal bank account."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEFIANT Nikki Sinclaire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 24, 2012 Friday 3:42 PM GMT

Christopher Tappin to be held in prison for a week after extradition to US;
Retired businessman Christopher Tappin is likely to be held in an American
prison for a week, his solicitor said today, after he was handed over to US
Marshalls for extradition.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

LENGTH: 1088 words


Mr Tappin was handcuffed and put on a flight to El Paso, Texas, where he was
expected to land at 4pm local time.

The retired businessman described his treatment as a "disgrace" as he arrived at
Heathrow police station to be taken to America to face arms dealing charges.

Mr Tappin, who fought a two-year battle against extradition, faces up to 35
years in jail if convicted of conspiring to sell components for Iranian
missiles.

His lawyer Karen Todner said: "Mr Tappin has been taken now by British
extradition officers to the aeroplane, where he is going to be handed over to US
marshals.

"He will be arriving in El Paso this afternoon. He will be appearing in court on
Monday morning, so he will be in custody over the weekend."

She said it was likely the prosecution would apply for an adjournment so the
earliest he could be granted bail would probably be Thursday or Friday.

Ms Todner later wrote on Twitter: "Mr Tappin has left for America. Was v
distressing when he said goodbye. The extradition treaty is inhumane."

During his time at the police station his overnight bag - all Ms Todner said he
was allowed to take - was searched and he was allowed to spend time with his
wife. His possessions include books by TV presenter Jeremy Clarkson and golfer
Seve Ballesteros.

Ms Todner said: "He has been, I think, strong for his wife. He is quite calm but
I think he is just dismayed by it."

Should Christopher Tappin have been extradited to the US?

He is the latest Briton to fight and lose an extradition battle with the US and
his case increases pressure on David Cameron's Government to review the
arrangements.

Arriving at the police station this morning he said: "I look to Mr Cameron to
look after my rights and he has failed to do so.

"I have no rights. Abu Qatada is walking the streets of London today and we
cannot extradite him. He has more rights than I have.

"If I was a terrorist I would not be going to America. I think it's a shame, a
disgrace.

"The Conservative government, while in opposition, promised to reform the law
and they failed to do so and they've let me down, they've let you down, they've
let the whole country down."

Asked about Mr Tappin's comparison of his case with that of Abu Qatada, Prime
Minister David Cameron's official spokesman said: "They are completely different
cases."

Mr Tappin, who is accused of conspiring to sell components for Iranian missiles,
will meet the marshals at Heathrow police station and be taken to the US where
he could face 35 years in jail.

The 65-year-old golf enthusiast is the latest Briton to fight and lose an
extradition battle with the US and his case increases pressure on the Government
to review the arrangements.

Christopher Tappin with his wife Elaine

David Cameron said on Wednesday that the Government would carry out a ''proper,
sober and thoughtful'' review.

But the Prime Minister added that it was important to remember that extradition
treaties ''show respect to each other's judicial processes and make sure that
people who are accused of crimes are tried for those crimes''.

''Britain can benefit from that as well,'' he said.

Mr Tappin is one of a series of cases, including that of alleged hacker Gary
McKinnon, which has fuelled concerns over the extradition arrangements between
the UK and US.

Mr Tappin denies the charges

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who has known Mr Tappin for nearly 40 years, said:
"The time has come to stand up for Chris and other UK nationals and tell the USA
that we wish to amend this one-sided treaty.

"His treatment is disgraceful and it seems that our Government would rather
protect the rights of those that wish us harm, such as Abu Qatada, than one of
their own people."

The Home Office was yesterday accused of a cover-up over its failure to publish
the evidence behind a controversial review of extradition laws.

Dominic Raab, the Tory MP, warned the public might think there "was something to
hide" as he called on the department to release the information given to Sir
Scott Baker's review.

Campaigners have argued that the deal is biased in favour of America while the
US has insisted it is balanced and fair.

A review by retired judge Sir Scott Baker last year concluded the arrangements
were not biased and did not need reform.

Mr Raab has repeatedly asked for all the evidence given to the review to be
published but in vain.

In the Commons yesterday, he told the Leader of the House Sir George Young: "The
Baker review into extradition was published in October.

"Four months on the publication of all of its evidence has been blocked by Home
Office officials with no explanation.

"Having tried all the usual channels, can I ask you to convey to ministers the
risk that this lack of transparency undermines the ostensible independence of
the review as well as parliamentary scrutiny and risks, however unfairly,
creating the perception that there may be something to hide in the evidence."

Sir George said Theresa May, the Home Secretary, was reviewing the report and
added: "I will bring to her attention the specific issue you have raised about
the non-publication of certain documents which are in the Home Office's
possession."

Sir George Young has called for all Baker review documents to be made public

Critics argue that it is unfair for the US to require "sufficient evidence to
establish probable cause" before agreeing to extradite anyone to the UK, while
Britons are not afforded the same protection.

But Sir Scott Baker's report said: "There is no practical difference between the
information submitted to and from the United States."

A Commons debate led by Mr Raab in December passed a motion calling on the
Government to review the 2003 Extradition Treaty.

Mr Tappin, 64, was due to surrender to US Marshals at Heathrow airport this
morning after the European Court of Human Rights last week rejected his plea to
hear his case.

He retired from his import and export company in 2008 but was arrested two years
later after the US asked for his extradition.

He is alleged to have tried to buy five industrial batteries, which he claims he
thought were for use in the car industry, between 2005 and 2007.

However, they were actually EaglePicher brand batteries, a key component of the
US Army's Hawk Air Defence Missile, which were being sought by Iran.

It is alleged the batteries were to be shipped from the US to Tehran without the
necessary US government approval.

Lawyers for Mr Tappin claim he was entrapped by US agents who set up a
fictitious company to ensnare innocent importers.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 24, 2012 Friday 7:00 AM GMT

Abortion on grounds of gender is the same as a crime of child destruction;
Abortion on grounds of gender a crime

LENGTH: 1785 words


SIR - On your front page (February 23) you report that women are being granted
illegal abortions based on the sex of the unborn baby. For each of these,
doctors receive between £700 and £800.

In the same issue you report that a former nightclub bouncer has been jailed for
killing a pregnant teenager and in the process killing her unborn baby daughter,
a crime described as "child destruction".

Kevin Heneghan                     St Helens, Lancashire

SIR - Your commendable investigative reporting gives proof of what many have
suspected: that some clinics are happy to carry out abortions for reasons of
parental preference as to gender.

The Sixties eugenics movement succeeded in legalising abortion when it stopped
talking about "the unfit mother" and started talking about "the mother who
couldn't cope". Once abortion was legalised, they championed "a woman's right to
choose", explaining that this could encompass abortion for any reason.

Believing there were simply too many people, some approved of the abortion of
females because of its effects on population: put bluntly, it is women who have
babies. Bizarrely, some even claimed that sex-selective abortions would lead to
women becoming more highly prized in proportion to their scarcity.

It may seem odd that a "woman's right to choose" should encourage her to choose
to abort a child because it is female, but pro-choice feminists have been
conspicuous by their silence on such issues, warning that to criticise
gendercide in China and India might damage abortion rights in this country. Now
gendercide has come home.

Ann Farmer                     Woodford Green, Essex

SIR - This country is turning a blind eye to the 200,000 abortions performed
each year. Serious questions are not being asked as to the details of abortion
requests.

Many doctors and nurses leave aside any decision as to whether it is right or
wrong.

As a trained nurse I had the opportunity to work in an abortion clinic. I am
sure that if liberal-minded folk witnessed an abortion they would be horrified.
A baby of just 12 weeks' gestation is a miracle to behold. I moved from a
position of ignorance to being strongly against abortion on demand.

Susan Smith                     Farnham Common, Buckinghamshire

SIR - I was very much opposed to the introduction of the 1967 Abortion Act, but
took a bit of comfort from assurances that the legislation would only be used in
a very few difficult, agonising situations.

I have been very much opposed to the introduction of assisted suicide
legislation, but found my attitude mellowing with the reassurances that this
would only be used in a very few difficult, agonising situations.

A pause for thought now, I think.

Janet Kay                     Acomb, North Yorkshire

EU's sloppy accounts

SIR - George Osborne, the Chancellor, is refusing to sign off on the EU budget
in protest at its "material errors" (report, February 22). As a former EU
accountant,

I know that the budget is riven with "black holes". Highlighting this cost me my
job.

Mr Osborne's actions are welcome, but they are pointless unless backed up by
meaningful intent. I have been calling for Britain to reduce its contributions
to the EU budget in line with the errors. The carrot approach of gently
encouraging change doesn't work. For over a decade, the EU's own Court of
Auditors has refused to give the budget a clean bill of health.

If the Chancellor wants to match words with action, he must scale back British
contributions to the EU until the European Commission puts its house in order.

Marta Andreasen MEP (Ukip)                     Brussels

Open access to schools

SIR - We welcome Martin Stephen's call for improved provision in the state
sector, particularly for bright pupils (Comment, February 17). The Sutton Trust
has worked in this area for 15 years. With the Education Endowment Foundation,
we are spending more than £200 million on projects to help poor children in
challenging schools.

But improving state schools does not preclude opening up independent day schools
to increase social mobility. When Dr Stephen was high master of Manchester
Grammar School, he supported our Open Access programme. Unlike the Assisted
Places scheme, where a few places were offered to those unable to pay fees, Open
Access means awarding all places at independent day schools on merit alone.

The scheme has been successful at the Belvedere Academy in Liverpool, where 70
per cent of pupils received substantial funding and most went to top
universities, with no negative impact on the state sector.

James Turner                     Director, The Sutton TrustLondon SW1

New tricks

SIR - Our late Border collie watched television all her life (Letters, February
23). Programmes and advertisements featuring animals were particular favourites.

She once stayed with friends who had a Norfolk terrier. He had never taken any
interest in television until our collie taught him. He is now a keen viewer and
sits on a stool so that the screen is at eye level.

Barbara Hancock                     Miskin, Glamorgan

Ways to save water

SIR - The single biggest reason for a water shortage is leaking pipes. Water
companies lose around a third of the water collected and treated, through holes
and cracks in pipes. For example, from United Utilities' daily distribution of
1,350 million litres, 465 million litres is lost into the ground.

This situation has gone on for decades under the reasoning that it costs too
much to repair pipes. If companies stemmed the leakage there would be less talk
of drought.

Tony Malkin                      Stockport

SIR - Deirdre Lay (Letters, February 22) suggests installing water meters in
every property in the drought area. My experience of having a meter installed
was instantly reduced bills and the realisation that for years I had been
charged for quantities of water I never used.

George Wilkie                      Hemingford Grey, Cambridgeshire

Risks of war reporting

SIR - The death of the foreign correspondent Marie Colvin and the French
photographer Rémi Ochlik in Syria during a government bombardment (report,
February 22) underlines the dangers faced by people who bring us news of some of
the world's atrocities. We tend to forget that they risk their lives almost
every day.

Bob MacDougall                     Kippen, Stirlingshire

Royal helping hand

SIR - The Duchess of Cambridge (report, February 22) seems to be following in
the steps of her husband's great-grandmother, the Queen Mother, who got green
paint all over her white gloves, when visiting my class at the British School,
Tehran, in 1975, after asking if she could help a six-year-old boy with his
painting. She clearly enjoyed the experience and showed no concern at the
painted gloves.

Gillian Solway                     Weybridge, Surrey

Class not over

SIR - In her column of February 23, Allison Pearson quoted me as saying: "Class
is over". I said no such thing in my article for The Daily Telegraph and nor do
I say that in the BBC2 films. Still, happy to provide a subject for dear old
Allison.

Melvyn Bragg                     London NW3

Out of their depth

SIR - I have in the past laughed at legislation allowing authorities to stop
historic cheese races in the name of health and safety. However, your report
(February 22) on the refusal by a fire and rescue service to walk into water 3ft
deep to attempt to rescue a drowning man seems to me to embody the worst in
modern life.

I would expect the removal of the word "rescue" from the fire and rescue
service.

Malcolm Freeth                     Bournemouth, Dorset

SIR - It is my intention to take my grandchildren to paddle in the sea this
summer, but I am concerned as to the level of prior training I should seek. If I
only have level one training, I would not be able to go above ankle depth, but
incoming waves may be occasionally deeper, so should I seek level two training?
Since I don't intend to go above knee depth I might feel over-qualified.

A. J. Percy                      Cardiff

Why should British taxes fund African despots?

SIR - David Blair (Comment, February 20) highlights the folly of foreign aid.
Often the aid is wasted and helps despots renege on their responsibilities to
their people.

In Zimbabwe's case, the revenue from diamonds alone could keep the country
going, so why must the hard-pressed British taxpayer put money towards its
cause? Perhaps all aid payments are made out of some deep-seated guilt.

Trevor Walton                     North Curry, Somerset

SIR - Few people would disagree with providing emergency aid in times of crisis,
but assistance for long-term development is a different issue, especially when a
country's rulers show little interest in it themselves. In such cases, Britain's
investment in governance programmes plays a little-recognised but crucial role.

In countries such as Zimbabwe, the building blocks of a democracy cannot be
imposed from outside; they must be laid from the bottom up. British aid helps
Zimbabweans to access information, organise themselves and build civic
structures, empowering them not only to seek change, but to know how to secure
it.

This change often occurs slowly, but recent experience in Zambia has shown that
it is possible, and the governance programmes funded by Britain and its NGOs
play a crucial role.

Neil Thorns                      Director of Advocacy, Catholic Agency for
Overseas Development, London SE1

SIR - It is obscene that the amounts spent on health and education by Robert
Mugabe, the president of Zimbabwe, and Morgan Tsvangirai, the prime minister,
are dwarfed by the amounts they spend on themselves, particularly in a country
where one in three children suffers from chronic malnutrition. But this is not
an argument for us to cut our aid to the country.

It is often the people living in the poorest countries who are governed by the
most corrupt leaders. While encouraging good governance is important, our
priority must be to help those in greatest need.

Stefan Simanowitz                      London NW3

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 24, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM GMT

Nikki Sinclaire: 'I've got nothing to hide', says MEP held over expenses
'fraud';
An MEP, Nikki Sinclaire, has vowed to clear her name after being arrested over
alleged expenses fraud at the European Parliament.

BYLINE: By Nick Brittten

LENGTH: 282 words


The 43 year-old was questioned by police over allegations dating to 2010.

On Thursday, after being released on bail, the West Midlands MEP said the
allegations were made by a "disgruntled ex-employee" and said she would
co-operate fully with the police.

When the claims first came to light two years ago she asked the European
Parliament's anti-fraud office to conduct an investigation so she could clear
her name.

The MEP, who lives in Solihull, was arrested when she voluntarily attended a
police station in Birmingham on Wednesday. Two women, aged 55 and 39, and a
19-year-old man who work for her were also arrested. All were released on bail.

She had previously denied allegations that arose in 2010 that she had claimed
nearly £840 for driving the 1,200 miles from her home to the parliament in
Strasbourg, when she had allegedly travelled by plane, which can cost as little
as £260.

In a statement she said: "Nikki Sinclaire MEP disputes all allegations put
towards her or her staff. Nikki Sinclaire MEP and her office will continue to
fully co-operate with the police on this matter.

"The allegations at hand are old allegations from a disgruntled ex-employee who
himself is under investigation and whose motives are entirely political to
pursue his advancement in Ukip."

She added that she was "eager to clear her name and has nothing to hide".

A police spokesman said the arrests were part of an "ongoing investigation which
followed an allegation made in 2010 into allowances and expenses''.

Miss Sinclaire was elected to the European Parliament as a Ukip MEP for the West
Midlands in 2009, but was later expelled from the party following rows over
policy and is now an independent.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Campaigning MEP held

BYLINE: Laura Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 87 words


A West Midlands MEP who has campaigned against the European Parliament's
generous expenses system has been arrested on suspicion of making fraudulent
claims (Laura Dixon writes).

Nikki Sinclaire, 43, was arrested at a police station in Birmingham on
Wednesday, along with three other people, believed to be employees of Ms
Sinclaire. All four have been bailed.

An MEP since 2009, Ms Sinclaire is now an Independent after leaving the UK
Independence Party in 2010, following a disagreement with Nigel Farage, the
party's leader.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Hypocrite' slur at Straw

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 223 words


EX-LABOUR frontbencher Jack Straw was accused of hypocrisy yesterday after he
called for the European Parliament to be scrapped.

The senior MP, both Home Secretary and Foreign Secretary under the last Labour
government, hit out at the growing "democratic deficit" in the European Union.

He proposed replacing the directly-elected European Parliament - that sits in
both Brussels and Strasbourg - with a new assembly made up of MPs from
parliaments in member states. But fellow politicians questioned why Mr Straw did
not have those views while his party was in Government for 13 years.

The comments, made in a speech to the Institute for Public Policy Research think
tank, were also being seen as indicating a shift in attitude towards the EU
among some senior frontbenchers.

Mr Straw said: "I am now clear that there is a major democratic deficit within
the EU. And it is absolutely certain, in my judgment, that the mechanism that
was established 30 years ago to fill this gap of the democratic deficit, which
was a directly elected European parliament, has not worked and, in my judgment,
cannot work in that form."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "It's a shame that Mr Straw spent years failing
to realise that the parliament is useless."

A YouGov poll yesterday revealed just eight per cent of UK voters believe their
"voice counts in the EU".

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jack Straw is under fire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE GIVE £220M TO 'WORLD'S TERROR CAPITAL';
Somalia aid scandal

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 534 words


DAVID Cameron is set to ignite fresh anger at Britain's soaring overseas
handouts bill today by pledging millions of pounds to war-torn Somalia.

He will unveil an extra £33million in aid to the country, infamous as a breeding
ground for terrorism. The gift means that UK payouts to Somalia will rise to
nearly £220 million in the next three years.

The Prime Minister insisted yesterday that Somalia should get a "second chance"
to rebuild itself after two decades of famine and civil war. But critics warned
against throwing yet more taxpayers' cash into a country described by Foreign
Secretary William Hague earlier this month as "the world's most failed state".

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "Pouring ever larger amounts of our money is never
going to solve this country's problems." Emma Boon of the TaxPayers' Alliance
said: "It is crucial that taxpayers' money isn't lost to corruption in this
highly volatile area."

And UK Independence Party Euro-MP Godfrey Bloom said that Somalia had "a
government that had no control". He added: "It is madness to hand it more
taxpayers' cash."

The Prime Minister will make today's aid pledge at a conference which he is
hosting in London on the future of the poverty-stricken African nation.

Ministers insist that international efforts to stabilise Somalia, including
extra aid, are vital for tackling threats to Britain such as terrorism, piracy
and illegal immigration.

In the Commons yesterday, Mr Cameron said: "This is about trying to put in place
the building blocks among the international community.

"That means taking action on piracy, on hostages, and working with all parts of
Somalia to try and give that country - which has been more blighted by famine,
disease, terrorism and violence than almost any other in the world - a second
chance."

In a statement ahead of the conference last night, Mr Cameron said: "The
problems in Somalia can only ultimately be solved by the people of Somalia.

"But our national interest is clear: we can't just sit back and let this carry
on."

According to figures released by Downing Street, up to 100,000 Somalis have
starved to death over the last year.

A third of the country remains under control of the terrorist group al-Shabab,
which is linked to Al Qaeda.

And Somali pirates have hijacked 100 vessels and attacked 400 more in the last
three years.

Senior figures from Somalia's government will attend today's conference along
with US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and
representatives of up to 50 other nations.

The new British aid will include £20 million for a "stability fund" to attempt
to bring security to areas captured from terrorists. It will support a "rapid
response" force to set up hospitals, schools, police and courts.

The Foreign Office will also more than double a contribution to Somalia from its
conflict pool from £5million to £13million. The cash, separate from the aid
budget, will go towards supporting security in Somalia.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Should we stop ALL foreign aid?

YES: 0901 030 8344

NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088

No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Somalia aid scandal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 410 words


FROM PAGE ONE this country's problems." Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance,
said: "It is crucial that taxpayers' money isn't lost to corruption in this
highly volatile area."

And UK Independence Party Euro-MP Godfrey Bloom said that Somalia had "a
government that had no control". He added: "It is madness to hand it more
taxpayers' cash."

The Prime Minister will make today's aid pledge at a conference which he is
hosting in London on the future of the poverty-stricken African nation.

Ministers insist that international efforts to stabilise Somalia, including
extra aid, are vital for tackling threats to Britain such as terrorism, piracy
and illegal immigration.

In the Commons yesterday, Mr Cameron said: "This is about trying to put in place
the building blocks among the international community.

"That means taking action on piracy, on hostages, and working with all parts of
Somalia to try and give that country - which has been more blighted by famine,
disease, terrorism and violence than almost any other in the world - a second
chance."

In a statement ahead of the conference last night, Mr Cameron said: "The
problems in Somalia can only ultimately be solved by the people of Somalia.

"But our national interest is clear: we can't just sit back and let this carry
on."

According to figures released by Downing Street, up to 100,000 Somalis have
starved to death over the last year.

A third of the country remains under control of the terrorist group al-Shabab,
which is linked to Al Qaeda.

And Somali pirates have hijacked 100 vessels and attacked 400 more in the last
three years.

Senior figures from Somalia's government will attend today's conference along
with US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and
representatives of up to 50 other nations.

The new British aid will include £20million for a "stability fund" to attempt to
bring security to areas captured from terrorists. It will support a "rapid
response" force to set up hospitals, schools, police and courts.

The Foreign Office will also more than double a contribution to Somalia from its
conflict pool from £5million to £13million. The cash, separate from the aid
budget, will go towards supporting security in Somalia.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Should we stop ALL foreign aid?

YES: 0901 030 8344

NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088

No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Phone hacking: Jamie Theakston and Jeff Brazier sue News International

BYLINE: Josh Hallidayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 533 words

ABSTRACT

Presenter and Jade Goody's former husband join string of public figures taking
action against News of the World publisher. By Josh Halliday

FULL TEXT

Jamie Theakston and Jeff Brazier, the former husband of Jade Goody, are among
the latest public figures to sue News International over alleged phone hacking
by the News of the World.

Theakston, Brazier, the journalist Ted Hynds and Colin Stagg, the man who was
wrongly accused of the 1992 murder of Rachel Nickell, have started legal action
against Rupert Murdoch's UK newspaper group.

Each of their claims against News Group Newspapers, the News International
subsidiary that published the now defunct News of the World, relate to
allegations of voicemail interception.

The new civil actions were revealed on Thursday as it emerged that News
International has settled a claim for phone hacking damages by Charlotte Church.
The singer's case was due to go to trial in the high court on Monday.

Theakston and Brazier have been the subject of intense media interest in the
past decade.

Both men have presented reality TV shows and Brazier fathered two children in a
well-publicised relationship with the Big Brother contestant Jade Goody, who
died aged 27 after a battle with cervical cancer in 2009.

The lawyer for Stagg and Hynds confirmed to MediaGuardian that he was "actively
pursuing" legal action against News International.

Stagg was wrongly suspected of the murder of Rachel Nickell on Wimbledon Common
in 1992. He said in July last year that he "felt sick and angry" after he was
was told by the Metropolitan police that he was targeted by the News of the
World.

Hynds, an investigative journalist, wrote a book about Stagg's struggle for
justice, called Pariah: Colin Stagg, published in 2007. He has also been told by
the Met that he was a phone-hacking target.

It emerged on Wednesday that Cherie Blair, the wife of the former prime
minister, is also suing Murdoch's UK newspaper group over alleged phone hacking.

Each of the fresh claims - except that of Blair - name News Group Newspapers as
the sole defendant.

News International settled 37 civil actions in January - including high-profile
actions brought by the actor Jude Law and the son of serial killer Harold
Shipman - in a bid to prevent them from going to trial, and paid out to another
21 victims of phone hacking earlier this month.

However, News International faces at least 50 fresh civil actions. Others who
have already filed claims include footballer Peter Crouch, singer James Blunt
and Ukip leader Nigel Farage.

Michael Silverleaf QC, counsel for News Group Newspapers, told the high court on
Thursday that the publisher was attempting to settle "quite a few more" cases
against it over alleged voicemail interception.

News International had not responded to a request for comment at the time of
publication.

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Blair sues News International over phone hacking claims

BYLINE: Josh Halliday

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 474 words


Cherie Blair, the wife of the former prime minister, is suing News International
and private investigator Glenn Mulcaire over the alleged hacking of her phone by
the News of the World.

Blair's lawyer, Graham Atkins, said yesterday he had issued a claim against
Mulcaire and News Group Newspapers, the News International subsidiary that
published the now defunct News of the World, "in relation to the unlawful
interception of her voicemails".

Blair was at the heart of the government from May 1997 to June 2007 when her
husband was prime minister. It is not known when she is alleged to have been
targeted.

The legal action comes as Rupert Murdoch's UK newspaper group attempts to settle
a mounting number of civil claims over alleged voicemail interception by the
News of the World, which was closed in July 2011. News International faces at
least 50 fresh civil actions, with figures including footballer Peter Crouch,
singer James Blunt and Ukip leader Nigel Farage having already filed claims.

News International declined to comment, and Mulcaire's lawyer said she was not
yet aware of the legal action.

A statement from Atkins, Blair's lawyer, said: "I can confirm we have issued a
claim on behalf of Cherie Blair in relation to the unlawful interception of her
voicemails. I will not be commenting any further at this time."

Alastair Campbell, the former No 10 communications director, told the Leveson
inquiry into press standards in November that he believed that it was "possible"
some stories about the Blairs were obtained by phone hacking.

Campbell admitted that he had no evidence for the claim, but said in his witness
statement: "I do not know if (Carole Caplin's) phone was hacked, or if Cherie's
was, but knowing what we do now about hacking and the extent of it, I think it
is at least possible this is how the stories got out.

"They often involved details of where Cherie was going, the kind of thing
routinely discussed on phones when planning visits, private as well as public."

Separately, the former deputy prime minister in Tony Blair's government, John
Prescott, said yesterday that he was due to give evidence to the Leveson inquiry
on Monday. The inquiry into press standards is due to begin hearing evidence on
the relationship between the press and police from next week. However, some
witnesses will appear to give testimony from the previous module on the press
and public.

Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has been one of the most vocal critics of News
International over phone hacking, said the legal action was a "very significant"
development.

"Just when the hacking scandal was disappearing from view we now know that
Rupert Murdoch's hackers targeted family members of a sitting prime minister,"
he said.

Captions:

Cherie Blair is suing News International and Glenn Mulcaire over "the unlawful
interception of her voicemails"

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 23, 2012
                                 First Edition

Now Cherie sues NI as Church heads to court;
PHONE HACKING

BYLINE: James Cusick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 308 words


Cherie Blair has joined a second wave of phone-hacking claimants, her solicitor
confirmed yesterday, as it emerged Charlotte Church's legal battle against News
International is still on track for a High Court showdown next week.

Mrs Blair joins the new second wave of claimants against News Group Newspapers
(NGN) and the jailed private investigator the News of the World commissioned to
hack phones, Glenn Mulcaire, which includes the footballer Peter Crouch, UKIP
politician, Nigel Farage, the singer James Blunt, and the wife of the Ryder Cup
golfer Colin Montgomerie, Eimar Cook.

Graham Atkins, the solicitor of Mrs Blair, who is married to former Prime
Minister Tony Blair, confirmed a claim had been made "in relation to the
unlawful interception of her voicemails". In November, Mr Blair's former press
secretary, Alastair Campbell, told the Leveson Inquiry he had wrongly suspected
Mrs Blair's friend Carole Caplin of tipping off newspapers about her.

There are close to 100 alleged phonehacking victims in the process of
considering formal claims against NI at the High Court, with Ms Church's trial
still on course to provide a high-profile conclusion to the first wave of cases.
Despite optimistic signals that Rupert Murdoch's UK subsidiary had made a
"substantial" offer that was close to being accepted by the Welsh singer and her
family, crucial differences between the two sides have not been resolved. Ms
Church's phonehacking battle, scheduled to begin on Monday, is the last of six
test cases expected to provide the High Court with a framework to be used for
other claims against NI.

The company has now paid out in 54 cases, with five others still being
considered separately for legal reasons.

Police have said they believe 829 people were "likely" victims of phone hacking
by newspapers. Officers have contacted 581 of those so far.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 23, 2012 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Cherie Blair sues over hacking as Church case heads to court;


BYLINE: James Cusick

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 562 words


Cherie Blair has joined a second wave of phone-hacking claimants, her solicitor
confirmed yesterday, as it emerged that Charlotte Church's legal battle against
News International (NI) is still on track for a High Court showdown next week.

Mrs Blair joins the new second wave of claimants against News Group Newspapers
and the jailed private investigator the News of the World (NOTW) commissioned to
hack phones, Glenn Mulcaire, which includes the footballer Peter Crouch, the
Ukip politician Nigel Farage, the singer James Blunt, and Eimear Cook, the
former wife of the golfer Colin Montgomerie.

Graham Atkins, the solicitor of Mrs Blair, who is married to the former Prime
Minister Tony Blair, confirmed a claim had been made "in relation to the
unlawful interception of her voicemails". In November, Mr Blair's former press
secretary Alastair Campbell told the Leveson Inquiry he had wrongly suspected
Mrs Blair's friend Carole Caplin of tipping off newspapers about her.

There are close to 100 alleged phone-hacking victims in the process of
considering formal claims against NI at the High Court, with Ms Church's trial
still on course to provide a high-profile conclusion to the first wave of cases.

Despite optimistic signals that Rupert Murdoch's UK subsidiary had made a
"substantial" offer that was close to being accepted by the Welsh singer and her
family, crucial differences between the two sides have not been sufficiently
resolved. Ms Church's phone-hacking battle, scheduled to begin on Monday, is the
last one standing out of six test cases expected to provide the High Court with
a framework that would be used for other claims against NI.

The reasons behind the remaining gulf between NI and Ms Church are unclear.
However, in the recent pre-trial review before Mr Justice Vos, NI's senior
counsel, Michael Silverleaf, QC, made it clear that the business affairs of the
singer's family, and the mental health of her mother, Maria, would be a key
issue in the trial.

Mr Silverleaf successfully argued for a pre-trial psychological evaluation of
Mrs Church to be undertaken before Monday's trial date, along with a specific
examination of the family's pub business, said to be affected by years of
illegal phone interceptions by Mr Mulcaire and the NOTW.

This indicated that NI's defence against Ms Church will go beyond just her own
personal life. The intention to focus on the intimate details of her parents'
private life may have hardened the resolve of the singer to seek "punitive"
damages in court for the distress she told the Leveson Inquiry had been caused
to her family by the NOTW.

Even if there is an 11th-hour agreement between the two sides, Mr Justice Vos's
association with phone-hacking victims' cases will continue. He has given
instructions that new cases will be filed to his office, while a new fast-track
process allowing new victims quicker access to material held by the police and
NI is also being considered.

Mr Justice Vos will also today consider an application from lawyers representing
Mr Mulcaire, that should the trial go ahead on Monday, all or key parts of it
should be subject to reporting restrictions by the media. His legal team will
argue that the former private detective, who is facing new criminal action over
phone hacking, cannot receive a fair trail if details of the NOTW internal
practices are discussed in the trial.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 23, 2012 Thursday 6:41 PM GMT

Frank Carson;
Frank Carson, who has died aged 85, was Northern Ireland's best known comedy
export during the long, grim years of The Troubles, a standard-bearer for the
province's wellspring of native humour and love of the craic.

LENGTH: 858 words


Throughout the 1970s Carson's Tigger-like personality - over the top, and
occasionally tiresomely so - hugely amused viewers of such popular television
staples as The Comedians (1972-74) and The Wheeltappers and Shunters Social Club
(1974-76). These re-created the quick-fire gag format of the traditional
northern working men's clubs in the days before the demise of the mother-in-law
joke related over bottles of stout in smoke-filled rooms.

"It's a cracker!" and "It's the way I tell 'em!" were Carson's incessant
leitmotifs, the signatures which he attached to his jokes . Many of his gags
were "Irish" jokes, which is to say that they poked gentle fun at Carson's own
people, although the modern pieties of political correctness would probably now
prohibit many of them - especially those of the "thick Mick" variety - from
being broadcast.

With his heavy square spectacle frames, neatly cut hair, chubby cheeks and
short, squat frame, Carson looked every inch the twinkling tradesman that he
actually used to be before winning Hughie Green's television talent show
Opportunity Knocks no fewer than three times.

It was a feat that established Carson as television's pre-eminent "motormouth" -
a crown that he never subsequently relinquished. Some producers became reluctant
to book Carson for live shows because he would inevitably deviate from the
pre-agreed script, would upstage any other comedian, interrupt any business that
did not involve himself, and flood the airwaves with non-stop gags of varying
vintages.

One of Spike Milligan's favourite jokes neatly encapsulated the problem: "What's
the difference between Frank Carson and the M1?"

"You can turn off the M1."

Hugh Francis Carson was born on November 6 1926 in Belfast, to a family of
Italian descent; his grandmother was Sicilian. His father, a lapsed Roman
Catholic, was a newspaper distributor, and Frank started performing with the
Belfast News Boys' Club at the age of nine. He was educated at St Patrick's
primary school in the immigrant area of Belfast known as Little Italy, now
demolished. Although too young to serve in the war, in the late 1940s he spent
three years in the Middle East with the Parachute Regiment.

In Palestine in 1947 he was caught up in clashes in the militant Arab quarter in
Haifa, and as a fighting corporal he shot and killed one of a group of Jewish
prisoners who had broken out of jail and were making a run for it towards the
desert.

Carson had left school at 14 with no qualifications and became an apprentice
electrician, but at 16 had switched to being a plasterer. In his spare time he
worked on his spiel as a stand-up comic, a talent that earned him regular
appearances on Northern Ireland television. When he was 25 he sold some scripts
to the regional BBC station, and became a professional entertainer, touring with
the Australian magician known as The Great Levante.

Encouraged to try his luck on the northern club scene on the mainland, Carson
was spotted by the television producer Barney Colehan and signed up for his
first network exposure on the music-hall tribute show The Good Old Days.
Meanwhile, on ITV, Carson - having thrice won Opportunity Knocks - was also
booked to appear on The Comedians, by the producer Johnny Hamp.

This was the show that transformed Carson from an obscure club comedian into a
comedy star. His blustering salvos of Northern Irish humour sat well in Hamp's
quick-fire format of one comic after another. Carson's comedy confrères included
Bernard Manning, Roy Walker, Jim Bowen, George Roper and the black Yorkshire
comedian Charlie Williams.

Carson appeared in every series, and also toured with the record-breaking stage
version of the show. He found himself in demand for cabaret dates and club
bookings across Britain and abroad; his workload affected his health, and when
he underwent heart surgery in 1976, it was suggested that this would mean
inevitable, if premature, retirement.

But Carson continued working - he became a regular on the ATV children's' series
Tiswas - and also made television acting appearances and had roles in two
feature films. He claimed to be the Queen's favourite comedian and that he had
met her more than 100 times.

In 2004 his planned appearance on the reality television show I'm a Celebrity,
Get Me Out of Here! was shelved by ITV executives on account of prohibitive
insurance costs due to Carson's age and concerns about his health.

He was planning to call his autobiography Rebel Without A Pause, and claimed it
ran to more than a million words.

In 1987 Pope John-Paul conferred on Carson a Knighthood of the Order of St
Gregory to recognise his extensive work for charity. He appeared in the Royal
Variety performance of 1992, and was the subject of This Is Your Life. He was a
member of the entertainment charity the Grand Order of Water Rats.

In later life he lived at Blackpool, and became involved with the Eurosceptic UK
Independence Party.

Carson, who underwent surgery for stomach cancer in July 2011, is survived by
his wife, Ruth, and three children.

Frank Carson, born November 6 1926, died February 22 2012

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 23, 2012 Thursday 10:58 AM GMT

MEP Nikki Sinclaire arrested in expenses probe;
West Midlands MEP Nikki Sinclaire has been arrested on suspicion of conspiracy
to defraud the European Parliament.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

LENGTH: 390 words


The MEP was arrested and bailed with three other people yesterday as part of a
probe into expenses by West Midlands Police.

Properties have been searched by officers investigating an allegation made in
2010 over the use of allowances and expenses.

Ms Sinclaire, 43, was elected as a UKIP MEP in June 2009 and came third in the
contest to succeed Nigel Farage as party leader later that year.

But she had the whip withdrawn in 2010 for refusing to sit with the party's
Italian allies Liga Nord in the European Parliament. Ms Sinclaire, a lesbian,
said the party were homophobic.

She won a claim for sex discrimation against her former colleagues at an
employment tribunal and now sits as an independent.

A spokesman for West Midlands Police said: "Officers from West Midlands Police
Economic Crime Unit arrested four people yesterday on suspicion of conspiracy to
defraud the European Parliament.

"Two women aged 55 and 39 and a man aged 19 were arrested at addresses in
Solihull, Worcester and Birmingham and were taken to a police station for
questioning. A 43-year-old woman was later arrested at a police station in
Birmingham.

"All four have since been released on police bail.

"Searches have been carried out at the addresses involved by officers conducting
an investigation into an allegation made in 2010 regarding allowances and
expenses."

On her Twitter page today, a spokesman for Miss Sinclaire said the MEP attended
the police station in Birmingham voluntarily yesterday and co-operated fully
with the police.

"This is particularly frustrating to Ms Sinclaire who is eager to clear her name
and has nothing to hide," tweets on the MEP's page said.

The MEP "disputes all allegations put towards her or her staff", which were "old
allegations made by a disgruntled ex-employee who himself is under investigation
and whose motives are entirely political to pursue his advancement in Ukip",
they continued.

Due to the police investigation, it would be inappropriate to comment further at
this time, it added.

It said Miss Sinclaire and her office would continue to "fully co-operate with
the police on this matter".

In a short statement, Ukip said Ms Sinclaire ceased to be an MEP for the party
in 2010.

"It would be inappropriate for the party to make any comment during the process
of an ongoing police inquiry," the statement said.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

YOU PAY £500 TO RESCUE GREECE;
GET US Madness...British families are OUT OF THE EU hammered again in EU crisis

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 678 words


FURY erupted last night after it emerged that every household in Britain now
faces a £500 bill for bailing out Greece and the crisis-ridden euro.

Senior Eurocrats indicated that Britain will be expected to hand over an extra
£1billion through the International Monetary Fund to a colossal £110billion new
emergency pot. MPs and Euro MPs were outraged at the latest handout and the
controversy will lend weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of
the European Union.

The new bail-out will take the UK's total liability for supporting TURN TO PAGE
2 from PAGE onE the eurozone to an eye-watering £12.5billion, equivalent to £500
for every household.

EU leaders said the latest deal, clinched at 4.30am yesterday in Brussels, would
save Greece from a catastrophic debt default that could spark a deep
European-wide recession.

But many economists feared the bailout was still not enough and will lead to
another euro crisis within months.

One of the angry MPs, Tory backbencher Peter Bone, said: "We should not be using
money from hard-working British taxpayers to bail out a currency that we have
nothing to do with. This is an abuse of the IMF system."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The mere idea
that more money should be committed to the IMF is an insult to hardworking
British taxpayers.

"David Cameron will have a fight on his hands over this, especially from his own
backbenchers, who will finally see that he is not the great euro sceptic he will
have them believe."

Boost Chancellor George Osborne claimed the deal would be "good for Britain
because resolving the eurozone crisis would be the biggest boost that Britain
could get for its economy this year".

He added: "They have made real progress towards giving a sustainable debt
position for Greece. Hopefully we can all move on now and get the European
economy growing."

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso described the bail-out
agreement as "an essential step forward for the country and for the euro area as
a whole".

But former chancellor Alistair Darling said: "Even if Greece manages to do
everything asked, in eight years' time they will still have a debt of 120per
cent of their GDP. " He added: "I suspect Greece will be back at the table at
some point and, if the eurozone is not very fortunate, other countries will be
back as well."

EU leaders haggled through the night before agreeing the £110billion deal to
replace a previous £91billion fund agreed two years ago that failed to ease's
Greece's debt nightmare.

Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos said the agreement meant "we avoided
the nightmare scenario" but even deeper cuts will have to be made.

Downing Street officials yesterday insisted that the new £110billion bailout was
a matter for the eurozone. "There is no proposal for an IMF contribution on the
table at the moment," said the Prime Minister's spokesman.

But IMF chief Christine Lagarde confirmed that it would contribute to the new
fund. "I intend to make a recommendation to our executive board regarding IMF
financing to support a programme," she said.

German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble predicted that the IMF plans would
contribute £10billion. Under current commitments, that would mean a further UK
contribution of £450million plus around £500million remaining in the previous
Greek bail-out pot.

Britain's £12.5billion commitment includes previous loans and IMF contributions
to support Greece, Ireland and Portugal.

City experts feared the bail-out had merely put off the day of reckoning.
Carsten Brzeski, of ING Bank, said: "The feeling of relief is not likely to last
for long." Jennifer McKeown, of Capital Economics, warned that the Greek economy
was "stuck in a hole".

EU bUlb bAn: PAGE 6 oPinion: PAGE 12

Bail-out 'is an insult to British taxpayers'

Should Britain STOP giving money to prop up the euro? q YEs: 0901 030 8342 no:
0901 030 8343 Yes text DXWEDYEs to 80088 no text DXWEDno to 80088 Calls cost 26p
from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network
operator rates

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greek minister Evangelos Venizelos yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

80% of babies born in parts of London have foreign parents

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 497 words


THE full impact of uncontrolled migration into the UK was laid bare yesterday by
shock figures showing that four in every five babies born in some parts of
London have foreign parents.

Across the capital two-thirds of the babies born in 2010 had a migrant mother or
father. But in Newham the number of births to at least one non-British parent
soared to an astonishing 84 per cent.

In only six of 32 London boroughs was the figure below 50 per cent.

The report comes on top of official figures showing the number of babies born to
foreign mothers in 2010 hit a record high. The Office of National Statistics
said migrant mothers accounted for more than one in four births.

Campaigners pointed to the new figures to show how mass migration is changing
the face of British society and placing an intolerable strain on public
services.

Sir Andrew Green of campaign group MigrationWatch said: "These extraordinary
figures illustrate the huge and rapid change that is taking place in our capital
city.

"They illustrate the way in which London is being changed beyond recognition and
on a scale and at a speed that makes successful integration so much more
difficult. "It is a stark reminder to the Government to stick to their promise
to get net migration down to the tens of thousands by the end of this
Parliament."

Euro MP Gerard Batten, home affairs spokesman for Ukip, said: "What these
figures prove is that the massive growth in population can be shown to be due to
migration. The population of Britain is changing rapidly and that is not because
of individual decisions made by Britons to marry but because of deliberately
engineered mass migration. "This kind of growth is simply unsustainable."

The statistics, revealed in response to a Parliamentary question from Tory MP
Nicholas Soames, showed that in 2010 there were around 135,000 babies born
across London of which 86,111 - or 64 per cent - had one or more migrant
parents.

In Newham, east London, 84.1 per cent of the borough's 5,266 births were to
foreign parents. Most are from Pakistan, Poland and India.

Westminster had a non-British birth rate of 81.2 per cent while, in the borough
of Kensington and Chelsea it was 79.1 per cent.

Areas with the lowest non-British parentage were Havering at 24 per cent and
Bexley and Bromley, each with 33 per cent.

The ONS has suggested that the baby boom is partly down to immigrant mothers
with "above average fertility rates".

The result is that Britain's population is now close to 62 million, with numbers
rising by more than 1,000 a day. Experts predict the population will hit 70
million within 20 years.

Whitehall acknowledges that 100,000 new homes will be needed each year for the
next 25 years to cope with results of immigration.

Earlier this week, the Daily Express revealed how old warehouses may have to be
turned into classrooms for thousands of children as immigration and the
accompanying jump in birth rate pushes the demand for primary school places ever
higher.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning from Euro MP Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now the EU takes dim view of halogen bulbs

BYLINE: John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 448 words


BRITAIN faces a new round of lightbulb chaos with EU plans to ban halogen lights
and force people to buy alternatives that are up to 12 times more expensive,
experts warned yesterday.

The EU could phase out low-voltage halogen bulbs by as early as next year even
though millions are used in shops, offices and the home.

The proposal is part of its Ecodesign agenda to cut energy use and greenhouse
gas emissions. But even firms selling more efficient bulbs branded the approach
"misguided".

They said consumers face big bills for replacements and predicted a repeat of
the chaos when the EU phased out traditional incandescent lightbulbs.

The threat is to 12V MR16s bulbs, which are widely used as directional
spotlights. They currently cost about £2 each and are 30 per cent more efficient
than old-style bulbs.

Axing them would force consumers to buy energy-saving bulbs or LEDs which last
longer but can cost up to £25 each.

LED specialist Simon Leggett of OCG Lighting yesterday said: "Banning
low-voltage halogens risks triggering the same problems during the incandescent
bulb phaseout, with prices escalating as people stockpiled the outgoing bulbs in
defiance of the ban.

"Of course, it's vitally important that we move to energy efficient solutions
but businesses and consumers need to see improvements in technology, and the
benefit of investing in lighting for the long-term." Consumer Focus Energy
director Audrey Gallacher said: "It will not be a popular decision with
consumers if these lightbulbs are also to be phased out, as the upfront costs
for alternative energy-saving bulbs are much more expensive." Daily Express
columnist Jasmine Birtles, founder of moneymagpie.com, said: "This is typical of
the EU. It is sensible to push for more environmentally friendly products but
they haven't thought it through.

"Replacing halogen with other bulbs may well require an electrician and even a
carpenter to come out to change your fittings. This could be a nightmare for the
elderly."

Ukip's Paul Nuttall, said: "This is just another example of how the European
Union interferes with every nook and cranny of our lives."

The Department for Environment said the proposal was only a draft. A spokeswoman
said: "The EU has proposed regulations that would set a minimum performance
standard for some halogen bulbs.

"Negotiations on any new regulations are at an early stage and no decisions have
been made."

An EU spokesman said the proposal followed "in-depth technical and economic
study and extensive consultation". A switch to more efficient bulbs would save
households up to £42 a year each and would reduce energy use by the equivalent
of 11 million European households by 2020, he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Bail-out 'is an insult to British taxpayers'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 534 words


from PAGE onE the eurozone to an eye-watering £12.5billion, equivalent to £500
for every household.

EU leaders said the latest deal, clinched at 4.30am yesterday in Brussels, would
save Greece from a catastrophic debt default that could spark a deep
European-wide recession.

But many economists feared the bailout was still not enough and will lead to
another euro crisis within months.

One of the angry MPs, Tory backbencher Peter Bone, said: "We should not be using
money from hard-working British taxpayers to bail out a currency that we have
nothing to do with. This is an abuse of the IMF system."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The mere idea
that more money should be committed to the IMF is an insult to hardworking
British taxpayers.

"David Cameron will have a fight on his hands over this, especially from his own
backbenchers, who will finally see that he is not the great euro sceptic he will
have them believe."

Boost Chancellor George Osborne claimed the deal would be "good for Britain
because resolving the eurozone crisis would be the biggest boost that Britain
could get for its economy this year".

He added: "They have made real progress towards giving a sustainable debt
position for Greece. Hopefully we can all move on now and get the European
economy growing."

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso described the bail-out
agreement as "an essential step forward for the country and for the euro area as
a whole".

But former chancellor Alistair Darling said: "Even if Greece manages to do
everything asked, in eight years' time they will still have a debt of 120per
cent of their GDP. " He added: "I suspect Greece will be back at the table at
some point and, if the eurozone is not very fortunate, other countries will be
back as well."

EU leaders haggled through the night before agreeing the £110billion deal to
replace a previous £91billion fund agreed two years ago that failed to ease's
Greece's debt nightmare.

Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos said the agreement meant "we avoided
the nightmare scenario" but even deeper cuts will have to be made.

Downing Street officials yesterday insisted that the new £110billion bailout was
a matter for the eurozone. "There is no proposal for an IMF contribution on the
table at the moment," said the Prime Minister's spokesman.

But IMF chief Christine Lagarde confirmed that it would contribute to the new
fund. "I intend to make a recommendation to our executive board regarding IMF
financing to support a programme," she said.

German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble predicted that the IMF plans would
contribute £10billion. Under current commitments, that would mean a further UK
contribution of £450million plus around £500million remaining in the previous
Greek bail-out pot.

Britain's £12.5billion commitment includes previous loans and IMF contributions
to support Greece, Ireland and Portugal.

City experts feared the bail-out had merely put off the day of reckoning.
Carsten Brzeski, of ING Bank, said: "The feeling of relief is not likely to last
for long." Jennifer McKeown, of Capital Economics, warned that the Greek economy
was "stuck in a hole".

EU bUlb bAn: PAGE 4 oPinion: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greek minister Evangelos Venizelos yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Phone hacking: Cherie Blair to sue News International

BYLINE: Josh Hallidayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 778 words

ABSTRACT

Tony Blair's wife to take action against Glenn Mulcaire and NI over the alleged
hacking of her phone by News of the World. By Josh Halliday

FULL TEXT

Cherie Blair, the wife of the former prime minister, is suing News International
and private investigator Glenn Mulcaire over the alleged hacking of her phone by
the News of the World.

Blair's lawyer, Graham Atkins, said on Wednesday he had issued a claim against
Mulcaire and News Group Newspapers, the News International subsidiary that
published the now defunct News of the World, "in relation to the unlawful
interception of her voicemails".

Blair was at the heart of the British government for 10 years - from May 1997 to
June 2007 - as the wife of the former prime minister, Tony Blair. It is not
known when Cherie Blair is alleged to have been targeted.

The fresh legal action comes as Rupert Murdoch's UK newspaper group attempts to
settle a mounting number of civil claims over alleged voicemail interception by
the News of the World, which closed in July 2011.

News International declined to comment.

Mulcaire's lawyer said she was not yet aware of the legal action.

A statement from Atkins, Cherie Blair's lawyer, said: "I can confirm that we
have issued a claim on behalf of Cherie Blair in relation to the unlawful
interception of her voicemails.

"I will not be commenting any further at this time."

News International settled 37 civil actions in January - including high-profile
actions brought by the actor Jude Law and the son of serial killer Harold
Shipman - in a bid to prevent them from going to trial, and paid out to another
21 victims of phone hacking earlier this month.

The publisher is also attempting to reach a settlement with the singer Charlotte
Church, whose legal action will proceed to a full trial at the high court on
Monday unless it is settled beforehand.

However, News International faces at least 50 fresh civil actions, with figures
including footballer Peter Crouch, singer James Blunt and Ukip leader Nigel
Farage having already filed claims and others being prepared.

The news of Blair's legal action comes at an embarrassing time for Rupert
Murdoch, who arrived in London last week to lift the spirits of his newspaper
group.

Alastair Campbell, the former No 10 communications director, told the Leveson
inquiry in November that he believed it was "possible" that some stories about
the Blairs were obtained by phone hacking.

Campbell admitted he had no evidence for the claim, but said in his witness
statement: "I do not know if her [Carole Caplin's] phone was hacked, or if
Cherie's was, but knowing what we do now about hacking and the extent of it, I
think it is at least possible this is how the stories got out.

"They often involved details of where Cherie was going, the kind of thing
routinely discussed on phones when planning visits, private as well as public."

Caplin, former lifestyle guru to Blair, said in November that she had been told
by Scotland Yard that her name appears on a list of victims targeted by
Mulcaire.

Separately, the former deputy prime minister in Blair's government, John
Prescott, said in a tweet on Wednesday that he was due to give evidence to the
Leveson inquiry on Monday.

The inquiry into press standards is due to begin hearing evidence on the
relationship between the press and police from next week. However, some
witnesses will appear to give testimony from the previous module on the press
and public.

Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has been one of the most vocal critics of News
International over phone hacking, said the legal action was a "very significant"
development.

"Just when the hacking scandal was disappearing from view we now know that
Rupert Murdoch's hackers targeted family members of a sitting prime minister,"
he told MediaGuardian.

"The lesson for all politicians, including David Cameron, is that Rupert Murdoch
is only a fair-weather friend. I trust that Tony Blair will condemn Murdoch's
failure to deal with long-term criminal wrongdoing at News International."

He added: "I hope that the replacement to the News of the World - the newly
titled Sun on Sunday - will take the opportunity to apologise to all the people
who suffered illegal invasions of privacy at the hands of the hackers and they
come clean about other forms of illicit surveillance."

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 700 words


&#10002;Europe faces the greatest financial crisis in a generation. So it was
right that on Thursday the House of Lords devoted a whole day of debate to the
plight of Greece and the meltdown everyone fears. Tory Lord Flight got it going
nicely. What about those Germans, he said. What a load of hypocrites for
demanding "reparations" from Greece while they were crippled by them after the
first world war. "I would have thought that if poor old Adenauer was still
around today, he would not make the disastrous mistakes made by the present
German administration, which in effect repeats the very reparations-type of
approach that caused so much trouble in Germany after the Great War." A
comparatively restrained Flight took peers to the top. Ukip's Lord Willoughby de
Broke sought to take them over. "What is the remedy prescribed by the EU
leeches? It is to take more blood in the form of more wage cuts, more
unemployment, lower pensions. 'Austerity macht frei' seems to be the remedy
prescribed by the Germans, certainly to Greece and to the rest of the 'Club Med'
members of the eurozone when they are unable to meet the German requisites."
Arise, my Lord Basil of Fawlty.

&#10002;Where are they now? Off on hols, one would guess, for parliament has
taken the decision this session not to co-ordinate the half-term breaks for the
Lords and the Commons. MPs were off last week. The Lords this week. The decision
has caused quite a few problems, for it means that joint committees are not able
to meet for two weeks, with all that could mean for pending legislation. So why
has it happened? No official explanation, but a source in the Lords says there
is talk about those who influence the timetable, and the savings to be had
heading for the ski slopes outside of school half-term. Ah, counting the
pennies. My Lord Basil of Fawlty does that too.

&#10002;And as Jeremy Clarkson escapes unpunished by Ofcom - the regulator
reasonably concluding that the star is actually paid to be an idiot - one can
reflect on the benefits of living without hindrance of worthwhile reputation.
His Swedish equivalent might be the protagonist in an episode that has them
talking in Scandinavian religious circles. The priest from Varmland was caught
posting pornographic pictures of himself and his partner on a church computer.
Yes, it's bad form, the church authorities have said. Not in keeping with "the
level of public trust required of priests". But since he "is not considered to
have damaged his reputation considerably", let's just forget the whole matter
and carry on as if nothing happened. Something to give Julian Assange fresh
hope. A forgiving lot, the Swedes.

&#10002;But then, we rub along better with a bit of understanding, and helpfully
that attitude prevails among those currently debating the rights and wrongs of
gay marriage. "Our strong advice to anyone who disagrees with same sex marriage
is not to get married to someone of the same sex," says Ben Summerskill, chief
executive of Stonewall. Try that. If it doesn't work, come back in a week.

&#10002;Finally, new claims that Lord Lucan lived a secret life in Africa after
fleeing Britain in the wake of his children's nanny's murder have alas been
rubbished by Lady Lucan. But they do bring to mind Garth Gibbs, the journalist
who died last year and who, had he been alive, would doubtless have been
suggesting to a newsdesk that he be dispatched posthaste to an African
destination. He once said: "I regard not finding Lord Lucan as my most
spectacular success in journalism. Of course, many of my colleagues have also
been fairly successful in not finding Lord Lucan. But I have successfully not
found him in more exotic spots than anybody else." According to his obit in the
Press Gazette last year, Gibbs "spent three glorious weeks not finding him in
Cape Town, magical days and nights not finding him in the Black Mountains of
Wales, and wonderful and successful short breaks not finding him in Macau
either, or in Hong Kong or even in Green Turtle Cay in the Bahamas, where you
can find anyone." For endeavour without result on the story that gripped the
nation, Gibbs was definitely the guy.

diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday

Boris v Ken: debate launches renewed battle to run London: Leading candidates
neck and neck in the polls Pressure on for mayoralty rivals to avoid own goals

BYLINE: Helene Mulholland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 592 words


Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone last shared a platform late on the evening of
2 May 2008, when the new Tory mayor of London made his acceptance speech, in
which he paid tribute to his Labour rival after stripping Livingstone of the
title he had held for eight years.

Close to four years on, the fight between the two begins again in earnest today,
with polls putting them neck and neck.

They will defend their mayoral records ahead of the 3 May election in front of a
200-strong audience at an event organised by the charity Age UK London and the
Greater London Forum for Older People.

Recent polling has given the Conservatives a jolt and the Labour camp hope. The
healthy lead Johnson had enjoyed since last June evaporated when a YouGov poll
in mid-January put Livingstone ahead by 51%-49%. The findings indicated his
pledge to cut public transport fares by 7% appealed to Londoners, who were hit
by a new year fare rise averaging 5.6%.

A ComRes poll a week later gave Livingstone the same narrow margin over Johnson.
But the Tory incumbent wrested back a narrow lead (51%-49%) in a YouGov poll for
the London Evening Standard earlier this month. In a contest where personality
plays a significant role, Livingstone was back behind Johnson, who was seen as
more charismatic (48%-18%) and honest (23%-18%). There was support for
Livingstone's fare pledge (68% for compared with 16% against), but only 44%
thought he would deliver it if re-elected. Of the top four issues of concern to
voters, Livingstone was the most trusted to improve transport, the cost of
living, and to create jobs, while Johnson led on tackling crime.

The election takes place amidst a tough economic climate and austerity cuts
imposed by the government - a far cry from Livingstone's eight years in power
under Labour, when his mayoralty benefited from an increase in public
expenditure.

A source close to Johnson admits that being the Tory candidate mid-term under a
Conservative-led government is "obviously tough".

Things appear even tougher for Brian Paddick, the former senior Met police
officer again representing the Liberal Democrats after coming third in 2008
under the supplementary vote system. He too represents a party in power but is
trailing woefully behind in the polls (6%).

Livingstone is seeking to woo the Lib Dem vote, saying he wanted to "bring the
Liberals" into his administration if elected, while urging his supporters to
vote for the Green candidate, Jenny Jones, as their second-preference. Lawrence
Webb of Ukip is also standing.

For Livingstone today has been a long time coming. He has been itching for a
public debate with Johnson, confident he will trump the most popular Tory in the
land when it comes to debating serious policy issues. He has sought to cast
Johnson's refusal to share a platform with him to date as a sign he is too
"chicken" to do so.

In fact, more than 30 invitations to debates have been sent out by interest
groups in London. Johnson and Livingstone are jointly billed at five events.

The pressure is on for the two rivals - both seen as gaffe-prone - to avoid own
goals.

Tony Travers, director of the Greater London group at the London School of
Economics, said: "Whereas normally the odd gaffe, the odd mistake or wrong
statistic cited wouldn't be a problem in a race that is largely predetermined;
in one where it could come down to 200 or 1,000 votes, any one mistake could be
fatal."

Captions:

Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone will meet head to head to defend their
respective London mayoral records today Photograph: Tim Ireland

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 21, 2012 Tuesday 4:44 PM GMT

Greek bailout good for Britain says George Osborne;
Eurozone agrees last-ditch attempt to rally markets and put crisis-hit Athens
back on the path to economic recovery

BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1431 words


The Greek bail-out is "good for Britain", Chancellor George Osborne insisted
today as he hailed this morning's deal as a "really significant step" towards
resolving the eurozone crisis.

Single currency governments approved a second massive rescue package for the
ailing nation after more than 12 hours of talks in Brussels.

Haggling over figures, financial targets and Greek government belt-tightening
pledges went on through the night in a last-ditch attempt to rally markets and
put crisis-hit Athens back on the path to economic recovery.

Speaking to reporters as he arrived for an EU finance ministers' meeting in
Brussels this morning, Mr Osborne said: "Of course, resolving the Greek
situation is only part of resolving the eurozone crisis but I think we took a
really significant step towards that last night and that is good for Britain
because resolving the eurozone crisis would be the biggest boost that Britain
could get for its economy this year."

The Chancellor said the package was a major step towards securing debt
sustainability in Greece.

"That's been the crucial missing ingredient," he added. "They have not, in the
past, come up with a sustainable position for Greece. I think they have made
real progress now towards giving a sustainable debt position for Greece.

"Of course the Greek people, the Greek political system has to deliver really
difficult decisions now but I don't think Greece has any other option.

"The other significant point about last night's deal was that the rest of the
eurozone signalled a willingness to stand behind their currency and stand behind
Greece and frankly all along the failure to deal with the Greek situation has
caused uncertainty.

"Hopefully we can all move on now and get the European economy growing."

In return for the latest 130bn euro (£110bn) bail-out and a private creditor
debt write-off worth about another 100bn euros (£84bn), the Greek government is
pledged to implement fully a severe austerity package of pay, pension and jobs
cuts, as well as finding savings of 325m euros (£270m) in this year's national
budget.

The Greek economy received a 110bn euro (£91bn) bail out from the EU and IMF in
2010 but it was not enough to lift Greece out of crisis.

Ahead of the overnight talks some critics were warning against "throwing good
money after bad", but the price of letting Greece default and be forced out of
the euro currency was seen as a worse option.

Instead the talks concentrated on tying Greece as tightly as possible to
austerity measures which will chip away at its debt and deficit levels.

Political parties on all sides were even pressed to promise no easing of the
austerity package in forthcoming Greek elections.

A deal was needed to give Greece enough funding to meet its next debt repayment
of 14.5bn euro (£12bn), due on March 20.

But beleaguered Greek prime minister Lucas Papademos has faced violent street
protests for months as he has tried to impose the deep public sector cuts
demanded by the EU and IMF in return for another enormous bail-out.

And his troubles are far from over: Greece has been in recession for five
consecutive years and the latest deal cannot guarantee much more than temporary
relief from the crisis, unless the cutbacks work.

To ensure they do work, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland demanded
another condition from Greece late last night - the establishment of a permanent
office in Athens made up of representatives from the EU, IMF and European
Central Bank to oversee Greek tax and spend policies.

The IMF already has a base in Greece to monitor Greek finances and EU Economic
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn made clear the eurozone now expected action from
Greece, saying: "We expect the unprecedented solidarity of Greece's partners to
be matched by a strong commitment by Greek leaders to fully implement their
austerity programme, first and foremost for the benefit of Greek citizens."

IMF chief Christine Lagarde said: "It is best to look forward and make sure that
Greece is in the best position to deliver on its commitments.

"There is more focus this time on competitiveness and structural reforms, and
market reforms to unleash as much growth as possible in the Greek economy."

On lowering the Greek debt, she said Greece was facing a 160% level of debt
compared to its national wealth without the reforms, and the 160% figure
remained a threat in the event of the failure of the reform package.

She emphasised: "In the event of failure to deliver on the reforms that is what
would happen: it is not an easy (reform) programme - it is ambitious."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said the bail-out would only delay,
not prevent, Greek departure from the euro.

He said: "The Greeks don't need Draconian death by a thousand cuts; they need
the drachma back so they can reboot their economy."

He said a bond write-off - Greece's private creditors are forgoing 53.5% of
their repayments - was "a default by another name", adding: "This so-called
bailout is just delaying the inevitable euro exit by Greece.

"It is time to bow to reality and set the Greek people free from this dreadful
euro prison."

Conservative MP John Redwood said Greece should still leave the eurozone, even
after last night's deal.

He told BBC2's Daily Politics programme: "I think Greece should definitely
leave, I think Portugal should probably leave.

"They need to tidy it up, get rid of the worst cases and then defend the core.
That's what they should do to be successful."

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso described the bail-out
agreement as "an essential step forward for the country and for the euro area as
a whole".

He went on: "This package opens the way for Greece to construct a new and more
sustainable economy better able to generate growth and jobs.

"It also closes the door on the scenario of an uncontrolled default, with all
its grave economic and social implications that mean chaos for Greece and the
Greek people."

Mr Barroso said he was aware of the heavy burden of Greek austerity measures on
the Greek population, but the measures were "long overdue".

The Commissioner warned: "There is no alternative to fiscal consolidation and to
structural reform in Greece if Greece wants to regain competitiveness so that it
can once again generate growth and jobs.

"I think this message has to be clear and the best way of showing our solidarity
with Greece is to speak the truth."

Greece now needed to build a more modern and "citizen-friendly" public
administration, a "fair and more effective" tax system and a more friendly
business environment to boost jobs.

Mr Barroso added: "It (the bail-out agreement) was the right decision, not only
for Greece but also for the euro area.

"It is a welcome signal that our common goal is for a stable and prosperous
Greece with a secure future in the euro.

"We are committed to the future of the euro and to the future of our union."

Prime Minister David Cameron said Europe must now focus on creating a firewall
to prevent the debt crisis spreading.

At a press conference in Downing Street, he said: "Greece has made its choice
and we now have to focus on the next step, which is constructing a firewall
which is large enough to prevent contagion within the eurozone.

"Britain is outside the eurozone. We are not going to join the eurozone and we
have the advantage outside the eurozone of being able to accompany the tough
fiscal measures that are necessary when you have a deficit like ours, when you
have a debt like ours, you have to make some reductions in public spending, you
have to control public spending properly but at the same time you can accompany
that with a looser monetary policy - obviously the responsibility of the Bank of
England but they have enabled that to happen.

"I think that's absolutely essential and I think it is important in the eurozone
too but that is a matter for the European Central Bank."

Asked whether the UK would be liable for a share of the new Greek bailout
through its contributions to the IMF, Mr Cameron's official spokesman said: "We
have not agreed to anything.

"This was a eurozone agreement and there is no proposal on the table for
additional IMF support."

Any request for IMF support as part of the new package would have to be made to
the international financial organisation's board, he said.

"The bigger picture is that we need to see a resolution to the crisis in the
eurozone and getting a resolution for Greece is an important step in that," said
the Prime Minister's spokesman.

"It is not everything that needs to happen, but it is an important part of what
needs to happen."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 21, 2012 Tuesday 11:14 AM GMT

Greek bailout good for Britain says Osborne;
Eurozone agrees last-ditch attempt to rally markets and put crisis-hit Athens
back on the path to economic recovery

BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 854 words


The Greek bail-out is "good for Britain", Chancellor George Osborne insisted
today as he hailed this morning's deal as a "really significant step" towards
resolving the eurozone crisis.

Single currency governments approved a second massive rescue package for the
ailing nation after more than 12 hours of talks in Brussels.

Haggling over figures, financial targets and Greek government belt-tightening
pledges went on through the night in a last-ditch attempt to rally markets and
put crisis-hit Athens back on the path to economic recovery.

Speaking to reporters as he arrived for an EU finance ministers' meeting in
Brussels this morning, Mr Osborne said: "Of course, resolving the Greek
situation is only part of resolving the eurozone crisis but I think we took a
really significant step towards that last night and that is good for Britain
because resolving the eurozone crisis would be the biggest boost that Britain
could get for its economy this year."

The Chancellor said the package was a major step towards securing debt
sustainability in Greece.

"That's been the crucial missing ingredient," he added. "They have not, in the
past, come up with a sustainable position for Greece. I think they have made
real progress now towards giving a sustainable debt position for Greece.

"Of course the Greek people, the Greek political system has to deliver really
difficult decisions now but I don't think Greece has any other option.

"The other significant point about last night's deal was that the rest of the
eurozone signalled a willingness to stand behind their currency and stand behind
Greece and frankly all along the failure to deal with the Greek situation has
caused uncertainty.

"Hopefully we can all move on now and get the European economy growing."

In return for the latest 130bn euro (£110bn) bail-out and a private creditor
debt write-off worth about another 100bn euros (£84bn), the Greek government is
pledged to implement fully a severe austerity package of pay, pension and jobs
cuts, as well as finding savings of 325m euros (£270m) in this year's national
budget.

The Greek economy received a 110bn euro (£91bn) bail out from the EU and IMF in
2010 but it was not enough to lift Greece out of crisis.

Ahead of the overnight talks some critics were warning against "throwing good
money after bad", but the price of letting Greece default and be forced out of
the euro currency was seen as a worse option.

Instead the talks concentrated on tying Greece as tightly as possible to
austerity measures which will chip away at its debt and deficit levels.

Political parties on all sides were even pressed to promise no easing of the
austerity package in forthcoming Greek elections.

A deal was needed to give Greece enough funding to meet its next debt repayment
of 14.5bn euro (£12bn), due on March 20.

But beleaguered Greek prime minister Lucas Papademos has faced violent street
protests for months as he has tried to impose the deep public sector cuts
demanded by the EU and IMF in return for another enormous bail-out.

And his troubles are far from over: Greece has been in recession for five
consecutive years and the latest deal cannot guarantee much more than temporary
relief from the crisis, unless the cutbacks work.

To ensure they do work, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland demanded
another condition from Greece late last night - the establishment of a permanent
office in Athens made up of representatives from the EU, IMF and European
Central Bank to oversee Greek tax and spend policies.

The IMF already has a base in Greece to monitor Greek finances and EU Economic
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn made clear the eurozone now expected action from
Greece, saying: "We expect the unprecedented solidarity of Greece's partners to
be matched by a strong commitment by Greek leaders to fully implement their
austerity programme, first and foremost for the benefit of Greek citizens."

IMF chief Christine Lagarde said: "It is best to look forward and make sure that
Greece is in the best position to deliver on its commitments.

"There is more focus this time on competitiveness and structural reforms, and
market reforms to unleash as much growth as possible in the Greek economy."

On lowering the Greek debt, she said Greece was facing a 160% level of debt
compared to its national wealth without the reforms, and the 160% figure
remained a threat in the event of the failure of the reform package.

She emphasised: "In the event of failure to deliver on the reforms that is what
would happen: it is not an easy (reform) programme - it is ambitious."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said the bail-out would only delay,
not prevent, Greek departure from the euro.

He said: "The Greeks don't need Draconian death by a thousand cuts; they need
the drachma back so they can reboot their economy."

He said a bond write-off - Greece's private creditors are forgoing 53.5% of
their repayments - was "a default by another name", adding: "This so-called
bailout is just delaying the inevitable euro exit by Greece.

"It is time to bow to reality and set the Greek people free from this dreadful
euro prison."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 21, 2012 Tuesday 9:05 AM GMT

Eurozone governments agree second Greece bailout;
Eurozone agrees last-ditch attempt to rally markets and put crisis-hit Athens
back on the path to economic recovery

BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1648 words


Eurozone governments finally came to the rescue of Greece today, approving a
second massive bail-out after months of wrangling and a last round of more than
12 hours of talks in Brussels.

Haggling over figures, financial targets and Greek government belt-tightening
pledges went on through the night in a last-ditch attempt to rally markets and
put crisis-hit Athens back on the path to economic recovery.

But the deal is based on long-range forecasts of Greek's best-case-scenario debt
reduction chances over the next eight years, with some pundits instantly
dismissing the deal as undeliverable.

In return for the latest 130bn euro (£110bn) bail-out and a private creditor
debt write-off worth about another 100bn euros (£84bn), the Greek government is
pledged to implement fully a severe austerity package of pay, pension and jobs
cuts, as well as finding savings of 325m euros (£270m) in this year's national
budget.

The deal nearly came unstuck over a requirement on Athens to get the Greek
projected debt level down to around 120% of national wealth by 2020.

Extra hours of financial juggling brought eurozone negotiators close - at least
on paper - by massaging the figures to deliver a theoretical 121% GDP level by
2020.

Greece had only offered 129%, which was rejected as inadequate, although nothing
like as bad as the current unsustainable 160% of GDP Greece is grappling with.

Pundits predicted short-term rallying of markets followed by a fall-back when
the continuing massive scale of the debt mountain Greece has to climb becomes
clear.

The Greek economy received a 110bn euro (£91bn) bail out from the EU and IMF in
2010 but it was not enough to lift Greece out of crisis.

Ahead of the overnight talks some critics were warning against "throwing good
money after bad", but the price of letting Greece default and be forced out of
the euro currency was seen as a worse option.

Instead the talks concentrated on tying Greece as tightly as possible to
austerity measures which will chip away at its debt and deficit levels.

Political parties on all sides were even pressed to promise no easing of the
austerity package in forthcoming Greek elections.

A deal was desperately needed to give Greece enough funding to meet its next
debt repayment of 14.5bn euro (£12bn), due on March 20.

But beleaguered Greek prime minister Lucas Papademos has confronted violent
street protests for months as he has tried to impose the deep public sector cuts
demanded by the EU and IMF in return for another enormous bail-out.

And his troubles are far from over: Greece has been in recession for five
consecutive years and the latest deal cannot guarantee much more than temporary
relief from the crisis, unless the cutbacks work.

To ensure they do work, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland demanded
another condition from Greece late last night - the establishment of a permanent
office in Athens made up of representatives from the EU, IMF and European
Central Bank to over see Greek tax and spend policies.

The IMF already has a base in Greece to monitor Greek finances and

EU and ECB officials have been commuting between Brussels and Athens for months
checking Greek Treasury books as bail-out terms were bartered.

However some frustrated EU politicians began to hint that a Greek default and
departure from the euro would not necessarily be a crisis for the single
currency.

But by the start of the latest talks last night, Eurozone nations rallied behind
an all-out effort to keep Greece on board.

Even German finance minister Wolfgang Schauble - who last week indicted
willingness to let Greece leave the eurozone rather than letting his country
withstand the lion's share of another bail-out - said last night he was now
"confident" of a deal on a new rescue programme.

Greek finance minister Evangelos Venizelos declared that his government had
"fulfilled all the requirements for the approval of the new programme".

Luxembourg prime minister Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of the eurozone
countries, told a press conference the deal "gives Greece the time needed to
return to sustainable growth and preserve financial stability in Greece and in
the euro area as a whole".

He said ministers were aware of the sacrifices being made by Greek citizens, but
more would be needed "to return Greece to a sustainable growth path".

He added: "We are making every effort so that the (bail-out) programme will be
successful. This will require resolute action from all sides."

Mr Juncker confirmed that the deal included a reinforced presence of
representatives of the EU, ECB and IMF in Athens to head off any "slippage" in
Greek implementation of its promised debt and deficit-reducing measures.

Mr Juncker estimated the entire negotiating session to reach the deal at
"between 13 and 14 hours" - and EU Economic Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
added: "Today I have learned that 'marathon' is a Greek word."

He made clear the eurozone now expected action from Greece, saying: "We expect
the unprecedented solidarity of Greece's partners to be matched by a strong
commitment by Greek leaders to fully implement their austerity programme, first
and foremost for the benefit of Greek citizens."

Mr Rehn, in a dig at the chaotic and profligate Greek public finances which
helped push the country to the brink when the economic crisis struck, warned:
"The Greek economy can no longer rely on a large administration financed by
cheap debt, but by investment to facilities new growth and jobs.

"For this to happen, the conditions for investment need to be created and
improved - a fairer tax system, an effective public administration, and a more
favourable business climate."

Mr Rehn added: "All in all, today's deal is a key remaining building block of
our comprehensive crisis response. With this agreement we have a real chance to
turn a corner and move towards sustainable growth and job creation."

Asked if better financial reform conditions were in place compared with those
demanded when the first Greek bail-out was agreed, Mr Rehn pointed out that
Irish and Portuguese reform programmes were already successful but the problems
in Greece had concerned its financial administration and political unity.

"The challenges stemming from weak administrative capacity and weak political
unity in Greece are being addressed," he said.

IMF chief Christine Lagarde commented: "It is best to look forward and make sure
that Greece is in the best position to deliver on its commitments.

"There is more focus this time on competitiveness and structural reforms, and
market reforms to unleash as much growth as possible in the Greek economy."

On lowering the Greek debt, she said Greece was facing a 160% level of debt
compared to its national wealth without the reforms, and the 160% figure
remained a threat in the event of the failure of the reform package.

She emphasised: "In the event of failure to deliver on the reforms that is what
would happen: it is not an easy (reform) programme - it is ambitious."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said the bail-out would only delay,
not prevent, Greek departure from the euro.

He said: "The Greeks don't need Draconian death by a thousand cuts; they need
the drachma back so they can reboot their economy."

He went on: "Cheap credit from inappropriate euro membership was a disaster for
the Greek economy. Eurozone membership is now also a disaster for their
democracy."

He said a bond write-off - Greece's private creditors are forgoing 53.5% of
their repayments - was "a default by another name", adding: "This so-called
bailout is just delaying the inevitable euro exit by Greece.

"It is time to bow to reality and set the Greek people free from this dreadful
euro prison."

Chancellor George Osborne said this morning the deal would allow Europe to "move
on".

Arriving for an EU finance ministers' meeting in Brussels, he told reporters: "I
think the important thing about this deal is that they have tried to get Greece
into a reasonable place vis-a-vis its debt sustainability.

"That's been the crucial missing ingredient. They have not, in the past, come up
with a sustainable position for Greece. I think they have made real progress now
towards giving a sustainable debt position for Greece.

"Of course the Greek people, the Greek political system has to deliver really
difficult decisions now but I don't think Greece has any other option.

"The other significant point about last night's deal was that the rest of the
eurozone signalled a willingness to stand behind their currency and stand behind
Greece and frankly all along the failure to deal with the Greek situation has
caused uncertainty.

"Hopefully we can all move on now and get the European economy growing."

Labour former chancellor Alistair Darling predicted that the bailout would fail
to resolve the crisis.

"I am very sceptical about this for two reasons," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today
programme.

"It had to be done but it does not get you out of the woods at all.

"Even if Greece manages to do everything that has been asked for it, in eight
years' time they will still have a debt of 120% of their GDP. You have to ask,
with a frail economy like Greece, whether that is possibly realistic in terms of
seeing Greece come through that.

"The second thing, which is a problem which is also affecting the other, more
weak economies in Europe, is where are the policies that are going to get
growth. If you don't get the growth, you don't get the income to get down your
borrowing and therefore your debt.

"That is a real problem now. The eurozone, with this ridiculous treaty they have
locked themselves into, are almost going to inflict perpetual inflation...
further cuts, further suppressing of growth, and that points, to me, to the fact
that, I suspect, Greece will be back at the table at some point and, if the
eurozone is not very fortunate, other countries will be back as well.

"It is highly unsatisfactory."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 21, 2012 Tuesday 6:57 AM GMT

Eurozone governments agree second Greece bail-out;
Eurozone agrees last-ditch attempt to rally markets and put crisis-hit Athens
back on the path to economic recovery

BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1281 words


Eurozone governments finally came to the rescue of Greece today, approving a
second massive bail-out after months of wrangling and a last round of more than
12 hours of talks in Brussels.

Haggling over figures, financial targets and Greek government belt-tightening
pledges went on through the night in a last-ditch attempt to rally markets and
put crisis-hit Athens back on the path to economic recovery.

But the deal is based on long-range forecasts of Greek's best-case-scenario debt
reduction chances over the next eight years, with some pundits instantly
dismissing the deal as undeliverable.

In return for the latest 130bn euro (£110bn) bail-out and a private creditor
debt write-off worth about another 100bn euros (£84bn), the Greek government is
pledged to implement fully a severe austerity package of pay, pension and jobs
cuts, as well as finding savings of 325m euros (£270m) in this year's national
budget.

The deal nearly came unstuck over a requirement on Athens to get the Greek
projected debt level down to around 120% of national wealth by 2020.

Extra hours of financial juggling brought eurozone negotiators close - at least
on paper - by massaging the figures to deliver a theoretical 121% GDP level by
2020.

Greece had only offered 129%, which was rejected as inadequate, although nothing
like as bad as the current unsustainable 160% of GDP Greece is grappling with.

Pundits predicted short-term rallying of markets followed by a fall-back when
the continuing massive scale of the debt mountain Greece has to climb becomes
clear.

The Greek economy received a 110bn euro (£91bn) bail out from the EU and IMF in
2010 but it was not enough to lift Greece out of crisis.

Ahead of the overnight talks some critics were warning against "throwing good
money after bad", but the price of letting Greece default and be forced out of
the euro currency was seen as a worse option.

Instead the talks concentrated on tying Greece as tightly as possible to
austerity measures which will chip away at its debt and deficit levels.

Political parties on all sides were even pressed to promise no easing of the
austerity package in forthcoming Greek elections.

A deal was desperately needed to give Greece enough funding to meet its next
debt repayment of 14.5bn euro (£12bn), due on March 20.

But beleaguered Greek prime minister Lucas Papademos has confronted violent
street protests for months as he has tried to impose the deep public sector cuts
demanded by the EU and IMF in return for another enormous bail-out.

And his troubles are far from over: Greece has been in recession for five
consecutive years and the latest deal cannot guarantee much more than temporary
relief from the crisis, unless the cutbacks work.

To ensure they do work, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland demanded
another condition from Greece late last night - the establishment of a permanent
office in Athens made up of representatives from the EU, IMF and European
Central Bank to over see Greek tax and spend policies.

The IMF already has a base in Greece to monitor Greek finances and

EU and ECB officials have been commuting between Brussels and Athens for months
checking Greek Treasury books as bail-out terms were bartered.

However some frustrated EU politicians began to hint that a Greek default and
departure from the euro would not necessarily be a crisis for the single
currency.

But by the start of the latest talks last night, Eurozone nations rallied behind
an all-out effort to keep Greece on board.

Even German finance minister Wolfgang Schauble - who last week indicted
willingness to let Greece leave the eurozone rather than letting his country
withstand the lion's share of another bail-out - said last night he was now
"confident" of a deal on a new rescue programme.

Greek finance minister Evangelos Venizelos declared that his government had
"fulfilled all the requirements for the approval of the new programme".

Luxembourg prime minister Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of the eurozone
countries, told a press conference the deal "gives Greece the time needed to
return to sustainable growth and preserve financial stability in Greece and in
the euro area as a whole".

He said ministers were aware of the sacrifices being made by Greek citizens, but
more would be needed "to return Greece to a sustainable growth path".

He added: "We are making every effort so that the (bail-out) programme will be
successful. This will require resolute action from all sides."

Mr Juncker confirmed that the deal included a reinforced presence of
representatives of the EU, ECB and IMF in Athens to head off any "slippage" in
Greek implementation of its promised debt and deficit-reducing measures.

Mr Juncker estimated the entire negotiating session to reach the deal at
"between 13 and 14 hours" - and EU Economic Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
added: "Today I have learned that 'marathon' is a Greek word."

He made clear the eurozone now expected action from Greece, saying: "We expect
the unprecedented solidarity of Greece's partners to be matched by a strong
commitment by Greek leaders to fully implement their austerity programme, first
and foremost for the benefit of Greek citizens."

Mr Rehn, in a dig at the chaotic and profligate Greek public finances which
helped push the country to the brink when the economic crisis struck, warned:
"The Greek economy can no longer rely on a large administration financed by
cheap debt, but by investment to facilities new growth and jobs.

"For this to happen, the conditions for investment need to be created and
improved - a fairer tax system, an effective public administration, and a more
favourable business climate."

Mr Rehn added: "All in all, today's deal is a key remaining building block of
our comprehensive crisis response. With this agreement we have a real chance to
turn a corner and move towards sustainable growth and job creation."

Asked if better financial reform conditions were in place compared with those
demanded when the first Greek bail-out was agreed, Mr Rehn pointed out that
Irish and Portuguese reform programmes were already successful but the problems
in Greece had concerned its financial administration and political unity.

"The challenges stemming from weak administrative capacity and weak political
unity in Greece are being addressed," he said.

IMF chief Christine Lagarde commented: "It is best to look forward and make sure
that Greece is in the best position to deliver on its commitments.

"There is more focus this time on competitiveness and structural reforms, and
market reforms to unleash as much growth as possible in the Greek economy."

On lowering the Greek debt, she said Greece was facing a 160% level of debt
compared to its national wealth without the reforms, and the 160% figure
remained a threat in the event of the failure of the reform package.

She emphasised: "In the event of failure to deliver on the reforms that is what
would happen: it is not an easy (reform) programme - it is ambitious."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said the bail-out would only delay,
not prevent, Greek departure from the euro.

He said: "The Greeks don't need Draconian death by a thousand cuts; they need
the drachma back so they can reboot their economy."

He went on: "Cheap credit from inappropriate euro membership was a disaster for
the Greek economy. Eurozone membership is now also a disaster for their
democracy."

He said a bond write-off - Greece's private creditors are forgoing 53.5% of
their repayments - was "a default by another name", adding: "This so-called
bailout is just delaying the inevitable euro exit by Greece.

"It is time to bow to reality and set the Greek people free from this dreadful
euro prison."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 21, 2012 Tuesday 10:27 PM GMT

Whatever the problem, the EU's solution is always to spend spend spend

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 73 words


It is difficult to convey the determination of MEPs and Eurocrats to respond to
the debt crisis with yet more expenditure; but the clip above (hat-tip, UKIP)
might give you some idea.

The first instinct of the Euro-functionary, in any crisis, is to reach for his
wallet - or, rather, to reach for your wallet, Eurocrats being exempt from
national taxation.

When all you have is a hammer, said Mark Twain, everything starts to look like a
nail.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 19, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How middle-class are you?;
Are you happy to be middle-middle, or are you in denial, like Melvyn Bragg? Take
Iain Hollingshead's quiz to find out

BYLINE: Iain Hollingshead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 931 words


'We're all middle-class now," said John Prescott in 1997, halfway through his
rise from working-class ship's steward, to middle-class thug, to peer of the
realm.

And yet Prescott, for once, failed to get to the subtle heart of a complex
issue. While there might appear to be fewer aristocrats around these days,
there's still lower-middle, middle-middle, upper-middle and, of course, the
ubiquitous squeezed middle. All tune in obsessively to the likes of Downton
Abbey or indeed Upstairs Downstairs - Downton Abbey without the ad breaks -
which returns to our screens tonight. Meanwhile, upper-middle Prime Ministers
marry upper-upper-middle wives who talk like lower-middle Essex girls. And, it
seems, the only people who still want to define themselves as working class are
actually solidly middle-middle broadcasters with life peerages.

Next Friday, Melvyn Bragg presents a new BBC series exploring class and culture
over the past century. In an interview last week to promote the show, Lord
Bragg, the grandson of a farm labourer, said that the "working-class thing
hasn't gone away and it will never go away. I don't want it to go away. I don't
try to make it go away."

Confused? And well you might be. So let's keep this simple: are you
"uppermiddle", "middle-middle" or, like Bragg, "denial-middle"? Try The Sunday
Telegraph test to find out...

KEY

A Upper-middle. B Middle-middle. C Denial-middle.

Where do you tell strangers you went to school?

a Slough grammar

b My local grammar

c The worst comprehensive you can possibly imagine

Where did you actually go to school?

a Eton

b My local private school

c My local grammar

You bump into someone on the street. What do you say?

a Sorry

b Pardon

c I don't bump into people on the street. We're not all part of the old boys'
network, you know

Where did you go on your last winter holiday?

a Klosters

b Hyde Park Winter Wonderland

c Holidays? At this time of year? We'd be lucky

Where did you spend your last summer holiday?

a Rock

b Brighton

c Barbados

What do you call the smallest room in the house?

a The loo

b The lavatory

c A toilet? Inside? We'd be lucky

You've enjoyed a dinner party at a friend's house. How do you thank them?

a A handwritten note

b An email

c I object to dinner parties as the elitist networking of the idle rich. I do
love fettuccine, though

Which of these are most likely to be found on your breakfast table?

a Tupperware and marmalade

b Toast and jam

c The Guardian and a bowl of gravel

You're locked out of your home and decide to climb through a first-floor window.
How do you do it?

a I climb up the wisteria

b I borrow a ladder from a neighbour on my cul-de-sac

c I drag myself up by my bootstraps

How much did you earn last year?

a How vulgar

b £60,000

c £240,000 Which class do you define yourself as belonging to?

a I don't like to talk about these things

b Upper-middle

c Working class. Till I die. Probably down the mines. If they still exist

Which university did you go to?

a Oxford Brookes

b Doxbridge - well, Durham, if you must know

c Oxford

What's that on your shoulder?

a Military epaulettes

b Shoulder pads

c Une grande pomme frite

Where do you live?

a Gloucestershire, Norfolk, Fulham, and a lovely little cottage in the Pyrenees

b Surrey

c Salford Media City

What did your father do for a living?

a Golly, I'm not sure he ever mentioned it

b He was an accountant

c "Living?" I'm not sure you could call it that

What do you do for a living?

a Bits and bobs around the estate

b Accountant

c I work in the media, although I've always longed to earn the minimum wage
while slaving in a factory like my father

What are your children's names?

a Lucinda, Arabella, Tatiana, Titiana, Totiana (and another one ending in "a",
but I can't remember it now)

b Jack and Sarah

c Che, Fidel and Vladimir

What do your children call you?

a Mummy and Daddy

b Mum and Dad

c Jack and Sarah

Who are your best friends?

a Badger and Bumfluff - a couple of great chums from school

b Sally in Accounts

c All my best friends died aged nine while sweeping chimneys

Where do you send your children to school?

a Winchester

b The local Academy, which is actually rather good

c Harrow - although only because the local state schools are so bad, you
understand

What's your favourite music?

a Wagner

b Coldplay

c The Internationale (sung by Billy Bragg)

What do you cook on in your kitchen?

a An Aga

b An induction hob

c Old copies of The New Statesman

What's your favourite casual outfit?

a Red corduroy and a Barbour

b Brown corduroy and an overcoat

c I wear the working man's uniform of jeans, donkey jacket and £320 brogues

Who is your favourite author?

a Jilly Cooper

b Nick Hornby

c David Nicholls - to understand how the enemy thinks

What sport do you watch on television?

a Rugby

b Football

c Football, but I secretly prefer rugby

Do you have any pets?

a I have a Labrador, Titiana

b My wife has a cat

c We still have my father's canary called Arthur, in case there are any gas
leaks in our new basement

How do you greet your friends of the opposite sex?

a I kiss them on both cheeks

b I kiss them on one cheek

c There aren't any women in the Working Men's Club. Or the East India Club

What's the last festival you went to?

a Glyndebourne

b Glastonbury

c Hay-on-Wye - although I did go to the alternative festival, too, and bought a
joss stick

Who did you vote for in the last general election?

a The Conservatives

b Ukip

c I can't vote in general elections; I'm a peer

What car do you drive?

a A battered old Volvo estate

b A brand new Mercedes

c The BBC sends a car for me

What do you watch on television?

a We don't have a television

b Downton Abbey

c Myself

WHAT DO YOU COOK ON IN YOUR KITCHEN?

WHERE DID YOU GO ON YOUR LAST WINTER HOLIDAY?

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALAMY; JIMMY GASTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 19, 2012 Sunday 7:30 AM GMT

How middle-class are you? Take this quiz;
Are you happy to be middle-middle or are you in denial, like Melvyn Bragg? Take
Iain Hollingshead's quiz to find out.

BYLINE: By Iain Hollingshead

LENGTH: 1133 words


'We're all middle-class now," said John Prescott in 1997, halfway through his
rise from working-class ship's steward, to middle-class thug, to peer of the
realm.

And yet Prescott, for once, failed to get to the subtle heart of a complex
issue. While there might appear to be fewer aristocrats around these days,
there's still lower-middle, middle-middle, upper-middle and, of course, the
ubiquitous squeezed middle. All tune in obsessively to the likes of Downton
Abbey or indeed Upstairs Downstairs - Downton Abbey without the ad breaks -
which returns to our screens tonight. Meanwhile, upper-middle Prime Ministers
marry upper-upper-middle wives who talk like lower-middle Essex girls. And, it
seems, the only people who still want to define themselves as working class are
actually solidly middle-middle broadcasters with life peerages.

Next Friday, Melvyn Bragg presents a new BBC series exploring class and culture
over the past century. In an interview last week to promote the show, Lord
Bragg, the grandson of a farm labourer, said that the "working-class thing
hasn't gone away and it will never go away. I don't want it to go away. I don't
try to make it go away."

Confused? And well you might be. So let's keep this simple: are you
"upper-middle", "middle-middle" or, like Bragg, "denial-middle"? Try The Sunday
Telegraph test to find out...

KEY

A Upper-middle. B Middle-middle. C Denial-middle.

Where do you tell strangers you went to school?

a Slough grammar

b My local grammar

c The worst comprehensive you can possibly imagine

Where did you actually go to school?

a Eton

b My local private school

c My local grammar

You bump into someone on the street. What do you say?

a Sorry

b Pardon

c I don't bump into people on the street. We're not all part of the old boys'
network, you know

Where did you go on your last winter holiday?

a Klosters

b Hyde Park Winter Wonderland

c Holidays? At this time of year? We'd be lucky

Where did you spend your last summer holiday?

a Rock

b Brighton

c Barbados

What do you call the smallest room in the house?

a The loo

b The lavatory

c A toilet? Inside? We'd be lucky

You've enjoyed a dinner party at a friend's house. How do you thank them?

a A handwritten note

b An email

c I object to dinner parties as the elitist networking of the idle rich. I do
love fettuccine, though

Which of these are most likely to be found on your breakfast table?

a Tupperware and marmalade

b Toast and jam

c The Guardian and a bowl of gravel

You're locked out of your home and decide to climb through a first-floor window.
How do you do it?

a I climb up the wisteria

b I borrow a ladder from a neighbour on my cul-de-sac

c I drag myself up by my bootstraps

How much did you earn last year?

a How vulgar

b £60,000

c £240,000

Which class do you define yourself as belonging to?

a I don't like to talk about these things

b Upper-middle

c Working class. Till I die. Probably down the mines. If they still exist

Which university did you go to?

a Oxford Brookes

b Doxbridge - well, Durham, if you must know

c Oxford

What's that on your shoulder?

a Military epaulettes

b Shoulder pads

c Une grande pomme frite

Where do you live?

a Gloucestershire, Norfolk, Fulham, and a lovely little cottage in the Pyrenees

b Surrey

c Salford Media City

What did your father do for a living?

a Golly, I'm not sure he ever mentioned it

b He was an accountant

c "Living?" I'm not sure you could call it that

What do you do for a living?

a Bits and bobs around the estate

b Accountant

c I work in the media, although I've always longed to earn the minimum wage
while slaving in a factory like my father

What are your children's names?

a Lucinda, Arabella, Tatiana, Titiana, Totiana (and another one ending in "a",
but I can't remember it now)

b Jack and Sarah

c Che, Fidel and Vladimir

What do your children call you?

a Mummy and Daddy

b Mum and Dad

c Jack and Sarah

Who are your best friends?

a Badger and Bumfluff - a couple of great chums from school

b Sally in Accounts

c All my best friends died aged nine while sweeping chimneys

Where do you send your children to school?

a Winchester

b The local Academy, which is actually rather good

c Harrow - although only because the local state schools are so bad, you
understand

What's your favourite music?

a Wagner

b Coldplay

c The Internationale (sung by Billy Bragg)

What do you cook on in your kitchen?

a An Aga

b An induction hob

c Old copies of The New Statesman

What's your favourite casual outfit?

a Red corduroy and a Barbour

b Brown corduroy and an overcoat

c I wear the working man's uniform of jeans, donkey jacket and £320 brogues

Who is your favourite author?

a Jilly Cooper

b Nick Hornby

c David Nicholls - to understand how the enemy thinks

What sport do you watch on television?

a Rugby

b Football

c Football, but I secretly prefer rugby

Do you have any pets?

a I have a Labrador, Titiana

b My wife has a cat

c We still have my father's canary called Arthur, in case there are any gas
leaks in our new basement

How do you greet your friends of the opposite sex?

a I kiss them on both cheeks

b I kiss them on one cheek

c There aren't any women in the Working Men's Club. Or the East India Club

What's the last festival you went to?

a Glyndebourne

b Glastonbury

c Hay-on-Wye - although I did go to the alternative festival, too, and bought a
joss stick

Who did you vote for in the last general election?

a The Conservatives

b Ukip

c I can't vote in general elections; I'm a peer

What car do you drive?

a A battered old Volvo estate

b A brand new Mercedes

c The BBC sends a car for me

What do you watch on television?

a We don't have a television

b Downton Abbey

c Myself

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

False teeth broken in council row

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 89 words


A WOMAN councillor hit a 72-year-old by-election candidate so hard that she
broke his denture.

Tory Penny Jackman, 47, slapped Ukip member Mike Beggs during a count for a seat
on Lymington and Pennington Council, Hants. He had printed a campaign leaflet
criticising the council in a row over attempts to evict a cricket club.

Mr Beggs, who received "a full apology", said he was landed with dental repair
bill of more than £1,000. He is considering legal action. "Local politics is a
dangerous business," he added. Another candidate won.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

GREECE IS BEING 'DESTROYED'

LENGTH: 655 words


EUROZONE CHAOS

By JASON GROVES POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

INFIGHTING in the eurozone risks 'utterly destroying' Greece, a Foreign Office
minister warned last night.

Lord Howell, father-in-law to the Chancellor George Osborne, told peers Britain
was pressing for a 'realistic and sustainable' solution to Greece's debt crisis,
which he warned was having a 'chilling effect' on the UK economy.

He said 'uncertainty in Greece must be brought to an end ... without utterly
destroying that noble country'.

His comments came amid mounting fury in Athens at the draconian austerity
measures demanded by Germany in return for a second 6110billion bailout by the
eurozone.

In an alarming development there were fresh signs of economic 'contagion' in
Europe, with unemployment in Spain topping five million as its economy went into
reverse.

Official figures showed Spain's economy shrank by 0.3 per cent in the final
quarter of last year, with unemployment jumping by 400,000 to 5.3million.

Leading ratings agency Moody's added to the bleak outlook by threatening to
downgrade more than 120 banks, including several major British institutions, due
to concerns about the eurozone.

In a gloomy assessment, former Tory Chancellor Lord Lamont described Greece as
the 'canary in the mine', warning of the dangers ahead for the 17 nations in the
eurozone. Lord Lamont said Greece was being forced to choose between the
'utterly impossible and utterly incredible'.

He warned that it now seemed a 'certainty' that Greece would be forced to leave
the single currency, leaving the eurozone facing a 'bleak future'.

During angry exchanges in the Lords, a UK Independence Party peer suggested that
German economic policy recalled slogans used by the Nazis. Lord Willoughby said
the German 'remedy' in Greece was 'austerity macht frei' - echoing the Nazi
phrase arbeit macht frei, meaning 'work sets you free'. The slogan was placed
over the entrances to several concentration camps, including Auschwitz.

Liberal Democrat Lord Teverson intervened to label the remark 'offensive'.

The former Tory European commissioner Lord Tugendhat warned that Germany's
overwhelming economic dominance following the crash was 'dangerous' for the EU.

He said anti-German feeling was now 'rife in many European countries' - a
development he described as 'very worrying and disturbing'.

Anti-German feeling is running particularly high in Greece after Berlin's
finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble suggested the country was becoming a
'bottomless pit'.

Some other northern European countries are also now thought to favour Greece
leaving the euro, amid doubts about whether it is willing or able to impose the
level of cuts needed to tackle its debts.

Despite the row there were tentative signs last night that the eurozone was
moving closer to agreeing a bailout deal for Greece.

Some senior officials suggested a deal could be struck as early as Monday. But
it remained unclear whether the deal will amount to more than a temporary fix,
with a final package delayed until after the Greek elections expected in April.

Germany and the Netherlands have both hinted that the bailout should be delayed.

European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso yesterday sought to soothe
tensions by praising Greece's attempt to deal with an economy in freefall.

Mr Barroso said: 'I would like to salute the courage of the Greek government and
the Greek people in these very demanding, challenging times.

'And I would hope that the member states, the members of the European Union,
will accept the commitments given by Greece.'

In one small symbol of the scale of the challenge facing Greece, it was reported
yesterday that virtually every traffic light in central Athens was smashed
during anti-austerity riots at the weekend.

But the transport department is so strapped for cash that it cannot afford to
replace them, leaving to disastrous congestion in the Greek capital.

j.groves@dailymail.co.uk

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip peer attacked for Nazi jibe at Germans;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


A UK Independence Party peer has been criticised after comparing German economic
policy to a slogan used on the gates of Auschwitz.

Lord Willoughby said the country's "remedy" in Greece was "austerity macht
frei", an echo of "arbeit macht frei", which means "work sets you free".

A Liberal Democrat, Lord Teverson, called the remark "offensive", saying
economic policy, however wrong it may be, could not be compared to genocide.

Lord Willoughby told peers: "Europe has been turned into a weapon of mass
economic destruction.

"What is the remedy [to Greece's problems] prescribed by the EU leeches? Take
more blood. More wage cuts. More unemployment. Lower pensions."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GREEDY EURO MPS DEMAND PAY RISE;
As the EU falls apart ; MEPs 'living in cloud cuckoo land asking for budget
increases'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 657 words


GRASPING Euro MPs sparked fury last night by demanding a pay rise of up to three
per cent.

As the eurozone teeters on the brink of catastrophe and Britain is forced to
tighten its belt, the shameless demand added to the growing clamour for us to
pull out of the EU. The basic salary of an MEP is already £82,915 a year,
compared with £64,766 for an MP at Westminster. Euro MPs can also rake in
£360,000 in expenses.

If the three per cent budget increase is ratified in Brussels next month, MEPs
would receive an extra £2,500 in pay and more TURN TO PAGE 4

FROM PAGE ONE lucrative expenses and pension entitlements.

It would also add the equivalent of an extra £45million a year to the hugely
inflated parliamentary budget, just as debt-ravaged Greece faces financial ruin.

The increase would bring the total cost of the army of MEPs and their hangers-on
to a staggering £1.55billion next year.

It proves the juggernaut of EU excess shows no signs of slowing and will add
more support to the Daily Express crusade for Britain to pull out of Europe.

Angry critics of the Brussels gravy train last night criticised the latest
demands at a time when families across the country are struggling to make ends
meet.

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "These people must be living in cloud cuckoo land.
They cannot be living in the real world.

"It is totally unacceptable to ask for any kind of budget increase while
European nations are struggling as they are."

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "It's
astonishing how Europe's politicians manage to be so consistently out of touch
with the priorities of ordinary taxpayers.

"Brussels is rife with waste and pointless spending, the last thing the European
Parliament should do is shamelessly vote itself an even bigger budget. Eurocrats
already hoover up far too much cash from British taxpayers.

It's an affront for them to demand more while Britain necessarily cuts its own
spending."

Europe's 754 MPs voted through the increase of between 1.9 per cent and 3 per
cent during a debate on next year's budget in Strasbourg.

They said the increase was needed because Croatia is joining the EU in 2013. But
Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen said: "Once again this Parliament is showing its
detachment from its citizens.

"In the middle of this crisis where citizens in Europe are being told by the EU
to face drastic cuts, this house still thinks it has the right to ask for an
inflationary increase.

"It cannot even agree what this increase should be. Whether it is 1.9 per cent
or 3 per cent is irrelevant. The EU bureaucracy is already bloated. It needs to
go on a hard diet."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "The greedy European elite are still filling
their boots while Athens is burning under the austerity imposed by the European
Union. It is a disgusting spectacle."

Any budget increase could see each Euro MP costing the taxpayer a staggering
£2million, according to Ms Andreasen. "The European Parliament budget -
essentially administra-tive - has grown disproportionately. At 2012 rates it
amounts to 2.27milllion euros per MEP," she said.

The astronomical amount put forward by Ukip includes salaries, goldplated
pensions, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs involved in a
Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.

Meanwhile, a highly critical report by the European Court of Auditors has found
problems in the way the EU's 31 agencies manage their budgets.

The findings are likely to fuel the debate about the usefulness of the bodies at
a time of austerity. The report analyses the costs, financial management and
"operational efficiency" of 22 out of the EU's 31 autonomous agencies.

The agencies carry out studies on issues ranging from drug addiction to
trademark registration and police co-operation.

Eleven out of the 22 surveyed could not properly account for half the expenses
they filed in 2010, the auditors found.

OPINION: PAGE 12

FROM PAGE ONE lucrative expenses [...]

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 17, 2012 Friday 9:39 AM GMT

Rollercoaster results for Tories in by-elections;


BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 242 words


Tories made a shock gain from Liberal Democrats in the latest council
by-elections.

Their candidate Bhupendra Dave took an Oadby Woodlands seat in a contest for
Oadby and Wigston Borough, Leicestershire.

But they spectacularly failed in two marginal wards.

Labour held on at Ibstock and Heather, North West Leicestershire District, with
Lib Dems forcing Conservatives into third place.

Liberal Democrats also easily defended a Worcester Park seat at south London's
Sutton Borough.

In the previous main council polls, Tories won one of the three seats in each of
these wards.

RESULT

Horsham District - Itchingfield, Slinfold and Warnham: C 557, Lib Dem 320, Ukip
173, Green 65, Lab 60. (May 2011 - Two seats C 1303, 898, Lib Dem 569, Green
366, Ukip 276). C hold. Swing 1.4% C to Lib Dem.

North West Leicestershire District - Ibstock and Heather: Lab 480, Lib Dem 372,
C 357, Ind 125, Green 32, Ukip 26. (May 2011 -Three seats C 970, Lab 748, 693,
685, C 648, 612, Ind 420, Lib Dem 355, 161, 156). Lab hold. Swing 7.6% Lab to
Lib Dem.

Oadby and Wigston Borough - Oadby Woodlands: C 454, Lib Dem 360, Ukip 151. (May
2011 - Two seats Lib Dem 865, 785, C 628, 557). C gain from Lib Dem. Swing 13.0%
Lib Dem to C.

Sutton London Borough - Worcester Park: Lib Dem 1367, C 977, Lab 315, Ukip 190,
Green 46. (May 2010 - Three seats Lib Dem 2739, C 2309, Lib Dem 2291, C 2287,
Lib Dem 2269, C 2229, Lab 585, 542, Ukip 534, Lab 507). Lib Dem hold. Swing 5.3%
C to Lib Dem.

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 17, 2012 Friday 2:08 PM GMT

Why I'm suffering from famous person fatigue;
The winning side in politics is rarely the one with the most Oscars, says Ruth
Porter.

BYLINE: By Ruth Porter

LENGTH: 592 words


The constant barrage of celebrities queuing up to thrust their support behind
the latest fashionable cause is getting tedious.

Patrick Stewart is the latest to join this list - lambasting the coalition for
their claim that "we are all in this together". Perhaps somewhat unsurprisingly,
his criticism was not accompanied by an incisive analysis of how precisely he
thinks economic growth can occur without the coalition making substantial cuts
to government spending. Still, perhaps he is secretly vying for an
ambassadorship.

Recent examples abound - Sean Penn on the Falklands, Eddie "wrong about pretty
much everything" Izzard on AV and not forgetting Bill "Tobin Tax" Nighy.
Contender for the most ridiculous in recent weeks though must go to Paul Bettany
for his profound comments on the Occupy movement: "It's amazing. The criticism
that's levelled at them is that they haven't got a defined set of demands, but
it's so ----ing ludicrous. They don't have to - they're protesters."

It's a wonder we're not all feeling a touch of famous person fatigue.

Where does their claim of expertise on a particular issue come from? Why do
people think having them arguing on their side is an asset? And do we actually
listen to them? Almost always the answer is: no. The one possible exception may
be when someone we admire supports something relatively obscure to help lift it
onto the public agenda.

Joanna Lumley's campaign for the Gurkhas is an example of this. The Institute of
Economic Affairs also discovered this first hand last year when Fox News's Glenn
Beck suggested to his viewers that they should read Hayek's Road to Serfdom . It
prompted more than 50,000 people to download the publication from our website
over the following months.

Perhaps, then, bringing to our attention important causes we haven't heard of is
some small benefit the rich and famous may offer. But this is the exception not
the rule.

The clashes over AV and the electoral system are a demonstration of this. It
seems the public may be savvier than many politicians and other campaign
operators give us credit for. Turning public debate into a beauty parade may
help sell newspapers and provide a boost to the PR of flagging celeb careers,
but rarely is the winning side the one with the most Oscars on it. We know that
acting wisely in our dealings with the Falklands requires careful thought and
are surely more likely therefore to respond to what William Hague thinks than to
be coaxed to change our minds by the musings of an actor.

That's not to say people in the public spotlight don't have a right to express
their views. But the public generally wants to be persuaded not simply seduced.
Short-term stunts mainly backfire. As Ukip discovered in 2004 when Joan Collins
became their patron, only to clarify in media interviews that that didn't mean
she necessarily be voting for them. We respond ultimately to honesty and
coherence. Perhaps one of the lessons for the leaders of all parties from the
last election campaign should be that we need a return to conviction politics -
to arguments leading public opinion, not focus groups dictating policy and spin.

The parade of famous people has become something of a cliché in the post-Blair
era, but hopefully it's simply a hangover that will pass. The decisions made in
public debate are serious ones - the future of our electoral system, whether war
is appropriate and what will mend our broken economy. The battle of ideas is a
noble one. Reducing it to a clash of personalities is not simply demeaning but
dangerous.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The callous cruelty of the EU is destroying a once-proud country;
Britain should play its part to end this Greek tragedy by standing up for the
underdog

BYLINE: PETER OBORIVE

SECTION: FEATURES; OFFERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1239 words


For all of my adult life, support for the European Union has been seen as the
mark of a civilised, reasonable and above all compassionate politician. It has
guaranteed him or her access to leader columns, TV studios, lavish expense
accounts and overseas trips.

The reason for this special treatment is that the British establishment has
tended to view the EU as perhaps a little incompetent and corrupt, but certainly
benign and generally a force for good in a troubled world. This attitude is
becoming harder and harder to sustain, as this partnership of nations is
suddenly starting to look very nasty indeed: a brutal oppressor that is scornful
of democracy, national identity and the livelihoods of ordinary people.

The turning point may have come this week with the latest intervention by
Brussels: bureaucrats are threatening to bankrupt an entire country unless
opposition parties promise to support the EU-backed austerity plan.

Let's put the Greek problem in its proper perspective. Britain's Great
Depression in the Thirties has become part of our national myth. It was the era
of soup kitchens, mass unemployment and the Jarrow March, immortalised in George
Orwell's wonderful novels and still remembered in Labour Party rhetoric.

Yet the fall in national output during the Depression - from peak to trough -
was never more than 10 per cent. In Greece, gross domestic product is already
down about 13 per cent since 2008, and according to experts is likely to fall a
further 7 per cent by the end of this year. In other words, by this Christmas,
Greece's depression will have been twice as deep as the infamous economic
catastrophe that struck Britain 80 years ago.

Yet all the evidence suggests that the European elite could not give a damn.
Earlier this week Olli Rehn, the EU's top economist, warned of "devastating
consequences" if Greece defaults. The context of his comments suggests, however,
that he was thinking just as much of the devastating consequences that would
flow for the rest of Europe, rather than for the Greeks themselves.

Another official was quoted in the Financial Times as saying that Germany,
Finland and the Netherlands are "losing patience" with Greece, with apparently
not even a passing thought for the real victims of this increasingly horrific
saga. Though the euro-elite seems not to care, life in Greece, the home of
European civilisation, has become unbearable.

Perhaps 100,000 businesses have folded, and many more are collapsing. Suicides
are sharply up, homicides have reportedly doubled, with tens of thousands being
made homeless. Life in the rural areas, which are returning to barter, is
bearable. In the towns it is harsh and for minorities - above all the Albanians,
who have no rights and have long taken the jobs Greeks did not want - it is
terrifying.

This is only the start, however. Matters will get much worse over the coming
months, and this social and moral disaster has already started to spread to
other southern European countries such as Italy, Portugal and Spain. It is not
just families that are suffering - Greek institutions are being torn to shreds.
Unlike Britain amid the economic devastation of the Thirties, Greece cannot look
back towards centuries of more or less stable parliamentary democracy. It is
scarcely a generation since the country emerged from a military dictatorship
and, with parts of the country now lawless, sinister forces are once again on
the rise. Only last autumn, extremist parties accounted for about 30 per cent of
the popular vote. Now the hard Left and hard Right stand at about 50 per cent
and surging. It must be said that this disenchantment with democracy has been
fanned by the EU's own meddling, and in particular its imposition of Lucas
Papademos as a puppet prime minister.

Late last year I was sharply criticised, and indeed removed from a Newsnight
studio by a very chilly producer, after I called Amadeu Altafaj-Tardio, a
European Union spokesman, "that idiot from Brussels". Well-intentioned
intermediaries have since gone out of their way to assure me that Mr
Altafaj-Tardio is an intelligent and also a charming man. I have no powerful
reason to doubt this, and it should furthermore be borne in mind that he is
simply the mouthpiece and paid hireling for Mr Rehn, the Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner I mentioned earlier.

But looking back at that Newsnight appearance, it is clear that my remarks were
far too generous, and I would like to explain myself more fully, and with
greater force. Idiocy is, of course, an important part of the problem in
Brussels, explaining many of the errors of judgment and basic competence over
the past few years. But what is more striking by far is the sheer callousness
and inhumanity of EU commissioners such as Mr Rehn, as they preside over a
Brussels regime that is in the course of destroying what used to be a proud,
famous and reasonably well-functioning country.

In these terrible circumstances, how can the British liberal Left, which claims
to place such value on compassion and decency, continue to support the EU? I am
old enough to recall their rhetoric when Margaret Thatcher was driving through
her monetarist policies as a response to the recession of the early Eighties.
Many of the attacks were incredibly personal and vicious. The British prime
minister (who, of course, was later to warn so presciently against monetary
union) was accused of lacking any kind of compassion or humanity. Yet the loss
of economic output during the 1979-82 recession was scarcely 6 per cent, less
than a third of the scale of the depression now being suffered by the
unfortunate Greeks. Unemployment peaked at 10.8 per cent, just over half of
where Greece is now.

The reality is that Margaret Thatcher was an infinitely more compassionate and
pragmatic figure than Amadeu Altafaj-Tardio's boss Olli Rehn and his appalling
associates. She would never have destroyed an entire nation on the back of an
economic dogma.

One of the basic truths of politics is that the Left is far more oblivious to
human suffering than the Right. The Left always speaks the language of
compassion, but rarely means it. It favours ends over means. The crushing of
Greece, and the bankruptcy of her citizens, is of little consequence if it
serves the greater good of monetary union.

Nevertheless, for more than a generation, politicians such as Tony Blair, Peter
Mandelson, Nick Clegg and David Miliband have used their sympathy for the aims
and aspirations of the European Union as a badge of decency. Now it ties them to
a bankruptcy machine that is wiping out jobs, wealth and - potentially -
democracy itself.

The presence of the Lib Dems, fervent euro supporters, as part of the Coalition,
has become a problem. It can no longer be morally right for Britain to support
the European single currency, a catastrophic experiment that is inflicting human
devastation on such a scale. Britain has historically stood up for the underdog,
but shamefully, George Osborne has steadily lent his support to the eurozone.

Thus far only one British political leader, Ukip's Nigel Farrage, has had the
clarity of purpose to state the obvious - that Greece must be allowed to default
and devalue. Leaving all other considerations to one side, humanity alone should
press David Cameron into splitting with Brussels and belatedly coming to the
rescue of Greece.

Comment on Peter Oborne's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 16, 2012 Thursday 12:17 AM GMT

Debt crisis and Greek talks: as it happened February 15, 2012;
Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the Euro Group, is confident a decision on a second
Greek bail-out can be made on Monday, as the debt-stricken country's finance
minister says a further (EURO)325m of cuts has been agreed.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Andrew Trotman

LENGTH: 5852 words


· Euro Group chief confident of Greek decision on Monday
· Budget cut demands have been met, says Greek fin min
· Eurozone officials look at delaying Greek bail-out
· UK unemployment at 16-year high of 2.67 million
· Zoellick will step down from World Bank on June 30
· Eurozone economy shrinks in Q4 as Germany contracts

Latest

23.59 On that happy note, we leave you. We'll be back tomorrow with more live
coverage.

Goodnight.

23.34 The Moody's hit-list is as follows (country followed by number of banks
affected):

Austria (8), Belgium (1), Denmark (8), Finland (1), France (10), Germany (7),
Italy (24), Luxembourg (1), Netherlands (6), Norway (1), Portugal (6), Slovenia
(4), Spain (21), Sweden (5), Switzerland (2), UK (9).

You can read the full Moody's list here .

23.31 Those late-night downgrade warnings just keep on coming. Ratings agency
Moody's has just announced it is reviewing 114 banks in 16 European countries
for a downgrade.

21.00 The US markets have closed. The Dow has fallen 0.8pc, the S&P 500 has
fallen 0.5pc and the Nasdaq has closed down 0.6pc.

20.53 Brazil has urged the World Bank to give proper consideration to developing
country candidates to replace outgoing president Robert Zoellick and not just go
with an American. Finance Minister Guido Mantega said:

There is no reason that the president of the World Bank is a specific
nationality. It should just be someone competent and capable. Our goal is that
emerging countries have the same chance to compete to lead these multilateral
organizations. I believe that the United States will continue to insist that it
will be one of its representatives. We are working so that that does not happen.

20.43 Further to the earlier news that Hillary Clinton is tipped to replace
Robert Zoellick as head of the World Bank (see 18.06), her spokeswoman, Victoria
Nuland, has denied the story. She told reporters:

The secretary has addressed this issue many times since last year. She has said
this is not happening. Her view has not changed.

20.33 We are hearing rumours that Germany, the Netherlands and Finland want
guarantees from small Greek political parties that the bail-out measures will be
kept in place, or for the elections in April to be called off.

A sculpture hangs from the ceiling inside the Greek stock exchange in Athens

20.22 A eurozone government source has reportedly told Dow Jones that both a
troika presence and an escrow account is needed in Greece before a bail-out can
proceed. An escrow account would ensure Greece gives priority to debt servicing.

Bruno Waterfield, our man in Brussels:

20.09 Greece's Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos says his country has met all
prior actions with the Euro Group and all the issues on 2012s (EURO)325m fiscal
gap have been decided. He adds that those arguing for a Greek euro exit do a
disservice, and hopes for a plan on Monday, including debt swap. However, he
says some technical issues are still to be resolved.

Venizelos says implementation of bail-out plan depends on the country's two main
parties.

20.02 The full statement for Jean-Claude Juncker reads:

As announced yesterday, I convened the Eurogroup to a conference call today in
order to discuss the outstanding issues regarding the second adjustment
programme for Greece. Substantial further progress has been made since
yesterday.

"First, we received the strong assurances provided by the leaders of the two
coalition parties in Greece's government. Second, the Troika finalized and
presented its analysis on the sustainability of Greece's public debt. Third,
further technical work between Greece and the Troika has led to the
identification of the required additional consolidation measures of (EURO)325m
and the establishment of a detailed list of prior actions together with a
timeline for their implementation.

"Further considerations are necessary regarding the specific mechanisms to
strengthen the surveillance of programme implementation and to ensure that
priority is given to debt servicing. This will strengthen debt sustainability
further.

"On the basis of the elements that are currently on the table and the
above-mentioned additional input, I am confident that the Eurogroup will be able
to take all the necessary decisions on Monday 20 February.

19.30 BREAKING NEWS...

Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the Euro Group, has released a statement
following the EU conference call. He says substantial progress on Greece has
been made and is confident decisions will be made at a Euro Group meeting on
Monday .

"I am confident that the Euro Group will be able to take all the necessary
decisions on Monday," he said.

The troika has finalised and presented its Greek debt report and has received
strong assurances from Greek political leaders.

Juncker says "further considerations are needed on specifics", and European
finance minsiters see a need for stronger surveillance of Greece.

19.27 US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner has said that America will nominate a
successor to World Bank President Robert Zoellick (see 15.24). The head of
Mexico's central bank, Agustin Carstens, believes there should be an "open
election".

19.24 EU conference call has finished. Statement due shortly.

19.09NicolasSarkozy has announced he is an official candidate for the French
presidency. He said that "when France is strong, she will be safe... we have
done many things but we can't do everything in five years".

Rather contentiously considering why he is speaking, Sarkozy then tells the
country's 5m unemployed to "learn a new profession". He adds: "Lots of French
feel dispossessed of their power. I want to give back the power to the French
via referendums."

Amazingly, Sarkozy has just said that he doesn't want France turn into the US,
"where people are living in trailers".

Not really a surprise about the candidacy though.

19.00 The US Federal Reserve has released the minutes of its last meeting. They
state that a "few officials said more bond buying may become necessary", and
most see sales of agency securities no earlier than 2015. The minutes add that
"spillover from Europe remains biggest risk", and many members "saw
greater-than-expected improvement for some indicators".

However, several members "see unemployment well above normal rate in late-2014",
and that a majority saw risks to GDP forecasts weighted to the downside.

Here are the minutes in full:

Minutes

18.50 Still no word from the EU teleconference currently being held. We'll have
the latest here when anything is announced.

18.44 EC commissioner Maria Damanaki has said that Olli Rehn and the EC don't
want any more delays in granting aid to Greece. He adds that the EC agreed
unanimously that what has been voted for by Greek MPs is sufficient and
adequate.

18.41 The EU has said it will double its investment in supercomputers,
high-performance machines the size of a mansion that can cost more than
(EURO)100m each to build.

The European Commission said it will raise its investment from (EURO)630m to
(EURO)1.2bn by 2020.

Neelie Kroes, the Dutch European Union commissioner responsible for fostering
the digital economy, said: "High Performance Computing (HPC) is a crucial
enabler for European industry and for more jobs in Europe. It's investments like
HPC that deliver innovations improving daily life."

18.36 More on Greek President Carolos Papoulias' attack on German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (16.58). During a visit to the defence ministry, the
Second World War veteran also said:

"I do not accept having my country taunted by Mr [Wolfgang] Schaeuble, as a
Greek I do not accept it. Who is Mr Schaeuble to taunt Greece? Who are the
Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to defend not only our
freedom, but also that of Europe.

18.09 Belgium's government is mulling further budget measures, and has begun an
internal meeting.

18.06Reuters is reporting that US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been in
discussions with the White House about leaving her job next year to become head
of the World Bank (see 15.24), citing sources familiar with the discussions.

Hillary Clinton with World Bank president Robert Zoellick

If she landed the job, it would be the first time a woman has held the role.

18.00 Time for an update on the US markets:

Dow -0.7pc

S&P 500 -0.3pc

Nasdaq -0.2pc

17.45 Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the IMF, has praised Robert
Zoellick following his decision to stand down as President of the World Bank in
June (see 15.24):

Bob Zoellick has served the international community - including the membership
of the World Bank Group and IMF -with great distinction. Bob will be leaving the
Bank with a record of achievement of which he can be very proud. It has been a
pleasure working with him both in my capacity as Managing Director and as a
finance minister. I wish him the very best in his future endeavors, and look
forward to maintaining a close working relationship with the Bank once a
successor is chosen.

17.42 Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, Greece's major conservative
party, has written to ECB President Mario Draghi, vowing to honour cuts. Here is
the letter in full:

samaras

17.15Brazil's government has announced nearly $32bn in spending cuts to its 2012
budget but said social programs and major investments for the 2014 World Cup and
the 2016 summer Olympics would not be affected.

16.58 Karolos Papoulias, President of Greece, has hit back at German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaueble after he questioned whether a new government will
"stand by what we are now agreeing with Greece" (see 16.03). Papoulias has
asked:

Who is Mr Schaueble?

Nick Malkoutzis, deputy editor of Kathimerini's English edition, has tweeted:

16.42 Just to bring you up to date, an EU teleconference to discuss a second
Greek bail-out is currently under way. We'll have the latest here.

16.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Margaret Cole, Financial Services Authority board member and interim managing
director of the Conduct Business Unit, is to step down from the City watchdog .

16.32 European markets have closed. The FTSE 100 ended the day flat, the CAC
rose 0.5pc, the DAX rose 0.6pc, the IBEX fell 0.4pc and Italy's MIB rose 0.4pc.

16.19Bloomberg has reported that Paulson & Co, the $23bn hedge fund run by John
Paulson, said the euro is structurally flawed and will eventually fall apart,
according to a letter the firm sent to its investors.

The collapse could be triggered by a Greek default, which would then throw the
world in recession and financial disorder, Paulson & Co said in the letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg. Mr Paulson said:

We believe a Greek payment default could be a greater shock to the system that
Lehman's failure, immediately causing global economies to contract and markets
to decline.

16.03 German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaueble has got involved in Greek
politics just before a teleconference on a second bail-out for the debt-stricken
country. He told SWR2 radio:

When you look at the internal political discussions in Greece and the opinion
polls, then you have to ask who will really guarantee after the elections... -
and I find this very alarming - ... that Greece continues to stand by what we
are now agreeing with Greece. I am also not yet sure that all political parties
in Greece are aware of their responsibility for the difficult situation their
country is in.

15.49 Italian PM Mario Monti says Euro-area demands on Greece are probably
excessive, and rules out extra budget measures for his country.

David Song, a currency analyst at DailyFX, said:

The euro struggled to hold its ground on Wednesday amid rumors that European
officials are looking to delay Greece's second bailout package. We expect the
single currency to face additional headwinds over the near-term as policy makers
struggle to meet on common ground. Indeed, the heightening risk of a Greek
default may lead the European Central Bank to implement additional measures
beyond the second three-year loan facility on tap for later this month.

15.24 World Bank president Robert Zoellick will step down on June 30 . Says he
will stay "100pc focused" until then.

He added in a statement released by the Bank:

"I'm honoured to have led such a world class institution with so many talented
and exceptional people. Together we have focused on supporting developing
countries to navigate crises and adjust to global economic shifts. The Bank has
recognized that we live in a world of multiple poles of growth where traditional
concepts of the 'Third World' are now outdated and where developing countries
have a key role to play as growth drivers and responsible stakeholders. At the
same time, we've scaled up our support to poor people, countries, and
communities and shown that the Bank can be an indispensable innovator, catalyst,
and driver of a modernized multilateralism.

"I'm very pleased that when the world needed the Bank to step up, our
shareholders responded with expanded resources and support for key reforms that
made us quicker, more effective and more open. The Bank is now strong, healthy
and well positioned for new challenges, and so it is a natural time for me to
move on and support new leadership."

US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Larry
Summers are rumoured to be in the race to succeed him.

15.09 In a new article, Pimco's Mohamed El-Erian says EU officials need to look
at Argentina in 2001 if they want to avert disaster in Greece. He writes:

Argentina defaulted in December 2001, closed its banks, and experienced the
mother of all 'economic sudden stops'... Greece's future will resemble that of
Argentina if its government and official creditors [namely, the European Central
Bank, the European Union, and the IMF] fail to internalize some of Argentina's
lessons and do not undertake an urgent mid-course correction.

15.03 Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has called for the break-up of
America's five largest banks, calling them "too big to fail". He also says QE3
is a "fantasy of Wall Street".

15.01 Italian PM Mario Monti is to hold talks on Greece with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel on Friday.

14.56 US markets have opened higher after upbeat manufacturing data.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.53 points (0.11pc) to 12,892.81, the
S&P 500 added 3.89 points (0.29pc) to 1,354.39, while the Nasdaq climbed 13.18
(0.45pc) to 2,945.01.

14.48 We are hearing rumours that World Bank President Robert Zoellick will
discuss his future in the role at a board meeting today.

Zoellick's term as head of the World Bank is due to expire in June and the
sources said he would explain whether he intends to step down ahead of time or
serve out the full five years.

14.31 MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has told the
European Parliament that "if they [Greece] don't get the Drachma back, you will
be responsible for something truly, truly horrible":

14.26 Here's a great table from Reuters comparing the financial crisis in
eurozone countries with other troubled economies:

(for a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand side of the main image
at the top of this blog)

14.24 Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti has said that Central states [Germany
and France] were at the origin of the stability and growth pact crisis in 2003
and that this is recognised by leaders.

He adds it is an "ugly trick" to blame reforms on the EU, and that "in the EU
there are not good guys and bad guys".

Monti states that Italy is trying to make growth a bigger EU priority and has
asked the union to "strongly" develop the single market, which offers "huge"
potential. He adds that euro bonds would help integrate financial markets.

We need to reconcile integration, which we need more of, and democracy, which we
must maintain... a stronger Eurpean Parliament would boost EU... Germany can now
review stance on joint euro bonds.

14.21 Following news earlier today that the unemployment rate has now risen for
the eighth month in a row and the UK's total has hit 8.4pc, here is Ed
Miliband's solution:

14.18 BREAKING NEWS...

US industrial output in January was 0pc, versus 0.4pc previously and
significantly down from expectations of a 0.7pc rise.

14.16 French Prime Minister François Fillon has said that 2012 GDP growth
forecast of a minimum 0.5pc is assured.

14.10 China remains the top holder of US Treasuries, despite revealing that it
reduced its holding to $1.007 trillion in December versus $1.1326 trillion in
November.

14.08 Independent think tank Open Europe has blogged on the possible Greek
bail-out delays :

A draft of the latest bailout agreement has been circulating, however we believe
that some of the issues which the drafts raises have been underplayed -
particularly those that impact the chance of delaying or breaking up the
bailout. The draft lays out how some of the bailout funds will be used:

"Bond sweeteners - (EURO)30bn; Funds to buy back bonds from the Eurosystem -
(EURO)35bn; Funds to pay off interest - (EURO)5.7bn; Bank recapitalisation -
(EURO)23bn; Total - (EURO)93.7bn (out of the (EURO)130bn bailout)

"The chance of getting approval for and raising this amount of funds in the time
necessary (a week or two max) seems unrealistic. But it is also unlikely that
eurozone finance ministers will delay the PSI further, simply because they
cannot afford to. The eurozone has once again backed itself into a corner and
things are likely to get worse before they get better.

13.50 Spain has confirmed it will submit its budget to the EC only after
regional elections in Andalucia on March 25.

Is it just me or are elections in numerous countries this year (US, France,
Spain, Greece) getting in the way of sorting out the financial crisis?

13.45 Possible quote not just of the day but of the year. AIG chief Robert
Benmosche (below) has said that the Europe crisis "isn't as bad" as it sounds.

13.41 Quick update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +0.1pc

CAC +0.7pc

DAX +0.8pc

IBEX +0.3pc

MIB +1.1pc

13.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Iran officials say will not cut oil to EU "at the moment".

13.26 That news comes as German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble says Europe
is still waiting for a debt sustainability report on Greece.

The euro has collapsed against the dollar on that news (see below). It's now
down 0.0041 to $1.3093 as of 1.30pm.

Bond futures are heading up, too.

13.20 Big news now. Eurozone finance officials are examining ways of delaying
parts or even all of the second bail-out programme for Greece while still
avoiding a disorderly default, several EU sources have told Reuters. Delays
could possibly last until after the country holds elections expected in April,
they said.

While most of the elements of the package, which will total (EURO)130bn, are in
place, eurozone finance ministers are not satisfied that Greece's political
leaders are sufficiently committed to the deal, which requires Athens to make
further spending cuts and introduce deeply unpopular labour reforms.

It is also not clear that Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio, which currently stands at
around 160pc, will be cut to 120pc by 2020 via the agreement, as demanded by the
'troika' of the European Commission, IMF and European Central Bank.

There are proposals to delay the Greek package or to split it, so that an
immediate default is avoided, but not everything is committed to. They'll
discuss the options. There is pressure from several countries to hold off until
there is a concrete commitment from Greece, which may not come until after
they've held elections.

13.14 Quick bit of corporate news that is breaking. Kellogg has made an offer
worth $2.7bn to buy Pringles .

Diamond had agreed to pay $2.35bn to buy the Pringles business last April, but
the deal unraveled.

13.05 And a little more Greece - Evangelos Venizelos, the country's finance
minister, has said the country has done virtually everything to meet its
bail-out terms and that people saying Greece would be better off out of the euro
are "playing with fire". He said:

There are only a few remaining issues, which will be fully clarified by the time
of the Eurogroup conference call at 1800 Greek time.

That call is at 4pm London time, for those who want to keep up with it.

13.00 Following up on the 09.20 post, Greek politician Antonis Samaras has now
reportedly sent his letter to the EU and IMF committing himself to sticking to
the austerity package if his party, New Democracy, is elected in April.

12.45 As well as European stock markets, the price of oil was also on the rise
this morning.

Brent crude rose to more than $118 a barrel earlier today, as tensions with Iran
continued and supplies from South Sudan were disrupted by Sudan seizing 2.4m
barrels of oil as a dispute over payments rumbles on.

12.30 Bank holidays take another bashing - the Bank of England's inflation
report says the extra day off for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee will contribute to
the "zig-zag" recovery, following the Royal Wedding causing a slowdown in the
second quarter last year.

12.05 Taking a look at stock markets in the middle of the trading day, European
shares have really shrugged off the growth figures showing the eurozone eocnomy
shrank in the fourth quarter, although the FTSE is having a more muted day:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.2pc at 5,912 points, while the CAC rose 1pc in Paris and
the DAX put on 1.2pc in Germany.

12.00 Thanks to commenter Alistair Milne (08.28 comment) - I've corrected
"negative watch" to neagtive outlook" in 08.20 post now.

11.45 The European Commission really is playing the enigma wrapped in a mystery
today, according to the Telegraph's Bruno Waterfield in Brussels. He tweets:

11.30 Returning to Greece for a moment, Telegraph reporter Nick Squires captured
this very apt bit of graffiti on the side of a newspaper kiosk near the
parliament building:

11.25 A bit of cheer from Sir Mervyn - he says the Government's Office for
Budget Responsibility is now more pessimisitic about the UK economy that the
Bank of England, although he concedes noone knows without a doubt.

The BBC's economics editor Stephanie Flanders tweets:

11.15 Channel 4's Faisal Islam says Sir Mervyn won't be drawn on the question of
Scottish independence:

11.10 On bank lending, Sir Mervyn says lending to small businesses has to be
done by the banks, and that the Bank of England has "pointed out" that the
Government owns two big lenders but that "we have moved beyond that debate."

11.05 Should the Bank of England's rate-setters be subject to
performance-related pay based on how closely they stick to the inflation target,
asks Ed Conway, Sky's economics editor?

Sir Mervyn says his pay is for MPs to decide, but says public debate on monetary
plicy is a good thing.

11.00 Angela Monaghan says Sir Mervyn is making reassuring noises on the
economy:

Sir Mervyn says that more so than in any other advanced economy, the UK is best
placed to undertake the necessary rebalancing of the economy (towards exports
and away from imports and public sector/consumer spending).

He says the UK has put the right conditions in place, illustrated by the fact
the country has absorbed a 25pc fall in the exchange rate without seeing a
significant wage inflation.

Transition is going to be a "difficult journey", he cautions, but Britain is
"going in the right direction".

10.55 Sir Mervyn King has also defended low interest rates, which have made life
hard for those living on savings. Phil reports:

10.50 Sir Mervyn King has also said that he expects the recovery of the economy
to take "a zig-zag" path, Angela reports.

10.40 Here's some more from Sir Mervyn, via Angela Monaghan on Twitter:

10.35 Now for the UK's next big economic event - the Bank of England's Sir
Mervyn King delivers his inflation report. The reporters are allowed to tweet
from the press conference for the first time, and our economics editor Phil
Aldrick reports:

10.20 While unemployment figures were lower in the three months to the end of
December than the three months to the end of November (see 09.45 post), the
picture is still not pretty, with the jobless rate at a 16-year high.

Charles Levy, senior economist at The Work Foundation, said:

The bad news is that the job market remains grim, with unemployment continuing
to rise to record levels and a big shift towards part-time work. The number of
full-time jobs actually fell by 10,000, and there are now 1.35m part-time
workers unable to find full-time work.

It will take several months of sustained job creation before we can expect to
see unemployment fall significantly.

10.10 Reuters has produced this handy graph of unemployment in the UK, showing
how things have not improved since the spike produced by the financial crisis:

10.00 Figures for growth in the eurozone as a whole are out - and show the
region's economy shrank by 0.3pc in the fourth quarter of 2011.

09.45 More details on UK unemployment - the total number of people without a job
stood at 2.671m in the three months to the end of December, down from 2.685m in
the three months to the end of November.

However, the figure in the last three months of the year was 48,000 higher than
in the quarter from July to September.

The unemployment rate of 8.4pc was unchanged and slightly better than economists
expected - they forecast a rise to 8.5pc.

09.30 BREAKING ...

UK unemployment figures for January are out and show the jobless rate was
running at 8.4pc in the three months to December, some 2.67m people.

09.20 But noone else is staying silent - German finance minister Wolfgang
Schäuble and Greek politician Antonis Samaras are both having their say on the
stalled Greek bailout process.

Mr Schäuble first - he says he's worried about who will guarantee Greece sticks
to its austerity commitments after the election, planned for April.

And for his part, political sources say Mr Samaris will sign a "letter of
commitment" to the deal by the end of today - the fact he hadn't signed up
earlier led to eurozone finance ministers cancelling their meeting today.

09.15 And while seriously bad economic news is coming out all over Europe, the
European Commission is saying ... nothing, according to Bruno Waterfield in
Brussels. He tweets:

09.05 Italy's GDP numbers are out and worse than expected:

The economy shrank by 0.7pc in the last quarter of 2011, meaning the country is
in recession after it contracted 0.2pc in the thid quarter.

08.50 The rumour mill this morning is spinning with talk that a growing number
of European players want to push Greece out of the eurozone, as observed by
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard (see 06.50 post).

However FT commentator Martin Wolf writes this morning that ther is a bigger
question here - what is the future for the eurozone as a whole if Greece does
go? He writes:

The eurozone is in a form of limbo: it is neither so deeply integrafted that
break-up is inconceivable, nor so lightly integrated that break-up is tolerable.
Indeed the most powerful guarantee of its survival is the costs of breaking it
up. Maybe that will prove sufficient.

Yet if the eurozone is to be more than a grim marriage sustained by the
frightening costs of dividing up assets and liabilities, it has to be built on
something vastly more positive than that. Given the economic divergences and
political frictions revelaed so starkly by this crisis, is that now possible?
That is the most difficult question of all.

08.25 European shares have started the day strongly, although the FTSE is
trading almost flat ahead of today's economic news.

The FTSE 100 is up 0.03pc at 5,902 points, while the CAC added 0.8pc and the DAX
climbed 1pc.

08.20 The Telegraph's Alistair Osborne says in this morning's City briefing that
today's jobs figures and the Bank of England report are unlikely to make Moody's
change its mind after putting the UK's AAA rating on negative outlook.

The latest jobs numbers and the Bank of England's quarterly inflation report may
do little to dissuade the US agency to go easy on our triple A credit rating.
But they are bound to maintain the political row over whether George Osborne's
economic medicine is working.

On the jobs front, there are the three month figures to December and January's
claimant count. The most recent three months to November showed that
unemployment rose by 118,000 to 2.68m, the highest level since August 1994.

08.10 UK jobs figures are out later today, and the Bank of England also gives
its inflation report, outlining its forecasts for the economy.

Angela Mongahan and Philip Aldrick will report from the Bank's meeting this
morning and give this preview:

The Bank's latest quarterly Inflation Report is expected today to show a sharp
drop in the forecast for the benchmark consumer prices index (CPI), after more
than two years above the official 2pc target.

The downward trend has already begun, after CPI peaked at 5.2pc in December.
Data from the Office for National Statistics on Tuesday showed inflation fell to
a 14-month low of 3.6pc in January from 4.2pc in December, and the pace of the
decline is expected to accelerate.

07.45 Back to France, where Nicolas Sarkozy should have a smile on his face -
the economy remained in growth while Germany's shrank in the fourth quarter (see
07.05 post).

Household consumption held up and corporate investment also picked up, after
shrinking in the previous quarter.

That's the kind of news our own Chancellor would like to hear.

07.20 BREAKING ...

Germany's economy shrank in the fourth quarter of 2011, with GDP contracting by
0.2pc. That was marginally better than the 0.3pc contraction economists
expected.

07.10 Some good news for the eurozone - the governor of China's central bank has
pledged to keep buying European government debt and expressed his confidence in
the single currency.

Zhou Xiaochuan said:

As Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday at the China-EU summit, China will...
continue to invest in European government bonds and will continue... to get more
involved in solving the European debt crisis.

We have confidence in the euro.

07.05 Eurozone countries' growth figures for the fourth quarter of last year are
out this morning - and France has been quick off the mark.

The French economy grew by 0.2pc in the last three months of 2011, beating
forecasts it would shrink by 0.1pc. In 2011 as a whole, France's economy grew
1.7pc.

France also said this morning it expects the economy to grow by 0.5pc in 2012.

06.55 So what happened last night to make EU finance ministers cancel the
meeting they were due to have in Brussels today to ratify Greece's bail-out?

Reports this morning say they will hold a teleconference instead, in order to
persuade the country's politicians to do even more.

Apparently, the group believe Greece has not offered enough commitments to the
austerity measures voted through by parliament on Sunday, as violence raged on
the streets outside.

The particular stumbling block seems to be Antonis Samaras, leader of the party
expected to win April's election, who has indicated he would try to renegotiate
the bailout conditions if elected.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the group of finance ministers (the
eurogroup) said:

It has appeared that further technical work between Greece and the troika is
needed in a number of areas, including the closure of the fiscal gap of
(EURO)325m in 2012 and the debt sustainability analysis.

Furthermore, I did not yet receive the required political assurances from the
leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the implementation of the programme.

The next meeting of the eurogroup is scheduled for this coming Monday, February
20th, so ministers won't be able to give their approval of the bail-out package
for Greece until then.

06.50 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard has written an analysis of the Greek plight on a
day when Luxembourg's foreign minister said a return to the drachma "might be
something which would allow Greece also to get a new start" and one conservative
Greek MP simply stated: "You answer war with war."

More from our international business editor in Athens:

The country appears to be in a self-feeding downward spiral that is playing
havoc with budget targets, leaving Greece with a Sisyphean task of ever deeper
cuts.

Premier Lucas Papademos called his cabinet together late last night to find a
further (EURO)325m (£272m) of fiscal austerity demanded by the troika, likely to
be defence cuts and lower salaries.

The coalition parties failed to convince the Eurogroup that they would stick to
the deal, and the mood has been poisoned by EU demands for an escrow account to
seize Greek budget revenues at source.

Blackened buildings set alight by protesters on Sunday were cordoned off on
streets around parliament in Syntagma Square, a vivid reminder to Greece's
politicians that any misjudgment could push the country towards anarchy.

Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrives for a cabinet meeting in the
Greek parliament in Athens on Tuesday (Photo: EPA)

06.45 Meanwhile, most of this morning's business pages are still dominated by
Greece:

Telegraph: Greece's goodbye to the euro edges ever closer

Financial Times (£): Eurozone divisions threaten Greece aid

Guardian:George Osborne tries to be positive on negative outlook for economy

The Times (£): Greece's rescue package in doubt

06.40 That didn't stop Chancellor George Osborne from insisting yet again that
it's Plan A or the highway. He told Radio 4 yesterday:

For me it was a reality check for the whole political system that Britain has to
deal with its debts, that we can't waver in the path of dealing with out debts.

While shadow chancellor Ed Balls insisted that the move was:

...the first evidence that even the ratings agencies are waking up to the fact
George Osborne's plan's not working.

06.35 The market turmoil you might expect following Monday's series of
downgrades by Moody's just didn't happen yesterday, as investors were reassured
by a jump in German confidence and other upbeat data. Angela Monaghan reports:

The FTSE 100 closed down 0.1pc at 5899.87, the CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.3pc to
3375.64, and the DAX in Frankfurt closed down just 0.1pc at 6728.19, despite
Moody's decision to downgrade Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia, and to place a negative outlook on the UK, France and Austria.

"As a consequence of the Moody's ratings moves, we saw early pressure on banking
and mining stocks, which fell as investors moved to offset risk in their
portfolios," said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index.
"However, better than expected data ... helped to lift markets from their lows
by mid morning."

The downbeat move by Moody's was partially offset by the German ZEW confidence
index, which was surprisingly strong, rising to a 10-month high of 5.4 in
February from -21.6 in January. Economists had forecast a smaller fall to -11.8.

06.30 Good morning and welcome back to our live coverage of the eurozone debt
crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU in a flutter as Union Flag flies bottom up

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 267 words


EU bureaucrats were accused of insulting Britain yesterday by flying the Union
Flag upside down.

The red, white and blue standard was raised the wrong way up above the European
Parliament in Strasbourg.

The mistake, pictured right, was spotted by eagle-eyed Tory MEP Roger Helmer.

He said he had written to Martin Schulz, the president of the parliament asking
for the insult to be corrected.

His letter says: "Arriving at the parliament this morning around 7am, I noticed
that in the line of national flags, the flag of my country, the Union Jack, was
flying upside down - as it was when I first arrived at the Strasbourg parliament
in 1999.

"May I ask if this is merely an oversight, or a deliberate snub? May I also ask
what action you propose to take to ensure this does not happen again?"

The inversion of the Union Flag is a bugbear for vexillologists, as enthusiasts
are known. The thick white section of the diagonals should appear above the red
stripes on the side nearest the flagpole.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "The UK's financial contribution to the EU is
topping £50million on a daily basis, yet the bureaucrats cannot even fly our
Union Flag the right way.

"Flying the flag incorrectly is not only disrespectful, but shows how ignorant
these people are. Traditionally flying the flag upside down is a distress
signal. Given the state of the euro, is it any wonder the EU is distressed?"

The current Union Flag - more commonly known as the Union Jack - has been in use
since the Act of Union between Great Britain and Ireland in 1801.

The European Parliament said it was a "mistake".

opinion: page 12

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 685 words


&#10002;We're hurting but the brightest minds are on the case. Just the other
day, London mayor Boris Johnson announced his latest initiative - a London
Enterprise Panel to drive regeneration and boost economic growth. The blond will
chair it himself, but the key will be the expertise he will be able to call
upon. Such as Grant Hearn, the executive chairman of hotel chain Travelodge.
Reports, which the company has declined to dignify with comment, suggest the
hotelier has had to call on lenders for £10m. The Sunday Times, Reuters and
Bloomberg say that it could need more capital to cope with debts. Who better to
talk about making ends meet?

&#10002;The battle is on in London, meanwhile. Boris says he is determined to
play it straight. "I certainly think it's a swindle to pretend to Londoners that
you can magic money from nowhere and then cut fares," he exclaimed. "We can't go
back to the kind of voodoo economics of the Labour government that racked up
these huge debts." And here's a quote from a revelatory report on the mayor's
budget by the BBC Sunday Politics show in London. "City Hall made a mistake with
the numbers and are out in places by nearly £4bn," it said. "That is a quarter
of the budget, or put another way, the entire police spend for one year." And
here's a quote from City Hall. "A clerical error," they said.

&#10002;Valentine's Day in Brussels. A time for the normal declarations of love,
but also for serious business as MEPs from all parties swap emails about a
special performance next month of The Vagina Monologues. The event is billed as
"a cross-party call to action to end violence against women and girls"; the
round-robin invitation reaches Ukip's Gerard Batten, MEP for London. It's all a
laugh to Gerard. "Thank you for the kind invitation," he replies. "It looks
interesting. It is some kind of ventriloquist act?" Ha ha, Gerard. Very good.
Always a giggle to be had from domestic abuse.

&#10002;The government is in all sorts of trouble. But how to get them out?
Jacqui Smith, the former home secretary, takes to the current issue of Progress
Magazine to outline a new prospectus. "We need a 'prawn cocktail' offensive for
the 21st century - a 'scallops and celeriac puree' offensive, a 'baked figs and
goats cheese' offensive . . . In the 1980s and 1990s, energetic Labour
spokespeople led by then City minister Tony Blair toured the private dining
rooms of the City trying to decontaminate the Labour brand with leading business
people. Their success was part of the foundation of New Labour economic and
electoral success in the next 20 years." Sounds like a plan. Sounds promising.
And if she takes Alastair Campbell, they can mount the offensive offensive. Even
better.

&#10002;The Baftas have gone, and so have all the stars. Off rolls the cavalcade
to Hollywood. Next stop, the Oscars. The Artist won most of the plaudits, but
surely some of the finest acting was produced by stars in the audience as they
reacted with supposed joy at their rivals getting the prizes. George Clooney
seemed perfectly content to miss best actor. Didn't you long for a star who - to
quote PG Wodehouse - "had the look of one who had drunk the cup of life and
found a dead beetle at the bottom". That sort of reaction gains genuine respect.

&#10002;More evidence that the government remains oblivious to the consequences
of belt-tightening. "Age of austerity diplomacy, just seen official gift for
pope, being carried on board plane . . . in M&S bag," tweeted energy minister
Greg Barker. Silly Greg. The M&S bag was the pope's official gift. Re-useable
and everything.

&#10002;Finally, a trying year, but it's looking up for our hero Julian Assange.
He plays his cartoon self in Thursday's episode of The Simpsons. The plot calls
for him to cook for Homer and Marge, so he throws some more prawns on the
barbie. When Marge asks the secret of his tasty recipe, he resists: "I cannot
reveal my sauces." Such authenticity there is and ready wit. Perhaps his true
source is revealed within the closing captions. They thank scriptwriter Kathy
Lette.

Diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 15, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM GMT

Debt crisis and Greek talks: live;
Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the Euro Group, is confident a decision on a second
Greek bail-out can be made on Monday, after a teleconference call, as a top
politician in Greece pledges to "remain committed" to spending cuts.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Andrew Trotman

LENGTH: 5429 words


· Euro Group chief confident of Greek decision on Monday
· Top Greek politician writes to ECB chief backing cuts
· Eurozone officials look at delaying Greek bail-out
· UK unemployment at 16-year high of 2.67 million
· Zoellick will step down from World Bank on June 30
· Eurozone economy shrinks in Q4 as Germany contracts

Latest

20.09 Greece's Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos says his country has met all
prior actions with the Euro Group and all the issues on 2012 fiscal gap have
been decided.

20.02 The full statement for Jean-Claude Juncker reads:

As announced yesterday, I convened the Eurogroup to a conference call today in
order to discuss the outstanding issues regarding the second adjustment
programme for Greece. Substantial further progress has been made since
yesterday.

"First, we received the strong assurances provided by the leaders of the two
coalition parties in Greece's government. Second, the Troika finalized and
presented its analysis on the sustainability of Greece's public debt. Third,
further technical work between Greece and the Troika has led to the
identification of the required additional consolidation measures of (EURO)325m
and the establishment of a detailed list of prior actions together with a
timeline for their implementation.

"Further considerations are necessary regarding the specific mechanisms to
strengthen the surveillance of programme implementation and to ensure that
priority is given to debt servicing. This will strengthen debt sustainability
further.

"On the basis of the elements that are currently on the table and the
above-mentioned additional input, I am confident that the Eurogroup will be able
to take all the necessary decisions on Monday 20 February.

19.30 BREAKING NEWS...

Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the Euro Group, has released a statement
following the EU conference call. He says substantial progress on Greece has
been made and is confident decisions will be made at a Euro Group meeting on
Monday .

"I am confident that the Euro Group will be able to take all the necessary
decisions on Monday," he said.

The troika has finalised and presented its Greek debt report and has received
strong assurances from Greek political leaders.

Juncker says "further considerations are needed on specifics", and European
finance minsiters see a need for stronger surveillance of Greece.

19.27 US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner has said that America will nominate a
successor to World Bank President Robert Zoellick (see 15.24). The head of
Mexico's central bank, Agustin Carstens, believes there should be an "open
election".

19.24 EU conference call has finished. Statement due shortly.

19.09NicolasSarkozy has announced he is an official candidate for the French
presidency. He said that "when France is strong, she will be safe... we have
done many things but we can't do everything in five years".

Rather contentiously considering why he is speaking, Sarkozy then tells the
country's 5m unemployed to "learn a new profession". He adds: "Lots of French
feel dispossessed of their power. I want to give back the power to the French
via referendums."

Amazingly, Sarkozy has just said that he doesn't want France turn into the US,
"where people are living in trailers".

Not really a surprise about the candidacy though.

19.00 The US Federal Reserve has released the minutes of its last meeting. They
state that a "few officials said more bond buying may become necessary", and
most see sales of agency securities no earlier than 2015. The minutes add that
"spillover from Europe remains biggest risk", and many members "saw
greater-than-expected improvement for some indicators".

However, several members "see unemployment well above normal rate in late-2014",
and that a majority saw risks to GDP forecasts weighted to the downside.

Here are the minutes in full:

Minutes

18.50 Still no word from the EU teleconference currently being held. We'll have
the latest here when anything is announced.

18.44 EC commissioner Maria Damanaki has said that Olli Rehn and the EC don't
want any more delays in granting aid to Greece. He adds that the EC agreed
unanimously that what has been voted for by Greek MPs is sufficient and
adequate.

18.41 The EU has said it will double its investment in supercomputers,
high-performance machines the size of a mansion that can cost more than
(EURO)100m each to build.

The European Commission said it will raise its investment from (EURO)630m to
(EURO)1.2bn by 2020.

Neelie Kroes, the Dutch European Union commissioner responsible for fostering
the digital economy, said: "High Performance Computing (HPC) is a crucial
enabler for European industry and for more jobs in Europe. It's investments like
HPC that deliver innovations improving daily life."

18.36 More on Greek President Carolos Papoulias' attack on German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (16.58). During a visit to the defence ministry, the
Second World War veteran also said:

"I do not accept having my country taunted by Mr [Wolfgang] Schaeuble, as a
Greek I do not accept it. Who is Mr Schaeuble to taunt Greece? Who are the
Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to defend not only our
freedom, but also that of Europe.

18.09 Belgium's government is mulling further budget measures, and has begun an
internal meeting.

18.06Reuters is reporting that US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been in
discussions with the White House about leaving her job next year to become head
of the World Bank (see 15.24), citing sources familiar with the discussions.

Hillary Clinton with World Bank president Robert Zoellick

If she landed the job, it would be the first time a woman has held the role.

18.00 Time for an update on the US markets:

Dow -0.7pc

S&P 500 -0.3pc

Nasdaq -0.2pc

17.45 Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the IMF, has praised Robert
Zoellick following his decision to stand down as President of the World Bank in
June (see 15.24):

Bob Zoellick has served the international community - including the membership
of the World Bank Group and IMF -with great distinction. Bob will be leaving the
Bank with a record of achievement of which he can be very proud. It has been a
pleasure working with him both in my capacity as Managing Director and as a
finance minister. I wish him the very best in his future endeavors, and look
forward to maintaining a close working relationship with the Bank once a
successor is chosen.

17.42 Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, Greece's major conservative
party, has written to ECB President Mario Draghi, vowing to honour cuts. Here is
the letter in full:

samaras

17.15Brazil's government has announced nearly $32bn in spending cuts to its 2012
budget but said social programs and major investments for the 2014 World Cup and
the 2016 summer Olympics would not be affected.

16.58 Karolos Papoulias, President of Greece, has hit back at German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaueble after he questioned whether a new government will
"stand by what we are now agreeing with Greece" (see 16.03). Papoulias has
asked:

Who is Mr Schaueble?

Nick Malkoutzis, deputy editor of Kathimerini's English edition, has tweeted:

16.42 Just to bring you up to date, an EU teleconference to discuss a second
Greek bail-out is currently under way. We'll have the latest here.

16.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Margaret Cole, Financial Services Authority board member and interim managing
director of the Conduct Business Unit, is to step down from the City watchdog .

16.32 European markets have closed. The FTSE 100 ended the day flat, the CAC
rose 0.5pc, the DAX rose 0.6pc, the IBEX fell 0.4pc and Italy's MIB rose 0.4pc.

16.19Bloomberg has reported that Paulson & Co, the $23bn hedge fund run by John
Paulson, said the euro is structurally flawed and will eventually fall apart,
according to a letter the firm sent to its investors.

The collapse could be triggered by a Greek default, which would then throw the
world in recession and financial disorder, Paulson & Co said in the letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg. Mr Paulson said:

We believe a Greek payment default could be a greater shock to the system that
Lehman's failure, immediately causing global economies to contract and markets
to decline.

16.03 German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaueble has got involved in Greek
politics just before a teleconference on a second bail-out for the debt-stricken
country. He told SWR2 radio:

When you look at the internal political discussions in Greece and the opinion
polls, then you have to ask who will really guarantee after the elections... -
and I find this very alarming - ... that Greece continues to stand by what we
are now agreeing with Greece. I am also not yet sure that all political parties
in Greece are aware of their responsibility for the difficult situation their
country is in.

15.49 Italian PM Mario Monti says Euro-area demands on Greece are probably
excessive, and rules out extra budget measures for his country.

David Song, a currency analyst at DailyFX, said:

The euro struggled to hold its ground on Wednesday amid rumors that European
officials are looking to delay Greece's second bailout package. We expect the
single currency to face additional headwinds over the near-term as policy makers
struggle to meet on common ground. Indeed, the heightening risk of a Greek
default may lead the European Central Bank to implement additional measures
beyond the second three-year loan facility on tap for later this month.

15.24 World Bank president Robert Zoellick will step down on June 30 . Says he
will stay "100pc focused" until then.

He added in a statement released by the Bank:

"I'm honoured to have led such a world class institution with so many talented
and exceptional people. Together we have focused on supporting developing
countries to navigate crises and adjust to global economic shifts. The Bank has
recognized that we live in a world of multiple poles of growth where traditional
concepts of the 'Third World' are now outdated and where developing countries
have a key role to play as growth drivers and responsible stakeholders. At the
same time, we've scaled up our support to poor people, countries, and
communities and shown that the Bank can be an indispensable innovator, catalyst,
and driver of a modernized multilateralism.

"I'm very pleased that when the world needed the Bank to step up, our
shareholders responded with expanded resources and support for key reforms that
made us quicker, more effective and more open. The Bank is now strong, healthy
and well positioned for new challenges, and so it is a natural time for me to
move on and support new leadership."

US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Larry
Summers are rumoured to be in the race to succeed him.

15.09 In a new article, Pimco's Mohamed El-Erian says EU officials need to look
at Argentina in 2001 if they want to avert disaster in Greece. He writes:

Argentina defaulted in December 2001, closed its banks, and experienced the
mother of all 'economic sudden stops'... Greece's future will resemble that of
Argentina if its government and official creditors [namely, the European Central
Bank, the European Union, and the IMF] fail to internalize some of Argentina's
lessons and do not undertake an urgent mid-course correction.

15.03 Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has called for the break-up of
America's five largest banks, calling them "too big to fail". He also says QE3
is a "fantasy of Wall Street".

15.01 Italian PM Mario Monti is to hold talks on Greece with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel on Friday.

14.56 US markets have opened higher after upbeat manufacturing data.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.53 points (0.11pc) to 12,892.81, the
S&P 500 added 3.89 points (0.29pc) to 1,354.39, while the Nasdaq climbed 13.18
(0.45pc) to 2,945.01.

14.48 We are hearing rumours that World Bank President Robert Zoellick will
discuss his future in the role at a board meeting today.

Zoellick's term as head of the World Bank is due to expire in June and the
sources said he would explain whether he intends to step down ahead of time or
serve out the full five years.

14.31 MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has told the
European Parliament that "if they [Greece] don't get the Drachma back, you will
be responsible for something truly, truly horrible":

14.26 Here's a great table from Reuters comparing the financial crisis in
eurozone countries with other troubled economies:

(for a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand side of the main image
at the top of this blog)

14.24 Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti has said that Central states [Germany
and France] were at the origin of the stability and growth pact crisis in 2003
and that this is recognised by leaders.

He adds it is an "ugly trick" to blame reforms on the EU, and that "in the EU
there are not good guys and bad guys".

Monti states that Italy is trying to make growth a bigger EU priority and has
asked the union to "strongly" develop the single market, which offers "huge"
potential. He adds that euro bonds would help integrate financial markets.

We need to reconcile integration, which we need more of, and democracy, which we
must maintain... a stronger Eurpean Parliament would boost EU... Germany can now
review stance on joint euro bonds.

14.21 Following news earlier today that the unemployment rate has now risen for
the eighth month in a row and the UK's total has hit 8.4pc, here is Ed
Miliband's solution:

14.18 BREAKING NEWS...

US industrial output in January was 0pc, versus 0.4pc previously and
significantly down from expectations of a 0.7pc rise.

14.16 French Prime Minister François Fillon has said that 2012 GDP growth
forecast of a minimum 0.5pc is assured.

14.10 China remains the top holder of US Treasuries, despite revealing that it
reduced its holding to $1.007 trillion in December versus $1.1326 trillion in
November.

14.08 Independent think tank Open Europe has blogged on the possible Greek
bail-out delays :

A draft of the latest bailout agreement has been circulating, however we believe
that some of the issues which the drafts raises have been underplayed -
particularly those that impact the chance of delaying or breaking up the
bailout. The draft lays out how some of the bailout funds will be used:

"Bond sweeteners - (EURO)30bn; Funds to buy back bonds from the Eurosystem -
(EURO)35bn; Funds to pay off interest - (EURO)5.7bn; Bank recapitalisation -
(EURO)23bn; Total - (EURO)93.7bn (out of the (EURO)130bn bailout)

"The chance of getting approval for and raising this amount of funds in the time
necessary (a week or two max) seems unrealistic. But it is also unlikely that
eurozone finance ministers will delay the PSI further, simply because they
cannot afford to. The eurozone has once again backed itself into a corner and
things are likely to get worse before they get better.

13.50 Spain has confirmed it will submit its budget to the EC only after
regional elections in Andalucia on March 25.

Is it just me or are elections in numerous countries this year (US, France,
Spain, Greece) getting in the way of sorting out the financial crisis?

13.45 Possible quote not just of the day but of the year. AIG chief Robert
Benmosche (below) has said that the Europe crisis "isn't as bad" as it sounds.

13.41 Quick update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +0.1pc

CAC +0.7pc

DAX +0.8pc

IBEX +0.3pc

MIB +1.1pc

13.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Iran officials say will not cut oil to EU "at the moment".

13.26 That news comes as German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble says Europe
is still waiting for a debt sustainability report on Greece.

The euro has collapsed against the dollar on that news (see below). It's now
down 0.0041 to $1.3093 as of 1.30pm.

Bond futures are heading up, too.

13.20 Big news now. Eurozone finance officials are examining ways of delaying
parts or even all of the second bail-out programme for Greece while still
avoiding a disorderly default, several EU sources have told Reuters. Delays
could possibly last until after the country holds elections expected in April,
they said.

While most of the elements of the package, which will total (EURO)130bn, are in
place, eurozone finance ministers are not satisfied that Greece's political
leaders are sufficiently committed to the deal, which requires Athens to make
further spending cuts and introduce deeply unpopular labour reforms.

It is also not clear that Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio, which currently stands at
around 160pc, will be cut to 120pc by 2020 via the agreement, as demanded by the
'troika' of the European Commission, IMF and European Central Bank.

There are proposals to delay the Greek package or to split it, so that an
immediate default is avoided, but not everything is committed to. They'll
discuss the options. There is pressure from several countries to hold off until
there is a concrete commitment from Greece, which may not come until after
they've held elections.

13.14 Quick bit of corporate news that is breaking. Kellogg has made an offer
worth $2.7bn to buy Pringles .

Diamond had agreed to pay $2.35bn to buy the Pringles business last April, but
the deal unraveled.

13.05 And a little more Greece - Evangelos Venizelos, the country's finance
minister, has said the country has done virtually everything to meet its
bail-out terms and that people saying Greece would be better off out of the euro
are "playing with fire". He said:

There are only a few remaining issues, which will be fully clarified by the time
of the Eurogroup conference call at 1800 Greek time.

That call is at 4pm London time, for those who want to keep up with it.

13.00 Following up on the 09.20 post, Greek politician Antonis Samaras has now
reportedly sent his letter to the EU and IMF committing himself to sticking to
the austerity package if his party, New Democracy, is elected in April.

12.45 As well as European stock markets, the price of oil was also on the rise
this morning.

Brent crude rose to more than $118 a barrel earlier today, as tensions with Iran
continued and supplies from South Sudan were disrupted by Sudan seizing 2.4m
barrels of oil as a dispute over payments rumbles on.

12.30 Bank holidays take another bashing - the Bank of England's inflation
report says the extra day off for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee will contribute to
the "zig-zag" recovery, following the Royal Wedding causing a slowdown in the
second quarter last year.

12.05 Taking a look at stock markets in the middle of the trading day, European
shares have really shrugged off the growth figures showing the eurozone eocnomy
shrank in the fourth quarter, although the FTSE is having a more muted day:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.2pc at 5,912 points, while the CAC rose 1pc in Paris and
the DAX put on 1.2pc in Germany.

12.00 Thanks to commenter Alistair Milne (08.28 comment) - I've corrected
"negative watch" to neagtive outlook" in 08.20 post now.

11.45 The European Commission really is playing the enigma wrapped in a mystery
today, according to the Telegraph's Bruno Waterfield in Brussels. He tweets:

11.30 Returning to Greece for a moment, Telegraph reporter Nick Squires captured
this very apt bit of graffiti on the side of a newspaper kiosk near the
parliament building:

11.25 A bit of cheer from Sir Mervyn - he says the Government's Office for
Budget Responsibility is now more pessimisitic about the UK economy that the
Bank of England, although he concedes noone knows without a doubt.

The BBC's economics editor Stephanie Flanders tweets:

11.15 Channel 4's Faisal Islam says Sir Mervyn won't be drawn on the question of
Scottish independence:

11.10 On bank lending, Sir Mervyn says lending to small businesses has to be
done by the banks, and that the Bank of England has "pointed out" that the
Government owns two big lenders but that "we have moved beyond that debate."

11.05 Should the Bank of England's rate-setters be subject to
performance-related pay based on how closely they stick to the inflation target,
asks Ed Conway, Sky's economics editor?

Sir Mervyn says his pay is for MPs to decide, but says public debate on monetary
plicy is a good thing.

11.00 Angela Monaghan says Sir Mervyn is making reassuring noises on the
economy:

Sir Mervyn says that more so than in any other advanced economy, the UK is best
placed to undertake the necessary rebalancing of the economy (towards exports
and away from imports and public sector/consumer spending).

He says the UK has put the right conditions in place, illustrated by the fact
the country has absorbed a 25pc fall in the exchange rate without seeing a
significant wage inflation.

Transition is going to be a "difficult journey", he cautions, but Britain is
"going in the right direction".

10.55 Sir Mervyn King has also defended low interest rates, which have made life
hard for those living on savings. Phil reports:

10.50 Sir Mervyn King has also said that he expects the recovery of the economy
to take "a zig-zag" path, Angela reports.

10.40 Here's some more from Sir Mervyn, via Angela Monaghan on Twitter:

10.35 Now for the UK's next big economic event - the Bank of England's Sir
Mervyn King delivers his inflation report. The reporters are allowed to tweet
from the press conference for the first time, and our economics editor Phil
Aldrick reports:

10.20 While unemployment figures were lower in the three months to the end of
December than the three months to the end of November (see 09.45 post), the
picture is still not pretty, with the jobless rate at a 16-year high.

Charles Levy, senior economist at The Work Foundation, said:

The bad news is that the job market remains grim, with unemployment continuing
to rise to record levels and a big shift towards part-time work. The number of
full-time jobs actually fell by 10,000, and there are now 1.35m part-time
workers unable to find full-time work.

It will take several months of sustained job creation before we can expect to
see unemployment fall significantly.

10.10 Reuters has produced this handy graph of unemployment in the UK, showing
how things have not improved since the spike produced by the financial crisis:

10.00 Figures for growth in the eurozone as a whole are out - and show the
region's economy shrank by 0.3pc in the fourth quarter of 2011.

09.45 More details on UK unemployment - the total number of people without a job
stood at 2.671m in the three months to the end of December, down from 2.685m in
the three months to the end of November.

However, the figure in the last three months of the year was 48,000 higher than
in the quarter from July to September.

The unemployment rate of 8.4pc was unchanged and slightly better than economists
expected - they forecast a rise to 8.5pc.

09.30 BREAKING ...

UK unemployment figures for January are out and show the jobless rate was
running at 8.4pc in the three months to December, some 2.67m people.

09.20 But noone else is staying silent - German finance minister Wolfgang
Schäuble and Greek politician Antonis Samaras are both having their say on the
stalled Greek bailout process.

Mr Schäuble first - he says he's worried about who will guarantee Greece sticks
to its austerity commitments after the election, planned for April.

And for his part, political sources say Mr Samaris will sign a "letter of
commitment" to the deal by the end of today - the fact he hadn't signed up
earlier led to eurozone finance ministers cancelling their meeting today.

09.15 And while seriously bad economic news is coming out all over Europe, the
European Commission is saying ... nothing, according to Bruno Waterfield in
Brussels. He tweets:

09.05 Italy's GDP numbers are out and worse than expected:

The economy shrank by 0.7pc in the last quarter of 2011, meaning the country is
in recession after it contracted 0.2pc in the thid quarter.

08.50 The rumour mill this morning is spinning with talk that a growing number
of European players want to push Greece out of the eurozone, as observed by
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard (see 06.50 post).

However FT commentator Martin Wolf writes this morning that ther is a bigger
question here - what is the future for the eurozone as a whole if Greece does
go? He writes:

The eurozone is in a form of limbo: it is neither so deeply integrafted that
break-up is inconceivable, nor so lightly integrated that break-up is tolerable.
Indeed the most powerful guarantee of its survival is the costs of breaking it
up. Maybe that will prove sufficient.

Yet if the eurozone is to be more than a grim marriage sustained by the
frightening costs of dividing up assets and liabilities, it has to be built on
something vastly more positive than that. Given the economic divergences and
political frictions revelaed so starkly by this crisis, is that now possible?
That is the most difficult question of all.

08.25 European shares have started the day strongly, although the FTSE is
trading almost flat ahead of today's economic news.

The FTSE 100 is up 0.03pc at 5,902 points, while the CAC added 0.8pc and the DAX
climbed 1pc.

08.20 The Telegraph's Alistair Osborne says in this morning's City briefing that
today's jobs figures and the Bank of England report are unlikely to make Moody's
change its mind after putting the UK's AAA rating on negative outlook.

The latest jobs numbers and the Bank of England's quarterly inflation report may
do little to dissuade the US agency to go easy on our triple A credit rating.
But they are bound to maintain the political row over whether George Osborne's
economic medicine is working.

On the jobs front, there are the three month figures to December and January's
claimant count. The most recent three months to November showed that
unemployment rose by 118,000 to 2.68m, the highest level since August 1994.

08.10 UK jobs figures are out later today, and the Bank of England also gives
its inflation report, outlining its forecasts for the economy.

Angela Mongahan and Philip Aldrick will report from the Bank's meeting this
morning and give this preview:

The Bank's latest quarterly Inflation Report is expected today to show a sharp
drop in the forecast for the benchmark consumer prices index (CPI), after more
than two years above the official 2pc target.

The downward trend has already begun, after CPI peaked at 5.2pc in December.
Data from the Office for National Statistics on Tuesday showed inflation fell to
a 14-month low of 3.6pc in January from 4.2pc in December, and the pace of the
decline is expected to accelerate.

07.45 Back to France, where Nicolas Sarkozy should have a smile on his face -
the economy remained in growth while Germany's shrank in the fourth quarter (see
07.05 post).

Household consumption held up and corporate investment also picked up, after
shrinking in the previous quarter.

That's the kind of news our own Chancellor would like to hear.

07.20 BREAKING ...

Germany's economy shrank in the fourth quarter of 2011, with GDP contracting by
0.2pc. That was marginally better than the 0.3pc contraction economists
expected.

07.10 Some good news for the eurozone - the governor of China's central bank has
pledged to keep buying European government debt and expressed his confidence in
the single currency.

Zhou Xiaochuan said:

As Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday at the China-EU summit, China will...
continue to invest in European government bonds and will continue... to get more
involved in solving the European debt crisis.

We have confidence in the euro.

07.05 Eurozone countries' growth figures for the fourth quarter of last year are
out this morning - and France has been quick off the mark.

The French economy grew by 0.2pc in the last three months of 2011, beating
forecasts it would shrink by 0.1pc. In 2011 as a whole, France's economy grew
1.7pc.

France also said this morning it expects the economy to grow by 0.5pc in 2012.

06.55 So what happened last night to make EU finance ministers cancel the
meeting they were due to have in Brussels today to ratify Greece's bail-out?

Reports this morning say they will hold a teleconference instead, in order to
persuade the country's politicians to do even more.

Apparently, the group believe Greece has not offered enough commitments to the
austerity measures voted through by parliament on Sunday, as violence raged on
the streets outside.

The particular stumbling block seems to be Antonis Samaras, leader of the party
expected to win April's election, who has indicated he would try to renegotiate
the bailout conditions if elected.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the group of finance ministers (the
eurogroup) said:

It has appeared that further technical work between Greece and the troika is
needed in a number of areas, including the closure of the fiscal gap of
(EURO)325m in 2012 and the debt sustainability analysis.

Furthermore, I did not yet receive the required political assurances from the
leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the implementation of the programme.

The next meeting of the eurogroup is scheduled for this coming Monday, February
20th, so ministers won't be able to give their approval of the bail-out package
for Greece until then.

06.50 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard has written an analysis of the Greek plight on a
day when Luxembourg's foreign minister said a return to the drachma "might be
something which would allow Greece also to get a new start" and one conservative
Greek MP simply stated: "You answer war with war."

More from our international business editor in Athens:

The country appears to be in a self-feeding downward spiral that is playing
havoc with budget targets, leaving Greece with a Sisyphean task of ever deeper
cuts.

Premier Lucas Papademos called his cabinet together late last night to find a
further (EURO)325m (£272m) of fiscal austerity demanded by the troika, likely to
be defence cuts and lower salaries.

The coalition parties failed to convince the Eurogroup that they would stick to
the deal, and the mood has been poisoned by EU demands for an escrow account to
seize Greek budget revenues at source.

Blackened buildings set alight by protesters on Sunday were cordoned off on
streets around parliament in Syntagma Square, a vivid reminder to Greece's
politicians that any misjudgment could push the country towards anarchy.

Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrives for a cabinet meeting in the
Greek parliament in Athens on Tuesday (Photo: EPA)

06.45 Meanwhile, most of this morning's business pages are still dominated by
Greece:

Telegraph: Greece's goodbye to the euro edges ever closer

Financial Times (£): Eurozone divisions threaten Greece aid

Guardian:George Osborne tries to be positive on negative outlook for economy

The Times (£): Greece's rescue package in doubt

06.40 That didn't stop Chancellor George Osborne from insisting yet again that
it's Plan A or the highway. He told Radio 4 yesterday:

For me it was a reality check for the whole political system that Britain has to
deal with its debts, that we can't waver in the path of dealing with out debts.

While shadow chancellor Ed Balls insisted that the move was:

...the first evidence that even the ratings agencies are waking up to the fact
George Osborne's plan's not working.

06.35 The market turmoil you might expect following Monday's series of
downgrades by Moody's just didn't happen yesterday, as investors were reassured
by a jump in German confidence and other upbeat data. Angela Monaghan reports:

The FTSE 100 closed down 0.1pc at 5899.87, the CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.3pc to
3375.64, and the DAX in Frankfurt closed down just 0.1pc at 6728.19, despite
Moody's decision to downgrade Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia, and to place a negative outlook on the UK, France and Austria.

"As a consequence of the Moody's ratings moves, we saw early pressure on banking
and mining stocks, which fell as investors moved to offset risk in their
portfolios," said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index.
"However, better than expected data ... helped to lift markets from their lows
by mid morning."

The downbeat move by Moody's was partially offset by the German ZEW confidence
index, which was surprisingly strong, rising to a 10-month high of 5.4 in
February from -21.6 in January. Economists had forecast a smaller fall to -11.8.

06.30 Good morning and welcome back to our live coverage of the eurozone debt
crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 15, 2012 Wednesday 7:49 PM GMT

Debt crisis and Greek talks: live;
Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the Euro Group, is confident a decision on a second
Greek bail-out can be made on Monday, after a teleconference call, as a top
politician in Greece pledges to "remain committed" to spending cuts.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Andrew Trotman

LENGTH: 5197 words


· Euro Group's Juncker confident of Greek decision on Monday
· Top Greek politician writes to ECB chief backing cuts
· Eurozone officials look at delaying Greek bail-out
· UK unemployment at 16-year high of 2.67 million
· Zoellick will step down from World Bank on June 30
· Eurozone economy shrinks in Q4 as Germany contracts

Latest

19.30 BREAKING NEWS...

Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the Euro Group, has released a statement
following the EU conference call. He says substantial progress has been made and
is confidence decisions will be made at a Euro Group meeting on Monday.

"I am confident that the Euro Group will be able to take all the necessary
decisions on Monday," he said.

The troika has finalised and presented its Greek debt report and has received
strong assurances from Greek political leaders.

Juncker says "further considerations are needed on specifics", and European
finance minsiters see a need for stronger surveillance of Greece.

19.27 US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner has said that America will nominate the
successor to World Bank President Robert Zoellick (see 15.24). But the head of
Mexico's central bank, Agustin Carstens, believes there should be an "open
election".

19.24 EU conference call has finished. Statement due shortly.

19.09NicolasSarkozy has announced he is an official candidate for the French
presidency. He said that "when France is strong, she will be safe... we have
done many things but we can't do everything in five years".

Rather contentiously considering why he is speaking, Sarkozy then tells the
country's 5m unemployed to "learn a new profession". He adds: "Lots of French
feel dispossessed of their power. I want to give back the power to the French
via referendums."

Amazingly, Sarkozy has just said that he doesn't want France turn into the US,
"where people are living in trailers".

Not really a surprise about the candidacy though.

19.00 The US Federal Reserve has released the minutes of its last meeting. They
state that a "few officials said more bond buying may become necessary", and
most see sales of agency securities no earlier than 2015. The minutes add that
"spillover from Europe remains biggest risk", and many members "saw
greater-than-expected improvement for some indicators".

However, several members "see unemployment well above normal rate in late-2014",
and that a majority saw risks to GDP forecasts weighted to the downside.

Here are the minutes in full:

Minutes

18.50 Still no word from the EU teleconference currently being held. We'll have
the latest here when anything is announced.

18.44 EC commissioner Maria Damanaki has said that Olli Rehn and the EC don't
want any more delays in granting aid to Greece. He adds that the EC agreed
unanimously that what has been voted for by Greek MPs is sufficient and
adequate.

18.41 The EU has said it will double its investment in supercomputers,
high-performance machines the size of a mansion that can cost more than
(EURO)100m each to build.

The European Commission said it will raise its investment from (EURO)630m to
(EURO)1.2bn by 2020.

Neelie Kroes, the Dutch European Union commissioner responsible for fostering
the digital economy, said: "High Performance Computing (HPC) is a crucial
enabler for European industry and for more jobs in Europe. It's investments like
HPC that deliver innovations improving daily life."

18.36 More on Greek President Carolos Papoulias' attack on German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (16.58). During a visit to the defence ministry, the
Second World War veteran also said:

"I do not accept having my country taunted by Mr [Wolfgang] Schaeuble, as a
Greek I do not accept it. Who is Mr Schaeuble to taunt Greece? Who are the
Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to defend not only our
freedom, but also that of Europe.

18.09 Belgium's government is mulling further budget measures, and has begun an
internal meeting.

18.06Reuters is reporting that US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been in
discussions with the White House about leaving her job next year to become head
of the World Bank (see 15.24), citing sources familiar with the discussions.

Hillary Clinton with World Bank president Robert Zoellick

If she landed the job, it would be the first time a woman has held the role.

18.00 Time for an update on the US markets:

Dow -0.7pc

S&P 500 -0.3pc

Nasdaq -0.2pc

17.45 Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the IMF, has praised Robert
Zoellick following his decision to stand down as President of the World Bank in
June (see 15.24):

Bob Zoellick has served the international community - including the membership
of the World Bank Group and IMF -with great distinction. Bob will be leaving the
Bank with a record of achievement of which he can be very proud. It has been a
pleasure working with him both in my capacity as Managing Director and as a
finance minister. I wish him the very best in his future endeavors, and look
forward to maintaining a close working relationship with the Bank once a
successor is chosen.

17.42 Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, Greece's major conservative
party, has written to ECB President Mario Draghi, vowing to honour cuts. Here is
the letter in full:

samaras

17.15Brazil's government has announced nearly $32bn in spending cuts to its 2012
budget but said social programs and major investments for the 2014 World Cup and
the 2016 summer Olympics would not be affected.

16.58 Karolos Papoulias, President of Greece, has hit back at German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaueble after he questioned whether a new government will
"stand by what we are now agreeing with Greece" (see 16.03). Papoulias has
asked:

Who is Mr Schaueble?

Nick Malkoutzis, deputy editor of Kathimerini's English edition, has tweeted:

16.42 Just to bring you up to date, an EU teleconference to discuss a second
Greek bail-out is currently under way. We'll have the latest here.

16.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Margaret Cole, Financial Services Authority board member and interim managing
director of the Conduct Business Unit, is to step down from the City watchdog .

16.32 European markets have closed. The FTSE 100 ended the day flat, the CAC
rose 0.5pc, the DAX rose 0.6pc, the IBEX fell 0.4pc and Italy's MIB rose 0.4pc.

16.19Bloomberg has reported that Paulson & Co, the $23bn hedge fund run by John
Paulson, said the euro is structurally flawed and will eventually fall apart,
according to a letter the firm sent to its investors.

The collapse could be triggered by a Greek default, which would then throw the
world in recession and financial disorder, Paulson & Co said in the letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg. Mr Paulson said:

We believe a Greek payment default could be a greater shock to the system that
Lehman's failure, immediately causing global economies to contract and markets
to decline.

16.03 German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaueble has got involved in Greek
politics just before a teleconference on a second bail-out for the debt-stricken
country. He told SWR2 radio:

When you look at the internal political discussions in Greece and the opinion
polls, then you have to ask who will really guarantee after the elections... -
and I find this very alarming - ... that Greece continues to stand by what we
are now agreeing with Greece. I am also not yet sure that all political parties
in Greece are aware of their responsibility for the difficult situation their
country is in.

15.49 Italian PM Mario Monti says Euro-area demands on Greece are probably
excessive, and rules out extra budget measures for his country.

David Song, a currency analyst at DailyFX, said:

The euro struggled to hold its ground on Wednesday amid rumors that European
officials are looking to delay Greece's second bailout package. We expect the
single currency to face additional headwinds over the near-term as policy makers
struggle to meet on common ground. Indeed, the heightening risk of a Greek
default may lead the European Central Bank to implement additional measures
beyond the second three-year loan facility on tap for later this month.

15.24 World Bank president Robert Zoellick will step down on June 30 . Says he
will stay "100pc focused" until then.

He added in a statement released by the Bank:

"I'm honoured to have led such a world class institution with so many talented
and exceptional people. Together we have focused on supporting developing
countries to navigate crises and adjust to global economic shifts. The Bank has
recognized that we live in a world of multiple poles of growth where traditional
concepts of the 'Third World' are now outdated and where developing countries
have a key role to play as growth drivers and responsible stakeholders. At the
same time, we've scaled up our support to poor people, countries, and
communities and shown that the Bank can be an indispensable innovator, catalyst,
and driver of a modernized multilateralism.

"I'm very pleased that when the world needed the Bank to step up, our
shareholders responded with expanded resources and support for key reforms that
made us quicker, more effective and more open. The Bank is now strong, healthy
and well positioned for new challenges, and so it is a natural time for me to
move on and support new leadership."

US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Larry
Summers are rumoured to be in the race to succeed him.

15.09 In a new article, Pimco's Mohamed El-Erian says EU officials need to look
at Argentina in 2001 if they want to avert disaster in Greece. He writes:

Argentina defaulted in December 2001, closed its banks, and experienced the
mother of all 'economic sudden stops'... Greece's future will resemble that of
Argentina if its government and official creditors [namely, the European Central
Bank, the European Union, and the IMF] fail to internalize some of Argentina's
lessons and do not undertake an urgent mid-course correction.

15.03 Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has called for the break-up of
America's five largest banks, calling them "too big to fail". He also says QE3
is a "fantasy of Wall Street".

15.01 Italian PM Mario Monti is to hold talks on Greece with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel on Friday.

14.56 US markets have opened higher after upbeat manufacturing data.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.53 points (0.11pc) to 12,892.81, the
S&P 500 added 3.89 points (0.29pc) to 1,354.39, while the Nasdaq climbed 13.18
(0.45pc) to 2,945.01.

14.48 We are hearing rumours that World Bank President Robert Zoellick will
discuss his future in the role at a board meeting today.

Zoellick's term as head of the World Bank is due to expire in June and the
sources said he would explain whether he intends to step down ahead of time or
serve out the full five years.

14.31 MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has told the
European Parliament that "if they [Greece] don't get the Drachma back, you will
be responsible for something truly, truly horrible":

14.26 Here's a great table from Reuters comparing the financial crisis in
eurozone countries with other troubled economies:

(for a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand side of the main image
at the top of this blog)

14.24 Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti has said that Central states [Germany
and France] were at the origin of the stability and growth pact crisis in 2003
and that this is recognised by leaders.

He adds it is an "ugly trick" to blame reforms on the EU, and that "in the EU
there are not good guys and bad guys".

Monti states that Italy is trying to make growth a bigger EU priority and has
asked the union to "strongly" develop the single market, which offers "huge"
potential. He adds that euro bonds would help integrate financial markets.

We need to reconcile integration, which we need more of, and democracy, which we
must maintain... a stronger Eurpean Parliament would boost EU... Germany can now
review stance on joint euro bonds.

14.21 Following news earlier today that the unemployment rate has now risen for
the eighth month in a row and the UK's total has hit 8.4pc, here is Ed
Miliband's solution:

14.18 BREAKING NEWS...

US industrial output in January was 0pc, versus 0.4pc previously and
significantly down from expectations of a 0.7pc rise.

14.16 French Prime Minister François Fillon has said that 2012 GDP growth
forecast of a minimum 0.5pc is assured.

14.10 China remains the top holder of US Treasuries, despite revealing that it
reduced its holding to $1.007 trillion in December versus $1.1326 trillion in
November.

14.08 Independent think tank Open Europe has blogged on the possible Greek
bail-out delays :

A draft of the latest bailout agreement has been circulating, however we believe
that some of the issues which the drafts raises have been underplayed -
particularly those that impact the chance of delaying or breaking up the
bailout. The draft lays out how some of the bailout funds will be used:

"Bond sweeteners - (EURO)30bn; Funds to buy back bonds from the Eurosystem -
(EURO)35bn; Funds to pay off interest - (EURO)5.7bn; Bank recapitalisation -
(EURO)23bn; Total - (EURO)93.7bn (out of the (EURO)130bn bailout)

"The chance of getting approval for and raising this amount of funds in the time
necessary (a week or two max) seems unrealistic. But it is also unlikely that
eurozone finance ministers will delay the PSI further, simply because they
cannot afford to. The eurozone has once again backed itself into a corner and
things are likely to get worse before they get better.

13.50 Spain has confirmed it will submit its budget to the EC only after
regional elections in Andalucia on March 25.

Is it just me or are elections in numerous countries this year (US, France,
Spain, Greece) getting in the way of sorting out the financial crisis?

13.45 Possible quote not just of the day but of the year. AIG chief Robert
Benmosche (below) has said that the Europe crisis "isn't as bad" as it sounds.

13.41 Quick update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +0.1pc

CAC +0.7pc

DAX +0.8pc

IBEX +0.3pc

MIB +1.1pc

13.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Iran officials say will not cut oil to EU "at the moment".

13.26 That news comes as German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble says Europe
is still waiting for a debt sustainability report on Greece.

The euro has collapsed against the dollar on that news (see below). It's now
down 0.0041 to $1.3093 as of 1.30pm.

Bond futures are heading up, too.

13.20 Big news now. Eurozone finance officials are examining ways of delaying
parts or even all of the second bail-out programme for Greece while still
avoiding a disorderly default, several EU sources have told Reuters. Delays
could possibly last until after the country holds elections expected in April,
they said.

While most of the elements of the package, which will total (EURO)130bn, are in
place, eurozone finance ministers are not satisfied that Greece's political
leaders are sufficiently committed to the deal, which requires Athens to make
further spending cuts and introduce deeply unpopular labour reforms.

It is also not clear that Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio, which currently stands at
around 160pc, will be cut to 120pc by 2020 via the agreement, as demanded by the
'troika' of the European Commission, IMF and European Central Bank.

There are proposals to delay the Greek package or to split it, so that an
immediate default is avoided, but not everything is committed to. They'll
discuss the options. There is pressure from several countries to hold off until
there is a concrete commitment from Greece, which may not come until after
they've held elections.

13.14 Quick bit of corporate news that is breaking. Kellogg has made an offer
worth $2.7bn to buy Pringles .

Diamond had agreed to pay $2.35bn to buy the Pringles business last April, but
the deal unraveled.

13.05 And a little more Greece - Evangelos Venizelos, the country's finance
minister, has said the country has done virtually everything to meet its
bail-out terms and that people saying Greece would be better off out of the euro
are "playing with fire". He said:

There are only a few remaining issues, which will be fully clarified by the time
of the Eurogroup conference call at 1800 Greek time.

That call is at 4pm London time, for those who want to keep up with it.

13.00 Following up on the 09.20 post, Greek politician Antonis Samaras has now
reportedly sent his letter to the EU and IMF committing himself to sticking to
the austerity package if his party, New Democracy, is elected in April.

12.45 As well as European stock markets, the price of oil was also on the rise
this morning.

Brent crude rose to more than $118 a barrel earlier today, as tensions with Iran
continued and supplies from South Sudan were disrupted by Sudan seizing 2.4m
barrels of oil as a dispute over payments rumbles on.

12.30 Bank holidays take another bashing - the Bank of England's inflation
report says the extra day off for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee will contribute to
the "zig-zag" recovery, following the Royal Wedding causing a slowdown in the
second quarter last year.

12.05 Taking a look at stock markets in the middle of the trading day, European
shares have really shrugged off the growth figures showing the eurozone eocnomy
shrank in the fourth quarter, although the FTSE is having a more muted day:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.2pc at 5,912 points, while the CAC rose 1pc in Paris and
the DAX put on 1.2pc in Germany.

12.00 Thanks to commenter Alistair Milne (08.28 comment) - I've corrected
"negative watch" to neagtive outlook" in 08.20 post now.

11.45 The European Commission really is playing the enigma wrapped in a mystery
today, according to the Telegraph's Bruno Waterfield in Brussels. He tweets:

11.30 Returning to Greece for a moment, Telegraph reporter Nick Squires captured
this very apt bit of graffiti on the side of a newspaper kiosk near the
parliament building:

11.25 A bit of cheer from Sir Mervyn - he says the Government's Office for
Budget Responsibility is now more pessimisitic about the UK economy that the
Bank of England, although he concedes noone knows without a doubt.

The BBC's economics editor Stephanie Flanders tweets:

11.15 Channel 4's Faisal Islam says Sir Mervyn won't be drawn on the question of
Scottish independence:

11.10 On bank lending, Sir Mervyn says lending to small businesses has to be
done by the banks, and that the Bank of England has "pointed out" that the
Government owns two big lenders but that "we have moved beyond that debate."

11.05 Should the Bank of England's rate-setters be subject to
performance-related pay based on how closely they stick to the inflation target,
asks Ed Conway, Sky's economics editor?

Sir Mervyn says his pay is for MPs to decide, but says public debate on monetary
plicy is a good thing.

11.00 Angela Monaghan says Sir Mervyn is making reassuring noises on the
economy:

Sir Mervyn says that more so than in any other advanced economy, the UK is best
placed to undertake the necessary rebalancing of the economy (towards exports
and away from imports and public sector/consumer spending).

He says the UK has put the right conditions in place, illustrated by the fact
the country has absorbed a 25pc fall in the exchange rate without seeing a
significant wage inflation.

Transition is going to be a "difficult journey", he cautions, but Britain is
"going in the right direction".

10.55 Sir Mervyn King has also defended low interest rates, which have made life
hard for those living on savings. Phil reports:

10.50 Sir Mervyn King has also said that he expects the recovery of the economy
to take "a zig-zag" path, Angela reports.

10.40 Here's some more from Sir Mervyn, via Angela Monaghan on Twitter:

10.35 Now for the UK's next big economic event - the Bank of England's Sir
Mervyn King delivers his inflation report. The reporters are allowed to tweet
from the press conference for the first time, and our economics editor Phil
Aldrick reports:

10.20 While unemployment figures were lower in the three months to the end of
December than the three months to the end of November (see 09.45 post), the
picture is still not pretty, with the jobless rate at a 16-year high.

Charles Levy, senior economist at The Work Foundation, said:

The bad news is that the job market remains grim, with unemployment continuing
to rise to record levels and a big shift towards part-time work. The number of
full-time jobs actually fell by 10,000, and there are now 1.35m part-time
workers unable to find full-time work.

It will take several months of sustained job creation before we can expect to
see unemployment fall significantly.

10.10 Reuters has produced this handy graph of unemployment in the UK, showing
how things have not improved since the spike produced by the financial crisis:

10.00 Figures for growth in the eurozone as a whole are out - and show the
region's economy shrank by 0.3pc in the fourth quarter of 2011.

09.45 More details on UK unemployment - the total number of people without a job
stood at 2.671m in the three months to the end of December, down from 2.685m in
the three months to the end of November.

However, the figure in the last three months of the year was 48,000 higher than
in the quarter from July to September.

The unemployment rate of 8.4pc was unchanged and slightly better than economists
expected - they forecast a rise to 8.5pc.

09.30 BREAKING ...

UK unemployment figures for January are out and show the jobless rate was
running at 8.4pc in the three months to December, some 2.67m people.

09.20 But noone else is staying silent - German finance minister Wolfgang
Schäuble and Greek politician Antonis Samaras are both having their say on the
stalled Greek bailout process.

Mr Schäuble first - he says he's worried about who will guarantee Greece sticks
to its austerity commitments after the election, planned for April.

And for his part, political sources say Mr Samaris will sign a "letter of
commitment" to the deal by the end of today - the fact he hadn't signed up
earlier led to eurozone finance ministers cancelling their meeting today.

09.15 And while seriously bad economic news is coming out all over Europe, the
European Commission is saying ... nothing, according to Bruno Waterfield in
Brussels. He tweets:

09.05 Italy's GDP numbers are out and worse than expected:

The economy shrank by 0.7pc in the last quarter of 2011, meaning the country is
in recession after it contracted 0.2pc in the thid quarter.

08.50 The rumour mill this morning is spinning with talk that a growing number
of European players want to push Greece out of the eurozone, as observed by
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard (see 06.50 post).

However FT commentator Martin Wolf writes this morning that ther is a bigger
question here - what is the future for the eurozone as a whole if Greece does
go? He writes:

The eurozone is in a form of limbo: it is neither so deeply integrafted that
break-up is inconceivable, nor so lightly integrated that break-up is tolerable.
Indeed the most powerful guarantee of its survival is the costs of breaking it
up. Maybe that will prove sufficient.

Yet if the eurozone is to be more than a grim marriage sustained by the
frightening costs of dividing up assets and liabilities, it has to be built on
something vastly more positive than that. Given the economic divergences and
political frictions revelaed so starkly by this crisis, is that now possible?
That is the most difficult question of all.

08.25 European shares have started the day strongly, although the FTSE is
trading almost flat ahead of today's economic news.

The FTSE 100 is up 0.03pc at 5,902 points, while the CAC added 0.8pc and the DAX
climbed 1pc.

08.20 The Telegraph's Alistair Osborne says in this morning's City briefing that
today's jobs figures and the Bank of England report are unlikely to make Moody's
change its mind after putting the UK's AAA rating on negative outlook.

The latest jobs numbers and the Bank of England's quarterly inflation report may
do little to dissuade the US agency to go easy on our triple A credit rating.
But they are bound to maintain the political row over whether George Osborne's
economic medicine is working.

On the jobs front, there are the three month figures to December and January's
claimant count. The most recent three months to November showed that
unemployment rose by 118,000 to 2.68m, the highest level since August 1994.

08.10 UK jobs figures are out later today, and the Bank of England also gives
its inflation report, outlining its forecasts for the economy.

Angela Mongahan and Philip Aldrick will report from the Bank's meeting this
morning and give this preview:

The Bank's latest quarterly Inflation Report is expected today to show a sharp
drop in the forecast for the benchmark consumer prices index (CPI), after more
than two years above the official 2pc target.

The downward trend has already begun, after CPI peaked at 5.2pc in December.
Data from the Office for National Statistics on Tuesday showed inflation fell to
a 14-month low of 3.6pc in January from 4.2pc in December, and the pace of the
decline is expected to accelerate.

07.45 Back to France, where Nicolas Sarkozy should have a smile on his face -
the economy remained in growth while Germany's shrank in the fourth quarter (see
07.05 post).

Household consumption held up and corporate investment also picked up, after
shrinking in the previous quarter.

That's the kind of news our own Chancellor would like to hear.

07.20 BREAKING ...

Germany's economy shrank in the fourth quarter of 2011, with GDP contracting by
0.2pc. That was marginally better than the 0.3pc contraction economists
expected.

07.10 Some good news for the eurozone - the governor of China's central bank has
pledged to keep buying European government debt and expressed his confidence in
the single currency.

Zhou Xiaochuan said:

As Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday at the China-EU summit, China will...
continue to invest in European government bonds and will continue... to get more
involved in solving the European debt crisis.

We have confidence in the euro.

07.05 Eurozone countries' growth figures for the fourth quarter of last year are
out this morning - and France has been quick off the mark.

The French economy grew by 0.2pc in the last three months of 2011, beating
forecasts it would shrink by 0.1pc. In 2011 as a whole, France's economy grew
1.7pc.

France also said this morning it expects the economy to grow by 0.5pc in 2012.

06.55 So what happened last night to make EU finance ministers cancel the
meeting they were due to have in Brussels today to ratify Greece's bail-out?

Reports this morning say they will hold a teleconference instead, in order to
persuade the country's politicians to do even more.

Apparently, the group believe Greece has not offered enough commitments to the
austerity measures voted through by parliament on Sunday, as violence raged on
the streets outside.

The particular stumbling block seems to be Antonis Samaras, leader of the party
expected to win April's election, who has indicated he would try to renegotiate
the bailout conditions if elected.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the group of finance ministers (the
eurogroup) said:

It has appeared that further technical work between Greece and the troika is
needed in a number of areas, including the closure of the fiscal gap of
(EURO)325m in 2012 and the debt sustainability analysis.

Furthermore, I did not yet receive the required political assurances from the
leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the implementation of the programme.

The next meeting of the eurogroup is scheduled for this coming Monday, February
20th, so ministers won't be able to give their approval of the bail-out package
for Greece until then.

06.50 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard has written an analysis of the Greek plight on a
day when Luxembourg's foreign minister said a return to the drachma "might be
something which would allow Greece also to get a new start" and one conservative
Greek MP simply stated: "You answer war with war."

More from our international business editor in Athens:

The country appears to be in a self-feeding downward spiral that is playing
havoc with budget targets, leaving Greece with a Sisyphean task of ever deeper
cuts.

Premier Lucas Papademos called his cabinet together late last night to find a
further (EURO)325m (£272m) of fiscal austerity demanded by the troika, likely to
be defence cuts and lower salaries.

The coalition parties failed to convince the Eurogroup that they would stick to
the deal, and the mood has been poisoned by EU demands for an escrow account to
seize Greek budget revenues at source.

Blackened buildings set alight by protesters on Sunday were cordoned off on
streets around parliament in Syntagma Square, a vivid reminder to Greece's
politicians that any misjudgment could push the country towards anarchy.

Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrives for a cabinet meeting in the
Greek parliament in Athens on Tuesday (Photo: EPA)

06.45 Meanwhile, most of this morning's business pages are still dominated by
Greece:

Telegraph: Greece's goodbye to the euro edges ever closer

Financial Times (£): Eurozone divisions threaten Greece aid

Guardian:George Osborne tries to be positive on negative outlook for economy

The Times (£): Greece's rescue package in doubt

06.40 That didn't stop Chancellor George Osborne from insisting yet again that
it's Plan A or the highway. He told Radio 4 yesterday:

For me it was a reality check for the whole political system that Britain has to
deal with its debts, that we can't waver in the path of dealing with out debts.

While shadow chancellor Ed Balls insisted that the move was:

...the first evidence that even the ratings agencies are waking up to the fact
George Osborne's plan's not working.

06.35 The market turmoil you might expect following Monday's series of
downgrades by Moody's just didn't happen yesterday, as investors were reassured
by a jump in German confidence and other upbeat data. Angela Monaghan reports:

The FTSE 100 closed down 0.1pc at 5899.87, the CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.3pc to
3375.64, and the DAX in Frankfurt closed down just 0.1pc at 6728.19, despite
Moody's decision to downgrade Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia, and to place a negative outlook on the UK, France and Austria.

"As a consequence of the Moody's ratings moves, we saw early pressure on banking
and mining stocks, which fell as investors moved to offset risk in their
portfolios," said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index.
"However, better than expected data ... helped to lift markets from their lows
by mid morning."

The downbeat move by Moody's was partially offset by the German ZEW confidence
index, which was surprisingly strong, rising to a 10-month high of 5.4 in
February from -21.6 in January. Economists had forecast a smaller fall to -11.8.

06.30 Good morning and welcome back to our live coverage of the eurozone debt
crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 15, 2012 Wednesday 5:47 PM GMT

Debt crisis and Greek talks: live;
European officials are looking at ways to delay parts or all of Greece's bailout
without pushing the country into a default on its debts, reports said, as Bank
of England head defends UK cuts.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Andrew Trotman

LENGTH: 4525 words


· Eurozone officials look at delaying Greek bail-out
· UK unemployment at 16-year high of 2.67 million
· Zoellick will step down from World Bank on June 30
· Eurozone economy shrinks in Q4 as Germany contracts
· Greek economy spirals down as crucial meeting cancelled
· Bank of England releases inflation and growth forecast

Latest

17.45 Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the IMF, has praised Robert
Zoellick following his decision to stand down as President of the World Bank in
June (see 15.24):

Bob Zoellick has served the international community - including the membership
of the World Bank Group and IMF -with great distinction. Bob will be leaving the
Bank with a record of achievement of which he can be very proud. It has been a
pleasure working with him both in my capacity as Managing Director and as a
finance minister. I wish him the very best in his future endeavors, and look
forward to maintaining a close working relationship with the Bank once a
successor is chosen.

17.42 Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, Greece's major conservative
party, has written to ECB President Mario Draghi, vowing to honour cuts. Here is
the letter in full:

samaras

17.15Brazil's government has announced nearly $32bn in spending cuts to its 2012
budget but said social programs and major investments for the 2014 World Cup and
the 2016 summer Olympics would not be affected.

16.58 Karolos Papoulias, President of Greece, has hit back at German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaueble after he questioned whether a new government will
"stand by what we are now agreeing with Greece" (see 16.03). Papoulias has
asked:

Who is Mr Schaueble?

Nick Malkoutzis, deputy editor of Kathimerini's English edition, has tweeted:

16.42 Just to bring you up to date, an EU teleconference to discuss a second
Greek bail-out is currently under way. We'll have the latest here.

16.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Margaret Cole, Financial Services Authority board member and interim managing
director of the Conduct Business Unit, is to step down from the City watchdog .

16.32 European markets have closed. The FTSE 100 ended the day flat, the CAC
rose 0.5pc, the DAX rose 0.6pc, the IBEX fell 0.4pc and Italy's MIB rose 0.4pc.

16.19Bloomberg has reported that Paulson & Co, the $23bn hedge fund run by John
Paulson, said the euro is structurally flawed and will eventually fall apart,
according to a letter the firm sent to its investors.

The collapse could be triggered by a Greek default, which would then throw the
world in recession and financial disorder, Paulson & Co said in the letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg. Mr Paulson said:

We believe a Greek payment default could be a greater shock to the system that
Lehman's failure, immediately causing global economies to contract and markets
to decline.

16.03 German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaueble has got involved in Greek
politics just before a teleconference on a second bail-out for the debt-stricken
country. He told SWR2 radio:

When you look at the internal political discussions in Greece and the opinion
polls, then you have to ask who will really guarantee after the elections... -
and I find this very alarming - ... that Greece continues to stand by what we
are now agreeing with Greece. I am also not yet sure that all political parties
in Greece are aware of their responsibility for the difficult situation their
country is in.

15.49 Italian PM Mario Monti says Euro-area demands on Greece are probably
excessive, and rules out extra budget measures for his country.

David Song, a currency analyst at DailyFX, said:

The euro struggled to hold its ground on Wednesday amid rumors that European
officials are looking to delay Greece's second bailout package. We expect the
single currency to face additional headwinds over the near-term as policy makers
struggle to meet on common ground. Indeed, the heightening risk of a Greek
default may lead the European Central Bank to implement additional measures
beyond the second three-year loan facility on tap for later this month.

15.24 World Bank president Robert Zoellick will step down on June 30 . Says he
will stay "100pc focused" until then.

He added in a statement released by the Bank:

"I'm honoured to have led such a world class institution with so many talented
and exceptional people. Together we have focused on supporting developing
countries to navigate crises and adjust to global economic shifts. The Bank has
recognized that we live in a world of multiple poles of growth where traditional
concepts of the 'Third World' are now outdated and where developing countries
have a key role to play as growth drivers and responsible stakeholders. At the
same time, we've scaled up our support to poor people, countries, and
communities and shown that the Bank can be an indispensable innovator, catalyst,
and driver of a modernized multilateralism.

"I'm very pleased that when the world needed the Bank to step up, our
shareholders responded with expanded resources and support for key reforms that
made us quicker, more effective and more open. The Bank is now strong, healthy
and well positioned for new challenges, and so it is a natural time for me to
move on and support new leadership."

US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Larry
Summers are rumoured to be in the race to succeed him.

15.09 In a new article, Pimco's Mohamed El-Erian says EU officials need to look
at Argentina in 2001 if they want to avert disaster in Greece. He writes:

Argentina defaulted in December 2001, closed its banks, and experienced the
mother of all 'economic sudden stops'... Greece's future will resemble that of
Argentina if its government and official creditors [namely, the European Central
Bank, the European Union, and the IMF] fail to internalize some of Argentina's
lessons and do not undertake an urgent mid-course correction.

15.03 Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has called for the break-up of
America's five largest banks, calling them "too big to fail". He also says QE3
is a "fantasy of Wall Street".

15.01 Italian PM Mario Monti is to hold talks on Greece with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel on Friday.

14.56 US markets have opened higher after upbeat manufacturing data.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.53 points (0.11pc) to 12,892.81, the
S&P 500 added 3.89 points (0.29pc) to 1,354.39, while the Nasdaq climbed 13.18
(0.45pc) to 2,945.01.

14.48 We are hearing rumours that World Bank President Robert Zoellick will
discuss his future in the role at a board meeting today.

Zoellick's term as head of the World Bank is due to expire in June and the
sources said he would explain whether he intends to step down ahead of time or
serve out the full five years.

14.31 MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has told the
European Parliament that "if they [Greece] don't get the Drachma back, you will
be responsible for something truly, truly horrible":

14.26 Here's a great table from Reuters comparing the financial crisis in
eurozone countries with other troubled economies:

(for a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand side of the main image
at the top of this blog)

14.24 Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti has said that Central states [Germany
and France] were at the origin of the stability and growth pact crisis in 2003
and that this is recognised by leaders.

He adds it is an "ugly trick" to blame reforms on the EU, and that "in the EU
there are not good guys and bad guys".

Monti states that Italy is trying to make growth a bigger EU priority and has
asked the union to "strongly" develop the single market, which offers "huge"
potential. He adds that euro bonds would help integrate financial markets.

We need to reconcile integration, which we need more of, and democracy, which we
must maintain... a stronger Eurpean Parliament would boost EU... Germany can now
review stance on joint euro bonds.

14.21 Following news earlier today that the unemployment rate has now risen for
the eighth month in a row and the UK's total has hit 8.4pc, here is Ed
Miliband's solution:

14.18 BREAKING NEWS...

US industrial output in January was 0pc, versus 0.4pc previously and
significantly down from expectations of a 0.7pc rise.

14.16 French Prime Minister François Fillon has said that 2012 GDP growth
forecast of a minimum 0.5pc is assured.

14.10 China remains the top holder of US Treasuries, despite revealing that it
reduced its holding to $1.007 trillion in December versus $1.1326 trillion in
November.

14.08 Independent think tank Open Europe has blogged on the possible Greek
bail-out delays :

A draft of the latest bailout agreement has been circulating, however we believe
that some of the issues which the drafts raises have been underplayed -
particularly those that impact the chance of delaying or breaking up the
bailout. The draft lays out how some of the bailout funds will be used:

"Bond sweeteners - (EURO)30bn; Funds to buy back bonds from the Eurosystem -
(EURO)35bn; Funds to pay off interest - (EURO)5.7bn; Bank recapitalisation -
(EURO)23bn; Total - (EURO)93.7bn (out of the (EURO)130bn bailout)

"The chance of getting approval for and raising this amount of funds in the time
necessary (a week or two max) seems unrealistic. But it is also unlikely that
eurozone finance ministers will delay the PSI further, simply because they
cannot afford to. The eurozone has once again backed itself into a corner and
things are likely to get worse before they get better.

13.50 Spain has confirmed it will submit its budget to the EC only after
regional elections in Andalucia on March 25.

Is it just me or are elections in numerous countries this year (US, France,
Spain, Greece) getting in the way of sorting out the financial crisis?

13.45 Possible quote not just of the day but of the year. AIG chief Robert
Benmosche (below) has said that the Europe crisis "isn't as bad" as it sounds.

13.41 Quick update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +0.1pc

CAC +0.7pc

DAX +0.8pc

IBEX +0.3pc

MIB +1.1pc

13.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Iran officials say will not cut oil to EU "at the moment".

13.26 That news comes as German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble says Europe
is still waiting for a debt sustainability report on Greece.

The euro has collapsed against the dollar on that news (see below). It's now
down 0.0041 to $1.3093 as of 1.30pm.

Bond futures are heading up, too.

13.20 Big news now. Eurozone finance officials are examining ways of delaying
parts or even all of the second bail-out programme for Greece while still
avoiding a disorderly default, several EU sources have told Reuters. Delays
could possibly last until after the country holds elections expected in April,
they said.

While most of the elements of the package, which will total (EURO)130bn, are in
place, eurozone finance ministers are not satisfied that Greece's political
leaders are sufficiently committed to the deal, which requires Athens to make
further spending cuts and introduce deeply unpopular labour reforms.

It is also not clear that Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio, which currently stands at
around 160pc, will be cut to 120pc by 2020 via the agreement, as demanded by the
'troika' of the European Commission, IMF and European Central Bank.

There are proposals to delay the Greek package or to split it, so that an
immediate default is avoided, but not everything is committed to. They'll
discuss the options. There is pressure from several countries to hold off until
there is a concrete commitment from Greece, which may not come until after
they've held elections.

13.14 Quick bit of corporate news that is breaking. Kellogg has made an offer
worth $2.7bn to buy Pringles .

Diamond had agreed to pay $2.35bn to buy the Pringles business last April, but
the deal unraveled.

13.05 And a little more Greece - Evangelos Venizelos, the country's finance
minister, has said the country has done virtually everything to meet its
bail-out terms and that people saying Greece would be better off out of the euro
are "playing with fire". He said:

There are only a few remaining issues, which will be fully clarified by the time
of the Eurogroup conference call at 1800 Greek time.

That call is at 4pm London time, for those who want to keep up with it.

13.00 Following up on the 09.20 post, Greek politician Antonis Samaras has now
reportedly sent his letter to the EU and IMF committing himself to sticking to
the austerity package if his party, New Democracy, is elected in April.

12.45 As well as European stock markets, the price of oil was also on the rise
this morning.

Brent crude rose to more than $118 a barrel earlier today, as tensions with Iran
continued and supplies from South Sudan were disrupted by Sudan seizing 2.4m
barrels of oil as a dispute over payments rumbles on.

12.30 Bank holidays take another bashing - the Bank of England's inflation
report says the extra day off for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee will contribute to
the "zig-zag" recovery, following the Royal Wedding causing a slowdown in the
second quarter last year.

12.05 Taking a look at stock markets in the middle of the trading day, European
shares have really shrugged off the growth figures showing the eurozone eocnomy
shrank in the fourth quarter, although the FTSE is having a more muted day:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.2pc at 5,912 points, while the CAC rose 1pc in Paris and
the DAX put on 1.2pc in Germany.

12.00 Thanks to commenter Alistair Milne (08.28 comment) - I've corrected
"negative watch" to neagtive outlook" in 08.20 post now.

11.45 The European Commission really is playing the enigma wrapped in a mystery
today, according to the Telegraph's Bruno Waterfield in Brussels. He tweets:

11.30 Returning to Greece for a moment, Telegraph reporter Nick Squires captured
this very apt bit of graffiti on the side of a newspaper kiosk near the
parliament building:

11.25 A bit of cheer from Sir Mervyn - he says the Government's Office for
Budget Responsibility is now more pessimisitic about the UK economy that the
Bank of England, although he concedes noone knows without a doubt.

The BBC's economics editor Stephanie Flanders tweets:

11.15 Channel 4's Faisal Islam says Sir Mervyn won't be drawn on the question of
Scottish independence:

11.10 On bank lending, Sir Mervyn says lending to small businesses has to be
done by the banks, and that the Bank of England has "pointed out" that the
Government owns two big lenders but that "we have moved beyond that debate."

11.05 Should the Bank of England's rate-setters be subject to
performance-related pay based on how closely they stick to the inflation target,
asks Ed Conway, Sky's economics editor?

Sir Mervyn says his pay is for MPs to decide, but says public debate on monetary
plicy is a good thing.

11.00 Angela Monaghan says Sir Mervyn is making reassuring noises on the
economy:

Sir Mervyn says that more so than in any other advanced economy, the UK is best
placed to undertake the necessary rebalancing of the economy (towards exports
and away from imports and public sector/consumer spending).

He says the UK has put the right conditions in place, illustrated by the fact
the country has absorbed a 25pc fall in the exchange rate without seeing a
significant wage inflation.

Transition is going to be a "difficult journey", he cautions, but Britain is
"going in the right direction".

10.55 Sir Mervyn King has also defended low interest rates, which have made life
hard for those living on savings. Phil reports:

10.50 Sir Mervyn King has also said that he expects the recovery of the economy
to take "a zig-zag" path, Angela reports.

10.40 Here's some more from Sir Mervyn, via Angela Monaghan on Twitter:

10.35 Now for the UK's next big economic event - the Bank of England's Sir
Mervyn King delivers his inflation report. The reporters are allowed to tweet
from the press conference for the first time, and our economics editor Phil
Aldrick reports:

10.20 While unemployment figures were lower in the three months to the end of
December than the three months to the end of November (see 09.45 post), the
picture is still not pretty, with the jobless rate at a 16-year high.

Charles Levy, senior economist at The Work Foundation, said:

The bad news is that the job market remains grim, with unemployment continuing
to rise to record levels and a big shift towards part-time work. The number of
full-time jobs actually fell by 10,000, and there are now 1.35m part-time
workers unable to find full-time work.

It will take several months of sustained job creation before we can expect to
see unemployment fall significantly.

10.10 Reuters has produced this handy graph of unemployment in the UK, showing
how things have not improved since the spike produced by the financial crisis:

10.00 Figures for growth in the eurozone as a whole are out - and show the
region's economy shrank by 0.3pc in the fourth quarter of 2011.

09.45 More details on UK unemployment - the total number of people without a job
stood at 2.671m in the three months to the end of December, down from 2.685m in
the three months to the end of November.

However, the figure in the last three months of the year was 48,000 higher than
in the quarter from July to September.

The unemployment rate of 8.4pc was unchanged and slightly better than economists
expected - they forecast a rise to 8.5pc.

09.30 BREAKING ...

UK unemployment figures for January are out and show the jobless rate was
running at 8.4pc in the three months to December, some 2.67m people.

09.20 But noone else is staying silent - German finance minister Wolfgang
Schäuble and Greek politician Antonis Samaras are both having their say on the
stalled Greek bailout process.

Mr Schäuble first - he says he's worried about who will guarantee Greece sticks
to its austerity commitments after the election, planned for April.

And for his part, political sources say Mr Samaris will sign a "letter of
commitment" to the deal by the end of today - the fact he hadn't signed up
earlier led to eurozone finance ministers cancelling their meeting today.

09.15 And while seriously bad economic news is coming out all over Europe, the
European Commission is saying ... nothing, according to Bruno Waterfield in
Brussels. He tweets:

09.05 Italy's GDP numbers are out and worse than expected:

The economy shrank by 0.7pc in the last quarter of 2011, meaning the country is
in recession after it contracted 0.2pc in the thid quarter.

08.50 The rumour mill this morning is spinning with talk that a growing number
of European players want to push Greece out of the eurozone, as observed by
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard (see 06.50 post).

However FT commentator Martin Wolf writes this morning that ther is a bigger
question here - what is the future for the eurozone as a whole if Greece does
go? He writes:

The eurozone is in a form of limbo: it is neither so deeply integrafted that
break-up is inconceivable, nor so lightly integrated that break-up is tolerable.
Indeed the most powerful guarantee of its survival is the costs of breaking it
up. Maybe that will prove sufficient.

Yet if the eurozone is to be more than a grim marriage sustained by the
frightening costs of dividing up assets and liabilities, it has to be built on
something vastly more positive than that. Given the economic divergences and
political frictions revelaed so starkly by this crisis, is that now possible?
That is the most difficult question of all.

08.25 European shares have started the day strongly, although the FTSE is
trading almost flat ahead of today's economic news.

The FTSE 100 is up 0.03pc at 5,902 points, while the CAC added 0.8pc and the DAX
climbed 1pc.

08.20 The Telegraph's Alistair Osborne says in this morning's City briefing that
today's jobs figures and the Bank of England report are unlikely to make Moody's
change its mind after putting the UK's AAA rating on negative outlook.

The latest jobs numbers and the Bank of England's quarterly inflation report may
do little to dissuade the US agency to go easy on our triple A credit rating.
But they are bound to maintain the political row over whether George Osborne's
economic medicine is working.

On the jobs front, there are the three month figures to December and January's
claimant count. The most recent three months to November showed that
unemployment rose by 118,000 to 2.68m, the highest level since August 1994.

08.10 UK jobs figures are out later today, and the Bank of England also gives
its inflation report, outlining its forecasts for the economy.

Angela Mongahan and Philip Aldrick will report from the Bank's meeting this
morning and give this preview:

The Bank's latest quarterly Inflation Report is expected today to show a sharp
drop in the forecast for the benchmark consumer prices index (CPI), after more
than two years above the official 2pc target.

The downward trend has already begun, after CPI peaked at 5.2pc in December.
Data from the Office for National Statistics on Tuesday showed inflation fell to
a 14-month low of 3.6pc in January from 4.2pc in December, and the pace of the
decline is expected to accelerate.

07.45 Back to France, where Nicolas Sarkozy should have a smile on his face -
the economy remained in growth while Germany's shrank in the fourth quarter (see
07.05 post).

Household consumption held up and corporate investment also picked up, after
shrinking in the previous quarter.

That's the kind of news our own Chancellor would like to hear.

07.20 BREAKING ...

Germany's economy shrank in the fourth quarter of 2011, with GDP contracting by
0.2pc. That was marginally better than the 0.3pc contraction economists
expected.

07.10 Some good news for the eurozone - the governor of China's central bank has
pledged to keep buying European government debt and expressed his confidence in
the single currency.

Zhou Xiaochuan said:

As Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday at the China-EU summit, China will...
continue to invest in European government bonds and will continue... to get more
involved in solving the European debt crisis.

We have confidence in the euro.

07.05 Eurozone countries' growth figures for the fourth quarter of last year are
out this morning - and France has been quick off the mark.

The French economy grew by 0.2pc in the last three months of 2011, beating
forecasts it would shrink by 0.1pc. In 2011 as a whole, France's economy grew
1.7pc.

France also said this morning it expects the economy to grow by 0.5pc in 2012.

06.55 So what happened last night to make EU finance ministers cancel the
meeting they were due to have in Brussels today to ratify Greece's bail-out?

Reports this morning say they will hold a teleconference instead, in order to
persuade the country's politicians to do even more.

Apparently, the group believe Greece has not offered enough commitments to the
austerity measures voted through by parliament on Sunday, as violence raged on
the streets outside.

The particular stumbling block seems to be Antonis Samaras, leader of the party
expected to win April's election, who has indicated he would try to renegotiate
the bailout conditions if elected.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the group of finance ministers (the
eurogroup) said:

It has appeared that further technical work between Greece and the troika is
needed in a number of areas, including the closure of the fiscal gap of
(EURO)325m in 2012 and the debt sustainability analysis.

Furthermore, I did not yet receive the required political assurances from the
leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the implementation of the programme.

The next meeting of the eurogroup is scheduled for this coming Monday, February
20th, so ministers won't be able to give their approval of the bail-out package
for Greece until then.

06.50 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard has written an analysis of the Greek plight on a
day when Luxembourg's foreign minister said a return to the drachma "might be
something which would allow Greece also to get a new start" and one conservative
Greek MP simply stated: "You answer war with war."

More from our international business editor in Athens:

The country appears to be in a self-feeding downward spiral that is playing
havoc with budget targets, leaving Greece with a Sisyphean task of ever deeper
cuts.

Premier Lucas Papademos called his cabinet together late last night to find a
further (EURO)325m (£272m) of fiscal austerity demanded by the troika, likely to
be defence cuts and lower salaries.

The coalition parties failed to convince the Eurogroup that they would stick to
the deal, and the mood has been poisoned by EU demands for an escrow account to
seize Greek budget revenues at source.

Blackened buildings set alight by protesters on Sunday were cordoned off on
streets around parliament in Syntagma Square, a vivid reminder to Greece's
politicians that any misjudgment could push the country towards anarchy.

Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrives for a cabinet meeting in the
Greek parliament in Athens on Tuesday (Photo: EPA)

06.45 Meanwhile, most of this morning's business pages are still dominated by
Greece:

Telegraph: Greece's goodbye to the euro edges ever closer

Financial Times (£): Eurozone divisions threaten Greece aid

Guardian:George Osborne tries to be positive on negative outlook for economy

The Times (£): Greece's rescue package in doubt

06.40 That didn't stop Chancellor George Osborne from insisting yet again that
it's Plan A or the highway. He told Radio 4 yesterday:

For me it was a reality check for the whole political system that Britain has to
deal with its debts, that we can't waver in the path of dealing with out debts.

While shadow chancellor Ed Balls insisted that the move was:

...the first evidence that even the ratings agencies are waking up to the fact
George Osborne's plan's not working.

06.35 The market turmoil you might expect following Monday's series of
downgrades by Moody's just didn't happen yesterday, as investors were reassured
by a jump in German confidence and other upbeat data. Angela Monaghan reports:

The FTSE 100 closed down 0.1pc at 5899.87, the CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.3pc to
3375.64, and the DAX in Frankfurt closed down just 0.1pc at 6728.19, despite
Moody's decision to downgrade Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia, and to place a negative outlook on the UK, France and Austria.

"As a consequence of the Moody's ratings moves, we saw early pressure on banking
and mining stocks, which fell as investors moved to offset risk in their
portfolios," said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index.
"However, better than expected data ... helped to lift markets from their lows
by mid morning."

The downbeat move by Moody's was partially offset by the German ZEW confidence
index, which was surprisingly strong, rising to a 10-month high of 5.4 in
February from -21.6 in January. Economists had forecast a smaller fall to -11.8.

06.30 Good morning and welcome back to our live coverage of the eurozone debt
crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 15, 2012 Wednesday 3:06 PM GMT

Debt crisis and Greek talks: live;
European officials are looking at ways to delay parts or all of Greece's bailout
without pushing the country into a default on its debts, reports said, as Bank
of England head defends UK cuts.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Andrew Trotman

LENGTH: 3565 words


· Eurozone officials look at delaying Greek bail-out
· UK unemployment at 16-year high of 2.67 million
· Zoellick 'to discuss future at World Bank' in board meeting
· Eurozone economy shrinks in Q4 as Germany contracts
· Greek economy spirals down as crucial meeting cancelled
· Bank of England releases inflation and growth forecast

Latest

15.03 Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has called for the break-up of
America's five largest banks, calling them "too big to fail".

15.01 Italian PM Mario Monti is to hold talks on Greece with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel on Friday.

14.56 US markets have opened higher after upbeat manufacturing data.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.53 points (0.11pc) to 12,892.81, the
S&P 500 added 3.89 points (0.29pc) to 1,354.39, while the Nasdaq climbed 13.18
(0.45pc) to 2,945.01.

14.48 We are hearing rumours that World Bank President Robert Zoellick will
discuss his future in the role at a board meeting today.

14.31 MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has told the
European Parliament that "if they [Greece] don't get the Drachma back, you will
be responsible for something truly, truly horrible":

14.26 Here's a great table from Reuters comparing the financial crisis in
eurozone countries with other troubled economies:

(for a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand side of the main image
at the top of this blog)

14.24 Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti has said that Central states [Germany
and France] were at the origin of the stability and growth pact crisis in 2003
and that this is recognised by leaders.

He adds it is an "ugly trick" to blame reforms on the EU, and that "in the EU
there are not good guys and bad guys".

Monti states that Italy is trying to make growth a bigger EU priority and has
asked the union to "strongly" develop the single market, which offers "huge"
potential. He adds that euro bonds would help integrate financial markets.

We need to reconcile integration, which we need more of, and democracy, which we
must maintain... a stronger Eurpean Parliament would boost EU... Germany can now
review stance on joint euro bonds.

14.21 Following news earlier today that the unemployment rate has now risen for
the eighth month in a row and the UK's total has hit 8.4pc, here is Ed
Miliband's solution:

14.18 BREAKING NEWS...

US industrial output in January was 0pc, versus 0.4pc previously and
significantly down from expectations of a 0.7pc rise.

14.16 French Prime Minister François Fillon has said that 2012 GDP growth
forecast of a minimum 0.5pc is assured.

14.10 China remains the top holder of US Treasuries, despite revealing that it
reduced its holding to $1.007 trillion in December versus $1.1326 trillion in
November.

14.08 Independent think tank Open Europe has blogged on the possible Greek
bail-out delays :

A draft of the latest bailout agreement has been circulating, however we believe
that some of the issues which the drafts raises have been underplayed -
particularly those that impact the chance of delaying or breaking up the
bailout. The draft lays out how some of the bailout funds will be used:

"Bond sweeteners - (EURO)30bn; Funds to buy back bonds from the Eurosystem -
(EURO)35bn; Funds to pay off interest - (EURO)5.7bn; Bank recapitalisation -
(EURO)23bn; Total - (EURO)93.7bn (out of the (EURO)130bn bailout)

"The chance of getting approval for and raising this amount of funds in the time
necessary (a week or two max) seems unrealistic. But it is also unlikely that
eurozone finance ministers will delay the PSI further, simply because they
cannot afford to. The eurozone has once again backed itself into a corner and
things are likely to get worse before they get better.

13.50 Spain has confirmed it will submit its budget to the EC only after
regional elections in Andalucia on March 25.

Is it just me or are elections in numerous countries this year (US, France,
Spain, Greece) getting in the way of sorting out the financial crisis?

13.45 Possible quote not just of the day but of the year. AIG chief Robert
Benmosche (below) has said that the Europe crisis "isn't as bad" as it sounds.

13.41 Quick update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +0.1pc

CAC +0.7pc

DAX +0.8pc

IBEX +0.3pc

MIB +1.1pc

13.37 BREAKING NEWS...

Iran officials say will not cut oil to EU "at the moment".

13.26 That news comes as German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble says Europe
is still waiting for a debt sustainability report on Greece.

The euro has collapsed against the dollar on that news (see below). It's now
down 0.0041 to $1.3093 as of 1.30pm.

Bond futures are heading up, too.

13.20 Big news now. Eurozone finance officials are examining ways of delaying
parts or even all of the second bail-out programme for Greece while still
avoiding a disorderly default, several EU sources have told Reuters. Delays
could possibly last until after the country holds elections expected in April,
they said.

While most of the elements of the package, which will total (EURO)130bn, are in
place, eurozone finance ministers are not satisfied that Greece's political
leaders are sufficiently committed to the deal, which requires Athens to make
further spending cuts and introduce deeply unpopular labour reforms.

It is also not clear that Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio, which currently stands at
around 160pc, will be cut to 120pc by 2020 via the agreement, as demanded by the
'troika' of the European Commission, IMF and European Central Bank.

There are proposals to delay the Greek package or to split it, so that an
immediate default is avoided, but not everything is committed to. They'll
discuss the options. There is pressure from several countries to hold off until
there is a concrete commitment from Greece, which may not come until after
they've held elections.

13.14 Quick bit of corporate news that is breaking. Kellogg has made an offer
worth $2.7bn to buy Pringles .

Diamond had agreed to pay $2.35bn to buy the Pringles business last April, but
the deal unraveled.

13.05 And a little more Greece - Evangelos Venizelos, the country's finance
minister, has said the country has done virtually everything to meet its
bail-out terms and that people saying Greece would be better off out of the euro
are "playing with fire". He said:

There are only a few remaining issues, which will be fully clarified by the time
of the Eurogroup conference call at 1800 Greek time.

That call is at 4pm London time, for those who want to keep up with it.

13.00 Following up on the 09.20 post, Greek politician Antonis Samaras has now
reportedly sent his letter to the EU and IMF committing himself to sticking to
the austerity package if his party, New Democracy, is elected in April.

12.45 As well as European stock markets, the price of oil was also on the rise
this morning.

Brent crude rose to more than $118 a barrel earlier today, as tensions with Iran
continued and supplies from South Sudan were disrupted by Sudan seizing 2.4m
barrels of oil as a dispute over payments rumbles on.

12.30 Bank holidays take another bashing - the Bank of England's inflation
report says the extra day off for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee will contribute to
the "zig-zag" recovery, following the Royal Wedding causing a slowdown in the
second quarter last year.

12.05 Taking a look at stock markets in the middle of the trading day, European
shares have really shrugged off the growth figures showing the eurozone eocnomy
shrank in the fourth quarter, although the FTSE is having a more muted day:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.2pc at 5,912 points, while the CAC rose 1pc in Paris and
the DAX put on 1.2pc in Germany.

12.00 Thanks to commenter Alistair Milne (08.28 comment) - I've corrected
"negative watch" to neagtive outlook" in 08.20 post now.

11.45 The European Commission really is playing the enigma wrapped in a mystery
today, according to the Telegraph's Bruno Waterfield in Brussels. He tweets:

11.30 Returning to Greece for a moment, Telegraph reporter Nick Squires captured
this very apt bit of graffiti on the side of a newspaper kiosk near the
parliament building:

11.25 A bit of cheer from Sir Mervyn - he says the Government's Office for
Budget Responsibility is now more pessimisitic about the UK economy that the
Bank of England, although he concedes noone knows without a doubt.

The BBC's economics editor Stephanie Flanders tweets:

11.15 Channel 4's Faisal Islam says Sir Mervyn won't be drawn on the question of
Scottish independence:

11.10 On bank lending, Sir Mervyn says lending to small businesses has to be
done by the banks, and that the Bank of England has "pointed out" that the
Government owns two big lenders but that "we have moved beyond that debate."

11.05 Should the Bank of England's rate-setters be subject to
performance-related pay based on how closely they stick to the inflation target,
asks Ed Conway, Sky's economics editor?

Sir Mervyn says his pay is for MPs to decide, but says public debate on monetary
plicy is a good thing.

11.00 Angela Monaghan says Sir Mervyn is making reassuring noises on the
economy:

Sir Mervyn says that more so than in any other advanced economy, the UK is best
placed to undertake the necessary rebalancing of the economy (towards exports
and away from imports and public sector/consumer spending).

He says the UK has put the right conditions in place, illustrated by the fact
the country has absorbed a 25pc fall in the exchange rate without seeing a
significant wage inflation.

Transition is going to be a "difficult journey", he cautions, but Britain is
"going in the right direction".

10.55 Sir Mervyn King has also defended low interest rates, which have made life
hard for those living on savings. Phil reports:

10.50 Sir Mervyn King has also said that he expects the recovery of the economy
to take "a zig-zag" path, Angela reports.

10.40 Here's some more from Sir Mervyn, via Angela Monaghan on Twitter:

10.35 Now for the UK's next big economic event - the Bank of England's Sir
Mervyn King delivers his inflation report. The reporters are allowed to tweet
from the press conference for the first time, and our economics editor Phil
Aldrick reports:

10.20 While unemployment figures were lower in the three months to the end of
December than the three months to the end of November (see 09.45 post), the
picture is still not pretty, with the jobless rate at a 16-year high.

Charles Levy, senior economist at The Work Foundation, said:

The bad news is that the job market remains grim, with unemployment continuing
to rise to record levels and a big shift towards part-time work. The number of
full-time jobs actually fell by 10,000, and there are now 1.35m part-time
workers unable to find full-time work.

It will take several months of sustained job creation before we can expect to
see unemployment fall significantly.

10.10 Reuters has produced this handy graph of unemployment in the UK, showing
how things have not improved since the spike produced by the financial crisis:

10.00 Figures for growth in the eurozone as a whole are out - and show the
region's economy shrank by 0.3pc in the fourth quarter of 2011.

09.45 More details on UK unemployment - the total number of people without a job
stood at 2.671m in the three months to the end of December, down from 2.685m in
the three months to the end of November.

However, the figure in the last three months of the year was 48,000 higher than
in the quarter from July to September.

The unemployment rate of 8.4pc was unchanged and slightly better than economists
expected - they forecast a rise to 8.5pc.

09.30 BREAKING ...

UK unemployment figures for January are out and show the jobless rate was
running at 8.4pc in the three months to December, some 2.67m people.

09.20 But noone else is staying silent - German finance minister Wolfgang
Schäuble and Greek politician Antonis Samaras are both having their say on the
stalled Greek bailout process.

Mr Schäuble first - he says he's worried about who will guarantee Greece sticks
to its austerity commitments after the election, planned for April.

And for his part, political sources say Mr Samaris will sign a "letter of
commitment" to the deal by the end of today - the fact he hadn't signed up
earlier led to eurozone finance ministers cancelling their meeting today.

09.15 And while seriously bad economic news is coming out all over Europe, the
European Commission is saying ... nothing, according to Bruno Waterfield in
Brussels. He tweets:

09.05 Italy's GDP numbers are out and worse than expected:

The economy shrank by 0.7pc in the last quarter of 2011, meaning the country is
in recession after it contracted 0.2pc in the thid quarter.

08.50 The rumour mill this morning is spinning with talk that a growing number
of European players want to push Greece out of the eurozone, as observed by
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard (see 06.50 post).

However FT commentator Martin Wolf writes this morning that ther is a bigger
question here - what is the future for the eurozone as a whole if Greece does
go? He writes:

The eurozone is in a form of limbo: it is neither so deeply integrafted that
break-up is inconceivable, nor so lightly integrated that break-up is tolerable.
Indeed the most powerful guarantee of its survival is the costs of breaking it
up. Maybe that will prove sufficient.

Yet if the eurozone is to be more than a grim marriage sustained by the
frightening costs of dividing up assets and liabilities, it has to be built on
something vastly more positive than that. Given the economic divergences and
political frictions revelaed so starkly by this crisis, is that now possible?
That is the most difficult question of all.

08.25 European shares have started the day strongly, although the FTSE is
trading almost flat ahead of today's economic news.

The FTSE 100 is up 0.03pc at 5,902 points, while the CAC added 0.8pc and the DAX
climbed 1pc.

08.20 The Telegraph's Alistair Osborne says in this morning's City briefing that
today's jobs figures and the Bank of England report are unlikely to make Moody's
change its mind after putting the UK's AAA rating on negative outlook.

The latest jobs numbers and the Bank of England's quarterly inflation report may
do little to dissuade the US agency to go easy on our triple A credit rating.
But they are bound to maintain the political row over whether George Osborne's
economic medicine is working.

On the jobs front, there are the three month figures to December and January's
claimant count. The most recent three months to November showed that
unemployment rose by 118,000 to 2.68m, the highest level since August 1994.

08.10 UK jobs figures are out later today, and the Bank of England also gives
its inflation report, outlining its forecasts for the economy.

Angela Mongahan and Philip Aldrick will report from the Bank's meeting this
morning and give this preview:

The Bank's latest quarterly Inflation Report is expected today to show a sharp
drop in the forecast for the benchmark consumer prices index (CPI), after more
than two years above the official 2pc target.

The downward trend has already begun, after CPI peaked at 5.2pc in December.
Data from the Office for National Statistics on Tuesday showed inflation fell to
a 14-month low of 3.6pc in January from 4.2pc in December, and the pace of the
decline is expected to accelerate.

07.45 Back to France, where Nicolas Sarkozy should have a smile on his face -
the economy remained in growth while Germany's shrank in the fourth quarter (see
07.05 post).

Household consumption held up and corporate investment also picked up, after
shrinking in the previous quarter.

That's the kind of news our own Chancellor would like to hear.

07.20 BREAKING ...

Germany's economy shrank in the fourth quarter of 2011, with GDP contracting by
0.2pc. That was marginally better than the 0.3pc contraction economists
expected.

07.10 Some good news for the eurozone - the governor of China's central bank has
pledged to keep buying European government debt and expressed his confidence in
the single currency.

Zhou Xiaochuan said:

As Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday at the China-EU summit, China will...
continue to invest in European government bonds and will continue... to get more
involved in solving the European debt crisis.

We have confidence in the euro.

07.05 Eurozone countries' growth figures for the fourth quarter of last year are
out this morning - and France has been quick off the mark.

The French economy grew by 0.2pc in the last three months of 2011, beating
forecasts it would shrink by 0.1pc. In 2011 as a whole, France's economy grew
1.7pc.

France also said this morning it expects the economy to grow by 0.5pc in 2012.

06.55 So what happened last night to make EU finance ministers cancel the
meeting they were due to have in Brussels today to ratify Greece's bail-out?

Reports this morning say they will hold a teleconference instead, in order to
persuade the country's politicians to do even more.

Apparently, the group believe Greece has not offered enough commitments to the
austerity measures voted through by parliament on Sunday, as violence raged on
the streets outside.

The particular stumbling block seems to be Antonis Samaras, leader of the party
expected to win April's election, who has indicated he would try to renegotiate
the bailout conditions if elected.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the group of finance ministers (the
eurogroup) said:

It has appeared that further technical work between Greece and the troika is
needed in a number of areas, including the closure of the fiscal gap of
(EURO)325m in 2012 and the debt sustainability analysis.

Furthermore, I did not yet receive the required political assurances from the
leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the implementation of the programme.

The next meeting of the eurogroup is scheduled for this coming Monday, February
20th, so ministers won't be able to give their approval of the bail-out package
for Greece until then.

06.50 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard has written an analysis of the Greek plight on a
day when Luxembourg's foreign minister said a return to the drachma "might be
something which would allow Greece also to get a new start" and one conservative
Greek MP simply stated: "You answer war with war."

More from our international business editor in Athens:

The country appears to be in a self-feeding downward spiral that is playing
havoc with budget targets, leaving Greece with a Sisyphean task of ever deeper
cuts.

Premier Lucas Papademos called his cabinet together late last night to find a
further (EURO)325m (£272m) of fiscal austerity demanded by the troika, likely to
be defence cuts and lower salaries.

The coalition parties failed to convince the Eurogroup that they would stick to
the deal, and the mood has been poisoned by EU demands for an escrow account to
seize Greek budget revenues at source.

Blackened buildings set alight by protesters on Sunday were cordoned off on
streets around parliament in Syntagma Square, a vivid reminder to Greece's
politicians that any misjudgment could push the country towards anarchy.

Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos arrives for a cabinet meeting in the
Greek parliament in Athens on Tuesday (Photo: EPA)

06.45 Meanwhile, most of this morning's business pages are still dominated by
Greece:

Telegraph: Greece's goodbye to the euro edges ever closer

Financial Times (£): Eurozone divisions threaten Greece aid

Guardian:George Osborne tries to be positive on negative outlook for economy

The Times (£): Greece's rescue package in doubt

06.40 That didn't stop Chancellor George Osborne from insisting yet again that
it's Plan A or the highway. He told Radio 4 yesterday:

For me it was a reality check for the whole political system that Britain has to
deal with its debts, that we can't waver in the path of dealing with out debts.

While shadow chancellor Ed Balls insisted that the move was:

...the first evidence that even the ratings agencies are waking up to the fact
George Osborne's plan's not working.

06.35 The market turmoil you might expect following Monday's series of
downgrades by Moody's just didn't happen yesterday, as investors were reassured
by a jump in German confidence and other upbeat data. Angela Monaghan reports:

The FTSE 100 closed down 0.1pc at 5899.87, the CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.3pc to
3375.64, and the DAX in Frankfurt closed down just 0.1pc at 6728.19, despite
Moody's decision to downgrade Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia, and to place a negative outlook on the UK, France and Austria.

"As a consequence of the Moody's ratings moves, we saw early pressure on banking
and mining stocks, which fell as investors moved to offset risk in their
portfolios," said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index.
"However, better than expected data ... helped to lift markets from their lows
by mid morning."

The downbeat move by Moody's was partially offset by the German ZEW confidence
index, which was surprisingly strong, rising to a 10-month high of 5.4 in
February from -21.6 in January. Economists had forecast a smaller fall to -11.8.

06.30 Good morning and welcome back to our live coverage of the eurozone debt
crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

Britain's very wrong to keep my son, says hate cleric's mother

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 593 words


HATE preacher Abu Qatada was released from prison last night - and even his own
70-year-old mother called for him to be sent back to Jordan.

The radical cleric - once described as "Osama bin Laden's right-hand man in
Europe" - who had been held at Worcestershire maximum security jail Long Lartin,
left under the cover of darkness at 9.15pm.

He was accompanied by four minders and was driven away from the jail in the back
seat.

Qatada, who was in detention for six-and-a-half years, covered his face with his
hand as the Volkswagen people carrier left the high-security jail in Evesham and
headed to London.

Last night the 51-year-old fanatic's mother, Aisha Othman, said her son had been
away from Jordan too long and even blamed British authorities for keeping him
there.

Mrs Othman said: "Britain is very wrong to keep my son. He has been away too
long. We want him home now. I don't know why the British keep him. There is no
good reason. I can't see why they would want him."

Loophole

Speaking from the family home in Amman, Jordan, Qatada's younger brother
revealed the family was frightened he would be tortured in Jordan.

Ibrahim Abu Omar Othman, 32, said they last spoke a few months ago.

Mr Othman said: "I wish very much to have him back, of course, but I am worried
he will be tortured if he returns if there is not a special agreement to say he
cannot be harmed and that he will have fair treatment by the authorities.

"I am very uncertain about whether that is possible."

Last night Qatada appeared to be one step closer to a long-awaited deportation
from Britain after Jordanian authorities announced they had plugged a legal
loophole that was preventing his return.

Jordan's justice minister yesterday revealed his government had changed its laws
to block the use of evidence obtained by torture. The move will help Britain try
to overcome a deportation ban that was imposed last month by the European Court
of Human Rights. News that the last barrier to the removal of Qatada had been
crossed prompted calls for his immediate deportation.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP and party Home Affairs spokesman, said: "We should put
him on a plane without any delay and fly him back to Jordan without reference to
the ECHR."

Qatada was granted asylum in Britain in 1994 after claiming he had been tortured
in Jordan. In 1999 he was sentenced in his absence to life imprisonment for
terror offences. He has been fighting deportation since 2001.

After the Supreme Court gave Home Secretary Theresa May the green light to send
him home she told the Commons last week he posed "a serious threat to UK
security". But last month the European court ruled he would not get a fair
trial, because even though Britain had secured a no-torture deal with Jordan,
the evidence used in his 1999 conviction was gathered using torture.

Jordan's legislative affairs minister, Ayman Odeh, said the change in Jordanian
law "mentions very expressly that any evidence obtained from torture or a threat
of torture should not be admissible before the courts". He added that the
amendment should convince the ECHR that Qatada will get a fair trial when he
returns to Jordan.

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke last night said the ECHR "should be free to deal
with the most serious violations of human rights, not swamped with an endless
backlog of cases".

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should all hate preachers be kicked out?

YES: 0901 030 8340

NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088

No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Abu Qatada has been given bail but may soon face deportation
Picture: JONATHAN BUCKMASTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

At last, the path is cleared to boot out hate cleric Qatada

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 586 words


HATE preacher Abu Qatada appeared to be one step closer to a long-awaited
deportation from Britain last night after Jordanian authorities announced they
had plugged a legal loophole that was preventing his return.

Jordan's justice minister yesterday revealed his government had changed its laws
to block the use of evidence obtained by torture.

The move will help Britain try to overcome a deportation ban that was imposed
last month by the European Court of Human Rights.

News that the last barrier to the removal of Qatada, once described as "Osama
bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe", had been crossed prompted calls for his
immediate deportation.

Conservative MP Dominic Raab, said: "There is no more legal squabbling that can
possibly be justified now that Jordan has answered the ECHR's concerns. Abu
Qatada should be deported to face trial without delay. No ifs, no buts."

Threat

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP and party Home Affairs spokesman, said: "This is
excellent news from Jordan. They have complied with the wishes of the British
Government and the European Court of Human Rights.

"There is no reason for further delay. We should put him on a plane without any
delay and fly him back to Jordan without reference to the ECHR."

Qatada was granted asylum in Britain in 1994 after claiming he had been tortured
in Jordan. In 1999 he was sentenced in his absence to life imprisonment for
terror offences. He has been fighting deportation since 2001.

After the Supreme Court gave Home Secretary Theresa May the green light to send
him home she told the Commons last week he posed "a serious threat to UK
security".

But last month the European court ruled he would not get a fair trial, because
even though Britain had secured a notorture deal with Jordan, the evidence used
in his 1999 conviction was gathered using torture.

Jordan's legislative affairs minister Ayman Odeh said the change in Jordanian
law "mentions very expressly that any evidence obtained from torture or a threat
of torture should not be admissible before the courts".

He added that the amendment should convince the ECHR that Qatada will get a fair
trial when he returns to Jordan.

The breakthrough follows talks between Prime Minister David Cameron and King
Abdullah of Jordan. The news came on the day Qatada was due to be released on
bail from Long Lartin high security prison in Worcestershire.

A Special Immigration Appeals Commission last week ordered the "truly dangerous
individual" be freed on strict conditions after six-and-a-half years either
behind bars or under virtual house arrest fighting deportation.

The terms of his release include a 22-hour curfew, a ban on him making any
public statements, preaching and using a telephone or computer without
permission and even a ban on taking his youngest son to school.

He is strictly forbidden from contacting 25 named individuals, including Ayman
al-Zawahiri, who is bin Laden's successor as Al Qaeda leader. It is estimated it
will take up to 60 police officers and MI5 agents, at a cost of £10,000 a week,
to give him round-the-clock protection at his north London home.

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke last night said the ECHR "should be free to deal
with the most serious violations of human rights, not swamped with an endless
backlog of cases".

OPINION: PAGE 12

Should all hate preachers be kicked out?

Q YES: 0901 030 8340

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8341

No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Abu Qatada has been given bail but may soon face deportation
Picture: JONATHAN BUCKMASTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 14, 2012
                                 First Edition

Music to snooze by for the Jubilee;
The plans for this Thames river pageant in July are old-fashioned and an
embarrassment, says Jessica Duchen

BYLINE: Jessica Duchen

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 611 words


The whiff of magic lingers about the musical plans for the Queen's Diamond
Jubilee river pageant - but it's not the sort of magic you'd expect. Some people
are already puzzling over how the London Philharmonic Orchestra can be aboard a
barge when simultaneously at Glyndebourne, performing The Cunning Little Vixen.
And that's just for starters.

This extraordinary event on the afternoon of 3 June will involve 1,000 boats
escorting Her Majesty along the Thames from Hammersmith to Greenwich, punctuated
by significant musical contributions. But the pageant's playlist reads like a
kind of UKIP fantasy. It barely reflects even a distorted portrait of today's
UK; most of it would have looked dated when the Queen first came to the throne.

The pageant falls into various sections, a music barge heralding each one. First
up, there's a floating bell tower. Next, 100 boats back, it just has to be
Handel: the Water Music (played by the excellent Academy of Ancient Music). How
original! The Queen's Royal Barge, The Spirit of Chartwell, is to be announced
by trumpeters playing fanfares at each bridge in turn. The Band of the Royal
Marines follows, playing "marine marches" and "popular nautical airs" - ie, sea
shanties.

Amateur choral singing is one of the great joys of British musical life: on
barge no. 5, a choir of 120 amateur singers from around the Commonwealth is
being assembled by composer Orlando Gough and singing coach Mary King. Gough is
writing a new song for the occasion, with words by the Poet Laureate, Carol Ann
Duffy. Apart from that, these Commonwealth citizens are going to sing... ah,
British folksongs. A case of "look who's boss"? Then there is one whole barge
containing some actual music from far-off lands: India and, er, Scotland. Fifty
musicians from the Shree Muktajeevan Pipe Band and Dhol Academy are to play
what's being described as "a mixture of traditional Indian melodies, Scottish
tunes and Bollywood anthems on bagpipes and percussion". I'm sure they are
excellent musicians - but this is the sole gesture that acknowledges the
existence of other musical traditions within the UK. Even then it seems possibly
inspired by the former empire rather than more recent multicultural
achievements.

The most creative barge is devoted to new music by 10 British film composers,
who are creating a suite inspired by Handel's Water Music. It's great to see
among them Anne Dudley, Jocelyn Pook and Debbie Wiseman, three women composers
who are all national treasures; and their male colleagues are a fine collection
too: Graham Fitkin, Gavin Greenaway, Christopher Gunning, Adrian Johnston, John
Lunn, Julian Nott and Stephen Warbeck. But why film composers in particular? And
why did they have to model their works on a piece written 295 years ago? Are
film composers perhaps considered less scary a prospect than those big bad
wolves of the concert-hall mainstream who write - shock, horror - modernism? But
the next offering sounds a note of bitter irony: a brass band of 75 young
players, aged 12-21. Yet this celebration sails in at a time when tuition at the
English music colleges is about to lose government funding, along with most arts
and humanities higher-education courses. The LPO brings up the rear, conducted
by David Parry - not its principal conductor, Vladimir Jurowski, who's doing
Glyndebourne.

It's not so unusual for orchestras to multi-task, though to do so this visibly
seems tactless. They will play British music of the type we hear at the Last
Night of the Proms. If this is an orchestra packaged as something grander than
it is, playing music that packages the UK as something it is not, that kind of
says it all.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 13, 2012 Monday 3:56 PM GMT

Abu Qatada to be banned from doing school run;


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1081 words


A radical cleric described as Osama bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe will be
banned from taking his youngest child to school when he is released from prison,
sources said today.

Abu Qatada, who will be released from a maximum security prison this week while
he fights deportation to Jordan, will not be allowed out of his home during
school opening and closing times.

Under the terms of his release, Qatada, who Home Secretary Theresa May has said
poses a real threat to the UK's national security, must obey a 22-hour curfew
and will be kept in during the school run, sources said.

In a small victory for the Home Secretary, the two hours a day in which Qatada
will be allowed outside his London home within a prescribed area will not
coincide with school opening and closing times.

It is understood the details were agreed by the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission (Siac), which ruled that the cleric should be released, on Friday.

Qatada, 51, must also wear an electronic tag, is banned from using the internet
and telephone, and any visitors to his home apart from his wife and children
must be vetted beforehand by the security services.

The conditions are some of the toughest imposed since the September 11 terror
attacks.

Last week, David Cameron and King Abdullah of Jordan agreed on the "importance
of finding an effective resolution" to his case.

The Prime Minister told King Abdullah of the "frustrating and difficult"
position Britain was in over its efforts to deport the Islamist radical.

Home Office Minister James Brokenshire is also visiting the Jordanian capital,
Amman, this week as diplomats try to gain the assurances needed from Jordan
before Qatada can be sent home.

The cleric has been held for six-and-a-half years, more than any other detainee
in modern immigration history, while fighting deportation.

But he will be released from Long Lartin jail in Evesham, Worcestershire, after
applying for bail when human rights judges in Europe ruled he could not be
deported without assurances from Jordan that evidence gained through torture
would not be used against him.

Under the terms of his release set by Siac, the Home Secretary has just three
months to show the Government is making significant progress in securing his
deportation or risk Qatada being freed from his bail conditions.

Qatada, also known as Omar Othman, was convicted in his absence in Jordan of
involvement with terror attacks in 1998 and has featured in hate sermons found
on videos in the flat of one of the September 11 bombers.

Since 2001, when fears of the domestic terror threat rose in the aftermath of
the attacks, he has challenged, and ultimately thwarted, every attempt by the
Government to detain and deport him.

Last month, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that sending Qatada back to
face terror charges without assurances that evidence gained through torture
would not be used against him would be a "flagrant denial of justice".

The ruling was the first time that the Strasbourg-based court has found an
extradition would be in violation of Article 6 of the European Convention on
Human Rights, the right to a fair trial, which is enshrined in UK law under the
Human Rights Act.

A spokeswoman for the Judicial Communications Office confirmed that Qatada's
bail conditions were agreed without the need for a further hearing.

A spokeswoman for the Judicial Communications Office confirmed that Qatada's
bail conditions were agreed without the need for a further hearing.

Downing Street said today that the Government was considering "all the options"
for removing Qatada "at the earliest opportunity".

"We will take all measures necessary to protect the public," Prime Minister
David Cameron's official spokesman said.

"We are committed to removing him from the country. We want to see him deported
and we are looking at all the options for doing that. I'm not going to go into
specifics."

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "It is clear the Government has not
done all it can to stop Abu Qatada being released from high-security prison
today.

"As soon as the European Court judgment was delivered a month ago now, the
Government could have appealed the decision and begun urgent negotiations with
the Jordanian government.

"Instead the Government did nothing, leaving a judge to decide there was little
progress being made in deporting Qatada and that bail was the only option.

"And still the Government have failed to appeal, while activity with the
Jordanians seems restricted to belated calls from the PM and a trip to Jordan
for James Brokenshire."

She went on: "We are also seriously concerned that, should Qatada's bail
conditions be relaxed, within weeks he could be free to do the school run he has
been banned from today.

"The Government's scrapping of control orders means that even were Qatada to be
given a new Tpim (Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures), he would be
free to move around during the day, even using the internet and a mobile phone.

"Inaction from this Government could soon be followed by more failure after the
Home Secretary's decision to weaken counter- terror powers designed to deal with
situations like this.

"In issues of national security, a more urgent and less cavalier approach is
needed."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "Downing Street can make all the noises it wishes
about finding a way of removing Qatada from this country, but ultimately it is
impotent and can do nothing.

"David Cameron is hamstrung by the European Court of Human Rights on one side,
and his coalition partners on the other.

"He would not dare defy either, so instead we have a man who is a real threat to
national security being released from jail.

"It hardly sends a tough message to other preachers of hate or would-be
terrorists around the world."

Ayman Odeh, the Jordanian legislative affairs minister, said the country has
passed a constitutional amendment to ban the use of evidence obtained through
torture and was working with the UK Government to give the ECHR the assurances
it needed.

"It mentions very expressly that any evidence obtained from torture or a threat
of torture should not be admissible before the courts in Jordan," he told Sky
News.

"We are confident that once we have the chance to make this statement through
the diplomatic channels... (it) will be taken into consideration."

He went on: "We are now making the necessary arrangements to do such assurances
through the British Government. Very soon something will be done for this
purpose."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 13, 2012 Monday 12:45 PM GMT

British businessman Christopher Tappin's extradition appeal rejected;


BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 1063 words


A retired British businessman will be extradited to the United States within 10
days after failing in his latest attempt to block the move, his lawyer said
today.

A last-ditch plea by Christopher Tappin to the European Court of Human Rights
(ECHR) to block extradition has been rejected and he will be extradited "within
the next 10 days", his lawyer, Karen Todner, said.

The American authorities want to put him on trial accused of conspiring to sell
components for Iranian missiles.

The 64-year-old, from Orpington, Kent, denies unlawfully attempting to export
batteries for Hawk air defence missiles and says he was the victim of entrapment
in a "sting" organised by US government agents.

His long legal battle through the UK courts to block his removal ended in
failure last month when High Court judges Lord Justice Hooper and Mr Justice
Cranston refused to allow him to take his case to the Supreme Court.

Refusing permission, Mr Justice Cranston said time would now begin to run for
his removal to the US.

An application to the human rights judges for "Rule 39" relief staying Tappin's
removal pending a further hearing of his case in Europe was made, but has now
been rejected by the Strasbourg-based court.

Ms Todner, managing director of Kaim Todner Solicitors Ltd, acting for Tappin,
said: "The European Court of Human Rights has confirmed that they will not grant
Rule 39 relief to Mr Tappin.

"Therefore his extradition to America will take place within the next 10 days.

"We truly hope that the UK Government will see this case as an example of the
gross injustice to British citizens by the UK/USA extradition treaty and, as
they declared in Opposition, they will now act quickly to make the necessary
amendments."

An independent review of the UK's extradition arrangements by Sir Scott Baker
last year found that the current treaty between the US and the UK was both
balanced and fair.

But critics claim it is one-sided and the latest development will increase
pressure on the Government to ignore the review's findings and attempt to change
the UK-US extradition treaty.

It comes ahead of a meeting between Prime Minister David Cameron and US
President Barack Obama at the White House next month.

Last month, the High Court judges rejected Tappin's challenge to a decision by
district judge John Zani at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court last February
that extradition could go ahead.

They said the entrapment argument was "unsustainable" and extradition would not
be "oppressive" or a breach of human rights.

The judges also ruled that the charges which the president of the all-Kent Golf
Club Union faced were "extraditable offences", and they had to accept the
extradition request was made "in good faith".

Tappin, a former director of Surrey-based Brooklands International Freight
Services, said he had become trapped in a "nightmare" and believed he was
exporting batteries for the car industry in the Netherlands.

Mr Justice Cranston said the allegation against Tappin, in broad outline, was
that he had participated in the conspiracy with another UK citizen, Robert
Gibson, who operated an export business in Cyprus, and American citizen Robert
Caldwell. Others involved have not been named.

An investigation was launched by the US Department of Homeland Security,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (Ice), using a shell company, Mercury Global
Enterprises (MGE), staffed by agents pretending to be members of the business.

In 2007 an Ice agent charged Tappin and the other alleged conspirators with
criminal offences.

After his arrest, Gibson agreed - without Tappin knowing - to co-operate with
the US authorities and told them he was buying the technology and the Hawk
batteries for a long-time Iranian customer in Tehran.

Gibson pleaded guilty in a Texas court and was given a two-year jail sentence in
February 2007.

A jury convicted Caldwell in June 2007 of aiding and abetting the illegal export
of Hawk missile batteries, and he was sentenced to 20 months' imprisonment.

Mr Justice Cranston said a warrant was issued in February 2007 for Tappin's
arrest, but nothing happened until almost three years later when the US
government submitted an extradition request.

Edward Fitzgerald QC argued on behalf of Tappin that extradition would now be
oppressive under Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights, which
protects private and family life, because of the delay and the fact that Tappin
was responsible for taking care of his sick wife.

Rejecting the submission, the judge said "serious offending" was alleged against
Tappin.

According to the extradition request, Tappin had been involved in the conspiracy
since April 2006 and was due to receive half of its profits.

It was alleged he had agreed to submit a purchase order falsely describing the
batteries, and when they were detained by US customs had discussed with MGE's
agents what explanation could be given regarding their use.

It was also alleged that when he was told their only use was for the Hawk
missile system, he offered alternative explanations and emailed his shipper in
the Netherlands saying that the end user for the batteries was electroplating at
a Dutch chemical company.

Under extradition law, the UK courts had to assume "that the US government is
acting in good faith in the account it has provided".

A number of other figures in high-profile cases are also fighting extradition to
the US, including 23-year-old student Richard O'Dwyer who is accused of breaking
American copyright laws.

And the mother of computer hacker Gary McKinnon said he was "unable to control
the terror that consumes his every waking moment" as he fights extradition.

Janis Sharp said the treatment of her son, who admits hacking into military
computers but claims he was looking for evidence of UFOs, was "barbaric" as she
marked 10 years since his first arrest.

She called for the Prime Minister to raise the issue with Mr Obama next month.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, who has known Tappin and his family
for nearly 40 years, said he found "the prospect of his imminent extradition to
the USA distressing".

"Unless the Home Secretary, Theresa May, stops this process, he will face the
prospect of being forced into a plea-bargaining position or end his days in an
American prison," he said.

"It is time we stood up for Mr Tappin and other UK nationals and told the USA we
wish to amend this treaty."

PA

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 13, 2012 Monday 1:37 PM GMT

Comedian Coogan wins £40k for having his phone hacked

BYLINE: By Martin Beckford

LENGTH: 328 words


STEVE COOGAN, the actor and comedian, accepted a £40,000 payout from the News of
the World last Wednesday as he criticised the police and politicians for not
holding the newspaper to account over phone hacking.

The actor claimed News International nearly succeeded in covering up the scandal
until their victims took on Rupert Murdoch's media empire in civil claims.

"This has never been about money," he said. "Like other people who have sued, I
was determined to do my part to show the depths to which the press can sink in
pursuit of private information."

He made his comments after appearing at the High Court to accept damages from
the publishers of the defunct tabloid newspaper, along with claimants in 14
cases whose voicemail messages were intercepted by reporters and private
investigators.

Figures from politics including George Galloway, Alastair Campbell and Simon
Hughes also received damages, as did Paul Gascoigne, the former England
footballer.

The payments, announced weeks after a first tranche of 37, mean that 54 of the
original 60 cases have been settled. Five more cannot be heard yet for technical
reasons, while the singer Charlotte Church and her parents have refused to
settle their claims, paving the way for a trial later this month.

A pre-trial hearing heard that another 50 cases have been started in recent
months by public figures including the singer James Blunt, the UKIP politician
Nigel Farage, the footballer Peter Crouch and his wife Abby Clancey, the former
wife of golfer Colin Montgomerie, Eimear Cook, and the footballer Kieron Dyer.

It means 56 cases are still outstanding against News Group Newspapers, and Glenn
Mulcaire, the private investigator jailed in 2007.

The judge, Mr Justice Vos, heard that Coogan, who was in the courtroom, was an
actor "best known in this jurisdiction for his role as Alan Partridge". He
became concerned about the security of his mobile phone in 2005 when Vodafone
told him of "suspicious activity".

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               February 12, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No basic English but free to drive;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words


ALMOST 200 people lacking basic English pass their driving tests each week even
though they cannot understand what the examiner is telling them, according to
shocking new figures.

A total of 10,330 learners passed the test with interpreters sitting in the back
seat relaying instructions in their native tongue, show documents obtained under
the Freedom of Information Act.

Even though these foreign drivers are not capable of reading instructions on
road signs once they hit the roads alone, ministers say they may be powerless to
force a change because of human rights legislation.

The written theory part of the test is now translated into 19 languages,
allowing thousands without a proper grasp of English to take their driving
tests.

The Department of Transport is currently reviewing the Driving Standards Agency
ruling that interpreters can sit in on tests.

Transport minister Mike Penning said: "I find it incredible that Labour thought
it was a good idea to let people without basic English loose on our roads.

"Road safety should be our priority, not political correctness."

Last night the DSA said: "We are reviewing the level of foreign language support
currently provided for candidates. We are working with the Equality and Human
Rights Commission and other relevant organisations to explore possible options.

"Any changes to the current arrangements would be subject to a full public
consultation." The DSA website tells candidates it is their responsibility to
arrange an interpreter, who must be at least 16, and pay for the service.

One driving instructor, who did not wish to be named, admitted it was possible
for an interpreter to give a learner hints and advice in their own language. He
said: "I suppose it wouldn't be impossible for the translator to add on the word
'mirror' or 'signal' after every instruction, without the examiner knowing."

The recent proliferation of bus lanes, priority lanes and residents' bays means
drivers unable to read English often don't know if they are breaking the law.

The revelation follows last week's news that the NHS spends £60,000 a day on
translation services, with Kettering General Hospital in Northamptonshire
offering help in 250 languages.

OPINION: PAGE 40

1.5 million foreigners given British citizenship since 2000

MORE than 1.5 million foreigners have been given British citizenship since the
Millennium, writes Matthew Davis.

Some have been granted asylum, but most have been allowed to stay here because
they have married a British citizen.

The figures also reveal changing trends in the origins of thousands of
immigrants.

In 2000 just 449 from Zimbabwe were given citizenship, putting the country at 36
in an annual table of places of origin.

By 2010 Zimbabwe had shot up to number eight in the table, the source of 6,301
migrants that year who received citizenship.

In total, from 2000 to 2010, India topped the table with 162,271 migrants,
followed by 140,033 from Pakistan and 81,182 from Somalia. Gerard Batten, an MEP
for the UK Independence Party, said: "The figures show once again that
immigration into the UK is effectively uncontrolled and unlimited.

"Mass immigration has always been too high, but since Labour came to power in
1997 there has been an absolute explosion of people coming to Britain.

"The UK population has gone from about 58 million in 1997 to over 62 million
today and is set to rocket to over 70 million by 2020.

"Such growth is simply unsustainable and has been brought about without the
consent of the British people".

Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "We welcome those who are in genuine
relationships. Marriage as an entrance ticket to the UK rather than as part of a
loving relationship is not acceptable."

What do you think- SHOULD TRANSLATORS BE BANNED?

YES - 0901 030 0982 ?? NO - 0901 030 0983

YES text SXYES to 80088 ?? NO text SXNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rate.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               February 12, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

1.5 million foreigners given British citizenship since 2000

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 238 words


MORE than 1.5 million foreigners have been given British citizenship since the
Millennium, writes Matthew Davis.

Some have been granted asylum, but most have been allowed to stay here because
they have married a British citizen.

The figures also reveal changing trends in the origins of thousands of
immigrants.

In 2000 just 449 from Zimbabwe were given citizenship, putting the country at 36
in an annual table of places of origin.

By 2010 Zimbabwe had shot up to number eight in the table, the source of 6,301
migrants that year who received citizenship.

In total, from 2000 to 2010, India topped the table with 162,271 migrants,
followed by 140,033 from Pakistan and 81,182 from Somalia. Gerard Batten, an MEP
for the UK Independence Party, said: "The figures show once again that
immigration into the UK is effectively uncontrolled and unlimited.

"Mass immigration has always been too high, but since Labour came to power in
1997 there has been an absolute explosion of people coming to Britain.

"The UK population has gone from about 58 million in 1997 to over 62 million
today and is set to rocket to over 70 million by 2020.

"Such growth is simply unsustainable and has been brought about without the
consent of the British people".

Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "We welcome those who are in genuine
relationships. Marriage as an entrance ticket to the UK rather than as part of a
loving relationship is not acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AS GERMANY PROSPERS GREECE TEETERS ON THE BRINK OF REVOLUTION

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 397 words


A FLOATING exchange rate allows weak economies to keep their goods and services
competitive in world markets. Countries that are unable to keep pace with
advances being made by competitors see their currencies depreciate so that their
exports become cheaper and imports more expensive.

It's not ideal as it means their people get gradually poorer over the long-term
in relation to the rest of the world. But it keeps employment levels up and
protects social stability. But what if weak economies and stronger ones have
locked themselves into a system of fixed exchange rates? That is what happened
when the euro was born and the consequences have been entirely predictable.

The better-organised economies, notably Germany, have effectively been granted
huge captive export markets. German cars and other goods are artificially cheap
throughout southern Europe. The roads of Lisbon, Madrid and Athens are full of
Mercedes and BMWs.

Even in the midst of a European recession German unemployment has just fallen to
its lowest level since unification while the country's trade surplus has come in
at over £130billion. In effect Germany has used a fixed internal exchange rate
to take jobs and output from Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece. Yet now Germany
seeks to dictate the economic policies of those countries, demanding that they
become more Germanic and imposing new rounds of austerity so severe as to be
selfdefeating.

As Ukip leader Nigel Farage put it in a recent speech to the European
Parliament, there is a "despicable pact to destroy and humiliate nation states
that do not live up to a Germanic view of how economies ought to be run".

They are already burning the German flag in Greece and no doubt will soon be
doing so in other southern European countries. The last remaining boast of the
pro-Brussels brigade that had any credibility - that the EU helped to cement
peace in Europe by containing German dominance - has been destroyed. Germany
has, via the euro, sucked the economic lifeblood from southern Europe. Yet it
refuses to pay the resulting welfare bills.

Short of outright invasion it is hard to see what could fan the flames of
historic enmity more dangerously. So when the IMF asks for contributions to fund
another euro bailout, the most responsible thing Britain could do for Europe is
to issue a flat refusal. The eurozone cannot be saved. It must be broken up.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday

Male nurse in sex attack wins appeal to stay in UK

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 321 words


A PERVERTED male nurse who should have been returned to India after being
convicted of sexually molesting a pregnant patient has beaten deportation. Under
UK law, Milind Sanade should have faced automatic removal after serving a year
for his sickening attack.

But the father of two from Chingford in Essex yesterday won the right to remain
in the country by arguing that sending him home would be bad for his family.

Craven immigration judges gave in to his claims, ruling that his crime "involves
no violence, weapons or drug trafficking".

Campaigners criticised the judgment.

Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham in Essex, said his initial crime would affect
his family far more than having him deported. Gerard Batten MEP, UKIP home
affairs spokesman, said: "These kinds of rulings make a nonsense of our laws."

Sanade was jailed for a year in July 2010 after pleading guilty to indecently
assaulting a patient at Princess Alexandra Hospital in Harlow, Essex. The
mother-to-be complained of stomach pains. During an examination he fondled the
young woman's breasts saying: "Does this feel good?" Unstable When she objected,
he faked her medical notes to suggest she was unstable. He has since been struck
off the nursing register.

Under UK law, any non-EU foreigner sentenced to 12 months or more in prison is
deported after serving their term.

Sanade appealed at a tribunal saying deportation breached his right to a family
life under Article 8 of the Human Rights Act. Judges ruled against him after
hearing he had only been in the UK eight years and married his wife Veli in
their home state of Bangalore six years ago.

But he took his case to the Upper Tribunal which ruled in his favour. President,
Mr Justice Blake said the crime was not serious enough to warrant disrupting the
family because "it involves no violence, weapons or trafficking in Class A
drugs".

The UK Border Agency said: "We will now look at whether we can appeal."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Father-of two Sanade, who assaulted patient, with his family

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 10, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Fishing policy has squandered £1.4bn

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


THE colossal waste of the EU's fishing policy is laid bare in a devastating
report, the Daily Express reveals today.

In the last decade, £1.4billion has been squandered decommissioning boats,
100,000 jobs have been wiped out and stocks have been fished to the verge of
extinction.

The future sustainability of fishing in European waters cannot be guaranteed at
all, the report warns.

Britain has backed radical reform of the EU's Common Fisheries Policy.

The European Court of Auditors Report, released today, paints a damning picture
of the doomed 50-year-old project.

The policy has resulted in 90 per cent of stocks being over-fished since 2002.
Of these, one third have been fished beyond safe biological limits. The report
is being formally discussed in the European Parliament.

Ukip MEP and former EU chief accountant Marta Andreasen said: "This report
underlines that the CFP has been an unmitigated disaster.

"Since its creation it has replaced sound national policies that preserved
stocks and set boundaries, with an expensive and wasteful free-for-all
controlled by eurocrats in Brussels who, seem to know nothing about fishing."

British fishermen have had to discard £1billion of cod in the past 50 years due
to EU fishing quotas.

Ms Andreasen said: "The discards fiasco is a consequence of this lack of
knowledge at EU level."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fishermen in North Shields on Tyneside burn EU and Spanish flags in
protest at quotas
Picture: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 10, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Now EU chiefs demand £1bn more from Britain in new funding bungle

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 396 words


EUROPEAN Union chiefs are threatening to hit Britain with a £1billion cash
demand after discovering a massive black hole in their budgets.

The Brussels-based European Commission identified a £9.2billion gap in funding
after over pledging money to regional projects.

EU budget commissioner Janusz Lewandowski is now planning to deliver a fresh
plea for cash to the 27 member nations.

He said: "There will probably be a deficit at the end of next year for which I
will have to ask for extra funding."

The demand for more cash on top of this year's UK contribution to Brussels of
nearly £13.5billion provoked fury last night. Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This is
absurd. When we are cutting some Whitehall budgets by as much as a third, the
Eurocrats must be living on a different planet to think that Britain will pay it
any more.

"They live in another world happily taking other people's money, spending it and
wasting it."

Martin Callanan, leader of the Tory MEPs, said: "This is the European Commission
playing games. There is no shortage of money at the EU level. There is, however,
a great shortage at the national level. The EU budget needs to be reduced."

Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen said: "It seems the EU's appetite for ever more money
can never be sated."

Downing Street officials vowed to resist any further cash demand from Brussels.
The Prime Minister's spokesman said: "We want to see the European Union look
very carefully at its budget.

"Clearly there is a discussion about to commence on the next financial
perspective on the budget over the coming years.

"We want to ensure that it is kept as low as possible."

Another Government source said: "The European Commission needs to manage
additional spending pressures within the current agreed 2012 EU budget.

"This is a task that national governments face every day and the EU must make
the same tough decisions."

Between 2007 and 2013, the EU is spending £300billion on regional projects, from
job creation schemes to wind farms and rail links.

The Treasury would have to hand over an extra £1.1billion towards an amended
budget if our contribution was in line with the UK's 12.4 per cent share of
Brussels funding.

Mr Lewandowski said in a statement last night: "This is not unexpected and not
the result of unforeseen or imprudent spending. These are bills for projects
started between 2007 and 2010 which are reaching completion."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 10, 2012 Friday 1:05 PM GMT

The unintentional irony of the witless Fabio Capello-bashers: 'He must be
racist, he's an Italian'

BYLINE: By Brendan O'Neill

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 547 words


There is a delicious irony to the Fabio Capello-bashing that has swept through
the British media over the past 48 hours. In one breath, Capello's critics
present themselves as enlightened, claiming they are no longer fans of Fabio
because he failed to take seriously the accusation of racism made against his
captain John Terry, yet in the next breath they say the reason Capello isn't as
clued up about the dangers of racism as we are is because he's Italian, foreign,
from the rowdy south of the Continent, and therefore he's not as "socially
evolved" as us tolerant Brits. It's a sentiment that can best be summed up as
"These bloody foreigners just don't understand the importance of racial
tolerance!" - an outlook so riddled with witless irony that it's actually making
my head hurt.

So a columnist for The Guardian says the problem with Capello is that he comes
from a country that hasn't attained the same level of "social evolution" as
Britain. He's from Italy - shudder! - where black football players apparently
still face "serial indignity", and therefore he was like a fish out of water in
Britain, which has reached a level of "progress many other societies have yet to
achieve." The Guardian says Capello's problem  is that he doesn't have a very
"sensitively tuned antenna" and he failed to demonstrate a proper understanding
of Britain's "cultural landscape". This is, again ironically, exactly what the
old anti-immigrant lobby used to say about new arrivals - that they weren't
sufficiently in touch with Britain's superior and progressive ways and couldn't
find their way round our "cultural landscape". Perhaps Capello should have
undergone a process of old-style assimilation, courtesy of The Guardian?

Meanwhile, a columnist for the Eurosport website says the key problem in the
whole Capello/Terry/racism debate is that "Capello is from Italy". He clarifies
- he's not saying that "Italians are racist per se" (phew) but he is saying that
"in Italy there is a different attitude to dealing with [what] people spout in
the heat of the moment". That is, Italians don't take racist language very
seriously - "Different priorities and all that", the columnist says, sneeringly.
Eurosport also points out that Capello supports the Lega Nord party, which is
like an Italian version of UKIP. Well, he must be racist then. The Twitterati
have been far less reserved in their insistence that Capello's Italian origins
explain his apparently dodgy outlook on life. People are retweeting in their
thousands comments about Italy's fascistic past and its modern-day cavalier
attitude towards racism and how this all apparently explains why Capello has now
"taken the side of a fascist" (overlooking the fact that Terry hasn't even been
found guilty of making racial comments yet, far less of subscribing to fascism).

So in the name of preserving Britain's tolerance of ethnic minorities and
cultures, we are itching for the punishment and expulsion of a wop who, like
most of his fellow Italians, is insufficiently socially evolved. You couldn't
make it up. It rather demonstrates that behind the PC veneer of the supposedly
liberal outlook there lurks the decidedly un-PC notion that certain foreigners
do not have the right intellectual outlook to take serious jobs in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Coogan wins £40k payout over phone hacking

BYLINE: Martin Beckford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 406 words


STEVE COOGAN, the actor and comedian, accepted a £40,000 payout from the News of
The World yesterday as he criticised the police and politicians for not holding
the newspaper to account over phone hacking.

The actor claimed News International nearly succeeded in covering up the scandal
until their victims took on Rupert Murdoch's media empire in civil claims.

"This has never been about money," he said. "Like other people who have sued, I
was determined to do my part to show the depths to which the press can sink in
pursuit of private information."

He made his comments after appearing at the High Court to accept damages from
the publishers of the defunct tabloid newspaper, along with claimants in 14
cases whose voicemail messages were intercepted by reporters and private
investigators.

Figures from politics including George Galloway, Alastair Campbell and Simon
Hughes also received damages, as did Paul Gascoigne, the former England
footballer.

The payments, announced weeks after a first tranche of 37, mean that 54 of the
original 60 cases have been settled. Five more cannot be heard yet for technical
reasons while the singer Charlotte Church and her parents have refused to settle
their claims, paving the way for a trial later this month.

A pre-trial hearing heard that another 50 cases have been started in recent
months by public figures including the singer James Blunt, the UKIP politician
Nigel Farage, the footballer Peter Crouch and his wife Abby Clancey, the former
wife of golfer Colin Montgomerie, Eimear Cook, and the footballer Kieron Dyer.

It means 56 cases are still outstanding against News Group Newspapers, and Glenn
Mulcaire, the private investigator jailed in 2007.

The judge, Mr Justice Vos, heard that Coogan, who was in the courtroom, was an
actor "best known in this jurisdiction for his role as Alan Partridge". He
became concerned about the security of his mobile phone in 2005 when Vodafone
told him of "suspicious activity". He later found out that Mulcaire, acting for
News of the World reporters, had obtained his mobile account number and password
as well as accessing his voicemail messages.

Mr Hughes, the Lib Dem MP, was awarded £45,000, while Mr Gascoigne accepted a
£68,000 payout. Mr Galloway, the former Labour MP, received £25,000. In the
forthcoming trial, Miss Church and her parents will claim that 33 articles in
the News of the World between 2002 and 2006 were based on phone hacking.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Coogan, the comedian, arriving at the High Court in London
yesterday
REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Abbey: I'm suing over phone tap;
WAG secrets 'were hacked'

BYLINE: GARY NICKS ; AARON TINNEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 411 words


ABBEY Clancy and Peter Crouch fear their most intimate secrets were hacked by
the News Of The World.

The Scouse WAG, 26, and her football ace husband, 31, are the latest stars to
sue Rupert Murdoch's media empire for alleged invasion of privacy.

They were named yesterday among a fresh wave of celebrities who have launched
legal action over the hacking scandal.

The High Court in London was told another 50 stars are seeking damages for
having voicemails intercepted - which could cost Murdoch more millions in
payouts.

Other celebrities battling for compensation and apologies include singer James
Blunt, 37, and footballer Kieron Dyer, 33.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, 47, and Eimear Cook, 38, ex-wife of golfer Colin
Montgomerie, 48, are also taking action.

It means 56 cases are now outstanding against News Group Newspapers. Murdoch,
80, closed the News Of The World last July over the outrage.

But yesterday's hearing was also told that 19 victims have settled their claims
over phonehacking after receiving compensation. Judge Mr Justice Vos heard that
football legend Paul Gascoigne, 44, has been handed £68,000 for having his
voicemails intercepted.

Turmoil Comic Steve Coogan, 46, worth an estimated £8million, got £40,000. There
were also payments to Tony Blair's former spin doctor Alastair Campbell, 54, and
rock wild man Pete Doherty, 32.

Other claimants who settled are thought to include Tracey Temple, 49, who had a
relationship with Lord Prescott, 73, and jockey Kieren Fallon, 46.

Details were revealed during the hearing of how Gazza suffered years of torment
at the hands of News Of The World hackers.

The fallen football ace, who has battled booze and drug addiction and mental
breakdowns, told how he was left paranoid that his family and friends were
selling stories about him.

His solicitor Gerald Shamash said he had endured "mental harm and distress" by
having his phone messages repeatedly listened to.

Alan Partridge funnyman Coogan, who told the Leveson Inquiry into the scandal
that hackers had caused turmoil in his private life, said: "This has never been
about the money.

"At the time when these civil cases began, News International seemed likely to
succeed in covering up the hacking scandal."

Ex-Downing Street communications chief Campbell said he would be donating his
payout to charity. He added that his case "had not been about the money".

Lawyers for singer Charlotte Church, 25, said her case would be heard on Monday.

gary.nicks@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ COURT DEAL: 'Distressed' Gazza has accepted a £68,000 pay-out
¦ PHONE CLAIMS: Abbey and Peter, below right, are taking action. Coogan, above
right, and Campbell, middle, settled their claims

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Stop kowtowing to European court and boot out hate cleric

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 348 words


HOME Secretary Theresa May faced growing calls last night to stand up for
Britain by defying European human rights judges and kicking out fanatical cleric
Abu Qatada.

MPs and legal experts demanded Mrs May tear up the Strasbourg judgment and rid
the UK of the radical Islamist before he is released on bail next week.

Father-of-five Qatada, 51, once described as "Osama Bin Laden's right-hand-man
in Europe", is wanted in Jordan for terrorist offences.

Despite winning a notorture agreement from the Jordanians and getting the green
light to deport him from the Supreme Court, Mrs May was barred from ejecting him
by the European Court of Human Rights over fears that evidence against him was
gathered illegally.

Furious campaigners urged Mrs May to snub the ruling and order his immediate
removal, adding that any penalty imposed by the court would be worth the price.

Meddling Tory MP Dominic Raab said: "Britain should deport Qatada and ignore
Strasbourg.

We can do it legally because the Supreme Court have said so.

"There is no risk of a fine because Strasbourg does not have the power. No
country has ever been kicked out of the Council of Europe - and the Committee of
Ministers passed a resolution last year warning the Strasbourg Court to stop
meddling in deportation cases."

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "This fiasco shows we have gone too far in
kowtowing to the European Court of Human Rights. We have to do what's right for
this country and put him on a plane and send him home."

In contrast to Britain's cowardice in the face of the European ruling, Italy
defied the ECHR in August 2009 - and was punished with nothing stronger than a
letter. The authorities deported Ali Ben Saffi Toumi to Tunisia. Toumi had been
given a six-year sentence in Milan after being found guilty of belonging to a
terrorist group.

A Home Office spokesman said: "Everyone is united in wanting this man deported.

"This Government will exhaust all avenues open to get Qatada on a plane."

The Government would continue to seek assurances from Jordan about the evidence
used against Qatada.

oPINIoN & CoMMeNT: Page 12

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Qatada is set to be released on bail after human rights ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

Stop kowtowing to European court and boot out hate cleric

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words


HOME Secretary Theresa May faced growing calls last night to stand up for
Britain by defying European human rights judges and kicking out fanatical cleric
Abu Qatada.

MPs and legal experts demanded Mrs May tear up the Strasbourg judgment and rid
the UK of the radical Islamist before he is released on bail next week.

Father-of-five Qatada, 51, once described as "Osama Bin Laden's right-hand-man
in Europe", is wanted in Jordan for terrorist offences.

Despite winning a notorture agreement from the Jordanians and getting the green
light to deport him from the Supreme Court, Mrs May was barred from ejecting him
by the European Court of Human Rights over fears that evidence against him was
gathered illegally.

Furious campaigners urged Mrs May to snub the ruling and order his immediate
removal, adding that any penalty imposed by the court would be worth the price.

Meddling Home Office minister James Brokenshire is to fly to Jordan to seek
assurances that would enable him to stand trial. Prime Minister David Cameron is
also expected to speak to King Abdullah of Jordan about the case this week by
telephone.

Tory MP Dominic Raab said: "Britain should deport Qatada and ignore Strasbourg.

We can do it legally because the Supreme Court have said so.

"There is no risk of a fine because Strasbourg does not have the power. No
country has ever been kicked out of the Council of Europe - and the Committee of
Ministers passed a resolution last year warning the Strasbourg Court to stop
meddling in deportation cases."

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "This fiasco shows we have gone too far in
kowtowing to the European Court of Human Rights. We have to do what's right for
this country and put him on a plane and send him home." In contrast to Britain's
cowardice in the face of the ruling, Italy defied the ECHR in 2009 - and was
punished with no more than a letter.

The authorities deported Ali Ben Saffi Toumi to Tunisia. Toumi had been given a
six-year sentence in Milan after being found guilty of belonging to a terror
group.

A Home Office spokesman said: "Everyone is united in wanting this man deported."

oPINIoN & CoMMeNT: Page 12

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Qatada is set to be released on bail after human rights ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

Phone hacking: 21 payouts, 50 new claims - another day in court for News
International: Murdoch firm settles cases to avoid civil trials as dozens more
public figures start claims over hacking at News of the World

BYLINE: Lisa O'Carroll and Dan Sabbagh

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1113 words


The footballer Peter Crouch, the singer James Blunt, and Ukip's leader, Nigel
Farage, are among 50 public figures preparing fresh phone hacking cases against
Rupert Murdoch's News Group Newspapers, it emerged in the high court yesterday,
after the company reached settlements with another 21 victims.

The comedian Steve Coogan and the Liberal Democrats' deputy leader, Simon
Hughes, attended the court to receive settlements worth £40,000 and £45,000
respectively - averting civil trials that had otherwise been due to start on
Monday - as the company paid out at least £363,000 in declared damages on top of
£645,000 paid out to 37 other people last month.

With Murdoch's News International agreeing to meet claimants' legal costs, the
total bill is estimated to amount to about £5m. That comes on top of an
estimated £10m bill for settling the 37 cases last month.

But as one group of cases was settled, a further group of alleged victims of
hacking by the now-closed News of the World (NoW) emerged.

Hugh Tomlinson, QC for hacking victims, told Mr Justice Vos that 50 fresh cases
were in preparation, and that six others had been filed - including that of
Crouch and his wife, Abigail Clancy, as well as those for Blunt and Farage,
Eimear Cook, former wife of the former Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie, and
former England footballer Kieron Dyer.

Coogan had previously promised to have his day in court, but told the Guardian
that having run up legal bills of £400,000 it was no longer worth the risk of
fighting on when his legal action and others had already contributed to "turning
up the heat against News International". He said: "When I started this Andy
Coulson (former editor of the NoW) was the press secretary to the prime
minister."

Coogan, in common with the other cases settling, has made a settlement that will
ensure that the evidence obtained will feed into any future criminal case and a
future phase of the Leveson inquiry into press standards.

But the actor said he believed that responsibility for what happened lay at the
top of News Corporation, the ultimate owner of the NoW.

"As for Rupert and James Murdoch, it didn't do their company any harm for them
not to be in the full picture," he said.

Hughes, known to be a victim of hacking as long ago as 2006, when it was
admitted in open court by the NoW's £105,000-a-year investigator Glenn Mulcaire,
said that the evidence in his case clearly demonstrated that the paper exhibited
"criminal behaviour on an industrial scale".

He added: "Anyone involved in criminal activity at the News of the World must be
brought to justice, and all those who allowed a large company to behave in this
way must be held to account."

Other victims who settled yesterday included Sheila Henry, mother of the 7/7
bombing victim Christian Small, Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair's one time spin
doctor, and the football agent Sky Andrew, who was awarded £75,000, one of the
largest payments announced yesterday.

Paul Gascoigne was awarded £60,000, plus special damages of £8,000. The court
heard that hacking had a "serious detrimental effect on his wellbeing", and that
he was told he was paranoid for thinking he had been targeted.

The singer Pete Doherty and the jockey Kieren Fallon also settled.

The largest settlement of all went to Sally King, an estate agent, and her
husband, Andrew; they were awarded £110,000 in all, £60,000 for her and £50,000
in a joint claim, along with undisclosed damages for her father, John Anderson,
and her autistic brother, Scott.

The high court heard how King, a friend of the former home secretary David
Blunkett, had suffered physical surveillance and phone hacking by the NoW, which
had instructed reporters and photographers to follow her.

King went on holiday to the US and discovered that a NoW reporter had been
booked on the same flight, and that photographers and reporters were waiting at
the rural holiday destination.

Her solicitor, Charlotte Harris, from the firm Mishcon de Reya, told the court:
"The effect of this intensive and intrusive campaign of surveillance, pursuit
and harassment, as well as the publication of intrusive and private information
on those private individuals, has been profound."

Most of the settlement amounts were not made public, but they are likely to
range from the low five figures to low six figures.

In each case, Michael Silverleaf QC, for News Group Newspapers, which is facing
a bill for damages and costs running into millions, expressed "sincere
apologies" for the damage and distress caused.

In a statement on his blog, Campbell said the settlement was a "satisfactory
outcome" for him, although it remains unclear how far he was targeted in the
pre-2003 period when he worked at Downing Street.

As part of his agreement, Campbell added that the NoW publisher had "also
undertaken to continue searches of other 'documents in its possession', so that
I can ascertain the extent of any further wrongdoing, both for the time I worked
in Downing Street and since, and they have agreed I 'may be entitled to further
damages in certain circumstances'."

The case of the singer Charlotte Church, which had been due to go to trial on
Monday, remained unsettled. Vos agreed to an adjournment of her case until 27
February, in a preliminary hearing that heard that Church's lawyers claim her
parents had to sell their pub in 2006 because of the intrusion, which included
"regular" attempts by reporters to get staff to sell stories.

David Sherborne, counsel for Church, said the performer believed 33 articles
between 2002 and 2006 were the result of "ill-gotten gains of phone hacking".

However, counsel for News International said there would be "significant" debate
about some of Church's evidence, including claims that attempts to hack into her
voicemail did not constitute interception because the call only lasted five
seconds, which was not enough time to access voicemail.

A handful of other hacking cases are also still with the courts, all of which
are not yet ready to be tried.

These include action brought by the footballer Ryan Giggs, the Crimewatch
presenter Jacqui Hames, and her husband, police detective David Cook, former
royal butler Paul Burrell, Max Clifford's former assistant Nicola Philips, and
Mary Ellen Field, former financial adviser to the model Elle Macpherson.

Earlier this week, Sue Akers, a deputy assistant commissioner with the
Metropolitan police, told the Leveson inquiry that there were 829 likely phone
hacking victims as identified primarily from notes seized from Mulcaire, who
worked for the NoW between 2001 and his arrest in 2006.

So far, News International has settled with 58 individuals, paying out damages
in each case.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                February 9, 2012
                                 First Edition

New wave of claims wait in line;
PHONE HACKING

BYLINE: James Cusick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 124 words


Charlotte Church may technically be the last woman standing against News
International's fight to avoid a trial, but others are queuing up for a second
tranche of hacking claims.

The High Court heard yesterday that another 50 formal claims have been launched
in recent weeks.

New names included the singer James Blunt; the UK Independence Party politician
Nigel Farage; footballer Peter Crouch and his wife Abbey Clancey; Eimar Cook,
the former wife of the golfer Colin Montgomerie; and footballer Kieron Dyer.
Remaining cases that are not scheduled for the new trial date for legal and
technical reasons, iclude those of Mary Ellen Field, the former adviser to Elle
Macpherson; the footballer Ryan Giggs; and the former royal butler, Paul
Burrell.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Charlotte Church stands alone as hacking victims settle;
Singer's refusal to accept pre-trial deal means Murdoch empire still faces
damaging court case

BYLINE: JAMES CUSICK and CAHAL MILMO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872 words


Charlotte Church, loved by the tabloids as both angel and wild child, yesterday
became the last woman standing against Rupert Murdoch's media empire after she
and her family were left as the last participants in a damaging public trial
which threatens to reveal the full inside story of phone hacking at the News of
the World.

The Cardiff-born singer, who claimed that her management advised her as a child
to sing at Mr Murdoch's New York wedding to Wendi Deng in 1999 in return for
favourable press coverage, has refused to settle her claim for damages against
the defunct Sunday tabloid which centres on four years of hacking of both her
and her parents' phones.

News International's concern that a public trial will further damage an
already-tainted brand was evident as their lawyers repeatedly appealed in the
High Court yesterday to have the trial delayed, potentially indefinitely. The
demand was dismissed by the presiding judge, Mr Justice Vos, stating simply:
"We're ready for trial."

Ms Church found herself the unlikely lone protagonist in the legal battle
against the "industrial scale" hacking that was rife inside the now-defunct
Murdoch title after a further tranche of settlements involving other phone
hacking victims was announced. The payouts left her and her parents, Maria and
James, as the last remaining victims with viable cases in the first wave of
damages cases.

Now 25, and having survived what she has called the "brutality" of Britain's
tabloid press, the Church trial is set to begin on 27 February and could become
a legal landmark, bearing testimony to the musician's determination to expose
what she described as years of intrusion and rough treatment by newspapers. At
the core of her complaints against the NOTW, which wrote 33 articles about her
that she considers to be the product of illegal newsgathering, is a story that
was headlined: "Church in three in a bed cocaine shock." The story was not about
the singer, but her father and she said it led to her mother trying to kill
herself.

Mr Justice Vos had been expected to use the civil trial of selected victims to
construct a framework of damage levels that would be used in new claims on phone
hacking against the NOTW.

The Independent was told last week that the number of additional hacking cases
being looked at by solicitors is over 100. This week, the head of Scotland
Yard's investigation, Sue Akers, told the Leveson Inquiry 829 "likely victims"
had been identified.

Counsel for NI, Michael Silverleaf QC, has argued that with only Ms Church left,
a trial was unnecessary. He also attacked the evidence so far prepared in the
Church case which will involve the financial impact the reports had on the
family's business and the mental health of her mother.

The company claimed that possible proceedings by Steve Johnson, a former
boyfriend of Ms Church, meant that the hearing of her case should be delayed
until all linked complaints were in a position to proceed.

But the judge's determination to have a trial, means the Murdoch empire's UK
subsidiary now have three weeks to try to reach a deal with Ms Church before it
begins. The court agreed to subject Maria Church to a new medical appraisal to
determine her mental health while NI and Ms Church's counsel, David Sherborne,
will examine the family's business affairs between 2002 and 2006.

CELEBRITY ACTIONS

THE SECOND WAVE

The announcement yesterday of six new legal actions against News International
suggests that although Charlotte Church is technically the last woman standing
in the company's fight to avoid a trial, others are queuing up in the second
tranche of hacking claims.

The High Court heard that another 50 formal hacking claims have been launched in
recent weeks. This backs up information given to The Indepen- dent which
suggests that more than 100 victims have recently contacted leading solicitors
associated with illegal voicemail access. Among the list, according to one law
firm were "some astonishing names".

Listed yesterday were the singer James Blunt, the UK Independence Party
politician Nigel Farage, the footballer Peter Crouch and his wife Abbey Clancey,
the former wife of the golfer and former Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie,
Eimear Cook, and the footballer Kieron Dyer.

Another five remaining cases that are not scheduled for the new trial date for
legal and technical reasons, are the cases involving Mary Ellen Field, the
former adviser to the supermodel Elle Macpherson, the footballer Ryan Giggs, the
former royal butler, Paul Burrell, the former Scotland Yard detective, Dave
Cook, his wife, also a former police officer, Jacqui Hames, and the PR
consultant Nicola Phillips.

This week at the Leveson Inquiry, the head of the Scotland Yard team
investigating phone hacking, Sue Akers, revealed that out of the names found in
the notebooks of Glenn Mulcaire, the private investigator commissioned by the
NOTW to illegally access voicemails, 829 "likely victims" had so far been
identified.

JAMES CUSICK

CASES CLOSED

WHAT THEY GOT

Steve Coogan

£40,000

Paul Gascoigne

£68,000

Jimmy'Five Bellies' Gardner

Unknown

Simon Hughes

£45,000

George Galloway

£25,000

Phil Hughes (former employee of George Best)

Unknown

Sky Andrew (football agent)

£75,000

Alastair Campbell

Unknown

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 9, 2012 Thursday 8:35 AM GMT

Leveson Inquiry: as it happened February 8;
Coverage from the Leveson Inquiry into media ethics and phone hacking, hearing
evidence from the Director of Public Prosecutions Keir Starmer and blogger Guido
Fawkes

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

LENGTH: 5406 words


· NOTW 'paid £20,000 for pictures of William Hague's SpAd in gay bar'
· Guido Fawkes: 'journalists told me Sunday Mirror editor backed hacking'
· Alastair Campbell: Tories not keen on reform because of press support
· Paul Gascoigne, Steve Coogan and others settle over hacking
· But singer Charlotte Church refuses settlement, wants trial
· News Int 'paid police £100,000 using false identities'
· Times editor: I didn't know my paper had gone to High Court
· Watch the hearing

Latest

16.30 That's it for Leveson for today. Evidence continues tomorrow from 09.30,
with Heather Mills due to give evidence, before Daily Mail editor Paul Dacre
returns.

16.14 The inquiry is hearing by video link from Pam Surphlis, from the Northern
Irish campaign Support after Murder and Manslaughter, whose father Rev Eric
Davidson and sister Judith were found murdered in his Cookstown home in 1992.

She says newspapers misreport and sensationalise deaths in a "judgemental way".
Some journalists had pretended to other people in order to obtain information.
One mother said her dead son was reported to be a heroin addict. In fact, he was
diabetic.

The charity would like a code of conduct for journalists that would see:

· Recognise a family's fears that speaking to the media might prejudice a legal
case

· Refrain from intrusion at funerals, or "door stepping" family members for
information or interviews

· Be honest and not mislead anyone in pursuit of an interview with a family
member

· Acknowledge it is not appropriate to attempt direct contact with families, but
to use the official intermediaries, such as police family liaison officers

· Refrain from publishing unsubstantiated rumour and stick to known facts

· Ensure families have an opportunity before publication to satisfy themselves
with the factual accuracy of stories, without prejudice to the editorial
independence of the publication

· Seek approval for the use of all photography relating to the loved one and the
circumstances of their death

· Not publish distressing photographs, such as the removal of a loved one's
remains in a body bag

· Warn families if there is an intention to run stories or photography relating
to the death of their loved one, weeks, months and years later

15.32 Alastair Brett, the lawyer at the centre of the Times computer hacking
case, wants to explain himself to Leveson.

Yesterday James Harding, the editor of The Times, told Leveson that Brett had
taken the NightJack exposé to the High Court without telling him - after the
journalist, Patrick Foster, had revealed he had obtained the story by hacking
the blogger's email account. Harding said: "The biggest shock was The Times had
taken the case to the High Court. I was not aware of this fact."

A friend of Mr Brett told the Evening Standard:

Alastair has a completely clean conscience. When Patrick told Alastair he had
hacked into Horton's email account he was furious. The language was blue - he
had never been so cross with a journalist. But he still does not believe he
should have dropped Patrick in it.

Mr Brett is frustrated at the implication he was acting without authorisation,
because the paper was "dragged into court" by Mr Horton and was forced to defend
itself.

He adds: "Alastair hopes Leveson will call him to explain."

15.10 Back to Tina Weaver and Staines' allegations. He told the inquiry:

Tina Weaver, somebody who two journalists have told me has personally authorised
and told them to hack, blag and do all that kind of stuff, sits on not just the
PCC, but on the ethics committee, the editorial standards committee. She knows
all the bad things that have gone on under her rule. It's ridiculous.

The Press Association has filed the following background piece:

Ms Weaver has previously told the inquiry she was not aware of phone hacking at
her newspaper but there was no guarantee that it had not occurred.

She was asked about a BBC article which claimed there was routine phone hacking
in the newsroom of the Sunday Mirror.

She said her organisation was "not happy" about the story which contained
"anonymous allegations from seven years ago".

Counsel for the inquiry David Barr asked her if it was her position that there
was "no guarantee" that phone hacking had not occurred at the newspaper.

She replied: "That is correct."

14.58 We are now hearing from Helen Belcher from Trans Media Watch, a group
which lobbies for better representation of transgender and intersex people.

(She explains an 'intersex' person is one whose body is 'in between' male and
female. A trans person identifies with the sex opposite to that ast their
birth.)

It is not a "lifestyle choice", Belcher says. Many trans people are unwilling,
and vulnerable, she says. Their family life is often "chaotic".

The media has "created a climate of prejudice" against trans people, causing
people to lose jobs and homes and receive death threats, she says. She says
"comedic or demeaning or ridiculing" language is used in coverage of trans
people, with "before and after" pictures.

"'Sex swap' is a term people find offensive. It indicates an immediate
transference from one gender to another."

Belcher says a story about a transgender person appeared in a weekly magazine
after being sold by their former partner. They obtained the picture without the
subject's permission and did not give prior notification. "It is pure expose.
There is no public interest."

The Daily Mail prints six times more stories about trans people than any other
newspaper.

The Sun ran a story called 'Tran-o-saurus' about a particularly tall trans
person recently. Ms Belcher says this suggests the paper has not "changed its
ways".

'

14.46 The inquiry is hearing from Keir Starmer, the Director of Public
Prosecutions. (He affirms rather than takes an oath on a Bible, the FT's man
notes.) He discusses public interest defences. He says there are both "express"
and "implied" defences on grounds of public interest.

A public interest defence would be weakened in cases of corruption, threats or
intimidation, contempt of court, or if there were other ways of a journalist
getting the information.

The CPS are already given guidance on what factors they should consider before
deciding whether they can defeat a public interest defence, but Starmer says it
would be prudent to draw up a new policy specifically for journalists. He
proposes an "interim policy" within weeks ahead of a 12 week consultation on a
new policy.

That's it from Starmer. He is likely to be returned to the inquiry at a later
date.

14.29 Staines continues with his scatter gun allegations.

Mr Barr asks if Staines has any evidence beyond what he has posted on his blog
that Tina Weaver, the editor of the Sunday Mirror, asked journalists to hack
phones.

Staines says: "If on my blog I had said journalists have said they were told to
"spin a phone" that is attesting to my memory."

He says his belief that Piers Morgan knew about the hacking of phones is based
on passages in Morgan's books.

He says he obtained a copy of Alastair Campbell's witness statement to the
inquiry came from a journalist, who got it from another journalist, who got it
from Campbell.

14.21 Staines says he sold pictures of William Hague's former Special Advisor in
a gay bar to the News of the World for £20,000. He says Hague and then man in
question shared a hotel room.

"It's clear to me the News of the World was in regular contact with Downing
Street and perhaps to curry favour they chose to buy up those pictures and took
them off the market." He links this to Andy Coulson, the former NOTW editor who
went to work for David Cameron.

Mr Barr suggests this was because Mr Hague issued a public statement denying the
" malicious allegations ".

Staines responds: "They bought them after the public statement."

The special advisor in question, Christopher Myers tweets:

14.15 The lobby system is "unhealthy." Lobby briefings should be televised; they
are "antiquated" and used to "besmirch" other politicians. He says broadcasters
can be "punished" for giving aggressive interviews by being denied future
interviews for six months or a year. It acts like an "obedience school for
journalists" which favourite journalists being given "tit bits".

Lobby journalists "perfectly understood" the expenses scandal, Staines says. It
was not until Heather Brooke, the Freedom of Information campaigner, took the
case through the courts and the disc reached the Daily Telegraph that the story
came out.

Similarly Damian McBride, Gordon Brown's spokesman, was widely known as
"McPoison" but this was not printed by lobby journalists until after his
downfall.

14.13 Staines claims two journalists have told him Tina Weaver, the editor of
the Sunday Mirror, "personally authorised" them to "hack" and "blag". (Response
from Trinity Mirror to follow. There is no proof of these claims.)

14.09 He says the is a "perversity" in the law in that if he moderates comments
on his website, he becomes liable for their content.

He says Britain will be at a commercial disadvantage if websites are responsible
for content on their sites - he cites groups such as Google and Twitter. It is
like prosecuting telephone conservations for what people say on the phone.

14.03 Staines says he receives complaints "hourly". He says he is inconsistent
because he only looks at complaints if he thinks "there is something in it".
Leveson says this is, in fact, a fairly consistent policy.

If a story is "gossipy and trivial" and someone complains, "we'll just take it
down to make them go away." The bar is higher for "career-ending" stories.

"Lord Hunt was very silky in his wooing of me to get me to join a kitemark
system. I don't think that's a road I want to go down," Staines says.

"I don't want to adhere to standards that Harriet Harman would approve of," he
says. He does not want to be "politically correct." He says even Private Eye is
not "politically incorrect in the way we are," he claims.

He says removing the offence of malicious libel was a mistake. He does not
regard removing posts because they are libelous as self-censorship. He is not an
"absolutist".

12.56 People who are in public life and "paid for by the taxpayers" do not have
the same right to privacy as the general public, Staines says.

"Their character speaks to what the public need to know about them... It's quite
common that someone who would lie to their wife would lie to the voters," he
said. "I'm confident that there is almost always a public interest angle."

His subjects are mostly politicians, but he disagrees with the complaints of
some of the inquiry participants: "Some of the celebrities who claim to be
victims, like Hugh Grant.. He put himself out in public and deserved to be
scrutinised."

Staines strongly endorses the use of subterfuge. The aim of the blog often is to
illuminate politicians saying one thing to one group and another to different
set. "If we said 'We work for the Guido Fawkes blog, will you tell us what you
really think' I'm sure we wouldn't have any success," he says.

He sent a female reporter dressed in a burka to interview the leader of Ukip to
mock the party's anti-burka policy. It was a good visual juxtaposition, he says.
"It was also good fun."

Guido goes undercover in a burka with Ukip (from 3.10)

He says email and phone hacking are already criminal acts. As such further press
reform is not necessary.

12.50 Staines revealed details of Fred Goodwin's affair while an injunction was
place.

Forty per cent of Guido's sources are known to Staines; another forty can be
roughly guessed; another 10 per cent are totally anonymous. The site has a
voicemail, fax and email address to collect tips.

Mr Barr asks whether Staines' sources are seeking to smear their rivals. "I
don't know about smears. But they almost always have an agenda." Sources include
press officers, or people in the subject's own political parties. "On the other
side of the house are your opposition, but your enemies are behind you."

Sometimes journalists give spiked stories to Guido, in order to keep their
stories ticking along and increase the chance of a newspaper editor giving it a
second chance.

12.45 Staines obtained a Merrill Lynch memo saying Northern Rock could cost the
state £50bn. The FT published it, but were hit with an injunction. Staines
posted it in different locations around the world, forcing lawyers Carter Ruck
to "chase" it in different jurisdictions. "When that became boring I gave it to
Wikileaks." He uploaded it in different jurisdictions after working hours, so
the lawyers got no answer when they contacted, for example, Yahoo India, to pull
it down.

"When you're considering £50bn in public money the public has a right to know
what's going on," Staines says.

He adds as an Irish citizen he does not consider himself bound by the
instructions of British judges.

12.35 Staines says there is a reluctance amongst journalists to harm their
career prospects by attacking their rivals. He says political correspondents use
him to attack each other. "Quite often they'll stick the knife into each other
via me and won't have their finger prints on the story."

The only people speaking out on phone hacking are former journalists; those in
the industry won't.

"Kelvin MacKenzie is our lodestar," Staines says of the former Sun editor. The
email gossip chain Pop Bitch is another great influence.

Kelvin MacKenzie

Trivial stories "that's of no consequence" could go on the blog with a single
source. But "career ending" stories would not.

The site was orginally hosted on Google's free blogger system. But he found it
too willing to give in to legal threats. But now it is hosted in the US on a
small, independent host that will protect Staines' "first amendment rights."

He says: "I don't want the site to disappear because someone has made what I
would view as a spurious threat."

A few years ago Staines received a number of 'to whom it may concern
injunctions'. They died off because he told the lawyers he would consider on
their merits. Since the Ryan Giggs case he has not received any injunctions.

Staines was injuncted in three jurisdictions of Zac Goldsmith and Jemima Khan on
Christmas Eve in Dublin. "This was before she became a freedom of information
campaigner," he adds. He says the pair received a "judicial bollocking from an
Irish High Court judge" over the case as, he suggests, they failed to provide
evidence.

Staines says he named injunction footballers on Twitter by citing a 'five a side
football team'. Giggs was one. A number of law firms made threats, but they came
to nothing.

12.28 Now up is Paul Staines - also known as Guido Fawkes.

Leveson thanks Staines for his witness statement. It comes from a "very
different perspective", he notes.

Leveson says there has been a complaint about the statement. But it has now been
published in the public domain. [It's not quite clear what the nature of that
complaint was. Leveson indicates it may have come from within the inquiry.]

Update: the complaint related to Alastair Campbell's evidence, not Staines'.
Guido published it ahead of Campbell giving evidence.

Staines accuses Leveson of placing a "restriction order" on him that banned him
from commenting on the evidence.

We learn Staines was a professional gambler, rave organiser, hedge fund trader
and broker, and a litigant in a lengthy court case before becoming a blogger. He
is also an investment advisor to online ventures.

Guido Fawkes publishes "tittle-tattle, gossip and rumours" and frequently beats
big media groups to politics stories, Staines says. Revenue comes from selling
stories to newspapers and adverts, in roughly equal amounts. The site gets
100,000 views a day. Staines has 60-odd thousand twitter followers. A quarter of
traffic comes from search engines.

12.23 Ms Buzasi says the website, which has 4 million unique monthly users,
tried to join the PCC. They were unsure where to place them. They put them in
the "regional press" category.

Ms Buzasi says the Huffington Post relies on web advertising for revenue. She
says the site seeks to be a "safe place" for people to comment because they
won't be subject to "personal attacks".

12.04 Leveson is hearing from Carla Buzasi, the editor of the UK arm of the
blogging and aggregation site Huffington Post. It is a "Sunday newspaper every
day," Ms Buzasi says, because it has many sections. It employs 20 trained
journalists.

Buzasi says it has never published a story without giving prior notification to
a story. But the site is "conversation" so people can write a comment or a blog
if they are unhappy.

Their journalists don't and have not used subterfuge to write stories. It has
not used phone hacking, blagging or paid public officials for stories.

The day the phone hacking story broke, the website splash linked directly to the
Guardian website. But in other cases HuffPo journalists will see if they can
"move stories on" by their own reporting.

Carla Buzasi, UK editor of the Huffington Post

Bloggers sign up to a code of conduct but they are not subject to editorial
control. "We want people's personalities to shine through," she says. Some
people are allowed to blog anonymously, but HuffPo knows who they are.

The site receives fewer than ten requests for corrections a day, but often very
minor, such as spelling mistakes. They have not had any significant complaints
about stories.

Counsel to the inquiry Mr Barr suggests the reason HuffPo receives so few
complaints is because "the sort of journalism you are engaged in isn't pushing
at the boundaries."

No, says Ms Buzasi. They are building a brand so they have to be "squeaky
clean". "I don't think what we are producing is bland journalism," says Buzasi.

"Our politics team are doing investigative pieces but we have not discovered an
MPs' expenses scandal. We are doing investigative journalism but nothing too
scandalous yet."

11.58 Paul Dacre and Heather Mills will give evidence tomorrow, it is confirmed.
Mr Dacre will answer questions about his newspapers' coverage of Hugh Grant.
Statements from Grant and Dacre will be published today.

11.52 Damages: the mother a 7/7 bombing victim has settled her hacking case for
"substantial damages". The court hears singer James Blunt and footballers Kieron
Dyer and Peter Crouch are among those launching new civil cases against News
International.

Peter Crouch is launching a civil case against News International

11.35 Mr Moy says journalists must provide the "best available version of the
truth". But many stories contain a "paragraph 19" - a "sleight of hand" passage
in a story that undermines the sting of the story and the headline. The code
does not provide for this in its limited definition of 'accuracy'.

Mr Moy says it is wrong to assume "good faith" in newspapers. "It just isn't
there." He notices a raised eyebrow in the direction of press gallery. He adds:
"In some cases. You can't rely on it being there."

11.29 More hacking damages. Home affairs editor Martin Beckford is tweeting from
the High Court. It's standing room only. He says it is unclear exactly how many
cases are being settled today.

Paul Gascoigne has received £68,000 damages plus costs. Hacking caused him
"mental harm". He apologises to his friends for suspecting them of leaks.

Sally King, a friend of former Home Secretary David Blunkett, receives £60,000,
her husband Andrew receives £50,000 and her father and brother receive
substantial undisclosed damages. Mrs King was put under "intense and sustained
physical surveillance". NOTW were booked on the same flight to America and
photographers turned up to their rural holiday.

11.20 Back to Leveson. Mr Moy and Mr Moore are still giving evidence.

Mr Moy says inaccuracy is "poisoning" the news supply and is a matter of basic
responsibility. He indicates the way to combat inaccuracy will maintaining free
speech is for society to be active in challenging misinterpretations".

Mr Moore says the MST has formed a review group to consider a new form of
regulation. They plan to submit a report to the inquiry in May.

Mr Moy says it has been "dismal" watching a "binary debate between statutory and
non-statutory regulation" "It's simplistic to say anything involving statute is
terrible," noting the body that guards the liberty of people in mental health
insitutions has a statutory basis.

Lord Justice Leveson says he wishes to avoid a "Maltese penal code" - a highly
complex set of rules.

11.09 More details coming out of the High Court settlement:

Among those settling are thought to be Steve Coogan, singer Pete Doherty,
football agent Sky Andrew, MP Simon Hughes, Tracey Temple, who had a
relationship with Lord Prescott, jockey Kieren Fallon, racing trainer Samantha
Wallin, Alastair Campbell and his friend Jimmy Gardner, and George Best's agent
Phil Hughes.

Likely lad: singer Pete Doherty

Mr Coogan has settled for £40,000.

Simon Hughes has settled for £45,000 plus legal costs. He saw 19 pages of
Mulcaire documents on him, including transcripts of voicemail messages involving
"highly sensitive" Lib Dem information. His friends would complain he had not
responded to voicemails but he never received them. He wants Parliament to
legislate for tighter press regulation and will give evidence to Leveson.

Sky Andrew, the football agent, has received £75,000. His lawyer says he was a
"trialblazer" as his action went back to the 2006 Mulcaire case.

10.57 Alastair Campbell has issued a statement on his phone hacking settlement
after his voicemail was accessed in 2006 . He accuses the Government of dragging
its feet on press reform because of the support it enjoys from the media at the
moment. An extract:

This is not, and never has been, about the money, with which I shall be making
donations to various organisations including the Labour Party, Leukaemia and
Lymphoma Research, Mind, Rethink Mental Illness, Comprehensive Future, Local
Schools Network and Clarets Trust, so that at least some small good for the
causes I believe in can come out of the criminality and cultural depravity of
others.

For me, this has been about people with a voice and a platform using them to
change the media culture which, as I argued at the Leveson Inquiry, has become
putrid in parts...

Where this all leads is anyone's guess. But the debate has to be kept alive and
at the front of the public mind once Leveson concludes. There are already signs
that the Tory ministers in particular are not keen on going along with major
reform of the regulatory system if that is what the Inquiry recommends. They
prefer the remarkable level of media support they currently enjoy to acting in
the national interest to improve the level of debate, and the standards of the
media.

It is incumbent upon all who for whatever reason are in this debate about press
standards, and the relationship between press, politics and public, to keep
fighting for the full truth about the nature of the modern media to be exposed,
and for something better to be put in its place in terms of ownership, standards
and regulation.

10.42 Another nine claimants have settled their phone hacking cases against News
International at the High Court.

Mr Justice Vos is conducting a pre-trial hearing for ten phone hacking cases
which were due to begin next week.

Nine of the ten cases due to go to trial have been settled.

Only Charlotte Church and her family are not settling, Hugh Tomlinson QC . She
has asked for an adjournment.

Among those settling are Steve Coogan, Alastair Campbell and Paul Gascogine,
Sky's Neil Mann reports .

Mr Justice Vos has been made aware of six new issued cases, taking the total to
56.

Today's news, at a hearing in London before Mr Justice Vos, follows last month's
settlement of 37 claims against News International subsidiary NGN.

Ten statements will be read in open court shortly.

Not settling: Charlotte Church

10.30 Media Standards Trust runs the website Journalisted which lists
journalists and their work. It helps the public track, contact and challenge
journalists and their work.

Moore says the sourcing of work is "very poor", and journalists decline to link
to original sources online.

MST also runs Churnalism - a site that allows the public to see how much of a
news story is comprised of press release material.

Moore says a regulator should focus on "process, not content".

Moy says Full Fact uses the PCC a lot to get corrections. Some papers are more
constructive than others. Moy has used Parliamentary Questions to force public
bodies to clarify statements in order to compel newspapers to set the record
straight.

Moy says the FT responds the best to complaints and give "sensible" responses.
The Guardian gets a "qualified endorsement" - it has good intentions but the
quality of the response depends on who the readers' editor is at the time. Other
newspapers are less willing to engage.

10.07 First up today, Martin Moore, from the charity Media Standards Trust, and
Will Moy, from the fact-checking campaign Full Fact. Leveson is delighted by the
lengthy submissions they have offered - it goes to "the very core" of his
inquiry and he is sorry they won't be giving evidence for longer.

Full Fact checks claims made by politicians and the press and appraises the use
of statistics, we hear. The Media Standards Trust runs the Orwell Prize for
Political Writing and campaigns for quality and accountable news-making.

Will Moy and Martin Moore

Mr Moy says there are three kinds of errors: being misled or overplaying
statistics, being misled by sources, and wilful distortion of facts. Mr Moy
cites a Daily Express splash: 'House prices set to surge'. They weren't. Mr Moy
adds: "Our job is to play the ball, not the man." They do not normally seek to
make judgements about the "mindset" of journalists; they let their readers do
that. But he says he will not pretend to be "naive" about what is going on at
newspapers.

Mr Moore says Ipsos Mori polling shows trust is journalists is "very low,
towards the bottom". It used to be a problem for the tabloids; but in the past
decade the sentiment has extended towards broadsheet and mid-market journalists
and broadcasters.

Mr Moore adds there is a tremendous amount of good journalism, which is why they
run the Orwell Prize to celebrate journalism.

Mr Moy says the inquiry has spent a lot of time on intrusion and privacy, but
has not touched on inaccuracy. "Fewer than two in ten people trusting
journalists to tell the truth is a clear warning sign," he says. "Enough
journalism by enough journalists is untrustworthy that it doesn't make sense for
the public to trust journalists." A small amount of "wrecklessly inaccurate"
reporting is destroying trust in accurate work, he adds.

This situation is not inevitable, and does not occur in other countries, Mr Moy
notes.

09.34 Paul Staines, the blogger behind Guido Fawkes, is giving evidence today.
Lord Justice Leveson has given much thought to how blogs, particularly those
hosted abroad, can be regulated.

Lord Hunt, the new chairman of the PCC, met with Staines. Staines says he
promised he would "consider" being subject to a kite-marking scheme and signing
up to a code of conduct. He has made up his mind. He writes:

It is however a very definite no to kitemarking, or any other form of
self-censorship. This blog aims to amuse, inform and entertain our readers,
reporting the truth as we see it. That sentence is this blog's entire code of
conduct.

09.21 Taking place elsewhere today: actor Steve Coogan is expected to settle is
phone-hacking claim at the High Court this morning, days before his case against
NOTW was expected to go on trial.

A pre-trial hearing is taking place before Mr Justice Vos. Mr Coogan's case was
amongst 10 claims expected to come to trial, with others including MP Simon
Hughes and jockey Kieren Fallon. A number of those cases are also expected to be
settled, the Guardian reports.

Hacked off: Steve Coogan is expected to settle his case today

Also at the High Court: Paul Chambers, who was found guilty of sending a
menacing tweet when he threatened to "blow up" Robin Hood airport and fined
£385, is appealing against his conviction.

08.57 Operation Elveden: Police 'paid £100,000' by Murdoch press

Police officers were paid more than £100,000 by News International journalists
who hid their true identities in company records, it is claimed. Martin Beckford
reports .

Contacts are alleged to have been paid under £1,000 for individual stories by
reporters at the newspapers under investigation, including the News of the
World.But the officers' identities would be kept off the paper's accounts as the
journalists paying them would submit invoices in false names, reports
claim.Details of the alleged payments are said by the Reuters news agency to
have emerged in evidence uncovered by investigators and handed to police.

Yesterday Scotland Yard apologised for failing to inform the tabloid's victims
their voicemails had been intercepted.

08.50 Yesterday saw the editor of The Times, James Harding, apologise to High
Court judge Mr Justice Eady after admitting he knew one of his reporters was
guilty of computer hacking but kept the "dirty deed" secret while the judge
considered the landmark ruling. Gordon Rayner reports in today's Telegraph:

James Harding wrote to Mr Justice Eady to explain what he described as a
"terrible" decision to remain quiet about the reporter illegally accessing the
email account of Richard Horton, a policeman who blogged anonymously under the
name NightJack. In 2009 the judge lifted an injunction that protected the
identity of Mr Horton after being told that Patrick Foster, a Times reporter,
had worked out his identity through "deduction" using publicly available
information.

In fact, Mr Harding admitted to the Leveson Inquiry yesterday, Mr Foster had
discovered the blogger's name by hacking into his email account, which the
editor knew as the judge considered his decision in the case.

Mr Harding accepted that Mr Justice Eady might have "exploded" if he had known
about the hacking at the time he was considering his ruling, and also apologised
to Mr Horton, saying he "sorely regretted" the intrusion.

Read the emails between Times staff here

08.35 It's another full line up at Lord Justice Leveson's inquiry into press
ethics. We shall be hearing from:

Helen Belcher, from Trans Media Watch, a lobby group to improve coverage of
transgender people in the press. Yesterday Dominic Mohan, the Sun editor, said a
story titled 'Tran or Man' was not the paper's "greatest moment". Expect more
examples of questionable coverage.

Carla Buzasi, the editor of the UK arm of the blogging and aggregation site
Huffington Post.

Martin Moore, from the charity Media Standards Trust

Will Moy, from the fact-checking campaign Full Fact

Paul Staines, who runs the political blog Guido Fawkes

Keir Starmer, the Director of Public Prosecutions

Pam Surphlis, of the Northern Irish charity Supporter after Murder and
Manslaughter (SAMM NI). It is calling for new ombudsman for the press in
Northern Ireland, and guidelines which would see journalists refrain from making
direct contact with the families of murder victims and seeking approval before
using photographs .

08.30 Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the Leveson Inquiry into
press ethics and standards.

Lord Justice Leveson

Leveson Inquiry: as it happened February 6Leveson Inquiry: as it happened 31
JanuaryLeveson Inquiry: as it happened January 26Leveson Inquiry: as it happened
January 25Leveson Inquiry: as it happened January 24Leveson Inquiry: as it
happened January 23Leveson Inquiry: as it happened January 18Leveson Inquiry: as
it happened January 17Leveson Inquiry: as it happened January 16Leveson Inquiry:
as it happened January 12Leveson Inquiry: as it happened January 11Leveson
Inquiry: as it happened December 21Leveson Inquiry: as it happened December
20Leveson Inquiry: as it happened December 15Leveson Inquiry: as it happened
December 14Leveson Inquiry: as it happened December 13Leveson Inquiry: as it
happened December 12

For coverage before these dates, visit our Leveson Inquiry and phone hacking
archives.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Publisher settles further hacking claims

BYLINE: Frances Gibb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 792 words


The former footballer Paul Gascoigne and the comedian Steve Coogan were among
claimants who settled their phone hacking claims against the News of the World
yesterday.

Gascoigne, who had suffered "mental harm and distress" and the breakdown of
friendships with those he wrongly suspected of leaking stories to the press,
received £68,000.

Coogan, who fought for two years to bring his claim after he said the police and
the Government "failed" to hold hackers to account, accepted £40,000.

They were among nine celebrities and politicians whose damages claims against
News Group Newspapers, the publishers of the News of the World, were settled in
the High Court before Mr Justice Vos.

A total of 18 claims were settled with the cash amounts to eight of them
totalling £363,000 and the remaining ten electing to keep their settlements
secret. Last month it was announced a further 36 claims had settled with payouts
of more than £700,000 including £130,000 to the actor Jude Law. As a result,
only one of the original claims - that by the singer Charlotte Church and her
parents - is set to go to trial. Mr Justice Vos ruled that this should proceed
on February 27. A further 56 claims are in preparation, the court was told,
including from Peter Crouch, the footballer, his wife Abbey Clancy, singer James
Blunt and UKIP leader Nigel Farage.

Among yesterday's settlements were: Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat deputy
leader; George Galloway, the former MP - £25,000; Alastair Campbell, the former
Labour communications director - "substantial" undisclosed damages; Sky Andrew,
the sports agent; and Phil Hughes, an agent for the late footballer George Best
- "substantial" damages. All received their costs.

Gerald Shamash, Gascoigne's solicitor, outlined the impact of the hacking on the
former Newcastle, Tottenham and England player. "[News Group] has recognised
that its activities have had a seriously detrimental effect on the well-being of
Mr Gascoigne, including mental harm and distress," he said. "[News Group] has
apologised."

The judge was told that Gascoigne had been the subject of several News of the
World articles over many years. "Mr Gascoigne was worried that the information
was being obtained by bugging or tapping his telephone conversations, as a
result of which he was accused of being paranoid," the statement said. "He was
also worried that information was being given to the News of the World by his
friends or family, as a result of which he fell out with several of his friends
and family."

Lawyers said that News Group admitted that some private information had been
obtained from intercepted voicemail messages. The judge was told that one of
Gascoigne's friends, James Gardner, referred to in the press as "Jimmy Five
bellies", had accepted substantial damages.

"Mr Gascoigne accused Mr Gardner of leaking information to the News of the
World, when in fact that information had been obtained from voicemail
interception," the judge was told.

Coogan had become "increasingly concerned" about the security of his mobile
phone during 2005, the comedian's solicitor, Allan Dunlavy, said in a statement.
"[News Group] now accepts that [Coogan's] voicemail messages were intercepted
... in 2005 and 2006."

Outside the court, Coogan said: "This has never been about money. I was
determined to do my part to show the depths to which the press could sink."

The claimants

Steve Coogan

Comedian and actor

Received: £40,000 Best known for his role as Alan Partridge; phoned hacked
during 2005 and 2006. He became increasingly concerned about security of his
mobile phone in 2005. His provider, Vodafone, told him of "suspicious activity"
on his account

Simon Hughes

Deputy leader of Liberal Democrats

Received: £45,000 He became concerned that his voicemail messages were being
intercepted during 2005 and 2006 when friends and family complained that he did
not answer calls. He believed that his phone was private and secure and received
15-20 voicemail messages a day relating to his private and family life and the
private lives of others

Paul Gascoigne

Former footballer

Received £60,000 plus £8,000 special damages. Suffered "mental harm and
distress" and fell out with friends and family he accused of leaking information
to the media. Thought his phone was being bugged or tapped and was accused of
being paranoid. News of the World admitted "some private information" obtained
from intercepted voicemail messages

Sky Andrew

Professional sports agent

Received: £75,000 His position, the court was told, was unique in that access to
his mobile phone provided access to his clients and that could damage his
business reputation. He could be regarded as a "trailblazer" in the litigation

Simon Hughes: 'It was criminal behaviour on an industrial scale'

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A claim by Charlotte Church and her parents will go to trial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU 'ready for Greek euro exit'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 366 words


THE EU signalled that it was prepared to eject Greece from the euro after a
senior official yesterday declared the single currency would survive without
them.

Spain will be rather cloudy the north and west, with of snow possible in places.
brighter further south plenty of sunshine. High European Commission vice
president Neelie Kroes insisted the eurozone wouldn't collapse. It marks a
change by Brussels which has backed Greece's continuing inclusion.

Ms Kroes said: "When one member leaves it doesn't mean 'man overboard.' They
always said if a country is let go or asks to get out, then the whole edifice
will collapse. But that is simply London/South East: Dry spells of sunshine,
more northeast winds. Cold. High Midlands: Dry with morning breaking up to give
sunshine. easterly winds. Very cold.

times in the north. High 13C (55F).

Drier and east with 13C (55F).

not true." Dutch finance minister Jan Kees De Jager added there would be no
"Armageddon" if Greece went.

Sunny intervals and isolated showers across the Canaries. High 21C ( Sunny
spells. Snow showers The comments come as pressure mounted on the Greeks last
night to agree new austerity measures in return for a second £107billion EU
bail-out. A deal must be approved by next Wednesday if the money is to be
available to meet a £12billion debt repayment on March 20. Greek party And back
in Britain today with a few later. Brisk 3C (37F).

North: Dry and fine with lengthy spells sunshine. Gentle southeasterly winds.

Very cold. High 2C (36F).

cloud Gentle Scotland: Windy in the west with rain spreading east. Dry, cold and
increasingly leaders were due to thrash out new proposals last night amid a
general strike in the country against cuts.

On Monday, Greece agreed to pass a new law allowing more government employees to
be fired. Greek Islands: showers and heavy and with thunder. The rain over
higher Greece. High Turkish Resorts: northern Turkish Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom
said: "The best way to help Greece is if we give them a helping hand out of the
eurozone, rather than spending billions of taxpayers' money building a golden
prison."

OPINION: PAGE 12 London/South spells of sunshine, northeast winds. Midlands: Dry
breaking up to

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ... Police push back protesters trying to enter Greece's parliament
building in Athens yesterday during a 24-hour general strike

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU 'ready for Greek euro exit'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words


THE EU signalled that it was prepared to eject Greece from the euro after a
senior official yesterday declared the single currency would survive without
them.

European Commission vice president Neelie Kroes insisted the eurozone wouldn't
collapse. It marks a change by Brussels which has backed Greece's continuing
inclusion.

Ms Kroes said: "When one member leaves it doesn't mean 'man overboard.' They
always said if a country is let go or asks to get out, then the whole edifice
will collapse.

But that is simply not true." Dutch finance minister Jan Kees De Jager added
there would be no "Armageddon" if Greece went.

The comments come as pressure mounted on the Greeks last night to agree new
austerity measures in return for a second £107billion EU bail-out. A deal must
be approved by next Wednesday if the money is to be available to meet a
£12billion debt repayment on March 20.

Greek party leaders were due to thrash out new proposals last night amid a
general strike in the country against cuts.

On Monday, Greece agreed to pass a new law allowing more government employees to
be fired.

Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "The best way to help Greece is if we give them a
helping hand out of the eurozone, rather than spending billions of taxpayers'
money building a golden prison."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police push back protesters trying to enter Greece's parliament
building in Athens yesterday during a 24-hour general strike

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US firm given Olympic tickets contract

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 131 words


A HUGE contract to print millions of London Olympics tickets has been awarded to
an American firm, it emerged yesterday.

British printing firms were furious after learning that the deal to supply what
is thought to be the country's biggest single ticket order for a sporting event
had gone to Arkansas-based Weldon, Williams and Lick.

Tony Hallett, of print brokers CCS McLays, said: "It's typical of our country.
The Yanks would never give it to us."

Lawrence Webb, Ukip's candidate for London mayor, added: "This is a kick in the
guts to British firms."

A London 2012 spokesman said the contract for "the bulk" of more than 10 million
tickets was awarded after a "thorough, competitive and open" process. The US
firm had worked on other Games and met costs and security criteria, he added.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Australia reacts to Lord Monckton's call for a 'Fox News' funded by 'super rich'

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1654 words

ABSTRACT

Leo Hickman: Campaigners warn against mining interests buying up media after
Lord Monckton calls for UK and Australia to have a 'Fox News'

FULL TEXT

Readers of the Melbourne Age and Sydney Morning Herald might be forgiven today
for wondering if the standard of their newspapers has slipped somewhat. Both
titles feature a whole page covered in scribbled editing marks.

But the pages are not the result of a production error. They are actually ads
paid for by the Australian grassroots campaign group Get Up!. (You can see the
full ad here.) They aim to highlight the outpouring of concern among its members
to the news reported last week that Gina Rinehart, the country's richest woman
with a wide portfolio of mining and coal interests, has secured a 15% share in
Fairfax Media, the parent company of, among many other media outlets, the Age
and Herald. This stake would add to the 10% share of Channel 10 she secured in
late 2010.

The reason why Rinehart's "media grab" is so feared in Australia is not just
that she is yet another billionaire media owner with corporate interests to
promote and protect, but that she is renowned for her fiercely right-wing
politics and promotion of climate sceptics such as Ukip's Lord Monckton. (She
also placed the climate sceptic Ian Plimer - who is an "academic advisor" to
Lord Lawson's Global Warming Policy Foundation here in the UK - on the board of
two of her coal and iron ore companies last week.)

Simon Sheikh, the national director of Get Up! ("an independent, grass-roots
community advocacy organisation which aims to build a more progressive
Australia") explained why the ad campaign is being run:

The mining industry in Australia already wields incredible power, made obvious
following the success of campaigns to water down the resource tax and carbon
price, so we're fighting to protect our media and stay this growing influence.
We're concerned about what's motivating this buy-up of Australian media and what
the mining industry might expect in return for their investment. With mining
bosses in charge, how much frank and fearless investigation will our journalist
be allowed to pursue?

Magnifying this concern is a YouTube video that went viral over the weekend in
Australia and has now racked up nearly 90,000 views. It shows Lord Monckton
addressing the boardroom of a free-market thinktank called the Mannkal Economic
Education Foundation in Perth last July when he was conducting a controversial
lecture tour of Australia. In the video, he calls for a "super rich" angel
funder to set up a "Fox News" for the UK and Australia:

Until we crack that one both in the UK and Australia, we're going to suffer the
disadvantage over against the more libertarian, right-thinking people in the
United States who have got Fox News and have therefore got things like the Tea
party, and have therefore at last put some lead in the pencil of the Republican
Party...You have the business people explaining how the free-market concept in
business works every day and reaching thousands of millions of people around the
world on Fox News. And let's be clear, that's still the way to do it.

I should put my hand up at this stage and say that I played a small role in this
video going viral. I bumped into the original video online last Tuesday during -
as so often happens - a search for something else. At the time, it was sitting
on Mannkal's YouTube page and had attracted fewer than 100 views. It had
originally been posted in early January.

I found the contents rather intriguing so I tweeted it. Within a few hours, the
Brisbane-based journalist Graham Readfearn had spotted my tweet and posted a
blog explaining the video's wider context and significance, given the news
breaking that day about Rinehart's purchase of a stake in Fairfax. His blog was
then quickly reposted on DeSmogBlog. And then again on ABC's The Drum. (Rather
than summarise it here, read Readfearn for the full chapter and verse on the
links between Monckton, Rinehart and right-wing thinktanks in Australia.)

The attention clearly spooked Mannkal as the video was pulled from their YouTube
page within a few days. (It reposted it again yesterday.) As was another one
found by Readfern on the same page (but uploaded a few months earlier) which
showed the climate sceptic blogger Jo Nova addressing the same boardroom.
(Again, this was reposted yesterday.)

But, thankfully, a copy had already been secured and Get Up! posted an edited
version on its website. Get Up! emailed its members asking them to "share the
video with friends". Over the weekend, it went viral and, as of today, the
campaign has raised A$55,000 to help pay for the newspaper ads.

In a press release, Get Up!'s Simon Sheikh said:

Ms Rinehart has built exceptional wealth on the back of selling Australian
assets, and she's using that wealth now to change our media landscape and our
nation's politics. Ms Rinehart may believe she has the power and the wealth to
take over our media without facing a fight, but Get Up members have been
spreading the word far and wide through dissemination of the Monckton video last
week and the print ad campaign this week. We'll continue to work to expose this
blatant attack on our media and the breathtaking arrogance that comes from not
being simply satisfied with making billions from our nation's common mineral
resources, but a desire to have control over the media as well.A free and
scrutinising media is integral to our democracy's function, and ownership of
prominent media outlets should be contingent on the 'fit and proper person'
test, with restrictions on the influence that government and industry can
wield.We wouldn't stand by while the tobacco industry seized control of our
nation's media, why would we stand for Gina Rinehart and the mining industry's
grab for our news sources?

Rinehart, nor Mannkal, have yet to comment, but Lord Monckton took to Jo Nova's
blog yesterday to defend his words:

The frenetic reaction of the dwindling and desperate climate-extremist faction
to the news that I am working on putting together a consortium to establish an
equivalent of Fox News in Australia and another in the UK is interesting and
tells us much. At the invitation of Mannkal, I gave a talk in Perth on the
opportunities for restoring political balance to the near-universally hard-Left
news media in both countries and for making healthy profits by doing so...The
climate extremist Left are visibly, audibly frightened that their poisonous
near-monopoly of the news media may be broken in Australia, just as Fox News has
so swiftly and profitably broken it in the US. Given the enormous amount of
support I get for my talks in Australia, I'd guess that a Fox News equivalent in
Australia would do just as well as in the US, where Fox now has half the
nation's news audience, because anyone who isn't a totalitarian Socialist
watches it and all the competition are totalitarian Socialist....Fox takes an
explicit, declared, one-sided view that is pro-democracy, pro-Western,
pro-profit, pro-prosperity, pro-success, pro-freedom, pro-America. And half of
all the news audience in the US love it. Interestingly, with characteristic
stupidity, Fox's Marxist rivals have moved still further to the extreme Left,
allowing Fox to move in all the more rapidly on their former territory. Fox now
makes more money than its two largest rivals combined.So if anyone who may read
this is interested in joining a consortium that can expect to make around $1
million a week in Australia and perhaps three times that in the UK, please feel
free to get in touch.

(Jo Nova also commented beneath Monckton's post that she is "waiting on a link
to the full event from Mannkal. Hopefully that will arrive soon.")

Readfearn tells me that the reaction to the video in Australia has been
extraordinary and that he's been asked by a number of media outlets to discuss
it, including Australia's version of Radio 1, Triple J, in which he was joined
by a number of journalism commentators to debate the impact a "Fox News" might
have in Australia.

Robert Manne, a professor of politics at La Trobe University in Victoria, has
also posted a long essay entitled "Lord Monckton and the Future of Australian
Media" on The Monthly:

Fox News offers to its audience an alternative version of reality. It presents a
perpetual kindergarten-level symposium on the evils of "socialism" aka the
welfare state, and the virtues of the untrammelled free market...As Monckton
understands, Fox News has drawn political discourse in the United States, on
certain questions, very far to the right...Because of the influence of Fox News,
most ominously of all so far as I am concerned, all Republicans contenders for
the Presidency are presently obliged to regard advocacy of action against
climate change as a species of left-wing madness. As a consequence, serious
action on climate change has, for some time at least, become politically
unthinkable in the United States and therefore, probably, in the world...As
Monckton understands, for the libertarian Right and for climate change
denialists, there could be no cause more worthwhile than the replication of Fox
News-style television channels beyond the United States to the other countries
of the Anglosphere. The reason is straightforward. Some time ago the fossil fuel
corporations and the denialist think tanks realised that in order to delay
action they did not need to prove that the near-unanimous opinion of the climate
scientists was wrong. All they needed to do was to sow in citizens' minds and
then cultivate the seeds of doubt. This is what the daily propaganda of Fox
News, the most important media outlet for the denialist "echo chamber" that
operates now throughout the Anglosphere, has managed to achieve.

Lots to consider, then, as Australia and the UK digest the news that Lord
Monckton is conspiring for the "super rich" to deliver a "Fox News" to their
screens.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Phone hacking: News International faces more than 50 new damages claims

BYLINE: Lisa O'Carrollguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1138 words

ABSTRACT

High court hears alleged victims include Peter Crouch, James Blunt and Nigel
Farage as dozens more cases are prepared. By Lisa O'Carroll and Jason Deans

FULL TEXT

News International is facing more than 50 new damages claims from alleged
victims of News of the World phone hacking, including Peter Crouch, James Blunt
and Nigel Farage, the high court has heard.

Rupert Murdoch's UK newspaper publisher has already settled more than 50 civil
actions for invasion of privacy, including 15 involving 21 individuals such as
comedian Steve Coogan that were confirmed at the high court on Wednesday, for
several million pounds in damages and legal costs. The details of six of
Wednesday's settlements were revealed, costing News International another
£363,000 in damages.

However, there is no sign of a let-up on the pressure facing News International,
with Hugh Tomlinson QC, representing phone-hacking victims, telling the high
court that six new cases had been filed, with a further 50 being prepared.

Out of these new civil actions, five have already been selected to be "lead
cases". They will, along with the continuing action by Charlotte Church, be
considered with a view to establishing a benchmark for damages for the 800 or so
potential victims of News of the World phone-hacking identified so far by the
Metropolitan police.

These new cases are being taken by Crouch, the England and Stoke footballer, and
his wife Abbey Clancy; musician Blunt; Farage, the Ukip leader and MEP; Eimear
Cook, the ex-wife of former Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomery; and former
England footballer Kieron Dyer.

The 15 damages settlements revealed at the high court on Wednesday bring the
total number of phone-hacking cases News International has settled to 54, with
six remaining in dispute.

These are Church, Ryan Giggs, Crimewatch presenter Jacqui Hames and her husband,
police detective David Cook, former royal butler Paul Burrell, Max Clifford's
former assistant Nicola Philips, and Elle Macpherson's former financial adviser
Mary Ellen Field.

Tomlinson told Lord Justice Vos at the high court that Church who was one of a
number of potential test cases willing to go to full trial.

The singer, who is suing along with her mother Maria and father James, claims 33
articles published by the News of the World between 2002 and 2006 came directly
from phone hacking. She also claims that her father was forced to sell his pub
in Wales because of the distress caused by press coverage.

Coogan, ex-football star Paul Gascoigne and the mother of a 7/7 terrorist
bombing victim were among the 21 individuals whose settlements were revealed at
the high court on Wednesday.

Coogan, who has been fighting a case against News International since 2010, has
been one of the leading critics of the company but settled his civil action
after it admitted his phone had been hacked by the News of the World and agreed
to payout damages of £40,000.

He said after Wednesday's court hearing that it was "never about money" and he
had just wanted "to show the depths to which the press can sink in pursuit of
private information". At the time he began the civil action for invasion of
privacy, the tabloid denied any wrongdoing.

Coogan, who attended court to hear his settlement being read, added that he was
delighted the company had finally capitulated after years of denial that anyone
other than a "rogue reporter" covering royal stories had been involved in phone
hacking. "I am pleased that after two years of argument and denials, News
International has finally agreed to settle my case against it for hacking my
voicemails. It has been a very stressful and time-consuming experience for me
and for those close to me," he added.

MP Simon Hughes was also in court for the settlement and was awarded £40,000 in
damages.

Other victims who have settled included singer Pete Doherty, jockey Kieran
Fallon, and football agent Sky Andrew, who won £75,000, one of the largest
payments announced on Wednesday.

The largest settlement of all went to Sally King, an estate agent, and her
husband Andrew. They were collectively awarded £110,000 - £60,000 for her,
£50,000 in a joint claim, along with undisclosed damages for her father John
Anderson and her autistic brother Scott.

The high court heard how King, a friend of David Blunkett, had been subjected to
physical surveillance and phone hacking by the News of the World, which
instructed reporters and photographers to follow them.

King went on holiday to the US and discovered that a News of the World reporter
was booked on the same flight and photographers and reporters waiting at the
rural holiday destination.

Her solicitor Charlotte Harris told the court: "The effect of this intensive and
intrusive campaign of surveillance, pursuit and harassment, as well as the
publication of intrusive and private information on those private individuals
has been profound."

Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair's one time spin doctor also settled on Wednesday
for undisclosed damages, as did Sheila Henry, the mother of 7/7 victim Christian
Small.

Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne was awarded £60,000 plus special
damages of £8,000. The court heard that hacking had a "serious detrimental
effect on his wellbeing", and that he was told he was paranoid for thinking he
had been targeted. His friend Jimmy Gardner also received undisclosed damages.

Sky Andrew, who acts as an agent for footballers such as Sol Campbell, received
£75,000. George Galloway received £25,000 and the court was told that he was
targeted from the time of the second Gulf war in 2003.

In a statement, Hughes said: "The evidence in my case clearly demonstrates that
the practice of hacking was widespread and went much further up the chain than
Clive Goodman and Glenn Mulcaire. It was criminal behaviour on an industrial
scale."

He added: "Anyone involved in criminal activity at the News of the World must be
brought to justice, and all those who allowed a large company to behave in this
way must be held to account."

In a statement posted on his blog, Campbell described the settlement as a
"satisfactory outcome" for him and added that as part of his agreement, the News
of the World publisher had "also undertaken to continue searches of other
'documents in its possession', so that I can ascertain the extent of any further
wrongdoing, both for the time I worked in Downing Street and since, and they
have agreed I 'may be entitled to further damages in certain circumstances'".

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: diary@guardian.co.uk Twitter: @hugh-muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 685 words


&#10002;At at time of rising intolerance, it seems doubly important that those
who cherish democracy stick together. The Syria impasse shows that we have some
way to go. But examples of good practice are spreading. "I propose introducing a
rule for a mandatory parliamentary review of any legislative initiative that has
more than 100,000 supporting signatures on the internet. A similar practice
exists in the UK." So said Vladimir Putin, writing for Comment is free. He looks
to us. The PM's ideas are his ideas. Makes you proud, doesn't it?

&#10002;Great interest in the agreeable terms and conditions secured by Ed
Lester, chief executive of the Student Loans Company. His taxation arrangements
caused the biggest kerfuffle. But it was also noted that Lester flies from his
home in Buckinghamshire to the office in Glasgow, and is billeted in a
taxpayer-funded flat - benefits worth £500 a week. And it's not just him. Look
at the 2010/11 accounts for the Serious Fraud Office, and arrangements for the
chief executive there, Phillippa Williamson. "The benefit in kind for the chief
executive officer is estimated to be £27,600 for the payment of travel and hotel
costs for home to work travel incurred from 1 April up to 31 March 2011." She
lives in the Lake District. The office is in London. Still, can't blame
Williamson, even if her deal is one that Prospect union members at the SFO can
only dream of. Get on your bike and look for work, was the mantra, so she did.

&#10002;A difficult time too for our European mascot, Godfrey "Eight pints"
Bloom, Ukip's man for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire. There he was last week,
riding high, proud as a peacock, baiting the pre-eminent lobby group for gays
and lesbians in Europe. But then poor old Godders, he came a cropper. Into the
chamber of the European parliament he went, a bit squiffy on something less than
eight pints, and - as he admitted to the website Political Scrapbook - a little
bit high on prescription drugs to alleviate the pain from a riding injury.
Didn't go well. He rambled on about women's rugby clubs while colleagues shook
their heads in sadness and disbelief. If he had any credibility to lose it would
have all gone.

&#10002;Bauble time again at the Oldie Awards, where collective wisdom and
longevity are celebrated with an alcohol-fuelled gathering at
Simpson's-in-the-Strand. It's a good lunch for the high priest of lunch, justice
minister Kenneth Clarke, who emerges as Oldie of the Year. And for Sir Peregrine
Worsthorne, named Fashion Icon of the Year. He presents in glowing purple. Also
for Baroness Trumpington, named Peer of the Year for youthfully showing her
middle digit to the former defence minister Lord King. The gags come courtesy of
Sir Terry Wogan. He wells knows his audience. "After many years of marriage,"
says Sir Terry, "a wife calls from the kitchen for her husband to come
downstairs and make mad passionate love to her. He does so, then asks: 'What was
that all about?' 'Oh, the egg-timer's broken,' she replies."

&#10002;And while people complain that the standard of British comedy is not
what it was, an honourable mention to the Local Government Information Unit. On
the back of the £18m spent dealing with the Dale Farm debacle, with all the
rancour and controversy, and bearing in mind the fact that many of the
travellers merely skipped on to the site next door, occasioning another round of
eviction notices, whoever nominated Basildon council leader Tony Ball for leader
of the year award has timing not seen since the demise of Eric Morecambe. That's
the gift. Being able to raise a laugh without even trying.

&#10002;Finally, with the move to Salford and the prospect of impending change
at the top of the BBC, staff seek reassurance on issues that most affect them.
"Can a member of BBC staff be sacked for not having a TV licence or for having
sex on the premises," a worker bee from 5 Live asks managers via the internal
magazine Ariel. "For the record I have a TV licence and haven't had sex in the
office," he says. Still, as well to know these things.

diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter: @hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 09, 2012



CORRECTION: * A column gave £18m as the cost of Basildon council's eviction of
Traveller families from the Dale Farm site in Essex in late 2011 (Diary, 8
February, page 29). The council notes that £18m was an initial and worst-case
estimate for what council and police costs could turn out to be, but the amount
actually spent has turned out to be about £7m. (A council spokesman breaks this
down as £2.36m in police costs, against an initial estimate of a possible £10m,
and approximately £4.8m for all other spending by the council on the Dale Farm
operation, against an initial estimate of £8m, making for a total of £7.16m.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

2012 TICKETS TO BE MADE IN AMERICA;
OLYMPICS

BYLINE: LAURIE HANNA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 145 words


FURY greeted the decision yesterday to give a US company the contract to print
London 2012 tickets.

Politicians said a UK firm should be responsible for what is thought to be the
biggest single sports ticketing task in our history.

They will be flown from Arkansas-based firm Weldon, Williams & Lick, 4,500 miles
across the Atlantic.

UKIP's Lawrence Webb said it was "a disgrace", adding: "This is a kick in the
guts to British firms who would have been desperate to secure such a lucrative
contract."

Organisers said the deal was for the "bulk of tickets".

Eleven million tickets are available for both the Olympics and Paralympics.
London 2012 said: "The contract was awarded following a competitive and open
process."

3 THOUSANDS of O2 staff were today testing plans to avoid Olympic travel chaos
by working from home, cafes or stores instead of their office in Slough, Berks.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VENUE J The stadium

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 8, 2012 Wednesday 7:25 PM GMT

Phone hacking: Steve Coogan says he was forced to act when police failed;
Steve Coogan said he had other victims of phone-hacking by the News of the World
had been forced to "fight for the truth" after being let down by police and
politicians, as another 15 cases were settled for substantial damages.

BYLINE: By Martin Beckford Home Affairs Editor

LENGTH: 855 words


The actor claimed that News International had almost succeeded in covering up
the "scandal" until their targets, including some members of the public with
"tenuous" links to the news, took on Rupert Murdoch's media empire in civil
claims.

He made his comments after appearing at the High Court to accept £40,000 in
damages from the publishers of the disgraced tabloid newspaper, along with
claimants in 14 other cases whose voicemail messages were intercepted by
reporters and private investigators.

Figures from politics including George Galloway, Alastair Campbell and Simon
Hughes also received damages on Wednesday, as did sporting stars such as Paul
Gascoigne, who fell out with friends because he thought they were selling
stories about him while they accused him of paranoia.

The High Court heard that others caught up in the disgraced newspaper's
activities included a rival journalist, people who were merely friends with
celebrities and the mother of a 7/7 victim.

These latest payments, coming weeks after a first tranche of 37, mean that 54 of
the original 60 cases have now been settled. Five more cannot be heard yet for
technical reasons while the singer Charlotte Church and her parents have refused
to settle their claims, paving the way for a landmark trial later this month.

A pre-trial hearing was also told that another 50 cases have been launched in
recent months by public figures including the singer James Blunt, the UKIP
politician Nigel Farage, the footballer Peter Crouch and his wife Abby Clancey,
the former wife of golfer Colin Montgomerie, Eimear Cook, and the footballer
Kieron Dyer.

It means 56 cases are still outstanding against News Group Newspapers, part of
Rupert Murdoch's media empire, and Glenn Mulcaire, the PI who was jailed in 2007
in the original criminal trial for phone-hacking.

Lawyers read a series of statements on Wednesday morning from those who have
settled their cases before the trial.

The judge, Mr Justice Vos, heard that Coogan, who was in the courtroom, was an
actor "best known in this jurisdiction for his role as Alan Partridge".

He had become concerned about the security of his mobile phone back in 2005 with
Vodafone telling him of "suspicious activity". He later found out that Mulcaire,
acting for News of the World reporters, had got hold of his mobile phone account
number and password as well as accessing his voicemail messages.

Coogan was awarded £40,000 in damages plus legal costs but said later: "This has
never been about money. Like other people who have sued, I was determined to do
my part to show the depths to which the Press can sink in pursuit of private
information."

He went on: "At the time when these civil cases began, News International seemed
likely to succeed in covering up the hacking scandal completely. Neither the
police nor the Government were willing to hold those responsible accountable.

"For a long time it was left to victims of these egregious practices to fight
for the truth."

Coogan called the Leveson Inquiry into press standards a "once in a lifetime
opportunity" to ensure others are not subjected to the same "abuse".

Mr Hughes, the prominent Lib Dem MP, was awarded £45,000 for phone-hacking
between 2002 and 2006.

He said outside the Rolls Building: "It was criminal behaviour on an industrial
scale."

Sky Andrew, the football agent, was awarded £75,000 as his business reputation
had been put at risk when stories about his clients were published that had been
obtained illicitly.

Sally King, who had been a friend of the Labour minister David Blunkett,
received £60,000 while her husband was awarded £50,000 and her father and
brother substantial undisclosed damages.

Although they were not public figures, reporters hacked their phones, waited
outside their homes and even followed them to America after booking seats on the
same flight.

Paul Gascoigne, the former England footballer, accepted a £68,000 payout which
took into account the "mental harm" caused by interception of his private phone
messages. He was accused of being paranoid because he thought he was being
bugged, and apologised to friends and family for suspecting him of leaking
information to the press.

His lifelong friend James Gardner, better known as Jimmy Five Bellies, received
undisclosed damages as did Phil Hughes, a friend of the late football star
George Best.

George Galloway had five voicemail messages intercepted around the start of the
Iraq invasion in 2003 and received £25,000 in damages.

A further group of claims was settled that were brought by another football
agent, a dancer, a journalist and his family and Sheila Henry, whose son
Christian Small was killed in the terrorist attack on London's transport network
in 2005.

Statements were not read in other cases that were settled, including those
thought to have involved the singer Pete Doherty and Lord Prescott's former
secretary, Tracey Temple.

In the forthcoming two-week trial of the claims brought by Miss Church and her
parents, it will be claimed that 33 articles published in the News of the World
between 2002 and 2006 were based on the illegal interception of their phone
messages.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 8, 2012 Wednesday 9:37 AM GMT

London 2012 Olympics: tickets will be flown over from Arkansas as printing
contract goes to American firm;
Tickets to the London 2012 Olympics will be printed in Arkansas, United States
and airfreighted 4,500 miles to Britain after an American firm was awarded the
printing contract.

BYLINE: By Telegraph staff

LENGTH: 397 words


The decision to grant the contract to Weldon, Williams & Lick of Fort Smith,
Arkansas has sparked outrage among British businesses who have demanded to know
why they were not chosen.

Previous Olympic organising committees in Seoul and Barcelona gave their ticket
printing deals to the national equivalent of the Royal Mint. But Locog, who also
outsourced the manufacturing of some Olympic souvenirs to China, defended their
decision stressing that there were many business opportunities for British firms
as a result of the Games.

Tony Hallet, an account manager at print brokers CCS McLays, claimed that he did
not believe any UK companies had been offered the chance to pitch for the
contract.

"It is typical of our country," he told the London Evening Standard."The Yanks
would never give it to us, or if the Olympics were in France, UK companies would
not get the contract."

A London 2012 spokesman said: "The contract to print tickets was awarded
following a thorough, competitive and open tender run through [tendering
website] Compete For.

"As with all of our contracts, a number of criteria are considered including the
experience of working on projects of this scale, security, ability to handle
large amounts of data and value for money.

"Across the project, the Games has been good news for UK plc with 95 per cent of
contracts going to British business."

Nearly all of the 11 million tickets to the Olympics and Paralympics will be
printed in the southern state before being packaged up and flown thousands of
miles to Britain. From there they will be distributed to ticketholders at a £6
delivery cost.

Lawrence Webb, UKIP's London Mayor candidate, slammed the decision to outsource
the printing, branding it "a kick in the guts to British firms".

He said: "We were sold the idea of the London Olympics on the basis that it
would benefit the British and London economy but this latest development is just
another empty promise.

"This is a kick in the guts to British firms who would have been desperate to
secure such a lucrative contract but it looks like they did not even get the
opportunity to bid.

"There seems to be a track record in this country of not putting British
businesses first, we have seen it with Bombardier in Derby and now we are seeing
it with the London Olympics where an American company gets the contract to print
tickets.

"It is a disgrace."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday

Eurozone crisis: Greece gripped by general strike ahead of crucial talks - as it
happened

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4548 words

ABSTRACT

A German flag was burned in Athens today as unions held a 24-hour walkout in
protest at further austerity in Greece.

FULL TEXT

5.49pm: What a day. It's time to shut this blog down now -- I'm late for a
debate on Capitalism in crisis, which I'll hopefully blog a bit about tomorrow.

Our lunchtime round-up is here.

Many thanks for reading, and for the many excellent comments. Particular thanks
to those who commented or emailed in with information from Greece.

Goodnight!

5.34pm: The European Commission has responded to Dutch Commissioner Neelie
Kroes's comments that the eurozone could cope without Greece (as reported at
9.26am)

A Commission spokesman in Brussels denied that Kroes had broken ranks,
insisting:

The Commission line is very clear: we want Greece to remain a member of the euro
area....Commissioner Kroes has not asked for Greece to leave the euro area,
neither has she said it is a likely scenario.

That comes after UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom sezed on Kroes's remark
that "a man overboard" would be no great loss. According to the Press
Association, Bloom said:

The best way to help Greece, and by extension ourselves, is if we give them a
helping hand down and out from the eurozone, rather than spending billions of
pounds of taxpayer's money building a golden prison.

5.01pm: From Athens, Helena Smith says reports coming in that Lucas Papademos is
about to meet Charles Dallara, head of the International Institute of Finance
(IIF) to close the bond swap deal (or PSI as it is more commonly known in
Greece) which is an essential part of the bailout program.

This, she says, is another very tangible sign that agreement is near. An
official at the centre right New Democracy party has also confirmed that the
deal will be "sealed" tonight. The official refused to say, however, whether it
would be "signed".

4.40pm: The London stock market refused to get carried away by the latest
developments in Greece, with the FTSE 100 closing down almost 2 points at 5890.

Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index, said:

The Greece situation continues to be watched carefully by investors, though the
fact that we have not seen a large correction in stock prices thus far indicates
that they remain confident that despite the wrangling and delays, an agreement
will arise.

Looked at another way, share prices could tumble rapidly if events turn sour in
Athens again.....

4.10pm: Economist Shaun Edwards points out that Greek bonds are still trading at
very distressed levels in the secondary bond market today:

Here we go again as Greece's one-year bond yield rises to 528% now. Only 527.9%
above Germany's! #gfc2#euro#eurochat

- Shaun Richards (@notayesmansecon) February 7, 2012

4.01pm: Greek financial stocks rallied strongly today, following reports of
tonight's talks. The Athens banking sector closed 6.50% higher.

The euro is continuing to gain strength, just hitting its highest level against
the US dollar this year (at $1.326).

3.31pm: Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke has begun giving testimony to the
Senate Budget Committee in Washington, and our own Dominic Rushe is
live-blogging the highlights here.

No shock news yet - partly because Bernanke appears to have recycled his speech
from last week. The Fed chair did warn that Europe could be a drag on America's
economy, at a time when conditions in the US business world are improving
quickly.

3.23pm: My colleague Julia Kollewe reports that GlaxoSmithKline has been
repatriating cash from some eurozone countries in case the debt crisis takes a
turn for the worse.

Speaking at the drugmaker's annual results presentation in London, chief
executive Sir Andrew Witty said over the past year the company had been
withdrawing "tens of millions of pounds" from "most of the eurozone" but not
Germany.

To reduce risk, "you don't have money in banks you're nervous about," he
explained. Some of that money is being used to pay the dividend to shareholders.

GSK has also "raised the ante" on collecting debts from eurozone governments,
particularly in southern Europe. GSK sells many of its drugs to wholesalers who
supply pharmacies, but also sells some directly to hospitals. "We've been able
to reduce our debts in southern Europe," said Witty. He was encouraged by the
ECB's measures to pump money into the eurozone banking system in recent months,
saying they'd had a "very positive effect on banking liquidity and confidence".

But he added:

My biggest concern vis-a-vis the eurozone is continued uncertainty. In many
cases the uncertainty is worse than many of the if's.

Witty said the crisis had visibly sapped consumers' confidence.

Asked about GSK's contingency plans should the banking system freeze, he
recalled an emerging markets crisis where the "general manager took bags of
money to people's [GSK staff's] houses".

3.15pm: Optimism that a deal is finally close has sent the euro above $1.32 vs
the dollar, up more than a cent from its lowest point today.

It hit its highest point as Dow Jones reported that the Greek cabinet would meet
tomorrow to put its seal on the package.

#Greece Cabinet To Convene Wednesday To OK Loan Deal, Govt Official Tells Dow
Jones

- DJ FX Trader (@djfxtrader) February 7, 2012

2.57pm: The fact that Greece's draft agreement for its second bailout is being
translated into Greek for the benefit of LAOS leader George Karatzaferis (see
1.08pm) is encouraging, for two reasons

1) It suggests that we really are close to a deal -- otherwise why go to the
effort of a translation?

2) It means (as reader Yiannis Mouzakis points out on Twitter), that
Karatzaferis and his fellow party leaders will read the agreement. Eyebrows were
raised last month when development minister Michalis Chrysochoidis admitted that
he didn't read the terms of Greece's first bailout package.

2.25pm: A clarification on the number of people who attended today's
demonstrations in Athens. According to the Associated Press, the police now
estimate that around 10,000 people took part in the march to Parliament
organised by Greece's two biggest labor unions.

That is seperate from the demonstration organised by the communist party, which
attracted a further 10,000 unionists, despite the rain in Athens.

AP also reports:

Riot police fired tear gas to repel hundreds of anti-austerity protesters who
burned a German flag and tried to break a cordon outside Parliament, chanting
"Nazis out!"

No arrests or injuries were reported and the clashes quickly subsided.

2.00pm: Here's a lunchtime round-up.

[#xfffd] Greek has been gripped by a general strike today, in protest at the
prospect of further austerity in return for a second bailout package. Police
estimate that 10,000 people braved pouring rain in Athens to march. The protests
were largely non-violent, with marchers congregating at the Athens parliament
and calling for MPs to resign.

[#xfffd] A German flag was burned during the protests. See pictures and video
here.

[#xfffd] The general strike disrupted transport links in Greece, and also
affected government offices. Athens' port was shuttered, and even schools in
Crete were affected.

[#xfffd] Greek politicians are due to meet at 9pm local time to consider whether
to agree to the terms of the second bailout package. The meeting has been
delayed, apparently so the draft agreement can be translated into Greek.

[#xfffd] Citi warned that there is now a 50% chance of Greece exiting the euro
soon. A Grexit is now a real danger, it warned.

1.35pm: The euro has rallied in the last few minutes following reports that a
draft bailout agreement is being prepared for tonight's meeting (see 1.09pm for
more details). It just hit $1.3167, its highest point of the day.

The feeling in the market is, even if tonight's meeting is delayed, that doesn't
matter if it yields that all-important deal. But having a draft agreement is one
thing -- can Lucas Papademos persuade George Papandreou, Antonis Samaras and
George Karatzaferis to sign it?

All three leaders are aware that the painful austerity measures demanded by the
Troika are deeply unpopular with the electorate -- and a general election is
probably only a few months away.

1.08pm: Just in -- the meeting between Lucas Papademos and the leaders of the
three Greek parliamentary parties has been pushed back, and will not start until
9pm Greek time (7pm GMT).

According to a senior government source, the latest delay is caused by the need
to translate the draft agreement into Greek, so that George Karatzaferis, leader
of the far-right LAOS party, can read it. Apparent Karatzaferis's English isn't
up to the task*.

The senior government source also told Helena Smith that the talks could last
for several hours, even until 3am if needed. The message is clear - we're not
getting a decision tonight.

As a reminder, this meeting is being called by PM Lucas Papademos to get
agreement on the terms forr Greece's second bailout, worth (EURO)130bn.

* - unlike George Papademos and Antonis Samaras, who both studied in America.

12.59pm: Athens police say that 10,000 people took part in today's protests. If
so, that's smaller than the biggest strikes seen since the financial crisis
mention.Helena Smith comments:

Strikes and protests have, like so much else in Greece, become a bit of a
luxury. Public and private sector workers lose a day's pay every time they
participate in industrial action - money that many cannot afford to do without.

Turnout may also have been lower because of the poor weather in Athens, where
it's chucking it down.

12.37pm: Looks like the reports of German flag-burning in Athens today were
genuine (see 12.13pm for video footage).

Aris Messinis of AFP and Getty Images has captured this picture.

It was taken outside the Athens parliament this morning, where other protesters
also chanted slogans against further job cuts, and called on Greek MPs to
resign. "Democracy here and now", they said.

12.13pm: There are reports from Athens that protestors attempted to burn a
German flag during today's protests.

This video, via www.keeptalkinggreece.com, does show a group trying to light the
German black, red, and gold tricolour, and what appears to be a swastika, but
with limited success - perhaps because it was so wet in Athens today.

It's a worrying sign, as Matina Stevis of Dow Jones and the Wall Street Journal
tweeted:

My timeline says a German flag has been set alight outside the Greek parliament.
This is what it's come to? Very sad. #Greece#euro#Germany

- Matina Stevis (@MatinaStevis) February 7, 2012

Helena Smith confirms that Syntagma Square has been cleared in the last 20
minutes, with some reports from the scene that riot police used tear gas.

12.00pm: Another report from the streets of Athens from Helena, who has found
some support for Lucas Papademos:

Just bumped into cobbler Stathis Asimakopoulos who has a store in central
Athens. He says the problem with Greece is that it is run "by a bunch of
monkeys", who should have started reforming the economy 30 years ago.

Asimakopoulos told Helena that Papademos is a serious person, who the Greek
people should support. He, though, is considering emigrating:

I've begun looking into moving back to Canada where I was born.

11.49am: It's pouring with rain in Athens today, but that didn't stop Communist
supporters attending today's march.

Athens correspondent Helena Smith has also hit the pavements to interview the
marchers.

Nikos Zeppos, a pensioner armed with an umbrella to ward off the showers,
predicted that the latest austerity measures would provoke more people to
protest against austerity. Zeppos said:

The battle is maturing. The big bang is coming. With these latest messages
people will wake up. Our numbers will grow.....It's just a matter of spark, some
small reason before it happens.

After a 42-year career working a bank, Zeppos's pension has gone down from
(EURO)2,500 per month to (EURO)1,300 euro.

It sounds like a lot but I have to support my daughter who has been laid off
from her job as a teacher and she has two children. So that money is supporting
two families and it's impossible to survive.

Helena continues:

Alongside demonstrators beggars are out in force. Drug addicts sit huddled in
doorways of buildings along Athens' central boulevards, hands outstretched.

What would Dickens think? Is this not Hard Times all over again?....

11.45am: Here's a picture of the march organised this morning by the
Communist-affiliated trade union PAME.

It appears that the protest was well-supported, and also peaceful.

11.36am: Peter Close, a businessman in Greece, takes a pragmatic view of today's
strikes. He writes:

Strikes in Athens have become so regular and frequent over the past two years
that most businessmen have simply become accustomed to altering their lives so
that the stoppages cause them as little inconvenience as possible. In England,
you have an abundance of cloudy and rainy days and comparatively few really
sunny days. In England, you have learned to live with your bad weather. In
Greece, we have learned to live with our strikes.

As UK readers will know, there's no escape from the weather. Peter continues:

The Greeks are more fortunate than the English are though because there may come
a time in the future when strikes in Greece will become seldom or cease, but the
English are likely to have to live with their weather for eternity.

Only a cynic would suggest that global warming might improve the British climate
before Greece agrees a deal with its creditors. And actually, it's quite sunny
in London right now #can'tlastAnother reader James Wilkins, writes:

As an Englishman living in Greece I have followed the crisis closely. The only
policy the "political class" in Athens, but also Brussels, have put into effect
until now is to screw the poor, because this is the easiest thing to do. If the
politicians in Athens, and also in Brussels, would take a 50% hair cut on their
income they would still be well off, and ordinary, yes, hardworking Greeks might
be prepared to accept the medicine that is offered them. As it is, everyone in
Greece knows that the sole interest of the present politicians in Athens ( and
also Paris and Berlin) is to stay in power.

James predicts that Greece will polarise between left and right-wing parties
after the next election, and become increasingly unstable. That could even
threaten the stability of the whole region, he adds:

I am a middle of the road kind of person but I understand the anger that
ordinary, yes, hard working Greeks feel. Their only wish is to get rid of the
present set of politicians.

11.26am: Word of the day: 'Grexit'.

That's the term dreamed up by Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, who
now fears that a Greek exit from the eurozone is a greater risk.

Buiter now reckons there is a 50% chance of a Grexit over the next 18 months, up
from Citi's previous estimate of just 25-30%.

As my colleague Katie Allenexplains here:

On the upside they argue that the costs of Grexit to the rest of the euro area
would be "moderate", as they "expect post-Grexit fear contagion would be
contained by policy action, if needed."

But the fact the damage would be lighter makes such a Grexit more likely. And
with Greece currently struggling to secure reform pledges from its public sector
and its wider population, willingness to help has diminished somewhat.

11.06am: Germany has suffered its biggest fall in industrial output in three
years, surprising City analysts.

The German finance ministry has just reported that industial output across the
country dropped by 2.9% in December compared with the previous month -- defying
expectations that output would fall by just 0.3%.

Although November's industrial output was revised higher, the data still
suggests that the powerhouse German economy might not be quite as immune to the
global slowdown as we thought.

Looking at the data, German construction suffered the biggest fall (-6.4% month
on month), but there was also a dropoff in output of capital goods [physical
items such as factory equipment], which fell by 3.6%.

10.55am: One bit of positive news for Greece -- it got a debt auction away this
morning. Greece sold (EURO)812.5m of six-month bills at an average yield (the
effective interest rate on the debt) or 4.86%. Slightly down on 4.9% at the last
auction of this kind.

It's no surprise to see a debt auction going well, as the 'liquidity rally'
sparked by the European Central Bank's splurge of cheap loans continues.

10.28am: As if Greece didn't have enough problems - its gas supply from Turkey
has been turned off.

The shut-off is being blamed on a "technical problem", rather than concern over
Greece's financial state. More as we get it...

10.18am: Another reader, Jacqui, says there is a "renewed energy" to get into
the centre of Athens and protest.

The news yesterday of the public sector sackings going ahead caused so much
anger that people even protested in the rain last night; this is remarkable as
Greeks just do not go out when it is raining.

People are telling me in the shops that they believe the Greek leaders have
already made a decision to abandon the debts and are simply not telling us.

Jacqui adds that many people are taking the daily limit from ATM machines each
day, leading to criminal gangs preying on customers as they leave their banks:

My elderly neighbour was followed home by two men and attacked in her foyer,
knocked down and robbed of her savings, I saw them ride off on an unregistered
motorbike when I came out to her screams.

In conclusion, she fears that wide-scale civil unrest is close:

The Greek people have been quietly and patiently waiting for a deal and every
week has brought further stress and disappointment, it has to bubble over soon.
The television has a segment each night called 'Crisis Drama' where they
interview the people huddled in their lovely apartments without money for
heating oil, you see the plump wealthy ladies bringing food bags to young
couples, always the recipients faces are obscured because of the shame.

10.10am: Many thanks to all of you who have got in touch regarding the situation
in Greece today.

In the comments, kizbot reported:

Trolleys are running, as is the electriko line from kiffissia to Piraeus. So you
can get about Athens ok. No ferries though.

Coastguard officials have confirmed that no ships left Piraeus port in Athens
this morning, due to a strike by seamen at the port.

Constantina Braoudaki emails in from Greece's largest island to confirm that the
strikes are having an impact there:

Writing from Crete- strikes here ! Five out of six school periods canceled!

9.47am: An update on the general strike in Greece from Helena Smith:

Communist party diehards are gathering in Athens. Mass demonstrations are
expected to take place in the coming hours. Nikos Sofianos, who sits on the
central committee of Greece's communist party, the KKE, has just told a local
radio station that the Papademos government is not only "dangerous" but
"murderous".

Sofianos says:

We have to do everything in our power to stop this agreement with foreign
lenders being carried out. These measures are killing Greeks, an entire nation.
We won't let them pass.

One report from the scene reckoned there were around 5,000 people attending the
Communist rally.

Earlier, Alexis Tsipras who heads the leftist SYRIZA group, accused Greece's
leaders of "acting out" in a drama that had already been foretold. "They are
pretending to negotiate. It's an absolute mockery. We all know they have already
signed up to the deal."

Tsipras also claimed Athens had been reduced to squabbling over the conditions
of the loan package with "second rate employees" from the troika. It should
finally bite the bullet and "default" he said.

KKE and SYRIZA are part of a leftist bloc whose popularity has surged in recent
months, and are not participating in the interim government.

9.26am: European commissioner Neelie Kroes has caused a stir today by claiming
that the eurozone would not be in trouble if Greece quit.

Kroes told Dutch newspaper Volkskrant that the dangers of a Greek exit were
being overplayed. She said:

When one member leaves it doesn't mean 'man overboard'.

Maybe my choice of words is unfortunate. What is a man overboard? They always
said if a country is let go or asks to get out, then the whole edifice will
collapse. But that is simply not true.

Kroes's comments certainly breach the 'party line' on Greece - with Jean-Claude
Juncker insisting only this morning that a Greek exit would be hugely costly.

On Twitter, Erik Wesselius says:

I wonder how Barroso and Rehn will react to Commissioner Kroes' statement that
eurozone can live without Greece reuters.com/article/2012/0...

- Erik Wesselius (@erikwesselius) February 7, 2012

9.06am: Greek PM Lucas Papademos did make one concession to the Troika in his
overnight negotiations - he agreed to cut 15,000 public sector workers by 20
March.

20 March is a real Red Letter day - when Greece must meet (EURO)14.5bn in loan
repayments. That's one deadline Athens can't ignore.

Papademos agreed to the job cuts to show he's serious about economic reform -
but the move is only likely to bolster support for today's strike action.

8.58am: In Athens, our correspondent Helena Smith reports that it is likely to
be another marathon day punctured by talks and negotiations but one that JUST
MIGHT finally clinch the agreement that Europe - and markets - are waiting for.

Government officials have told her "there is a deal on the table and in all
probability the [political] leaders will accept it".

One well-placed source said:

The text [outlining the agreement] is expected to be finalised by 4pm. It will
be sent to the leaders who will have two hours to read it before meeting the
prime minster at 6pm.

Asked if that meeting would be brief, the official told Helena:

It could go on well into the night ... the leaders have to come to terms with
what they have to accept.

Time really is short. The official explained that the text of Greece's agreement
needs to be agreed tonight, so that political leaders can meet the Troika on
Wednesday, allowing finance minister Evangelos Venizelos to present the plan to
eurogroup finance ministers on Thursday.

As Helena explains, technocrat prime minister Lucas Papademos worked on the plan
into the early hours of this morning.

The nuts and bolts of the agreement laying out the tough conditions under which
debt-stricken Greece will receive (EURO)130bn in aid - its second rescue package
in as many years - were hammered out by Papademos in negotiations that were only
wrapped up at 3am this morning. The talks, said one senior official, focused on
the "issue of the financial gap this year" - a budget black hole that amounts to
(EURO)3.1bn. The governmnent agreed to plug it by shaving supplementary pensions
and other benefits in the public sector.

Sources say that the Troika tried to repoen the issue of labour relations - part
of its push to improve Greece's competitiveness - much to the chagrin of
Greece's political parties.

8.47am: Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the eurogroup of finance ministers, is
the first EU leader to hit the headlines today.

Juncker told German radio that "the euro would outlast us all", and also said he
was confident that Greece would remain in the single currency. He also argued
that Europe would be forced to spend even more money if Greece were to quit the
euro.

"According to the Treaty we cannot kick out the Greeks anyway," Juncker said,
adding:

If we force them out...we would still be forced to support Greece, and would
have to invest unimaginable sums. That would be at least as expensive as the
virtual costs of the aid credits up to now.

8.29am: We're expecting Lucas Papademos to hold talks with the leaders of
Greece's three political parties this afternoon. Elsewhere, Ben Bernanke will be
testifying to the US Senate - giving his view of the world economy, and
America's recovery from recession.

Here's the agenda:

[#xfffd] 24-hour general strike in Athens - ongoing, with protests beginning
this morning[#xfffd] Klaus Regling, head of the European Financial Stability
Facility, in London - noon GMT [#xfffd] Ben Bernanke testifies to Senate Budget
Committee - 3pm GMT / 10am EST[#xfffd] Angela Merkel giving speech on Europe's
future - 6pm GMT / 7pm CET[#xfffd] Papademos talks with Greek leaders - 4pm GMT
/ 6pm EET

In the bond markets, Greece is auctioning 6-month bills, with the UK and the US
both selling longer-term bonds.

8.19am: European stock markets have opened, but it's a pretty limp start to
trading - with the FTSE 100 dropping just 4 points to 5887.

Traders remain sanguine over the deadlock in Greece; seemingly confident that a
deal will be hammered out eventually because the consequences of failure are so
great.

As Stan Shamu of IG Markets put it:

Given the catastrophic effects a disorderly default could have on markets, there
is an underlying expectation that a deal will be reached.

8.04am: Are you in Greece today? If so, please let us know how the strikes are
affecting you - either in the comments below, or by email (I'm on
graeme.wearden@guardian.co.uk) or over Twitter (@graemewearden)

7.58am: Today's strike is expected to cause widespread disruption in Greece - a
country used to regular industrial action since the financial crisis began.

Demonstrations are also expected to take place in Athens - raising fears that
the strike could turn violent. Many previous protests have begun peacefully, but
descended into clashes between riot police and masked protesters.

The strike is expected to force many schools to close today, and disrupt work at
local and government offices. There are also reports that hospitals will be
forced to operate with limited staff.

Transport links will certainly be disrupted, with bus, rail and metro services
in Athens partially suspended.

The strike was called by Greece's two main union bodies -- ADEDY, which
represents workers in the public sector, and GSEE which represents private
sector employees.

Yannis Panagopoulos, president of GSEE, said the unions have moved beyond
negotiation, as further austerity would destroy the Greek economy. Panagopoulos
claimed that:

The troika's demands are the chronicle of a death foretold. This is a brutal
cynical blackmail against an entire nation.

Members of the Greek Communist Party held a rally in Athens yesterday. As this
picture of Syntagma Square shows, they weren't deterred by the rainy weather.

7.52am: Good morning, and welcome to today's rolling coverage of the eurozone
debt crisis.

Greek workers are holding a major strike to voice their opposition against the
austerity measures that the country must accept in return for its second rescue
package, worth (EURO)130bn. The walkout will be closely watched, as it will show
the depth of public anger against further cutbacks and tax rises.

The strike comes as Greek PM Lucas Papademos prepares to hold talks with the
leaders of Greece's three largest political parties, in yet another attempt to
reach agreement over the terms of the (EURO)130bn package.

This meeting is delayed from Monday, when Greece failed to meet the deadline to
tell the European Union whether it accepted the terms of the bailout. It comes
just hours after Papademos met with officials from the Troika - the EC, the ECB
and the IMF.Papademos's 'national unity government' is looking more dis-united
by the day -- if he can't make progress today, a Greek disorderly default will
look a bigger threat.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 7, 2012 Tuesday 4:09 PM GMT

Too fruity for a Commons bar

BYLINE: By Tim Ross

LENGTH: 228 words


IT WAS Sir John Major, as prime minister, who said that the British would
forever be defined by their love of "warm beer".

One flavoursome ale, however, has proven too fruity for the House of Commons.
Top Totty, a blonde beer brewed in Stafford, was banned last week from a
parliamentary bar on the grounds that it was "offensive" to women.

The pump plate fixed to the bar tap features an image of a buxom blonde wearing
little more than a bow-tie, a pair of bunny ears and a bikini to protect her
modesty. Female members of the House were said to have been "disturbed" by the
sight of the refreshment on offer in Parliament's Strangers' Bar.

However, the decision to ban the beer quickly led to allegations of a
sense-of-humour bypass.

Mike Nattrass, the UK Independence Party's MEP representing Stafford, said:
"This sort of knee-jerk Puritanism does more to damage the cause of equality
than a thousand beer labels. It suggests that to be in favour of equality you
must be a dour-faced, insult-searching misery."

Tracey Crouch, the Conservative MP for Chatham and Aylesford, added: "Why is a
beer called Top Totty offensive and now banned from Commons? Not as if it is
called Middle-Ranking Totty?"

Kate Green, who speaks for the Labour Party on equality issues, originally
lodged an official complaint about the beer with the Leader of the House of
Commons, Sir George Young.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 6, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Iron Professor has one year to save Italy;
Mario Monti is trying to shock his country out of decline - but will he survive
strikes and recession?

BYLINE: Bill Emmott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1105 words


Let's admit it. We have all greeted snowy transport paralysis as an excuse to
stay at home, snuggle up and open that bottle of whisky we have long felt
lustful towards. Imagine, then, the relief that Mario Monti's Italian Government
must feel now that even Rome has been brought to a halt not by the taxi drivers,
truckers or lawyers who have been lobbying for weeks against his liberalisation
measures but by the worst winter freeze in Italy for 27 years. That special
bottle of grappa has no doubt done its duty.

The freeze, though, is a good metaphor for Italy; better than the wreck of the
Costa Concordia and Captain Schettino's "Lord Jim meets Moldovan mistress"
moment. In Italian politics last November it was a reverse Schettino moment that
happened, when President Giorgio Napolitano and the international bond markets
yelled "jump overboard, idiot" to Captain Silvio Berlusconi, whose bunga-bunga
band was still playing on, and the noble, dutiful Mr Monti climbed on to ensure
that the ship avoided the rocks.

So far he has been remarkably successful, though more for what he represents and
advocates than for what has yet been done. This former European Commissioner and
economics professor represents seriousness, public service and credibility,
while Mr Berlusconi epitomised frivolity, personal service and incredulity.

Helped by the European Central Bank's emergency lending, which over the past two
months has averted a European banking crisis, Mr Monti's own budget austerity
package has pulled his Government's borrowing costs down from the potentially
bankrupting 7 per cent-plus range to a comfier 5-6 per cent. An Italian Prime
Minister is now a welcome visitor to places other than Tripoli and Moscow, as
will be shown when President Barack Obama hosts Mr Monti at the White House on
Thursday.

Beyond personal comparisons, the crucial difference between Mr Monti and Mr
Berlusconi is that the new man is making Italy look like a solution to Europe's
economic crisis, not a cause of a next, even worse disaster. Yet, as Mr Monti
would privately acknowledge, that judgment is only a small comfort.

Get rid of foolish British notions that the installation of Mr Monti was in any
way anti-democratic. It was done entirely constitutionally, and the Monti
Government depends wholly on the support of Parliament to pass budgets and laws.
Without the votes both of Mr Berlusconi's right-wing party, People of Liberty,
and of the left-wing Democratic Party, the Monti Government would fall tomorrow
and new elections would be called.

Only Mr Berlusconi's former coalition partner, the Northern League, is opposing
the Government and demanding elections. But it is a declining force that demands
independence for a fictional northern Italian land called Padania, is fiercely
anti-immigrant, and has suddenly turned anti-euro. It is a weird combination of
the SNP, the BNP and UKIP, and for now need not be taken too seriously.

Mr Monti's biggest strength is that none of the main parties, and especially Mr
Berlusconi, wants elections while the economy remains in a mess. He is cleverly
using that strength to propose liberalisation measures that hurt as wide a range
of special interests as possible, so that no one can claim to be being singled
out. The Thatcher strategy of making an example of the coal miners is not for
him. He would rather be hated a little by a lot of people than a lot by one or
two groups.

Thus far, this plan is working, although there is a sense in Italy that much of
the liberalisation is hitting ordinary people - those taxi drivers - rather than
the real anti-competition culprits, which include Mr Berlusconi, whose control
of two-thirds of commercial television and through his agency 40 per cent of the
country's advertising sales makes him a true abuser of a dominant position, to
use the antitrust parlance with which Mr Monti is very familiar from his time as
European Competition Commissioner.

The Prime Minister's biggest weakness, however, is lack of time. Even if the
parties' ceasefire holds, there must be an election in the spring of 2013, and
Mr Monti has said he will not run in it. So while the Iron Lady had a decade to
shock Britain out of its 1970s decline, the Iron Professor has barely a year.
Crucially, that year is almost certain to be one of worsening recession. Higher
taxes and cuts in public spending, and declining consumer and business
confidence are combining with the eurozone's wider troubles to produce that
recession. The economy is in a deep freeze, just as its politics are.

It will, of course, be a familiar picture to George Osborne, except that the
British Chancellor is not trying also to achieve an ambitious programme of
liberalisation and, vitally, a major reform of the labour laws.

Those reforms are certainly necessary. Italy is one of the most over-regulated
countries of Western Europe, and its labour laws give strong protection to older
workers and almost none to young people on temporary contracts. Even permanent
workers can be fired in principle, but in practice employers who fire people get
caught up in legal battles for decades, such is Italy's sclerotic justice
system. And the lack of any real, comprehensive unemployment benefit makes
employees even more determined to fight on.

A big fight is coming, over labour reforms. The Monti Government says it wants
to introduce a single, more flexible labour contract at the same time as
launching a new unemployment insurance scheme - oh, and to reform the justice
system too. Few, especially in the still-powerful trade union federations,
believe that all this can be done simultaneously, with only a year in office and
all sorts of bad economic weather on the forecasters' charts.

That bad weather includes the still-high prospects of a Greek debt default and
associated Portuguese debt crisis, and the alarming thought of François Hollande
winning the French presidency in May on a British-style mandate to renegotiate
the eurozone's fiscal pact and to slam various taxes on financiers.

At least in those circumstances Italy would not be the cause of Europe's next
crisis, but just another, rather big, victim of it. So perhaps Mr Monti can look
on the bright side as he snuggles under his duvet. By the end of 2012 he will
have introduced measures that Italy has needed for 20 years, which the
supposedly liberal Berlusconi governments shunned. The country will still be in
an economic freeze, for such measures take years to warm things up. Then
elections will be held and someone else will take over. That will be quite a
relief.

The new man makes Italy look like a solution to Europe's crisis

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Serious and credible, the new Prime Minister is everything Berlusconi
is not
BARCROFT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday

LENGTH: 545 words


MP's' 'SEXIST' BEER BAN

TOP TOTTY ALE OUTLAWED IN THE COMMONS BAR

By DANIEL MARTIN WHITEHALL CORRESPONDENT

LIKE many real ales, its quirky name helps it to stand out from the crowd.

Unfortunately for a brew branded 'Top Totty', it stood out a little too much for
one female Labour MP - who has managed to have it banned from a House of Commons
bar.

Kate Green, the party's equalities spokesman, said she found the beer - which
has a pump plate with a cartoon picture of a bikini-clad bunny girl - offensive,
adding later that it 'demeans women'.

Despite never having even seen the pump in question - and the bar not receiving
a single complaint - Miss Green yesterday stood up in the Commons chamber to
demand it be removed from sale.

Last night, however, her stance provoked a backlash from men and women alike who
branded her 'humourless' and criticised her 'knee-jerk Puritanism'. Slater's
Ales, meanwhile, the ale's family-run Staffordshire brewery, said the outcry had
seen its orders double.

The 62.70-a-pint beer was banned from the Strangers' Bar - where MPs can take
guests - within an hour of Miss Green's complaint. Leader of the House Sir
George Young intervened to rid Parliament of what he called 'offensive
pictures'.

Miss Green, MP for Stretford and Urmston in Greater Manchester, brought up the
issue at business questions in the Commons, where she called for a debate in the
House on 'dignity at work in Parliament'.

She took up parliamentary time to say: 'I was disturbed last night to learn that
the guest beer in the Strangers' Bar is called Top Totty, and that there is a
picture of a nearly naked woman on the tap.' She said later on Twitter that it
'demeans women'.

But many MPs didn't share her outrage. Tory Tracey Crouch asked on Twitter: 'Why
is a beer called Top Totty offensive & now banned from Commons?'

Fellow Conservative MP Nadine Dorries tweeted: 'Westminster = sense of
humour-free zone. Banning of the Top Totty beer was weak PC decision and gives
sensible pro-women advocates a bad name.'

The ale - described as 'blonde, full bodied with a voluptuous hop aroma' - had
been introduced as a guest ale by Tory Jeremy Lefroy, MP for Stafford, where it
is brewed.

Mr Lefroy said: 'These guest ale slots offer a very welcome opportunity for
small independent breweries like Slater's to reach a wider audience with their
products, some of which have cheeky names.'

The ban was also denounced by Mike Nattrass, Stafford's UKIP MEP, and Claire
Fox, director of think-tank the Institute of Ideas.

Mr Nattrass said: 'Miss Green really is a humourless sort. This sort of
knee-jerk Puritanism does more to damage the cause of equality than a thousand
beer labels.'

And Miss Fox said: 'What really demeans women is the idea that we've no sense of
humour - and MPs acting as sanctimonious killjoys in our name.'

Last night Vicki Slater, of Slater's Ales, said: 'At first I just couldn't
believe it that in this economic climate, a Labour MP would get exercised about
the name of a beer.

'But all this publicity has been a blessing. After all this fuss, it sold out
immediately. People have been phoning from all over Britain asking us to supply
their pubs... we're delivering twice as much Top Totty tomorrow as we ever have
before.'

d.martin@dailymail.co.uk

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's personal...;
City Diary

BYLINE: Anna White

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 147 words


IN THE Diary a few weeks back, I reminded readers of Godfrey Bloom's not-so
enlightened views on employing women of "child-bearing age".

His political party, the UK Independent Party (UKIP), were promoting a home
video to accompany its Save the City campaign, in which Godfrey attacked the
Financial Services Authority.

It seemed Godfrey's dislike for the FSA came from personal experience.

Here's a bit more on that from the horse's mouth.

An email from him arrives in my inbox.

"One of the several companies I had shares in was indeed TBO Investments, fined
£20,000 for very minor administrative failings where the FSA admitted no client
had been disadvantaged.

"The real point surely is they had a team of four people on the case for eight
months at exactly the same time RBS was going down.

"That surely is the scandal and justifies my loathing of the FSA and their fat
cats. " Fair enough.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Godfrey Bloom: 'justified' loathing of the FSA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

It's personal ...;
City Diary

BYLINE: Anna White

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 148 words


IN THE Diary a few weeks back, I reminded readers of Godfrey Bloom's not-so
enlightened views on employing women of "child-bearing age".

His political party, the UK Independence Party (UKIP), were promoting a home
video to accompany its Save the City campaign, in which Godfrey attacked the
Financial Services Authority.

It seemed Godfrey's dislike for the FSA came from personal experience.

Here's a bit more on that from the horse's mouth.

An email from him arrives in my inbox.

"One of the several companies I had shares in was indeed TBO Investments, fined
£20,000 for very minor administrative failings where the FSA admitted no client
had been disadvantaged.

"The real point surely is they had a team of four people on the case for eight
months at exactly the same time RBS was going down.

"That surely is the scandal and justifies my loathing of the FSA and their fat
cats. " Fair enough.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Godfrey Bloom: 'justified' loathing of the FSA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The beer deemed far too fruity for a Commons bar;
Time is called on 'sexist' ale, only for some women to ask: Can't we just
lighten up?

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 629 words


IT was Sir John Major, as prime minister, who said that the British would
forever be defined by their love of "warm beer".

One flavoursome ale, however, has proven too fruity for the House of Commons.
Top Totty, a blonde beer brewed in Stafford, was banned yesterday from a
parliamentary bar on the grounds that it was "offensive" to women.

The pump plate fixed to the bar tap features an image of a buxom blonde wearing
little more than a bow-tie, a pair of bunny ears and a bikini to protect her
modesty. Female members of the House were said to have been "disturbed" by the
sight of the refreshment on offer in Parliament's Strangers' Bar.

However, the decision to ban the beer quickly led to allegations of a sense of
humour bypass.

Mike Nattrass, the UK Independence Party's MEP representing Stafford, said:
"This sort of knee-jerk Puritanism does more to damage the cause of equality
than a thousand beer labels. It suggests that to be in favour of equality you
must be a dour-faced, insult-searching misery."

Claire Fox, the director of the Institute of Ideas and a regular panellist on
the Radio 4's Moral Maze, wrote on Twitter: "What really demeans women: idea
we've no sense of humour and MPs acting as sanctimonious killjoys in our name."

Tracey Crouch, the Conservative MP for Chatham and Aylesford, added: "Why is a
beer called Top Totty offensive & now banned from Commons? Not as if it is
called Middle-Ranking Totty?"

Kate Green, who speaks for the Labour Party on equality issues, originally
lodged an official complaint about the beer with the Leader of the House of
Commons, Sir George Young.

She later told MPs during questions in the Commons: "I was disturbed last night
to learn that the guest beer in the Strangers' Bar is called Top Totty and there
is a picture of a nearly naked woman on the tap."

She called for a debate on "dignity at work in Parliament" and asked for Sir
George's support in removing Top Totty "immediately" from sale. He assured her:
"Action will be taken." Within 90 minutes, the beer had been withdrawn.

The speed of response to Miss Green's complaint was hailed as the fastest
political victory in history.

The beer's removal came as a blow to the Tory MP Jeremy Lefroy, who had arranged
for Top Totty to be sold in Strangers'. "These guest ale slots offer a very
welcome opportunity for small independent breweries, like Slater's, to reach a
wider audience with their products, some of which have cheeky names," he said.
"However, I can understand that some people may take offence to the marketing,
which I am sorry about."

Sally Bercow, the wife of Commons Speaker John, who last year posed in just a
bedsheet for a magazine, took to Twitter to protest at the brew. She wrote:
"Cannot *believe* that there's a beer called Top Totty on sale in the Commons!
Outrageous - does Mr B know?"

Slater's brewery describes the ale as "a stunning blonde beer, full-bodied with
a voluptuous hop aroma".

Its website adds: "This award winning beer, brewed solely with Whitbread
Goldings hops, produces an initial burst of bitterness with a citrus fruity
finish."

The brewer was set up in 1995 by Ged Slater in the car park behind his Stafford
pub, The George. Mr Slater's daughterin-law Fay Slater, 33, defended the ale.

"We're just a small family business and we don't want to go around offending
anybody, but we do stand by the Top Totty pump clip," she said. "It's just a bit
of cheeky fun and there is nothing intended by it, but if anyone is seriously
offended we would consider sending a different clip to publicans who ask for
it."

While the beer may not be flavour of the month in the Commons, the publicity is
expected to boost sales elsewhere.

Jemima Lewis: Page 28

"Knee-jerk Puritanism does more to damage equality than a thousand beer labels

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mike Nattrass, above, attacked the decision to remove Top Totty, far
right, from the Strangers' Bar, which followed a complaint from Labour MP Kate
Green, above right
STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Top Totty ale is pulled from MPs' bar 'for being offensive'

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words


AN award-winning beer known as "Top Totty" was withdrawn from sale at a Commons
bar yesterday after a Labour MP claimed it could compromise "dignity at work"
for women working in Parliament.

The beer, featuring an etching of a bikini clad "Bunny girl" on the pump plate,
apparently "disturbed" Kate Green, shadow equalities minister and MP for
Stretford and Urmston.

Last night other MPs accused her of a "sense of humour failure".

Within 90 minutes of her raising the issue, the beer was withdrawn from sale in
the Strangers' Bar in the Palace of Westminster.

Naked Tory MP Andrew Griffiths, chairman of the Commons all-party beer group,
said he was sad the beer was withdrawn from sale in the bar. But he added:
"There is a long tradition of real ales being given rude or saucy names. What
next? Will they try to ban Hobgoblin ale in case it is seen as offensive to
short people?" Ms Green raised the matter with Commons Leader Sir George Younger
during Business Questions.

She said: "I was disturbed to learn the guest beer is called Top Totty and there
is a picture of a nearly naked woman on the tap.

"As well as arranging a debate on dignity at work, would the Leader join with me
in asking that this beer be withdrawn immediately from sale?" The ale, by
family-run brewery Slater's Ales in Stafford, was withdrawn at 1.30pm - but not
before a last-gasp rush to buy it at £2.70 a pint.

UK Independence Party MEP Mike Nattrass said: "Ms Green hasn't set foot in the
Stranger's Bar in a year and a half since she was elected. In many ways that
tells us everything we need to know.

"This sort of knee-jerk puritanism does more to damage the cause of equality
than a thousand beer labels." Fay Slater, of Slater's Ales, said: "We have been
brewing Top Totty and using this pump clip for 15 years.

Pump clips have a reputation for being a bit cheeky, but we never want to offend
anyone.

"It was the guest beer in the Commons in 2007 - and there were no complaints
then."

Slater's describes the ale as "a stunning blonde beer, full-bodied with a
voluptuous hop aroma". Tory backbencher Tracey Crouch was not offended. She
said: "Totty is not a female-specific word. Would there be the same outcry if it
had a picture of man wearing swimming trunks?" Top Totty was nominated as this
week's guest beer by Jeremy Lefroy, Tory MP for Stafford.

He said: "These guest ale slots offer an opportunity for small independent
breweries to reach a wider audience. However, I can understand that some people
may take offence to the marketing, which I am sorry about."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The brew caused no offence to Tory Tracey Crouch
Killjoy Kate Green, right, angered MPs by insisting Top Totty beer should be
banned from a Commons bar in a sexism row yesterday
Picture: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 3, 2012 Friday

No more Top Totty for the strangers in parliament

BYLINE: Jeff Pickthallguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 494 words

ABSTRACT

The 'political correctness gone mad' posse are queueing up to deride Kate Green,
but by complaining about sexist marketing she's done real ale drinkers a favour,
says Jeff Pickthall

FULL TEXT

Shadow equalities minister Kate Green struck a blow for real ale and those who
love it this week by complaining about the presence of "Slater's Top Totty" in a
Westminster bar. Ms Green said "I was disturbed last night to learn that the
guest beer in the Strangers' Bar is called Top Totty and there is a picture of a
nearly naked woman on the tap." Sir George Young told MPs that "action will be
taken", and the beer was removed from sale the same day. It's sad that any
barrel of real ale should be removed from sale, but I think it's for the best.

Tory MP Andrew Griffiths declared the response to be "a distinctive sense of
humour failure." UKIP MEP Mike Natrass said "this sort of knee-jerk puritanism
does more to damage the cause of equality than a thousand beer labels." The
story was given due prominence by the sections of the media that thrive on
winding up their readers with the "political correctness gone mad" narrative.

Bravely I looked up the story on the Daily Mail website. Here are some
highlights from the top-rated comments: "Oh for Gawds sake! These women are too
up themselves. Get a grip"; "Pathetic whimp"; "Ohh, boo hoo! Get over it!";
"Zero SOH from the dungaree brigade"; "Stupid stupid woman get a grip".

You get the gist.

On my blog Pumpclip Parade I collect dodgy images from the world of beer
(Slater's Top Totty has been there for some time). The point of the blog is that
there are a lot of real ale drinkers who believe some brewers give the whole
sector a bad reputation. They reinforce an idea that most British brewers are
keen to shrug off - that beer is consumed exclusively by boorish middle aged men
when actually real ale's appeal is broadening enormously - these days lots of
younger people (some of them - gasp - women) have discovered the joy of real
ales. Sales are increasing as a result and this uniquely accessible and
enjoyable part of Britain's heritage is a living, thriving thing.

The feedback I get from my readers is that brewers should be strongly
discouraged from giving their beers such dubious names and images. How offensive
anyone finds this pumpclip is their own business, but it's certainly dull and
unimaginative and unlikely to encourage any new ale drinkers to give a pint a
try.

There is, it should be said, an element of a storm in a teacup about Top
Tottygate. It may well have been further up the Beaufort scale had any of the
following beers been served in the Strangers' bar: Helga's Big Jugs; Ffiagra;
Village Bike; Fallen Angel; Rosy Cheeks and the pièce de résistance, Ha'p'ny
Ginger Dip by Nobby's Brewery, considered so offensive by the good people at
Word of Mouth that they haven't included it in their gallery of the worst
pumpclips, although as a public service I've included it on my blog.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MP KATE'S TOP TOTTY BEER BAN;
Commons ale 'sexist'

BYLINE: EMILY ASHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 161 words


BITTER MPs slammed a killjoy colleague last night after she had a "sexist" beer
BANNED from a House of Commons bar.

Shadow equalities minister Kate Green demanded the removal of Top Totty, which
has a busty blonde in bunny ears and a bikini on its pump label.

Tory Andrew Griffiths, chairman of the all-party beer group, said: "I think
there's a distinct sense of humour failure."

Brewed in Stafford by Slater's Ales, Top Totty is described as a "stunning
blonde beer, full-bodied with a voluptuous hop aroma".

It was introduced as a guest ale in Strangers' Bar on Monday but taken off sale
yesterday after Labour's Ms Green protested. She even called for a debate on
"dignity at work in Parliament". Mike Nattrass, the brewer's local UKIP MEP in
Stafford, said: "This suggests that to be in favour of equality you must be a
dour-faced, insult-searching misery."

Slater's Ales' Fay Slater said: "Pump clips have a reputation for being a little
cheeky."

e.ashton@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sour . . MP Kate Green
Bitter . . Top Totty label

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 3, 2012 Friday 11:51 AM GMT

Huhne: you'd need a heart of stone not to laugh

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 262 words


So there we go. Among the people who will not, I suspect, be shedding any tears
at Mr Toad's long-awaited departure from the Cabinet are:

David Cameron

Everyone in the Cabinet, even including Michael Gove who likes - and is liked by
- almost everybody in Parliament.

Everyone in the Conservative party

Everyone in the Labour party

Everyone in UKIP

Pretty much everyone in the Lib Dems.

His ex-wife.

Every newspaper including the Daily Mirror - which really ought to like him
given how pathologically left-wing he is but has happily made an exception owing
to the man's unremitting, weapons-grade vileness.

Everyone who was at Westminster with him. (In his Chris Paul-Huhne days.)

Everyone who ever worked with him at the Guardian, the Independent, the
Economist and the Liverpool Echo.

Everyone who lives anywhere near one of his wretched ruddy wind farms (with the
possible exception of rent-seeking beneficiaries thereof, such as Sir Reginald
Sheffield Bt).

Everyone whose electricity bills - ie all of us - have been artificially
inflated by his pointless green tariffs

Everyone who worked with him when he was an MEP

Everyone who worked with him at Fitch

Everyone who knew him at Oxford or the Sorbonne.

Pretty much everyone else we haven't mentioned already.

It is indeed a singular achievement for one man to rise so high in the
reasonably clubbable, popularity-dependent world of politics while yet remaining
so heroically charmless in almost every possible way.

But Huhne has managed it. That is why today on this happiest of days, let us all
raise our glasses and let joy be unconfined.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 3, 2012 Friday 11:06 AM GMT

City Diary: Friend requests no longer an issue for Zuckerberg;
"You are a shy, idealistic person who does not find it easy to have
relationships, especially intimate ones."

BYLINE: By Anna White City Diary Editor

LENGTH: 536 words


This is some handwriting analysis on the signature belonging to the Diary's man
of the moment.

Yep. The introvert who has difficulty making new mates is Mark Zuckerberg,
founder of social network site Facebook.

But only yesterday the company filed a record-breaking $5bn initial public
offering.

The IPO is expected to value Facebook between $75bn and $100bn.

This makes modest Mark a billionaire several times over.

I suspect making friends just got a little easier.

Slimmed down workforce

As City firms have been shedding jobs, surviving employees have been losing
pounds. Physically I mean.

Numis, the investment and stockbroking group has taken the January exercise of
slimming very seriously and even devised a boringly analyst-like index.

But it worked for one banker, James Hamilton, who won the corporate competition,
losing 25lb in one month.

Apparently he was on just 500 cals a day.

Let's not dwell on the productivity implications of that.

Cutting the cake

Marks & Spencer shareholders are also dieting, although not through choice.

For the past few years, investors have received discount vouchers with their
dividend notices as a "thank you for playing an important part in our business".

Previously these included one for £3.50 in the M&S cafe - enough for a cup of
coffee and a cake.

This year's cafe voucher is worth a quid less, enough to pay for the coffee, but
40p short of a sticky bun.

Bruised Apple

Apple's Tim Cook believes in the personal touch.

Tony Hart, a photographer and Apple customer, emailed Cook to express concern
about his new hire.

Ex-Dixons boss John Brownett is now in charge of Apple's network of stores.

Hart wrote, "Now I don't know John or his career in the least, but as a UK
customer I am familiar with Dixons and the DSG group that owns them and similar
other stores. They have a spectacularly bad reputation and are considered to be
one of the worst retailers in the UK in any market."

Say what you really think Tone.

Just a few hours later he received a reply from Cook: "I talked to many people
and John was the best by far."

It's slim pickings out there.

It's personal...

In the Diary a few weeks back I reminded readers of Godfrey Bloom's
not-so-enlightened views on employing women of "child-bearing age".

His political party, the UK Independent Party (UKIP), were promoting a
home-video to accompany its Save the City campaign, in which Godfrey attacked
the Financial Services Authority.

It seemed Godfrey's dislike for the FSA came from personal experience.

Here's a bit more on that from the horse's mouth.

An email from him arrives in my inbox.

"One of the several companies I had shares in was indeed TBO Investments, fined
£20,000 for very minor administrative failings where the FSA admitted no client
had been disadvantaged.

"The real point surely is they had a team of four people on the case for eight
months at exactly the same time RBS was going down.

"That surely is the scandal and justifies my loathing of the FSA and their fat
cats. "

Fair enough.

Data recovery

There's a market for everything.

Rumour has is it that spread betting firm, Spreadex, has bought the UK client
data from the now bankrupt futures brokerage, MF Global.

Spreadex declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 2, 2012 Thursday 6:16 PM GMT

England football team urged team to wear EU flag on jerseys;
The European Parliament has urged England football players and other national
sports teams to wear the EU flag on their jerseys.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 226 words


MEPs have also recommended that the European flag should be flown over major
international sports events, such as the London Olympics, but pulled back from
making the demands compulsory.

British opposition to the proposals, aimed at increasing "the European dimension
in sport", led to angry debates in the EU assembly.

Emma McClarkin, a Conservative MEP for the east Midlands, called on the EU to
help boost grassroots sport without "outrageous and unnecessary" attempts to
exploit the popularity of professional sportsmen.

"Sport has a special place in my country, and our national teams form a key part
of our identities and heritage. The EU cannot impose an artificial European
identity on us by forcing our athletes to wear its emblem," she said.

A large majority of MEPs, 533 in favour and 106 against, supported the idea that
"the European flag should be flown at major international sports events held on
the EU territory" and "having it displayed on the clothing of athletes alongside
national flags". All British MEPs, except for the Liberal Democrats, opposed the
proposals.

Paul Nuttall, a Ukip MEP from the North West of England, said: "It is nothing
more than sheer EU propaganda and vanity. The EU has never been so unpopular and
yet here you are, wanting to stamp your ugly flag on sporting stars in the vein
hope you can force people to love you."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 2, 2012 Thursday 6:16 PM GMT

England football team urged team to wear EU flag on jerseys;
The European Parliament has urged England football players and other national
sports teams to wear the EU flag on their jerseys.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 226 words


MEPs have also recommended that the European flag should be flown over major
international sports events, such as the London Olympics, but pulled back from
making the demands compulsory.

British opposition to the proposals, aimed at increasing "the European dimension
in sport", led to angry debates in the EU assembly.

Emma McClarkin, a Conservative MEP for the east Midlands, called on the EU to
help boost grassroots sport without "outrageous and unnecessary" attempts to
exploit the popularity of professional sportsmen.

"Sport has a special place in my country, and our national teams form a key part
of our identities and heritage. The EU cannot impose an artificial European
identity on us by forcing our athletes to wear its emblem," she said.

A large majority of MEPs, 533 in favour and 106 against, supported the idea that
"the European flag should be flown at major international sports events held on
the EU territory" and "having it displayed on the clothing of athletes alongside
national flags". All British MEPs, except for the Liberal Democrats, opposed the
proposals.

Paul Nuttall, a Ukip MEP from the North West of England, said: "It is nothing
more than sheer EU propaganda and vanity. The EU has never been so unpopular and
yet here you are, wanting to stamp your ugly flag on sporting stars in the vein
hope you can force people to love you."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory split grows after Cameron's EU veto 'U-turn'

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words


DAVID Cameron was last night facing a growing Cabinet rift over claims his veto
of a new European Union treaty has been diluted.

Temperatures in Centigrade Senior Tory ministers including Work and Pensions
Secretary Iain Duncan Smith were understood to be deeply uncomfortable about his
decision to allow the European Court of Justice and other EU bodies to enforce
draconian economic measures to shore up the euro.

The Prime Minister yesterday used a Commons statement to attempt to allay Tory
fears. He told MPs: "I made clear we will watch this closely and if necessary we
will take action, including legal action, if our national interests are
threatened by misuse of the institutions."

Critics were understood to have been unconvinced.

Slippery

At a tense Cabinet meeting, Mr Duncan Smith argued that the use of EU
institutions by a new 25-nation fiscal union that excludes Britain could be
illegal.

Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson, another leading Cabinet Eurosceptic,
also raised objections.

Mr Cameron faced a barrage of questions in the Commons from Tory backbenchers.
Bill Cash warned Glasgow the new union could mean "a slippery slope towards a
more coercive, a more federal and a less democratic Europe".

Mark Reckless asked: "Would you explain what it is that you vetoed?" And Ann
Main warned the Government could face a "legal squabble" with the EU court.

The row erupted after Mr Cameron dropped his objections to EU institutions being
used to enforce fiscal measures. At a summit last December he had vetoed a new
EU treaty to help the eurozone.

Britain and the Czech Republic are the only EU nations not in the new pact.

Mr Cameron accepted at Monday's EU Brussels summit that EU institutions could be
used as long as Britain was not affected.

Mr Cameron also faced the embarrassment of being praised by Lib Dem MPs.

Former leader Sir Menzies Campbell praised the Prime Minister's "pragmatism" and
"re-engagement with our European partners". Lib Dem deputy leader Simon Hughes
welcomed "a much more successful and satisfactory summit".

But Labour leader Ed Miliband was mocking.

He said: "With this Prime Minister, a veto is not for life, it's just for
Christmas."

Earlier former Tory minister David Davis warned the party's Right would not
accept a significant watering down of the veto.

In a BBC interview, he said: "The European court has a history of expanding its
brief and applying principles nobody thought they would."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said last night: "David Cameron is clearly on the ropes
following his U-turn. Now the Eurosceptic mask has slipped it is clear he is no
longer the EU tough guy his party or the public want him to be."

OPINION & COMMENT: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cameron and a mocking Miliband in the Commons yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 112 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron is back to sitting on the fence over the EU

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 881 words


.... .....

WHEN David Cameron blocked a new European treaty before Christmas in the face of
threats by the other EU leaders to go ahead without him he won a new level of
respect from the British people.

Far from being neurotic about the prospect of isolation the general public
recognised a pig in a poke when they saw one and backed the judgment of their
Prime Minister that what had been proposed was against our national interest.

When Mr Cameron was asked what exactly he had vetoed given that the vast
majority of other EU states were still intending to create a Fiscal Union he
made clear that such a body would not be able to use the existing institutions
of the European Union such as the European Court of Justice. Well, that didn't
last long.

Just seven weeks later and Mr Cameron has agreed that the ECJ and the European
Commission will after all be at the disposal of the Fiscal Union (which has
quickly become known in Britain as the FU).

Britain has reserved its right to object to the ECJ getting involved in the
working of the FU if we judge that our national interest is threatened but that
all seems rather academic. As senior Tory David Davis pointed out yesterday our
objection would have to be made to the ECJ, which would then sit in judgment of
its own conduct. There is more chance of a camel passing through the eye of a
needle than of the ECJ ruling in Britain's favour in the case of Britain v the
ECJ.

SO why has David Cameron moved from a line in the sand to shifting sands at the
cost of disillusioning the Tory grassroots and the wider public? Well for a
start the Prime Minister has had an eye on keeping his coalition together - and
that means appeasing Nick Clegg's Liberal Democrats.

Clegg felt humiliated by Cameron's December veto and went into a protracted
sulk. Cameron has thrown an arm around him instead of leaving him on the naughty
step.

More importantly our mandarin class has got at the Prime Minister, telling him
the legality of preventing the FU from using European institutions was in grave
doubt. The argument would potentially have been resolved by the ECJ itself and
it has always tended to back developments that promote European integration.
That point was well understood by Eurosceptic Tory MPs at the Commons yesterday.
One backbencher witheringly remarked: "Actually I do not feel too disappointed
because I always knew that Cameron would let us down on this."

It is far from certain that the electorate or Tory grassroots activists will be
so forgiving. Voters who had hoped that finally Britain had a PM ready to fight
their corner are coming to terms with the fact that normal service has resumed.
"We will certainly lose more members to Ukip at constituency association level
and our poll ratings will be dented," one Conservative MP predicted.

But rather than publicly lash out in the heat of a very disappointing moment
many Eurosceptic Tories believe revenge will be a dish best served cold. They
are determined to vote against an increase in UK financing of the IMF of
£20-30billion that is being proposed as part of a move to bail out the eurozone.
That vote is likely to take place in the Commons towards the end of the month
and Labour may well also vote against the new money, ushering in the possibility
of the Government being defeated.

The influential David Davis yesterday signalled in unquali-fied terms that no
more IMF resources should be directed into the eurozone. The IMF, he declared,
was always intended to help poor and developing countries, not to be diverted
into becoming a sticking plaster for rich European countries that had allowed
their economies to drift on to an unsustainable footing.

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls has made a similar argument, saying it is the job of
the European Central Bank, not the IMF, to stabilise the finances of countries
such as Spain and Italy. In the longer term it is now clear that the FU - with
its new rules on public spending, borrowing and lots more besides - will become
the dominant grouping of European states.

With Britain and the Czech Republic the only EU members intending to remaining
outside it the prospect really will soon exist of UK representatives turning up
to full summits to be told what was decided the day before by the FU grouping.

IN such circumstances those mad Europhiles who wanted us to join the euro will
finally have a serviceable point - that we will be constrained by the rules of a
club we are not able to influence at all. We will be sitting on a fence and
getting splinters in our proverbial backside. It will be neither comfortable nor
sustainable.

So in the long run the great national "make your mind up" moment that the
political class has sought to postpone for so long is bound to arrive. The
British people will have to be asked in a referendum whether they wish to be
full FU members, throwing their fortunes in with a fast-declining, overregulated
but still powerful region of the world economy, or whether they instead wish
simply to reach a trading arrangement with Europe and restore national
independence.

Let us hope that if he is still operating at the top of politics when that
moment arrives the Prime Minister will come off the fence. Sometimes, after all,
to govern is to choose.

'A line in the sand has become shifting sands'

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLD PALS ACT: David Cameron shares a joke with Germany's Angela Merkel
Picture: Yves Herman/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 112 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 1, 2012 Wednesday 9:35 PM GMT

Debt crisis: as it happened - February 1, 2012;
The Institute for Fiscal Studies has urged the Government to consider a £20bn
fiscal stimulus in the event of the eurozone break-up, saying a possible plan B
should be outlined in the Budget.

BYLINE: By Matthew Sparkes Andrew Trotman

LENGTH: 5128 words


· IFS: Osborne will need £20bn Plan B if eurozone breaks up
· Belgium officially in recession after GDP shrinks in Q4
· Euro break-up would put UK in deep recession, warns IFS
· UK unemployment could hit 10.7pc, says IFS partner
· UK PMI manufacturing hits eight-month high of 52.1
· IMF: Greece should slow down deficit reduction

Latest

21.35 That's where we leave our coverage for tonight. For news from Facebook,
keep an eye on our main finance page . We'll be back in the morning to pick up
where we left off, have a good evening.

21.15 Trading has drawn to a close for the day on Wall Street. Stocks rallied
after manufacturing data showed growth and investors waited for Facebook to
announce its IPO.

The Dow Jones closed 0.66pc higher, the S&P 500 was up 0.89pc and the Nasdaq has
gained 1.22pc.

20.47 Banks locked in negotiations with Greece hope for an deal within days amid
"constructive discussions," their spokesman, Frank Vogl, says:

Constructive discussions continue on the voluntary debt exchange as other
matters move forward. We hope that the various elements of the Greek package
will come together in the days ahead.

20.15 Greece and the IMF are now saying that a debt deal will be concluded in a
"matter of days". That sounds a little less imminent than claims made over the
last week or so...

19.08 Channel 4's Jon Snow has tweeted, claiming that the Honours Forfeiture
Committee - which stripped Fred Goodwin of his knighthood - had already decided
in 2008 that his honour was safe. This will lead to increased speculation that
the move was political in nature.

18.59 The dollar fell against the euro today on stronger manufacturing data from
the US and China. The euro rose to $1.3188 this afternoon, from $1.3084 late
yesterday.

18.33 An update on Greek negotiations from the fake Angela Merkel on Twitter
now...

17.55 Time for a chart showing the performance of European markets over the last
couple of weeks. As usual, you can hide individual markets by clicking on their
name to get a closer look at those remaining. It all looks plain sailing until
you get close-up...

17.38French TV is reporting that Greek creditors have signed a deal, taking a
72pc haircut. We'll bring you more on that as we have it.

17.21 With Facebook expected to file its IPO this evening, it's probably a good
time for a poll:

What does the future hold for Facebook?

16.45 European markets have now closed for the day.

The FTSE 100 is 1.92pc higher, the CAC is up 2.09pc and the DAX has gained
2.43pc.

16.32 Germany shouldn't stop cutting its deficit in order to help other
debt-ridden eurozone states, says Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann.

We must not heed the siren songs calling for Germany to temporarily abandon its
(fiscal) consolidation course, ultimately to support weaker members of monetary
union.

It was precisely the IMF - which is one of those calling on Germany to abandon
its consolidation efforts - that not so long ago asserted that fiscal policy
changes in Germany have only a moderate impact on peripheral countries in the
euro area.

Fundamentally, the German economy is in very good shape. But the high degree of
openess of its economy makes it vulnerable to external shocks. The biggest risk
for German economy is an intensification of the sovereign debt crisis.

He went on to express doubts about the new fiscal compact deal, saying that it
had been watered down and would not be implemented "particularly strictly":

It is clear that the the new fiscal pact is not the foundation stone for real
fiscal union in which national sovereignty is transferred to a European level.

16.17We're approaching the end of trading in Europe, and look set for big gains.
Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, has this to say:

The bulls were back in force today as strong manufacturing data worldwide
indicated that not only might a double dip recession in the UK be averted, but a
global recession as well.

With strong economic data indicating the recovery can be sustained now is
proving a good time to buy stocks. Investors are becoming more and more
optimistic that the major threat to growth, the European sovereign debt crisis,
is slowly but surely being eradicated as central banks continue to flood the
system with liquidity. So far this action has managed to avert a credit crunch,
brought the yields on government bonds down and helped to boost confidence.

A triple digit gain for the FTSE always looks good and gets February off to a
strong start. Now those investors who've yet to commit money to equities will be
starting to get itchy fingers and be tempted to hit the buy button after today's
gains.

15.58 US stocks have been climbing steadily on the expectation of an
announcement from Facebook.

The Dow Jones is up 1.08pc, the S&P 500 has risen 1.01pc and the Nasdaq has
gained 0.81pc.

In Europe things are also looking up. The FTSE 100 is 1.83pc higher, the CAC is
up 1.89pc and the DAX has gained 2.5pc.

15.48David Riley, of rating agency Fitch, has said that Europe's monetary union
as designed is "broken" and that Greece will default.

He also said that further austerity for Italy isn't the solution, although
fiscal austerity in itself isn't self-defeating.

15.25 Fresh data on car sales is out this morning in the US. Chrysler led growth
in January with a 44pc jump (the 22nd consecutive month of gains) that far
outpaced a modest seven percent gain at Ford.

Reid Bigland, head of Chrysler's US sales, said in a statement:

We started the new year with a bang. In January we continued building on the
sales momentum that we generated during 2011 with our 16 all-new or
significantly-refreshed products.

Volkswagen, which is making an aggressive push into the US market as part of a
goal to become the world's largest automaker, posted a 47.9pc gain in January.

14.57 Ouch. UKIP leader Nigel Farage in the European Parliament: "Nobody can
deny today that Greece is any more than a colony."

14.55 And here is Van Rompuy's latest speech to the European Parliament:

VanRompuy

14.45 More from Van Rompuy:

14.43 Fitch's head of global sovereign ratings, David Riley, has said that
Greece will default but won't leave the euro. He adds that interdependence
between governments and banks was the main cause of the crisis.

Riley also says that the cuccess or failure of the euro depends on Italy, which
must focus on growth and not austerity. He also doens't expect to resolve
France's negative outlook before 2013.

14.41 US stock markets have opened. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up
101.79 points, or 0.81pc, at 12,734.70, the S&P 500 has risen 10.27 points, or
0.78pc, to 1,322.68 and the Nasdaq has added 19.35 points, or 0.69pc, to
2,833.19.

14.15 Herman Van Rompuy, President of the European Council: "Weaker euro is
helpful for the economy in the short term."

He adds that the European Council will reassess the (EURO)500bn bailout cap in
March, and has adopted long-term commitments to contain deficits and debts.

14.14 Belgium fell into recession in the second half of last year, the central
bank said today. Q4 GDP fell 0.2pc, following a 0.1pc decline in Q3.

13.49 Further to those IFS predictions we released earlier (see 10.06 and
10.22), here is the Telegraph's Phil Aldrick on the UK's possible fiscal
stimulus plans:

The IFS has urged the Government to consider a £20bn fiscal stimulus in the
event of the eurozone break-up, saying a possible plan B should be outlined in
the Budget.

However, the institute's director Paul Johnson said the IFS was "firmly on the
fence" as there was a risk of increasing government borrowing costs.

Johnson added that a stimulus plans of this order would have negligible effect
on economic growth, suggesting it would only deliver one or two tenths of a
percentage point of growth.

A Treasury spokesman said: "The IFS say that tackling the deficit is necessary,
that without the Government's deficit plan borrowing would be much higher, and
that any fiscal stimulus big enough to make a difference would undermine
investor confidence and so risk higher interest rates."

13.32 Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, has said the Federal
Reserve's current rate outlook is misguided. He sees "moderate" 3pc GDP rise in
2012 and 2013. He sees little justification to further ease monetary policy.

13.22 Mats Persson, director of think-tank Open Europe, has blogged on David
Cameron and the euro :

Cameron can credibly tell Merkel: we want you to get on with the business of
saving the euro (whether the current policies will actually work is a different
matter), but stick to the rules, or it's game over. Just as Merkel is seeking
this treaty to assuage domestic political opinion, Cameron can point to his MPs.
They will not allow him to stand by should he fail to launch a fully fledged
legal challenge if the circumstances require it.

13.15 BREAKING NEWS...

US ADP employment figures are out for January - Actual: 170,000, Expected:
185,000, Previous: 325,000, revised lower to 292,000.

So US companies are hiring fewer workers, bad news for economy.

12.54 Bill Gross, who runs the world's biggest bond fund PIMCO, has turned
philosophical about the current global crisis:

Where does credit go when it dies? It goes back to where it came from. It
delevers, it slows and inhibits economic growth, and it turns economic theory
upside down, ultimately challenging the wisdom of policymakers. We'll all be
making this up as we go along for what may seem like an eternity. A 30-50-year
virtuous cycle of credit expansion which has produced outsize paranormal returns
for financial assets - bonds, stocks, real estate and commodities alike - is now
delevering because of excessive "risk" and the "price" of money at the
zero-bound.

And here is his punch line:

We are witnessing the death of abundance and the borning of austerity, for what
may be a long, long time.

12.51 The ECB's plan to accept more bank loans as collateral may not be used by
all euro-region nations, according to reports.

12.37 Update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +1.3pc

CAC +1.5pc

DAX +1.9pc

IBEX +1.6pc

MIB +2.4pc

12.32 Sterling has hit a two-and-a-half-month high against the dollar of
$1.5799.

12.28 Cameron says Government is beginning to get RBS "under control", in terms
of big bonuses..

12.16 Further to the IFS prediction that the UK could fall into recession if the
eurozone broke up. Here is a graph by Oxford Economics on possible outcomes for
UK GDP:

(For a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand-side of the main
picture at the top of this blog)

12.11Cameron wants Indians to look at Typhoon aircraft, says decision is "deeply
disappointing". Doesn't expect job losses resulting from the Indian government
choosing French manufacturer Dassault as its preferred partner for an $11bn
(£7bn) contract to supply fighter jets.

12.06 Ed Miliband is grilling David Cameron on bank pay. Lack of disclosure of
top pay is "another broken promise", he says.

Cameron hits back that Labour agreed a billion-pound bonus pool for RBS when
they were in power.

Miliband calls for "ordinary people" to help decide on top pay on remuneration
committee. Cameron says it's "not practical".

Miliband criticises Cameron for going to Davos... but he went there himself.

12.00 Prime Minister's Questions up shortly, banker pay surely going to crop up?

11.58 A Greek government spokesman has said that the country is very close to a
new Troika loan deal. He adds that Greek party chiefs must approve loan terms
before final deal can be signed. The country is seeking to avoid control of
banks via state aid.

11.53 Italy's Deputy Finance Minister Vittorio Grilli has said GDP forecasts for
his country don't reflect the results of reforms, and adds he is confident that
with a balanced budget Italy will cut its debt. He says Italy is aiming to cut
debt by 3pc a year to below 100pc by 2020.

11.31 Asset management company Schroders has said that a 70pc haircut on Greek
debt "won't solve the problem".

11.28 Here's that IFS document in full, which predicts a deep UK recession if
the eurozone breaks up:

IFS

Here's the Telegraph's economic editor Phil Aldrick's take on what the UK needs:

11.13 US investment funds are snapping up big stakes in Italy's biggest bank,
UniCredit, following its (EURO)7.5bn capital increase, Italian newspapers
reported on Wednesday. Chief executive Federico Ghizzoni was quoted by business
daily Il Sole 24 Ore as saying that Capital Research fund was set to become the
biggest shareholder in the bank with a stake of more than 5pc.

11.05 Portugal gets away (EURO)1.5bn of Treasury bills at lower yield than
previous auction but less demand.

11.03 A default wouldn't help Greece and is not an option to end the country's
debt crisis, German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter has said, calling
on the government in Athens to deliver on budget cuts.

"Nobody gets any profit" out of Greece exiting the euro, Kampeter said in an
interview broadcast today by Bloomberg Television. "They have to do it the hard
way."

He also doesn't expect a recession in Germany.

"I don't expect any recession, technically, for Germany," Kampeter told
Bloomberg. "I only expect a slowdown of growth, especially because of our robust
labor market."

"We're a bit concerned that Greece will not be willing to deliver in time,"
Kampeter said in the interview. "We're not out of the plan, we're just on track,
but Greece has to deliver the next step."

10.43 Germany has held a successful bond auction. Ten-year yield at 1.82pc
(previously 1.93pc) -second lowest in euro era at auction. Bid-to-cover 1.4.

10.39 Time for an update on the markets:

FTSE 100 +1.3pc

CAC +1.5pc

DAX +1.9pc

IBEX +1.5pc

MIB +2pc

Seems positive PMIs around Europe are boosting bank stocks, having a knock-on
effect of pushing up markets.

10.34 Here's a very good graph pondering whether Portugal is following Greece
into a crisis:

(For a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand-side of the main
picture at the top of this blog)

10.28 More from the IFS: Euro crisis would cause 1.7pc recession this year and
0.9pc in 2013, Oxford Economics predicts. Unemployment to be 10.7pc,
consultancy's John Walker warns.

However, "real earnings could start to grow from hl this year". IFS says any UK
stimulus will have negligble effects on growth - "one or two-tenths of a
percent".

10.27 Reuters is reporting that Tesco is to move Chief Operating Officer Bob
Robbins to a new role, with Thailand chief executive Chris Bush to succeed him.

If you remember, Robbins sold more than £200,000 worth of shares ahead of a
profits warning that took £5bn off the company's value .

Meanwhile, De La Rue's chairman Nicholas Brookes is to retire, to be replaced by
Philip Rogerson.

10.22 IFS (see 10.06) also predicts UK growth of 0.3pc this year, against
official forecast of 0.7pc. Adds that Government borrowing will come in lower
than expected. IFS expects more than £9 in every £10 of planned public sector
spending cuts are still to come.

UK GDP will be 13pc lower (£200bn smaller) than had been expected on trends
before the crisis.

IFS partner Oxford Economics predicts technical UK double-dip with contraction
in Q1 2012.

10.19 The Telegraph's Jeremy Warner on the positive UK PMI figures:

10.16 BREAKING NEWS...

A Competition Appeal Tribunal has dismissed BAA's appeal over the sale of
Stansted Airport.

10.06 The IFS has warned that a eurozone break-up would cause the UK to plunge
into a deep recession.

Meanwhile, eurozone inflation in line with estimate at 2.7pc.

10.00 California is running out of cash, the state controller has warned in a
letter to lawmakers.

Controller John Chiang said lawmakers need to scrape together $3.3bn by March -
assuming the state's financial situation doesn't get any worse.

By February 29, the state is expected to dip below its "safety cushion" of
$2.5bn. Then, in a little more than a week, it will burn through all its cash
and drop $730m into the red, Mr Chiang said.

He urged the state to delay some payments, borrow more money and shift cash
among various funds.

09.52 A quarter of eurozone banks will tighten their lending rules in the coming
months after already doing so considerably at the end last year, the European
Central Bank has said.

In its latest quarterly Bank Lending Survey, which quizzed a sample of 124 banks
in the euro area, the ECB said a net 25pc of respondees had said they expected
to tighten the criteria that businesses must meet to take out loans in the first
quarter of the year.

And 24pc of euro area banks expected a tightening of credit standards on loans
to households for house purchase in the first quarter of 2012, the ECB said.

09.41 The Deutsche Borse/NYSE merger has been blocked by the European Commission
. NYSE says it will resume $550m stock repurchase programme and grow derivatives
business. Deutsche Borse has called it a "black day" for Europe.

More good news for the UK.

09.34 BREAKING NEWS...

UK PMI Manufacturing 52.1 in January (highest since May) versus 49.6 in
December. Analysts predicted 50.

(For a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand-side of the main
picture at the top of this blog)

So, good news, the sector is expanding again. Sterling jumps 0.16pc to 1.5786.

Jeremy Cook, chief economist at foreign exchange company World First, said:

Most of the preliminary 0.2pc fall in UK Q4 GDP was as a result of a fall-off in
output from the manufacturing sector, although this was seen to improve as the
quarter went on. Today's manufacturing number can be seen as the first real
indicator as to how 2012 has started. It would be fair to say that consumer
spending will drop between December and January, as the public pay down debt
from an expensive Christmas. With a stable consumer sector [at best], we needed
manufacturing to come back to the party or we would have been staring down the
barrel of an, albeit very shallow, double-dip recession. This growth needs to be
maintained throughout the quarter, but with new orders rising at fastest pace
since March 2011, the signs are very positive.

09.06 A deal to cut Greece's private sector debt is to be submitted to
parliament by February 13, and involves a reduction of "more than 70pc", Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said late yesterday.

Until now, private creditors have agreed only to cut the value of their holdings
by a face value of 50pc, with further losses expected once details of a bond
replacement scheme have been hammered out.

09.03 Here's the big one: Eurozone manufacturing PMI hits five-month high of
48.8 in January, versus December's 46.9. Still contracting though.

(For a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand-side of the main
picture at the top of this blog)

08.52 More PMI data. French manufacuturing index falls to 48.5 from 48.9 in
December. New reading is a two-month low.

Italian PMI at four-month high of 46.8, but contracted for sixth month running.

German PMI confirmed as back above 50 for the first time since September, with a
reading of 51 in January.

Greek PMI falls further into contraction - 41.

08.46 The BBC's business editor Robert Peston is tweeting on Amazon's results.
Last night Amazon shares slid 8pc after the company reported a fall in
fourth-quarter profits and warned of an impending loss.

08.30 Spanish PMI has come in at 45.1 for January (December: 43.7). Best reading
since August but sector still contracting.

08.28 In his daily email, Telegraph deputy editor Benedict Brogan focuses on the
decision to strip former RBS chief Fred Goodwin of his knighthood :

He can hardly have been that surprised, but yesterday it finally happened: Fred
Goodwin has lost his knighthood. A committee of senior civil servants decided
that this is an "exceptional case" and so Sir Fred becomes Mr Goodwin again,
joining Robert Mugabe, Nicolai Ceausescu and Benito Mussolini in the shortlist
of people to be so dishonoured. They will be twitching their collars in the City
today. If the mob now rules, and David Ruffley's "truth and reconciliation"
movement catches hold - and there's not much forgiveness about it - then David
Cameron will have presided over a sea change in attitudes to the world of
finance that could have some interesting consequences for UK plc.

08.24 Sacre bleu! New car sales in France have plunged by an annualised 20.7pc
to 147,143 units in January, figures released on Wednesday by the Committee of
French Manufacturers showed.

The two steepest drops were posted by French automakers, with Renault down by
32.7pc and PSA Peugeot Citroen losing 27.4pc.

08.20 More latest news, this time from the East. Sony's Howard Stringer is to
step down as president and CEO to become chairman. He will be succeeded by Kazuo
Hirai, a games and music veteran at Sony.

08.11 BREAKING NEWS...

Lloyds Bank has revealed changes to its board and management structure . Alison
Brittain to move into newly-created role of group director of retail; Antonio
Lorenzo, group director of strategy and wealth and international, to get
responsibility for asset finance; Truett Tate, executive director for wholesale,
has retired from the bank ; the bank has started a search internally and
externally for a permanent director of the wholesale division; there will be
five lines reporting to chief executive Antonio Horta-Osorio.

Sir Win Bischoff, Chairman, said:

I would like to thank Truett for his significant contribution to the Group for
over eight years in a number of senior roles. He has been the quintessential
client advocate as well as a great ambassador for many of our corporate
responsibility and charitable programmes. I much enjoyed working with him and we
wish him well for the future.

08.03 European markets are open. FTSE 100 up 0.5pc, CAC up 0.8pc, IBEX up 0.6pc,
MIB up 0.3pc, DAX up 0.4pc.

07.57 Lots of PMI manufacturing data coming in. Here's a round-up (anything
above 50 indicates growth, below 50 is a contraction):

China: 48.8

South Korea: 49.2

Taiwan: 48.9

India: 57.5

Russia: 50.8

Norway: 54.9

Holland: 49

Ireland: 48.3

Poland: 52.2

Switzerland: 47.3

(For a larger version of this graph, click the right-hand-side of the main
picture at the top of this blog)

07.47 Apart from economic data out today, Facebook is poised to fire the
starting gun on a flotation that's set to value the world's biggest social
networking site at up to $100bn.

The paperwork that Facebook will file with the US financial regulators should
for the first time lift the lid on the finances of a company that has amassed
800m users in less than a decade.

The European Commission will also announce its decision on the
NYSE/DeutscheBoerse proposed merger today, which could have a huge effect on UK
markets.

Portugal will also sell (EURO)1.5bn in three-month and six-month bills today.

07.29 Quick bit of corporate news. Home Retail Group said it has appointed
former Best Buy executive John Walden to be the new boss of Argos.

Last month Argos revealed an 8.8pc fall in third-quarter underlying sales.

07.24 Figures already out his morning include Chinese manufacturing .

Data show the sector endured a mixed holiday season, despite the extra demand
for food, beverages and other consumer products.

The growth comes after a contraction in November, the first in manufacturing
since early 2009. But an early Lunar New Year holiday, in mid-January, had
helped production in December, economists believe.

07.19 We'll be on the lookout for the latest economic data today. These include
UK and EU manufacturing and US employment and construction spending. We'll have
the latest here.

07.16 UK house prices have fallen 0.2pc this month compared with December, in
line with predictions, says Nationwide. The company said the fall is
"unsurprising". Nationwide chief economist Robert Gardner said:

Given the challenging conditions prevailing in late 2011, with the UK economy
contracting in the final three months of the year, it's not surprising that
house price growth softened at the start of 2012. The demand/supply balance may
move further in favour of buyers in the months ahead. The economy is not
expected to gather much momentum until the second half of 2012 at the earliest,
which suggests that labour market conditions and buyer sentiment may be slow to
improve. Nevertheless, with the flow of properties coming onto the market still
more of a trickle than a flood, house prices are likely to continue to move
sideways or only modestly lower in the months ahead.

06.53 In the Telegraph today, London Mayor Boris Johnson has said that Britain
should welcome with "open arms" French banks that want to move business from
Paris to London to escape France's new financial transaction tax.

"Bienvenue à Londres. This is the global capital of finance. It's on your
doorstep and if your own president does not want the jobs, the opportunities and
the economic growth that you generate, we do," said Mr Johnson.

06.50 The Financial Times has a story on its front page that claims George
Osborne's Treasury is "grappling with an exodus of personnel as officials fume
at low pay levels".

Just before Christmas, Treasury staff received e-mails asking whether they had
any friends interested in applying for the ranks of unfilled jobs. Two officials
have told the FT that the Treasury's turnover rate is now "higher than
McDonald's'". Annual Treasury staff turnover was 28 per cent in 2011, up from 22
per cent a year earlier and far higher than Britain's median labour turnover
rate of 12.5 per cent. McDonald's declined to disclose its staff turnover rate.

The news comes as news emerged that one in five apprenticeships lasts for just
six months . Louisa Peacock, Telegraph's Jobs Editor, writes:

The majority of apprenticeships over the past four years have also gone to the
over-25s, suggesting a growing number of existing workers are being trained
under the scheme rather than it creating jobs. Last year retail giant Asda
admitted that not one of its 25,000 apprenticeships amounted to a new job. The
report by Britain's spending watchdog, the National Audit Office (NAO), reveals
England also trails behind its European counterparts, with just a third of
apprenticeships at advanced level, compared with 60pc in France. There are just
20 apprentices in the UK for every 1,000 workers, compared to 43 in Switzerland,
40 in Germany and 33 in Austria.

06.45 It's very early, but there is news emerging about Greece already. Poul
Thomsen, Deputy Director of the IMF's European Department, has said that the
debt-stricken country needs to slow down its deficit reduction efforts and
accelerate structural reforms. He adds that Greece may have to lower the minimum
wage and cut holiday bonuses in the private sector.

Mr Thomson believes the debt talks could be completed within "a matter of days"
but wants reassurances from Greek parties that they will stick to reforms after
this year's elections.

We will have to slow down a little as far as fiscal adjustment is concerned and
move faster - much faster - with implementing reforms. Greece must surely
continue reducing its budget deficit, but society and political support have
their limits and we'd like to make sure that we strike the right balance between
fiscal adjustment and reforms.

06.40 Sticking with the eurozone before turning to the many views of Fred
Goodwin's de-honouring in this morning's paper, Ambrose Evans-Pritchard spells
out what yesterday's eurozone unemployment figures mean for the growing split
between a prosperous north and indebted south in the region:

Germany's jobs miracle reflects its industrial structure. Its top-notch machines
and cars are sought by China, Russia, and Mid-East sheikhdoms.

The country shook up its labour markets under Harz IV reforms, allowing it gain
labour competitiveness against southern Europe by compressing wages. Its economy
is now 20pc-30pc undervalued within EMU against Club Med.

It is hotly disputed whether this was deliberate mercantilism. "A slice of
educated opinion in Germany went into monetary union with this idea in mind,
seeing the advantage," said Charles Dumas of Lombard Street Research.

For Spain, the jobs crisis can only get worse with the IMF expecting its economy
to contract 1.7pc this year. Private analysts say unemployment could top 26pc by
year-end.

06.37 The Telegraph's business section leads on the news that the former UK
chief executive of JC Flowers has been fined £2.9m and banned from working in
the City after defrauding the private equity group of more than £1m.

Ravi Sinha submitted false invoices to a JC Flowers company in a desperate
attempt to recoup multi-million pound investment losses made at the height to
the credit crunch. Despite the Financial Services Authority finding Mr Sinha had
acted "fraudulently" he is to escape criminal prosecution after JC Flowers
decided not to request a prosecution. Sources at City of London Police said they
were keen to investigate but were concerned the case would be a waste of public
money without JC Flowers' full co-operation.

06.35 Most newspapers are, unsurprisingly, leading on the decision to strip
former Royal Bank of Scotland Fred Goodwin of his knighthood, turning him back
into a plain old Mr.

A Whitehall committee of senior civil servants ruled that he was an "exceptional
case" and previous precedent should be overridden. Mr Goodwin lost his honour
for "services to banking" despite not having been convicted of any criminal
offence nor being professionally censured, the normal requirements for annulling
a knighthood, CBE, OBE or MBE.

The Telegraph comments :

It has been a disastrous few days for this country's reputation as an attractive
place for financiers and businessmen. First, Stephen Hester, the new boss of
RBS, was forced to relinquish his bonus; now Mr Goodwin has been dragged to the
stocks. David Cameron and the other leading politicians who have encouraged this
populist bloodlust should be ashamed of themselves. Now that the precedent has
been set, the mob will want more, because it always does. So who will be next?

The Independent goes further and lists people they believe should also be
stripped of awards. The list includes Lord Black (who is serving a jail sentence
for fraud), Sir Clive Thomson (former chairman of savings club Farepack), Lord
Archer (who was jailed for perjury) and even current Bank of England Governor
Sir Mervyn King (the Indy argues that he failed to avert Northern Rock's
collapse).

06.33 In the business pages this morning:

06.30 Good morning and welcome back to our debt crisis live blog.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
