
                               1 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 30, 2006 Friday

Voters deal Blair crushing double blow at the polls;
2am Labour fails to win back former rock-solid seat

BYLINE: JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED 5TH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 592 words


TONY Blair's ability to cling onto power was dealt a crushing double blow by
voters in two key by- elections early this morning.

Labour failed to win back the once rock-solid seat of Blaenau Gwent and looked
to have been pushed into fourth place in Bromley and Chislehurst in the worst
performance for a governing party in 15 years.

The results sent a chill through the Labour hierarchy and will fuel calls from
MPs to hasten Mr Blair's departure.

They underlined Charles Clarke's devastating warning this week that the party
lacks direction and purpose with Mr Blair at the helm.

The Prime Minister's future was thrown into further doubt by one of his own
ministers last night. Solicitor General Mike O'Brien suggested time was running
out for the Premier when he told BBC's Question Time: 'There seems a little bit
of a view that there is so much to do but so little time to do it.' A miserable
night for Mr Blair began when its candidate in the South Wales seat of Blaenau
Gwent previously held by Labour giants Nye Bevan and Michael Foot was defeated
by an independent.

Despite vigorous campaigning by Labour, Independent Dai Davies took 12,543
votes, beating the Labour candidate Owen Smith by a majority of 2,484.

Labour's previous 19,000-strong majority had been overturned at last year's
election by independent Peter Law, who won with a 9,000 margin after quitting
Labour in a row over all-women shortlists.

But Labour's failure to regain the constituency last night was a sign of the
wider disaffection felt across the country following the cash-forpeerages row,
John Prescott's affair with Tracey Temple and the foreign prisoners scandal.

Mr Law's widow Trish also won a by-election for the Welsh Assembly, which her
husband had held before his death two months ago.

Mrs Law summed up the discontent of voters when she said last night: 'The people
of Blaenau Gwent have said in the ballot box that they don't want Tony Blair,
they don't want New Labour.

'They want Old Labour back not this New Labour of deceit and spin.' Labour MP
for nearby Caerphilly, Wayne David, said the party was 'naturally very
disappointed', and admitted the campaign had taken place against a 'not very
favourable national backdrop' for Labour in recent weeks.

The party took a hammering in Bromley and Chislehurst, the south east London
seat made vacant after the death of arch Eurosceptic MP Eric Forth.

But it was not an easy night for David Cameron's party as his candidate Bob
Neill faced a recount early this morning.

The Tories appeared to have held off a strong challenge from the Liberal
Democrats, but with a massively reduced majority.

Labour stood little chance of winning the traditionally true blue seat, but its
candidate Rachel Reeves appeared to have been pushed into fourth place, even
behind the UK Independence Party.

There was also speculation that the Labour candidate had lost her deposit.

The expected result is the worst for a governing party in an English byelection
since 1991.

In yet more misery for Mr Blair, a new poll revealed that Mr Cameron has become
the first Tory leader in more than a decade to be more popular than the Prime
Minister.

The double by-election drubbing puts further pressure on Mr Blair to set out a
timetable for his departure as soon as possible.

After Mr Clarke's outburst earlier this week, there was speculation the Premier
will use Labour's annual conference in September to announce a date expected to
be next Spring.

12,543 Owen Smith (Lab) 10,059 Steffan Lewis (PC) 1,755 Amy Kitcher (LibDem)
1,477 Magrit Williams (Con) 1,013

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTORIOUS: DAI DAVIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 30, 2006 Friday

National: Double byelection defeat for Labour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words


Labour suffered a humiliating double byelection defeat today after failing to
reclaim the former stronghold of Blaenau Gwent and being beaten into fourth
place in Bromley and Chislehurst. Despite a huge effort, Labour could not
reclaim the South Wales seat from the local independent candidate Dai Davies who
easily saw off the official party challenger. The result is a blow for Tony
Blair as he attempts to reassert his authority and will fuel calls for him to
stand down in favour of Gordon Brown. In Bromley the Tories' majority of 13,000
was reduced to just hundreds after a strong challenge from the Lib Dems. Labour
was fourth behind Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 30, 2006 Friday

Labour suffers double blow in byelections

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 556 words


The government was dealt a double byelection humiliation early today after
defectors defeated Labour in its former stronghold of Blaenau Gwent and UKIP
pushed it into fourth place in Bromley and Chislehurst. The results will
inevitably fuel mounting calls within the party for Tony Blair to step down as
prime minister and allow Gordon Brown to take the helm. They follow a trouncing
by the Liberal Democrats in the once safe seat of Dunfermline and West Fife
earlier this year.

But there was bad news for David Cameron too as the Lib Dems came within a nose
of the Tories in Bromley. Activists were last night predicting that there could
be as few as 600 votes between the two parties, despite the late Conservative MP
Eric Forth's 13,000 majority last May. A £75,000 UKIP campaign pushed Labour
into fourth place there - the first time a governing party has been so
humiliated since 1991, although John Major went on to win a general election the
following year.

Labour had spent little time in Bromley as it poured vast amounts of resources
and activists into its bid to recapture Blaenau Gwent in south Wales, a seat
once held by Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot. But the aftermath of an acrimonious
split within the local party saw the independent candidate Dai Davies take
12,543 votes to his rival Owen Smith's 10,059 - a majority of 2,484.

The constituency was Labour's fifth safest seat until last year, when the
veteran activist Peter Law quit the party in a row over the imposition of an
all-women shortlist. He stood as an independent and evisceratedLabour's 19,000
majority - romping home more than 9,000 votes ahead.

A victory for Labour would have been the first byelection victory for a sitting
government since the early 1980s. It was widely assumed that its old supporters
would return to the fold after Mr Law's death from a brain tumour. Their
decision to back Mr Davies, his former agent, will be taken as an alarming sign
of the alienation of the party's grassroots.

Law's widow, Trish, who won her late husband's Welsh assembly seat - depriving
Labour of overall controll in Cardiff - told Sky News: "Tony Blair has brought
his own demise about, not me. They have said in the ballot box that they do not
want Blair, they do not want New Labour." But a Labour spokesman insisted that
no wider lessons could be drawn from the "unique local politics" and argued that
the party had made progress because it had cut the independent majority.

Mr Davies, an electrician, was shop steward at Ebbw Vale steelworks before its
closure four years ago. Mr Smith, the Labour candidate, was selected by the
local party and has lived in South Wales all his life, but he is regarded as New
Labour to the core and has worked for a lobbyist for a drugs company as well as
for the BBC.

Turnout was over 50%, indicating how high passions were running in the
constituency. In Bromley, a suburban seat in south-east London, it was just over
40%. But the result of Mr Cameron's first serious byelection challenge in
Bromley was a poor one for the Conservatives. They suffered from attacks on
"three jobs Bob" Neill and questions about the legitimacy of his candidacy.

Members of health authorities are barred from standing for parliament, but Mr
Neill failed to resign his directorship on the grounds that the body is
dissolved tomorrow in any case.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 30, 2006

Double byelection blow for Labour

LENGTH: 1228 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's digest of the best of the
day's papers.


BREAKING NEWS: The government was dealt a double byelection humiliation early
today after defectors defeated Labour in its former stronghold of Blaenau Gwent
and Ukip pushed it into fourth place in Bromley and Chislehurst. Full story

SUPREME COURT RULES GUANTANAMO TRIALS ILLEGAL

Hot on the heels of the high court ruling against control orders in Britain
comes an equally significant decision by the US supreme court. It ruled by 5-3
that the military tribunals used to try suspects held at Guantanamo Bay were
illegal, in what the FT describes as a "stunning rebuke" to President Bush.

"The decision means that detainees will have to be granted the increased rights
of prisoners of war, something the Bush administration has resisted," the
Telegraph explains. "It calls them enemy combatants."

But the decision does not mean Guantanamo will close. George Bush promised to
"work with Congress" to "devise law" that would enable the suspects to be dealt
with by a military tribunal.

Meanwhile, details have emerged of the six Iraqis whose control orders were
quashed by the high court this week. The Guardian says the men were picked up in
the Midlands late last year on suspicion of planning terrorist attacks in
Britain and on British troops in Iraq, but there was not enough evidence to
charge them.

"The home secretary lost no time in making plain he thought the judgment wrong,"
says the paper. "Next week the Home Office is back in court, appealing against a
separate ruling that found control orders procedurally flawed ... In looking
again at the restrictions, the principle must be to keep them to the minimum
genuinely needed for public protection and avoid instead punishing people who,
it is essential to underline, may not have committed any crime."

* Iraqis in anti-terror row 'are al-Qaida agents

* Fine judgments

* Telegraph: Terror trials illegal but Guantanamo remains

186 FAILURES FOUND AT RACE KILLING JAIL

The Sun, like the Independent, focuses today on the "sick" regime at Feltham
young offenders' institution, where a 19-year-old Asian inmate was beaten to
death by a "racist skinhead" sharing his cell.

High court judge Mr Justice Keith listed 186 failures that contributed to Zahid
Mubarek's murder. It emerged that prison officers deliberately placed unsuited
inmates in the same cells for their own entertainment.

"Either you keep the prison population down by changing sentencing policy, or
you accept that it will increase, and you inject sufficient funds to ensure
prisoners are treated decently and humanely," Justice Keith said in a quote the
Independent splashes on its front page. "The trouble is that neither of these
options is a vote winner."

* Sun: Gladiator death games in kids' cell

* Independent: Guilty

PRIVATISATION PLAN GOES PUBLIC

The discovery of a six-page contract notice in an EU journal, placed there by
the Department of Health, is seized on by the Times and the Guardian. The
advertisement invited companies to join "a competitive dialogue" about how they
could manage various parts of the NHS, including the purchase of healthcare from
public and private hospitals and charities. It should not have appeared until
next month.

"Health economists said that while the government had tentatively suggested
expanding the use of private firms as purchasers of care for NHS patients - one
of the key roles of a primary care trust - the document went much farther,"
reports the Times.

One expert tells the paper it appeared that the government was trying to expand
the role of the private sector "on the quiet".

"[This] is about putting multinational companies in the driving seat of the
NHS," the former health secretary Frank Dobson tells the Guardian. The paper
says big US health providers such as Kaiser Permanente, as well as British
operators like Bupa and PPP, meet the criteria demanded in the document.

* GBP64bn NHS plan revealed

* Times: NHS 'stealth sell-off'

MORTGAGE SWALLOWS 42% OF INCOME

Those who can't tell the difference between the Mail and the Express should have
a look at their splashes today. The Express says mortgage debt has reached a
trillion pounds as house prices "JUST KEEP ON BOOMING" - but the Mail comes up
with the statistic that matters to its readers: the fact that 42% of their wages
are now going on servicing the mortgage.

"We find it very hard to judge how sustainable all this is," the governor of the
Bank of England says ominously.

* Mail: Mortgage soaks up 42% of salaries

KNEE OP KNOCKS VAUGHAN OUT OF AUSTRALIA TOUR

The news that Michael Vaughan has been "effectively ruled out" of England's
winter tour of Australia is gloomy enough to bump the tennis and football off
the Times' back page. The captain needs a fourth operation on his knee. England
selectors will now have to decide whether to appoint a full-time successor to
lead the side, the paper says.

The red-tops are more worried about Frank Lampard's fitness. The player twisted
an ankle during training last night.

Simon Barnes psyches up Times readers for tomorrow's game with a list of 25
reasons why "WE'RE STILL IN IT AND WE CAN WIN IT". of which the first is this:
"England, and seven other teams, could win, but no others." Number two: "England
can get better." Number three: "The players themselves are certainly not bowed
down by the weight of failure."

Meanwhile, Andy Murray's game against Julien Benneteau is finely poised after
bad light stopped play. The Briton has won two sets but his French opponent has
the psychological advantage after taking the third, the Times says.

* Sun: Lamps scare

* Times: Murray's waiting game

* Times: Simon Barnes

THE DOG'S POLLUX

For reasons the Wrap can no longer recall, the Telegraph has been taking an
unusual interest in pets' names.

"Where are the noble dogs' names of history?" ponders the leader today, with
gorgeous bathos. "What can now match Gelert, Llewelyn's tragic hound, or Argos,
who recognised the long-lost Odysseus? To call a dog Britney or PlayStation is
demeaning."

Of course, no Telegraph reader would call their dog Britney or PlayStation, as
the letters' page confirms. "SIR - We have just acquired some more chickens,
including another cockerel," writes Trevor of East Yorkshire. "With the World
Cup in mind, he has been named after the England captain, David Peck'um."

"SIR - We had no hesitation in calling our twin dogs Castor and Pollux, but were
upstaged when our daughter called her cats Thalia and Erato, and, on getting a
third, called it Polyhymnia," writes John of Wiltshire. "We lost Castor two
months ago, but I still get strange looks from fishermen when calling the
remaining twin while walking along the towpath."

"SIR," writes Wg Cdr R. H. Johnson (Retd), "our daughter recently added to her
family of a husband and three boys, a black labrador. She told me that they were
calling the dog Gibson. I said that they were clever to name him after the
famous Wing Commander Guy Gibson, of Dam Busters fame.

"After an embarrassed pause, my daughter said that he was called after the maker
of one of the boys' guitar."

* Telegraph letters

COMING UP ON GUARDIAN UNLIMITED TODAY

Police in England and Wales have recorded almost 100 serious or fatal knife
attacks since the start of the Government's national knife amnesty.

A man will appear in court today charged with the murder of a DJ who was stabbed
on a city street.

Andy Murray's game is expected to resume at around 2.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               5 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 30, 2006

Jonathan Freedland: Way off base

LENGTH: 458 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jonathan Freedland: The main parties' poor byelection results in
Wales and Kent expose the peril of taking the core vote for granted.


The headline lessons of last night's byelection results are obvious. First, they
represent a sharp kick in the groin for Tony Blair, losing (again) what was once
Labour's fifth safest seat of Blaenau Gwent and falling to fourth place, behind
UKIP, in Bromley - a feat not managed by a governing party since the Tories in
1991. Second, the news is not great for David Cameron either. Not only did he
see a 13,000 Conservative majority in Kent collapse to a meagre 633-vote margin
over the Liberal Democrats, but he watched his candidate take fifth place in
south Wales, even when the Labour vote in that seat was split down the middle.
Hardly signs of a revived Tory party. Third, the only leader wearing a smile
today will be Ming Campbell. After his very shaky start, he can draw comfort
from a strong Lib Dem performance in Bromley.

So much for the headline conclusions. Beneath those is a much more valuable
lesson, one captured best by Dai Davies, the new independent member for Blaenau
Gwent. "You take people for granted at your peril," he said in his victory
speech, addressing the Labour leadership. But his message has just as much
relevance to Cameron and his fellow Tory modernisers.

For what both the Welsh and Kent results exposed was the peril of taking the
core vote for granted. New Labour has done that for over a decade, moving
rightward on the assumption that the "base" - typified by seats such as Blaenau
Gwent - would have nowhere else to go. But on Thursday, as at the last general
election, those core, traditional Labour voters did have somewhere else to go -
and they went.

The same dynamic was at work in Bromley. Cameron's march for the centre ground
is premised on the hope that core, traditional Tories will stick with him, even
as he poses as a green, hip, new kind of politician. Yet some refused to follow
- 2,347 of them, in fact - plumping instead for UKIP's Nigel Farage.

In these two seats, both main parties were punished by their traditional
supporters, angry over the drift to the centre. For Labour, especially, this
represents a serious problem, suggesting it could be caught in a pincer
movement. On the one hand, the Bromley result confirms that the 1990s magic that
enabled the party to make inroads into traditionally Tory, Middle England
territory has vanished: seats like Bromley are fully out of reach. On the other,
Blaenau Gwent shows that the base is not safe either. Both elements of the
election-winning, New Labour coalition are fragile.

For David Cameron, the warning is less stark. But he has been taught a lesson.
He may want to drive the modernisation of his party "faster, wider and deeper"
as Francis Maude demanded this morning. But such efforts always, and for every
party, come at a price.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               6 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Labour and Tories struggle in by-elections

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 268 words


Labour's humiliation in what used to be their safest seat in Wales continued
last night as large numbers of former Labour voters turned out in support of
independent candidates.

Blaenau Gwent, which boasts Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot among its former MPs,
produced one of the biggest upsets of last year's general election by rejecting
the official Labour candidate in favour of a local councillor, Peter Law.

Mr Law died earlier this year, so a by-election was held yesterday.

Early returns suggest residents have shown their abiding loyalty to Mr Law by
voting for his former supporters. Dai Davis, Mr Law's agent appeared from early
returns to have won the seat as an independent MP, and Mr Law's widow, Patricia
Law, is thought to have claimed his former place on the Welsh Assembly.

The rift in the Blaenau Labour Party occurred when the party's national
headquarters imposed an all-women shortlist which resulted in a senior union
leader from London being adopted as the official Labour candidate. She is now a
member of the House of Lords.

But there was bad news also for Conservative leader David Cameron whose party
was also struggling in a by-election yesterday in what should have been a safe
Tory seat. The constituency of Bromley and Chis-elhurst was left vacant by the
death of the Tory MP Eric Forth.

Early returns suggested a close run between the Tory candidate, Bob Neill, and
the Liberal Democrat Ben Abbotts. The Labour candidate Rachel Reeves, who came
second in 2005, was not only overtaken by the Liberal Democrat but was
struggling to hold third place against the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 30, 2006, Friday

Party funding

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 63 words


Sir, Any party which votes for state funding of political activity rightly will
be pilloried for lining its own pockets at the public's expense. The solution to
the problem of parties which cannot raise enough money is blindingly obvious,
and is all too familiar to every business-they must reduce their expenditure
until it is commensurate with their income.

GEOFFREY KINGSCOTT UKIP

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday

Government credibility on line in Bromley and Blaenau Gwent: Party faces battle
to regain old Welsh stronghold: Ukip and Lib Dems aim to embarrass Cameron

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 649 words


One is a working class Valleys community which used to be one of Labour's safest
seats. The other is a slice of true blue suburbia, long held by Thatcherite Eric
Forth.

But voters in both Blaenau Gwent and Bromley and Chislehurst could embarrass the
government at the polls today. Labour must not only recapture the Welsh seat
from independent former Labour stalwarts, but avoid being pushed into fourth
place by Ukip in the leafy commuter belt constituency. A failure would be their
first such byelection humiliation since 1997.

Blaenau Gwent was left vacant by the death of independent MP Peter Law, who
defected from Labour following a bitter row over the imposition of a women-only
shortlist - and trounced them last May, romping home with a majority of over
9,000.

Senior Labour sources are optimistic the party will recapture the parliamentary
seat - although the Welsh assembly seat also held by Mr Law is expected to fall
to his widow, Trish, denying Labour overall control in Cardiff. But it will be a
close call. Ladbrokes place Labour's Owen Smith at 8/13 to become the new MP,
with Mr Law's former agent, Dai Davies at 6/5.

In comparison, the Tories are expected to win comfortably in Bromley, although
its very safety means they must maintain a sizeable majority for the sake of
credibility. The Liberal Democrats have fought an aggressive campaign based on
Ben Abbotts' credentials as a resident and councillor and attacks on his Tory
rival.

"I won't pretend the issue hasn't boiled down to one clear thing:
representation, and whether Bromley and Chislehurst gets a full time and local
MP - or Three Jobs Bob (Neill) from the East End. People feel taken for
granted," said Mr Abbotts.

Mr Neill - a part-time barrister, London assembly member and director of a
health authority - dismisses it as "a complete non-issue". "I certainly won't be
practising at the bar (if I win). The health authority is due to be abolished on
Friday. And I will continue as an assembly member until the next elections (in
2008) to avoid the cost of another byelection. I've represented this area for
six years and I will build on that as a local MP," he said.

The attacks gathered momentum this week when Ukip announced that there were
"serious questions" about his candidacy, pointing out that the latter job is a
bar to standing in an election - but it lacked the cash to challenge it in
court.

Few believe such issues will allow Mr Abbotts to overtake the frontrunner,
despite a surge in support. But they predict he will slash the 13,000 Tory
majority and overtake Labour's Rachel Reeves, who came just ahead of the Lib
Dems last May.

Opponents say there is little sign of Labour activity, with minimal literature
and few campaigners pounding the streets. "I'm fully aware of where I came last
time - second, although the Lib Dems say they were," Ms Reeves said. "And
there's a lot of hype, but I haven't seen a huge response to Ukip. Yes, there's
a lot of national stuff going on (about Labour's future), but it honestly
doesn't come up on the doorstep."

Yet Nigel Farage claims there is "not a shadow of a doubt" that he can overtake
Labour. Ukip won under 1,500 votes here last year, but boasts that it has thrown
more than £75,000 into this byelection -and a £12,000 budget allowed it to
leapfrog the Tories in Hartlepool in 2004.

The MEP's patter appears to be winning over Labour as well as Tory defectors.
And while Europe is less of an issue than two years ago, Ukip's claim to be the
only party backing controlled immigration plays well in this ethnically
homogenous seat.

"If you look at our attitude to tax and the EU, (Eric Forth and I) are very,
very similar," Mr Farage said, arguing that the byelection is to some extent a
referendum on Mr Cameron and his reforms. "You don't get much bluer than
Bromley. And if his support melts to my manifesto, he is in real trouble."

guardian.co.uk/politics >

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Football: Germany shows its true colours again - yellow, red and black wigs

BYLINE: Mark Steel View From The Terraces (or while watching in a Cologne
square)

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 850 words


In the vast square behind the immense and stoic Cologne Cathedral, thousands of
Germans watched Germany v Sweden on a huge screen, including Matthias, who was
very drunk. When I told him where I was from, he said "Aaah. I can be English -
watch." Then he held both arms aloft and in a perfect Home Counties accent sang,
"Stand up if you won the war, stand up if you won the war."

"I have another," he said, and bellowed "You're shit and you know you are."

Maybe he could inspire a programme called Football Crowd Stars in Their Eyes,
where the contestants introduce themselves by saying to Cat Deeley something
like "Tonight Cat, I'm going to be - Millwall," then hurl coins at a pensioner
in a wheelchair.

Watching a match in these squares is a novel experience as the opposing sets of
fans are amicably mixed together, giving the appearance of a rock festival, and
segregating them seems as unnecessary as a steward at Glastonbury telling
Radiohead fans, "You can't come in here mate, this is the White Stripes end."

But for this match it was hardly an issue anyway, as not only was almost
everyone German, they were painted German. Even so, the atmosphere before the
game was exactly like those moments before the main band comes on at a festival'
tracks such as "Final Countdown", girls on shoulders, flags held held high and
slowly swished, random shrieks and, as kick-off approached, lots of whistling
and yelling, like the calls to encourage the gig to start. As if the referee
might appear on the screen, say "All right then," soundcheck his whistle and
start the match 10 minutes early.

There's a debate in Germany about the current fashion for exhibiting the German
flag, which has previously been considered unacceptable, with what happened last
time. But in this World Cup it's lost its stigma, making some people think:
"Uh-oh, they've started again."

At first glance there shouldn't be too much to worry about, as one of the main
ways in which the flag colours were displayed in Cologne was on yellow, red and
black curly wigs. Surely even the UK Independence Party wouldn't say, "Oh yes -
it starts with curly wigs and ends with invading Greece."

The crowd is young, with loads of women, and a little bit black, including
characters such as Luis, a sign-painter from Chile who saw Pele play in the
World Cup of 1962, and who lost friends who "disappeared", courtesy of General
Pinochet, the Chilean dictator. He now lives in Germany and stood in the crowd
with his face painted like a German flag.

Jimmy, from Liverpool, wasn't wearing anything German. But he did tell me he'd
been at the England v Sweden match. "All the Scousers went in, then handed their
tickets back out so's we all gorrin for nothing like, hundreds of us." And he
exhibited a Tony Blairish quality for looking convinced he was telling the truth
when this was obviously utter cobblers. Right now he's probably in Dortmund
telling a stranger "Here, we were in Berlin, this lad from Kirby's pulled up in
his van, we've nicked the Brandenburg Gate. I've gorrit back at the hotel,
like."

The Germans were two up after a few minutes, then the Swedes had a man sent off,
then missed a penalty, so the crowd waved their flags without pause, except to
get more drunk. Matthias taught me the correct way to say "Cheers" in Cologne.
"You say 'Prosit'," he insisted, "But you must look the person directly in the
eye or it means seven years' bad sex." Then he sang a song with his friends,
about which Inge, a student, warned me: "This song may be offensive, it is about
the big gay community in Cologne."

"Oh no", I thought, and asked what the words were. She said "It goes: 'In
Cologne there is quite a lot of gays'." Relieved, I said "Is that it? You're
sure there isn't one line that begins with the word 'takes', for example?"

From the end of the match, crowds of Germans drunkenly linked arms and chanted
"Deutschland, Deutschland," tripped over discarded bottles and sang a song
Matthias taught me that goes, "How is the beautiful," which sounds a wonderfully
philosophical conundrum to sing as a result of beating Sweden. And everyone I
spoke to said they'd never waved flags before because that was associated with
Hitler, but now they felt they could, as they were only doing the same as
supporters from everywhere else.

In some parts of Germany, of course, waving flags is still associated with
Hitler and that's why they still do it. This is especially true in parts of the
East, where the new world they were promised has turned out to be the right,
even if you're unemployed and skint, to gaze in the windows at Cartier's
jewellery store. So German nationalism seems divided between a youthful
inclusive kind in the large Western cities, and an embittered kind in smaller
towns, that blames "outsiders" for their plight.

Perhaps they will only be a truly modern nation when their football fans sing:
"Stand up if you dominate the European Union both politically and economically."
Or, more succinctly: "Sie sind Scheisse - und Sie wissen dass Sie es sind."

In a perfect Home Counties accent he sang, 'Stand up if you won the war'

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Lib Dems claim Tories are switching in Bromley poll

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 314 words


Voters in south London are going to the polls today to fill a gap left by the
death last month of the maverick right-wing MP Eric Forth.

The Liberal Democrats have been fighting hard in Bromley and Chislehur st in the
hope that they pull off a victory that would be a serious setback for the Tory
leader, David Cameron.

The signs yesterday were that the Conservative candidate, Bob Neill, will win,
despite some haemorrhage in the Tory vote.

The Liberal Democrats claim they have persuaded a few Tory voters to switch to
them, while some of the more traditional Tories who have been put out by Mr
Cameron's campaign of modernisation have decided not to vote, or to switch their
allegiance to the UK Independence Party.

Mr Cameron suffered a setback earlier this month when Bromley Conservatives
rejected two of his "A-list" candidates, made up of the "beautiful people" Mr
Cameron would like to see elected as Tory MPs, in a drive to increase the number
of women MPs and MPs from ethnic minorities.

Offered a choice of two "beautiful people" - Julia Manning and Syed Kamall -
Bromley Tories instead opted instead for Mr Neill, a lawyer who has been a
member of the London Assembly since 2000.

Mr Cameron shrugged off the rebuff and praised Mr Neill as an "an outstanding
champion" who knew the constituency "extremely well".

Mr Forth, who was first elected there in 1997, held the seat in 2005 with a
13,342 majority over Labour. Tory candidates took 60 per cent of the vote in the
May council elections.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Ben Abbotts, a political lobbyist, has
campaigned on his record as a local councillor, and attacked his Tory opponent
as "three jobs Bob" - a reference to Mr Neill's seat on the GLA, the board of a
local health authority and his legal work. But a senior party strategist
admitted yesterday that a Liberal Democrat victory in Bromley was "a very tall
order".

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            June 28, 2006 Wednesday

Sentences, not words Mr Blair

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 451  words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair has admitted the Government has let down crime
victims.

He said the human rights of offenders and victims need "rebalancing". Readers
agree but accuse Mr Blair of being all talk and not enough action.

£ 30 LETTER

WHAT a pity it takes a vigorous newspaper

campaign to make Tony Blair realise that the rights of

victims come before those of criminals.

His admission to yet another failed policy shows that, before putting his mouth
in gear, he should engage his brain and not make promises he can not deliver.

JAMES COVE

Sholing, Hants

SO Tony Blair is putting on a sincere face. We have heard it all before.

We know nothing will change. The answer is simple: Return to two prisoners per
cell in all jails to increase capacity.

PATRICIA BROWN

Newport, Essex

I AM fed up with hearing the same old quotes from Tony Blair about being tough
on crime. He has had nine years to put promises into action, but has delivered
very little.

It's time we adopted zero tolerance, alongside more discipline in schools.

PETER MARSHALL

Louth, Lincs

TONY BLAIR could get rid of most of his problems by repealing the Human Rights
Act.

He won't, of course - at least not until the Tories say they will. If he
doesn't, just wait and see how well UKIP do at the next election.

COLIN WADEY

Brighton

WHY is it so difficult for Labour to see that, like nukes, a deterrent is also
needed on the streets of Britain in the form of the policeman?

You still don't see many cops on the beat, but you do see herds of hoodies.

NICK MYER

Kensal Town, West London

TALK is cheap, prisons aren't. Which is why we'll probably get more promises
about crime but the epidemic will continue.

STEVE LAWSON

Liverpool

TONY BLAIR is truly amazing. He keeps bouncing back like a rubber ball.
Obviously he is trying to leave his mark on history by talking about reforming
the judicial system. He talks the talk, but nothing will happen.

FREDERICK PRICE

Nottingham

POLITICS is not just about saying the right things. Blair says the police might
be getting frustrated by lack of support from the legal system. If that's the
case, he should

be changing the legal system.

BILL WALSH

Newcastle

SO Blair has promised to get tough on criminals. No he won't. It was he who
signed us up to the European Human Rights charter, which all criminals use to
defend themselves from justice.

THOMAS SANFORD

Poole, Dorset

BLAIR uses such indeterminate language concerning his new ideas for law and
order, I doubt even he knows what he is saying. There is no need for further
laws, just put the police back on the streets.

ALAN CROSS

St Neots, Cambs

DOES Tony Blair believe the public take his new pledges seriously? We have been
hearing the same old waffle for nine years.

SIMON CURTIS

Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            June 28, 2006, Wednesday

Council in a flap

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 53 words


A city council has been forced to take down a European flag because it was
classed as an advert. Opponents of the EU, including a UK Independence Party
councillor, said that Newcastle City Council did not have planning permission to
fly the blue flag with gold stars. Only national flags do not need planning
permission.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            June 28, 2006, Wednesday

Own goals mar Tory bid to win 'safe' by-election

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 606 words


DAVID CAMERON'S first chance to defend a Conservative seat in a by-election has
been marred by own goals that call into question the effectiveness of the
party's campaigning.

Instead of using the Bromley and Chislehurst by-election to showcase his brand
of "liberal conservatism", the Tory leader has found himself shut out by a
wealthy local party determined to show its independence.

The decision by Bob Neill, the Conservative candidate, to keep his seat in the
London Assembly if he wins has proved a gift to his opponents, particularly the
Liberal Democrats, who would otherwise struggle in such a Tory stronghold. Mr
Neill, a part-time barrister and outgoing director of a health authority, has
been nicknamed "Three Jobs Bob" in voluminous amounts of Lib Dem literature.

The local Conservative Association also allowed itself to be drawn into a spat
with the UK Independence Party, which is contesting the by-election, and
threatened the UKIP with an injunction over several giant billboard posters. No
injunction followed but the row generated publicity for their rival.

Mr Cameron made an early campaign visit, yet barely features in by-election
literature produced by the local party in southeast London. The previous MP,
Eric Forth, who died last month of cancer, was a vigorously independent
rightwinger and the local party seems intent on continuing the tradition.

One Tory newsletter revelled in the refusal to accept a candidate from Mr
Cameron's A-list of high-flyers. It carries a mock letter to the editor saying:
"I was delighted to see the local Conservatives have picked Bob rather than
someone from 'central casting'."

Another dense two-page letter to electors from Mr Neill, which again makes no
mention of Mr Cameron, calls the by-election "a chance to send a message to Tony
Blair that we are fed up with higher taxes", despite the Tory leader's decision
to put economic stability before tax cuts.

A small by-election team of national Tory officials is helping with the
campaign, but its messages are set locally.

Mr Neill told The Times that there was no deliberate attempt to ignore Mr
Cameron.

He said: "We have just played to what we think are our strong cards. The
Conservative council got a thumping result a month ago. The sensible thing is to
build on that momentum."

But Lib Dems in Bromley, whose candidate is Ben Abbotts, a local councillor,
privately declared themselves astonished at their opponent's tactics. In
previous by-elections Lib Dem leaflets have used unflattering pictures of past
Tory leaders but there is none of Mr Cameron in Bromley, a testament to the
appeal of his liberal conservative message.

The parties are also contending with the rival attraction of the World Cup.

Canvassers are under strict instructions not to knock on doors during England
matches, and the main parties' literature is peppered with references to
football.

The final days of campaigning have intensified after the UKIP, whose MEP Nigel
Farage is standing, threatened to challenge the result if Mr Neill won, saying
that his directorship of a health authority might make him ineligible to be a
candidate.

A Tory spokesman dismissed the argument, saying: "By the time Bob would be
looking to take his oath he would not be a member of this body."

If elected, Mr Neill plans to serve out his remaining 22 months representing
Bexley and Bromley in the London Assembly, where he is Tory group leader, which
is within the rules. He told The Times he was following the precedent of Andrew
Pelling, an MP elected last year who has remained an assembly member, and said
he wished to avoid the £ 250,000 cost of another by-election.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 26, 2006 Monday

Tory candidate accused of breaking by-election law

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 293 words


THE by-election campaign for a safe Conservative seat was thrown into confusion
last night after claims that the Tories' candidate was ineligible to stand.

Bob Neill, the Tory hopeful for Bromley and Chislehurst, confirmed that he was a
pounds 5,000-a-year member of the north-east London strategic health authority.
Under the House of Commons' Disqualification Act 1975, membership of a such an
authority is one of dozens of posts that MPs are not allowed to hold.

But Mr Neill said the disqualification provisions were not relevant because the
health authority was due to be abolished on Friday, a day after the by-election.

"I took legal advice when I signed the form,'' said Mr Neill, a barrister.

However, the UK Independence Party and the Liberal Democrats accused Mr Neill of
bad faith at the least and of breaching electoral law at the worst.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip candidate, accused him of "inexcusable arrogance'' and
said he could not be excused on a legal technicality.

"We will certainly consider launching an election petition to have the result on
Thursday overturned were Mr Neill to win,'' he said.

The Liberal Democrats have said that Mr Neill is unfit to represent the seat.
They have dubbed him "three jobs Bob'' because of his health authority role, his
job as a part-time barrister and his decision to retain his position in the
London Assembly.

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrats' chief executive, said: "Should he have
signed the election form saying that he would not be disqualified from taking
his seat when, technically at that time, he was?''

A spokesman for the Electoral Commission said that only the death of a monarch
could halt a by-election once it had been called. It was open to aggrieved
parties to petition to overturn the result.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

MEDIA DIARY: Personal differences

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 50 words


The Daily Telegraph has given on Heffer permission to ign for UKIP in the by
-election tomorrow, am speaking in a personal city and I have told my er," said
Hefferlump. In a personal capacity, h? That hasn't stopped UKIP proudly
trumpeting him as "associate editor of The Daily Telegraph" on its leaflets.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

MEDIA DIARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 583 words


Stars in his eyes

There's life in the old dog yet. Former Mirror editor Piers Morgan's new show in
the United States, America's Got Talent, aired its first episode on Wednesday on
NBC. According to Nielsen audience figures, the talent show, produced by Simon
Cowell, brought in an average of 12.4million viewers, making it the top US show
last week. It is particularly gratifying as its main rival, So You Think You Can
Dance, is produced by Cowell's nemesis Simon Fuller on Murdoch's Fox network,
and it had been number one until Cowell, Morgan and copresenter David Hasselhoff
rolled into town.

Morgan is tickled. "If someone said three months ago I would be living in
Beverly Hills and being the cruel British judge in a new number one show, I
would have thought they were barking mad," he chortles down the phone. "But I
have learnt to expect the unexpected. It will be a huge blow to my many fans in
the British press."

Little bird speaks out

Yet more amusement in Associated Newspapers' offices when a pigeon was spotted
trapped in the atrium last week. It was too far away to tell whether it was one
of the infamous "carrier pigeons" that the Daily Mail's parliamentary
sketch-writer and theatre critic Quentin Letts dispatches, carrying poisonous
diary stories about his colleagues. Nor indeed could spectators discern whether
that whiff of incense and the glint of a twelve-bore from the vicinity of Peter
McKay's office could be attributed to DailyMail columnist Stephen Glover, who
recently, and publicly, hauled Letts up for his indiscretions.

Revolving trap doors

Last spring The Sunday Telegraph's Tim Walker was given the job of theatre
critic by Dominic Lawson. He was relieved of it - after barely a dozen first
nights - by Lawson's replacement, Sarah Sands, who gave it to Rebecca Tyrrel.
Now Tyrrel is exiting stage left and editor Patience Wheat croft has given the
job back to Walker again. "Trap doors are always opening unexpectedly in this
business these days," squeals Walker, who will continue to edit the Mandrake
column. "Goodness knows, I've fallen through enough of the min my time."

Talons contest

The exodus from She magazine continues. Deputy editor Charlotte Ross is upping
sticks and moving to the Evening Standard. Ross, who used to be Saturday editor
of The Independent, was at She for 18months.After editor Matthew Line stepped
down last month, she seemed a natural successor. But Lindsay Nicholson (right),
NatMags' new editorial director, has her talons well into the editor's chair.
Ross has no official title yet at the Evening Standard but Glenda Cooper is
leaving and the long-planned reshuffle in the upper ranks may now go ahead.

Personal differences

The Daily Telegraph has given Simon Heffer permission to campaign for UKIP in
the Bromley by-election tomorrow. "I am speaking in a personal capacity and I
have told my paper," said Hefferlump. In a personal capacity, eh? That hasn't
stopped UKIP proudly trumpeting him as "associate editor of The Daily Telegraph"
on its leaflets.

Playing the field

After years of hostile coverage in his NewYork Post, RupertMurdoch has put out
the hand of friendship to Hillary Clinton, a boon to her presidential ambitions.
Now number two son James, chief executive of BSkyB, has given her possible
Democrat rival Al Gore a leg-up by sponsoring an event for the All Party
Parliamentary Climate Change group at the Tate Britain on Wednesday. Just so
Gore knew who was boss, James decided not to turn up, sending apologies instead.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cowell: brought in an average of 12.4million viewers in the US

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              June 23, 2006 Friday

Kids told to love EU

LENGTH: 68  words


BRUSSELS is hatching a plot to brainwash British kids as young as five on the
merits of the EU.

MEPs are considering plans to "prepare students for their role as European
citizens". It would be part of the curriculum, with TV lessons and pamphlets.

UK Independence Party MEP Tom Wise slammed the move as "propaganda", adding:
"The EU wants to force teachers to sell this to their students."

The Sun Says - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Gloves are off

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 137 words


Eight days shy of polling-day, and it's gone "right off" in the Bromley and
Chislehurst by-election.

The Tory candidate, Bob Neill, has got his agent to send a stern legal warning
to his UK Independence Party rival, Nigel Farage.

It concerns a UKIP campaign poster that claims: "Neill supports European Union,
high taxes and unlimited immigration."

Neill reckons this "defamatory," and wants the posters scrapped. "Failing this,"
he writes, "I will instruct lawyers to seek an injunction, restraining further
publication of such material, and to seek damages."

Farage is sticking to his guns, though. "Mr Farage considers his own campaign
literature to be entirely accurate and truthful," reads a reply. "He will not
provide the undertaking required, and will firmly resist any proceedings you may
care to issue."

Over to you, Bob!

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday

We'll pay EU £ 88m

LENGTH: 75  words


UK taxpayers will fund one of GERMANY'S richest regions to the tune of £
88million - because of an EU bungle.

The commuter belt near Hamburg will get total grants worth £ 614million from
2007 to 2013.

A flaw in the way Brussels calculates wealth by basing it on where people work
means Lueneburg will get aid meant for poor eastern Europe towns.

It plans lavish civic projects and new roads.

UK Independence Party leader Roger Knapman said: "It's corrupt."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Letter: There is no place for xenophobia in the Europe of today

BYLINE: BERNHARD RAPKAY MEP and GARY TITLEY MEP

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 274 words


Sir: Bruce Anderson's remarks on Germany (Opinion, 12 June) are profoundly
worrying. In a meeting in December in Brussels, Tony Blair told UKIP members
that they were living in 1945' outmoded, outdated and dangerously jingoistic.

He said that Europe had moved on. It seems Bruce Anderson hasn't. Of most
concern among Mr Anderson's remarks is his comparison of Angela Merkel to
Hitler, saying that she finds it intolerable that Poles and Czechs should aspire
to self-determination. Germany was one of the strongest proponents, along with
the UK, of Polish and Czech accession to the EU in 2004.

Contrary to the assertion that Germany would prefer if Polish and Czech parties
stayed away from the Tories because they would stray from Germany's influence,
it is clear to the majority of MEPs in the European Parliament that concerns
about the Tories' attempt to create an alliance with the Polish Law and Justice
Party were simply down to their policies. In Poland they have banned gay pride
marches and their coalition partners have said that gay people who attend these
marches should be "bludgeoned".

Europeans sadly still face discrimination and intolerance in their own countries
and communities, but we now have a political structure allowing us to tackle
everyday problems facing all European people together. Over 60 years on, Germany
has changed, Europe has changed. The time for commentators to stop inciting such
parochial and xenophobic feeling is long overdue.

BERNHARD RAPKAY MEP

LEADER OF THE GERMAN SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT

GARY TITLEY MEP

LEADER OF THE BRITISH LABOUR PARTY IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT B RUSSELS

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                 June 18, 2006

Westward Ho!;
Where house prices are raising the roof

BYLINE: Cheryl Taylor - Property Editor

LENGTH: 1167 words


The injunction to "Go West Young Man" was made by a US newspaperman to encourage
the development of the Wild West frontier in the 19th century.

People flocking to the English West Country seem to need no such encouragement.
But then they are neither young and nor is the south west of England a lean,
mean frontier. Indeed the region boasts the highest average home prices outside
London and the south east. The average price, at £185,216, according to a survey
by the Halifax, is £12,000 higher than the national average.

The Halifax maintains that Cornwall has recorded the biggest house price rises
over the past 10 years with a 268% gain in the average price from £53,081 in
1996 to £195,388 in the first quarter of 2006. However, the latest Land Registry
figures show that comparing the first quarter of 2005 with the first quarter of
this year, prices fell 1% in Cornwall. Barnstable on the north Devon coast has
seen prices rise 140% in the past five years, taking the average house price in
the town to £193,413. The Cornish capital Truro has seen the average price soar
120% to £218,970.

According to the Land Registry, the average house price in the south west at
£198,952 is now the third highest after London and the south east. But the
annual rate of house price inflation slowed to 1.8% in the first quarter of 2006
- the second lowest increase in the country after the East Midlands. In Somerset
property prices fell from £187,588 to £183,850.

The region's property boom has been a blessing for those already on the housing
ladder. But the staggering rate at which prices have risen in a region with some
of the lowest incomes has made property among the least affordable in the
country. The region was one of the worst hit by mad cow disease, followed by
foot and mouth. For some, the proposed ban on fox hunting was the last straw.
But the feared job cuts at hunts and farriers failed to materialise when the
Hunting With Dogs Act 2005 provided ample legal opportunities to continue
hunting.

There is now a new "last straw": the failure of the government to pay farmers
the subsidies on which they rely has forced many small farmers into the hands of
the banks. Foreclosures and sales of farms are predicted that could release
farmhouses, of which there is a shortage for second homebuyers, on to the
market.

The lack of availability is as big a problem as the lack of affordability. Many
of Devon and Cornwall's most attractive villages have become virtual ghost towns
as prosperity in London and the south east has percolated into second home
purchases in the region (an estimated 27% of UK second homes are in the south
west). Most homes remain empty at all times other than bank holiday weekends,
when convoys of Volvos laden with children, Labradors and green wellington boots
temporarily colonise the region's beauty spots.

With its beaches and moors and greater feeling of space, the region is
attracting growing numbers of professionals who are not "location dependent".
Families sick of the daily commute, and what they see as the declining quality
of life in Britain's cities, have chosen to escape to the west. They have sought
the stone farmhouse replete with inevitable Aga to establish the modern version
of the Good Life. The difference is that they work via broadband and do their
shopping on Tesco.com. The Good Life comes at a price: £500,000 upwards for a
detached period house. At the other end of the age scale, the warmer climate and
lower crime rate is also attracting retirees. While some seek bucolic bliss,
most are attracted to towns such as Bournemouth and Torquay where they are close
to local services; but a three-bedroom apartment can cost up to £750,000.
Coastal properties are in similar demand. On the south Cornish coast near
Falmouth, a three-bedroom house can cost £750,000.

Salcombe has replaced Rock as the top second home destination for rich City
folk. One estate agent had no fewer than 1,200 people on a waiting list to buy
homes there over £1m. A three-bedroom apartment near Hope Cove costs £995,000
(admittedly with sea views and a heated swimming pool).

Villages along the Dart Estuary such as Dittisham, are popular with the sailing
fraternity looking for a shore base. But, anything with water frontage will set
you back more than £l.5m. You can find cheaper properties, but these are
becoming harder to find. Prices dip away from the coast, in the heart of the
South Hams countryside.

About £320,000 buys a refurbished stone-built three-

bedroom terraced cottage in Washbourne, a tiny hamlet between Dartmouth and
Totnes. It has beamed ceilings, an inglenook fireplace, a garden, a garage and a
bucolic vista.

Star-studded Chagford, with its fashionable Mid-Devon Hunt, is slightly more
affordable than South Hams - a six-bedroom town centre period family home for
£625,000. Or a four-bedroom rural home at Gidleigh with 7.5 acres for £765,000.
That compares with top-notch five-bedroom house in a prime area of Torquay at
£2.45m.

Demand for property in the south west is set to continue its growth. The
region's population is expected to rise 7% by 2021, 3% above the national
average. But the prospect for home building is slim - much of the region is
national park and city refugees are determined nimbys as many of them are
retirees with time on their hands.

WEST COUNTRY FACTFILE

* POLITICS: Suspicion of Westminster (and Brussels) lends support to the Liberal
Democrats and, in the 2005

election, UKIP. As result, the region suffers Labour's financial thumbscrews:
farming is on the brink of collapse because of the

government's failure to pay long overdue

subsidies.

* ECONOMICS: The West Country has been described as "the graveyard of

ambition". A very high proportion of

employment is by the public sector.

Fishing is in decline, farming is in

crisis. Poor transport hampers growth

including all-important tourism.

* EDUCATION: Best grammar school: Colyton Grammar School, East Devon. Somerset,
Devon and Dorset are served by good private schools: The Maynard, Canford,
Sherborne, Taunton and Blundell's. Cornwall is not well endowed.

* TRAVEL: The motorway (M5) peters out at Exeter. The region is criss-crossed by
pretty, flower-lined lanes. Travellers have oodles of time to admire them in the

gridlock. Taking the train from Penzance to Paddington is an expensive option.
But it takes less time to reach London than you might think from Somerset,
Dorset

and even Devon. Regional airports are

underdeveloped.

* WHERE TO LIVE: It'll cost you, but Rock in Cornwall and Salcombe in Devon are
immensely popular seaside towns. Exmoor and Dartmoor provide stunning
surroundings but houses are in short supply. Dorset has

charming villages. Somerset is the cheapest of the four counties.

* AVERAGE PROPERTY PRICES: Poole, hosting many financial services businesses,
boasts the highest prices in the region, an average of £261,746. The average for
Dorset is £226,010. Cornwall's average price of £203,006. Devon £212,600 and
Somerset £183, 850.

HENRY HARINGTON

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 18, 2006

Groper's gallery gives women revenge on web

BYLINE: Sharon Edwards

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 662 words


WOMEN who have fallen victim to harassment will have the opportunity for revenge
with a new website that allows them to post pictures of men who taunt or grope
them.

Pictures can be posted from phones or digital cameras to the website of Holla
Back, a US-based site founded by women, giving the chance of fast retribution.

Lawyers have warned, however, that women using the website could lay themselves
open to being sued for libel if they do not have strong evidence of harassment.

Holla Back has already started operations in New York and is now opening for
business in Europe, with sites in Britain, Austria, Switzerland and Germany.

Its American founders say they are committed to exposing pests who leer at, make
jibes at, proposition or grope women in public, or expose themselves.

Sabine Rodiger, Holla Back's European spokeswoman, said: "Street harassment is
so common that most of us, women and men, are used to it. But we are trying to
set up a place where women can 'holla back' and talk about it, because this
behaviour is not just unwelcome, it is unacceptable.

"Street harassment threatens your self-esteem and confidence and can affect your
health and happiness."

One posting in America shows a man from the shoulders down, holding his
crotch.The woman who describes it says she saw the man while on a trip to
London.

"He's pretty drunk, but I can just hear him shout stuff like 'Eat it' ...That
was it, time to Holla Back at this jerk! I put my cameraphone on max zoom from
across the street and walked by pretending not to look ... What a loser and it
ruined my trip."

Another entry, from a woman in New York, reads: "Guy walks up behind me, lets
out a wolf whistle ... and says, 'Lady, has anyone told you that you have a
beautiful ass?' I looked him in the face and said, 'Not as big as the ass
standing in front of me'."

The site was created by seven American women following the quick thinking of
Thao Nguyen, 23, a New York commuter who last August used her phone to
photograph a man masturbating on a train.

The picture was published on the front of the New York Daily News. Daniel Hoyt,
a 43-year-old restaurateur, was identified, arrested and convicted of public
lewdness as a result of the publication. In April he was sentenced to two years'
probation.

The site claims to have had 125 postings since it went live last September and
averages 1,500 hits a day, with a maximum 75,000 on one day.

America, with its constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech, is less
constrained by libel laws than Britain.

This weekend Martin Kramer, a media lawyer at the solicitors Addleshaw Goddard,
warned: "It could be dangerous if you take a photo of someone you think has
wolf-whistled you and you post it on the website only to find you've got the
wrong guy."

He said contributors as well as website operators could be sued if they posted
identifiable pictures of alleged harassers. "The onus is on the defendant, not
the claimant, to prove. If you know who posted it then you can go against that
person as well as the website operator," Kramer said.

Under British law, website operators must remove potentially defamatory material
if a complaint is made.

Cases in which courts have found in favour of those claiming they have been
libelled on the internet included one in 2002 in which Jim Murray, a retired
teacher, successfully sued Jonathan Spencer, a former pupil, who had falsely
claimed on the Friends Reunited website that Murray had been sacked from a
comprehensive in Doncaster, south Yorkshire. Murray was awarded £ 1,250 damages.

In March this year Michael Keith-Smith, an activist and former general election
candidate for the United Kingdom Independence party, won £ 10,000 damages from a
woman who abused him on an online message board, calling him, among other
things, a bigot.

Rodiger said the British site's operators would read all submissions before
publication. She added that the American site had never received a complaint
from the subject of a posting.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 17, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Party leaders run scared as European monster awakens;
THE WEEK IN POLITICS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 868 words


Europe is the sleeping giant of British politics. It often suits our leaders not
to talk about it. Just when they think the issue is dead, a monster awakes, goes
on the rampage, divides their parties and damages them in the eyes of the
voters.

It happened to Tony Blair. Now it is happening to David Cameron. Soon, it will
happen to Gordon Brown.

When he came to power in 1997, one of Mr Blair's main goals was to end the "us
and them" battle between Britain and Europe conceived in Margaret Thatcher's
handbag. When pro-Europeans doubted he would take Britain into the single
currency, he told them: "Don't worry, I will do it."

But Gordon Brown had other ideas. So did Rupert Murdoch, the Eurosceptic media
baron, whose support Mr Blair deemed more important than his European agenda.

How does the Blair balance sheet stand on Europe as he enters the last lap of
his premiership? His "positive engagement" strategy has bought Britain a place
at the EU's top table without joining the euro, which many thought impossible.
Despite the fractures caused by the Iraq war, Britain has helped to prod a
reluctant EU on to the right economic track.

Many diplomats and ministers from EU countries attending the two-day summit in
Brussels which ended yesterday are puzzled by Mr Blair. They see him as a
brilliant politician but don't understand why he didn't use his strong
leadership to achieve more on the European stage. "A megastar who couldn't
deliver his own agenda on Europe," one EU official told me.

Although Europe is a dormant issue in Britain for now, it will be alive and
kicking before the next general election. The ill-starred EU constitution,
rejected in the Dutch and French referendums a year ago, will return in some
form because rules for a club of 15 can't work effectively for 25 or 27.

That will be bad news for Prime Minister Brown, who will inherit Mr Blair's rash
promise of a referendum on the EU constitution. Ministers are already trying to
get the Government off that dangerous hook.

A Europe vote would be a huge distraction from Mr Brown's main task -winning a
personal mandate from the British people. But the Tories will doubtless pledge a
Europe referendum and so it will not be easy for Labour to ditch one.

If Europe's visionaries come up with another grandiose vision, Mr Brown may
decide a fight with them is better than trying to sell the unsellable to a
sceptical electorate. But it would mean vetoing the new treaty, and political
war between Britain and Europe.

Mr Brown is seen in Brussels as more Eurosceptic than Mr Blair. But there are
signs that his approach is changing. In an important speech this week, Ed Balls,
the Treasury minister and Mr Brown's closest ally, said Britain must be "fully
engaged" and "pragmatic" on the EU.

The Chancellor senses the Tories are on the wrong side of the European argument.
He can be a bit more positive because Mr Cameron wants to pull his MEPs out of
the European People's Party (EPP-DE), the main centre-right and largest group in
the European Parliament.

Angela Merkel, Germany's conservative Chancellor and the EU's new star, is happy
to break bread with Mr Brown and Mr Blair (as she did over breakfast yesterday)
but shuns Mr Cameron, who should be a natural ally. She is bemused by his
pledge.

Like Mr Blair on the referendum, Mr Cameron was bounced by our
Eurosceptic-dominated press-in this case during the Tory leadership election by
a campaign orchestrated by Daniel Hannan, a Tory MEP and Daily Telegraph leader
writer who argues Britain should leave the EU.

Mr Cameron has not raised Europe at PMQs since becoming leader. As on
immigration and asylum, he wants his party to stop singing the loony tunes that
cost it three elections and would rather talk about climate change or the
work-life balance. He judges that the "man in the Dog and Duck" will not notice
or care if the Tories leave the EPP-DE.

But Mr Cameron may be wrong. Voters don't like divided parties and, whatever he
does now, he is likely to provoke a row with one wing of his party. He doesn't
want to U-turn but sometimes that is the lesser of two evils.

Mr Cameron regards the EPP as federalist but it would be bizarre to walk away
just when sensible centre-right politicians such as Ms Merkel rule the roost. In
any case, the Tories already enjoy the freedom to go their own way on policy
under the EPP umbrella. So this is all a fuss about nothing.

Tory efforts to form a new centre-right group have fizzled out. If the Tories
walk away, they will be marginalised and seen as another bunch of what Mr
Cameron called "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" in the UKIP. Their
bedfellows might be parties with prehistoric attitudes on gay rights, abortion
and women, undermining Mr Cameron's sterling efforts to show his party is
changing.

When it came to the crunch, Mr Blair put his domestic priorities ahead of his
European goals. Mr Cameron should do the same. His hardline stance might help
him win a Euro election but not a general election.

As one shadow cabinet member told me: "The Daily Telegraph has determined our
policies for too long. We've tried it. It doesn't work."

The DailyTelegraph hasdeterminedour policiesfor too long'

a.grice@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Tony Blair held talks in Brussels
getty' Ed Balls has said Britain must be 'fully engaged'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 16, 2006 Friday

Lib dem tricks Spy

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 137 words


The Lib Dems have a reputation for being a most unscrupulous party, their
campaigning manual inciting them to "be wicked, act shamelessly and stir
endlessly''.

But a tactic employed by the party in the Bromley and Chislehurst by-election
looks as if it might backfire.

"The Lib Dems have organised for their candidate's website to come up as a
'sponsored link' whenever people Google anything to do with the by-election,''
says my mole.

"Whether you search for 'Bromley', [Tory candidate] 'Bob Neill' or [UKIP
candidate] 'Nigel Farage', the Lib Dem guy's website link appears.''

But here's the rub.

"Whenever you click the link to the Lib Dem candidate's site on the list of
sponsored links, the Lib Dems have to pay Google. So if enough people felt the
urge, the Liberal Democrats' entire campaign budget could be wiped out.''

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday

The fallacy of influencing the EU by always submitting to it

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 138 words


SIR - In her article about Mr Cameron's promise to leave the EPP (June 13),
Rachel Sylvester says "this is an issue that matters a lot to a few
Euro-sceptics, but very little to most people''.

The truth is that the small Europhile element in the Tory party has done immense
damage to the party's electoral fortunes over the past 16 years. It began with
the disastrous entry into, and exit from, the Exchange Rate Mechanism.

If Mr Cameron is looking for his Clause Four moment, he should stick to his guns
about separating Conservative MEPs from the federalist EPP. This would encourage
the hundreds of thousands who now vote for the UK Independence Party or do not
vote at all to return to their natural political home. Without them it is hard
to see how the Tories can win the next general election.

Charles Hanson

Carlisle, Cumbria

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Pandora: Tories heal UKIP rift

BYLINE: BY HENRY DEEDES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 128 words


Tory members delivered a kick in the teeth to modernisers by rejecting the
candidates from David Cameron's beloved "A-list" at the forthcoming Bromley
by-election. But by doing so, they inadvertently helped heal a fierce rift over
at the headquarters of UKIP.

Apparently, UKIP members became embroiled in a row over the by-election when
their candidate, Nigel Farage, suggested the party shouldn't stand. Farage
insisted that since the Tories looked like selecting hardened Eurosceptic Syed
Kamal, there was no point in pitting anyone against him.

"A lot of us were miffed at that kind of approach and there ended up being a
row," says one member. "We were keen to put up someone whatever happened. "But
once that Euro-softy Bob Neill got in, Nige happily changed his tune."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 13, 2006, Tuesday

Smooth operator has funding in his grip

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 533 words


IF TONY BLAIR and David Cameron had complete freedom of manoeuvre, they could
probably reach agreement on the future of party funding.

But both are constrained by powerful interests, and financial backers, in their
own parties. Hence, the review of funding by Sir Hayden Phillips, a retired
permanent secretary, is as much about trying to shift attitudes within the main
parties as between them.

When the review was set up three months ago, it was widely thought that Sir
Hayden, a silken Whitehall operator, would mainly be a fixer. But he is taking a
much broader view.

Before the bargaining comes probing and analysis, and seeking views via the
website www.partyfundingreview.gov.uk. The main parties will be pressed over how
and where they raise money, and where they spend it. All the parties represented
at Westminster, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast and Strasbourg are involved. That
means that the Greens and the UK Independence Party are included, but not the
British National Party.

Sir Hayden has set himself three goals. First, that voters should have more
confidence in the funding system, so that no individual or organisation should
secure influence or get a benefit because of a donation. Second, that party
competition should be about policies and competence, not funding muscle. Third,
that any package should encourage more people to engage in politics.

With these goals, the review is defining a yardstick by which any deal can be
measured.

The Tories back a cap on donations. But how should the unions be treated? Labour
has been strongly defensive about this link, more so than many Blairites might
be.

But might it be possible to separate the unions' continuing relationship with
Labour from limits on its contributions? This is where Mr Blair is limited by
his party.

The second goal implies cuts in national spending limits, possibly offset by
higher local expenditure. Some of the Tories' big backers dislike what Mr
Cameron has already proposed, and the party is ruling out any extension of the
current controls on spending in the run-up to a general election to ordinary
years. This is partly because the Tories are concentrating heavy spending on
target seats in the pre-election period.

There is wide agreement on the third aim of encouraging wider public
involvement, possibly via tax relief on small donations or some form of
check-off system to the party of your choice on a ballot paper or tax form. This
implies more taxpayer funding, but the Phillips review is, contrary to
expectations, not starting from this assumption, which is anyway unpopular with
voters. Instead, it will be seeking to estimate the financial needs of parties,
on the basis of a cap on donations, lower overall spending limits and incentives
to new sources of funding.

What is the size of any gap and how much is necessary?

Sir Hayden plans an interim report in mid-October, setting out the areas of
agreement and disagreement, and options. That will lead to the final bargaining
before he reports in December.

He is in a strong position to force the parties to rethink entrenched positions.

If he cannot come up with an agreement, the public will be able to see why, and
know who to blame.

Politics, page 26

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 12, 2006

Fighting for second place?

LENGTH: 790 words



HIGHLIGHT: It will be a tall order for Labour or the Lib Dems to overturn the
Tory majority in Bromley and Chislehurst, especially as most voters will be more
interested in the outcome of the World Cup than the byelection, writes Ros
Taylor.


David Cameron took care not to impose an A-list candidate in the Bromley and
Chislehurst byelection later this month.

The local Conservative association got the man they wanted: Bob Neill, a
barrister and the London assembly member for Bromley and Bexley. Impeccable
local credentials, surely. Who could possibly object?

Quite a few people, it turns out. Mr Neill lives in Tower Hamlets in east
London, an area notoriously unreceptive to Conservatism, compassionate or
otherwise.

As far as deep blue Bromley is concerned, he is about as local as Adam Rickitt.
At times, as he listened to his candidate fielding questions about whether he
intended to move to Bromley if elected (he did), David Cameron must have
wondered why he hadn't parachuted in a lesbian A-lister to this safest of seats
and watched her hold on to Eric Forth's large majority.

To recap, the late Conservative MP held Bromley and Chislehurst last year with a
very comfortable 13,342 majority.

Anyone hoping to overturn it would have to pick up the Labour, Lib Dem, Ukip and
Green votes combined. Realistically, the best the Lib Dems' Ben Abbotts can hope
for is to inch ahead of Labour into second place.

Nonetheless, Menzies Campbell was in Bromley this morning, though he stayed well
away from the high street where Mr Cameron and Mr Neill were going walkabout.

A lone Lib Dem campaigner trailed behind the young men - students from the
University of London, it turned out - who were holding Tory blue balloons.

Did I know that Ming was talking to students at the local FE and HE college a
ten-minute cab ride away, he asked hopefully?

I didn't. By the time I arrived, the students had gone and Lord Rennard, the
party's chief executive, was escorting Sir Menzies.

It quickly became apparent that the Lib Dems were going for the student vote.

"We met real people," the peer said pointedly. "There are 10,000 students here
in Bromley."

"Every byelection is an opportunity," Sir Menzies said. "As far as I'm
concerned, there's no limit to our opportunity."

Their best opportunity may lie in Bromleyans' general disaffection with the GLA,
which is regarded as inner London-centric and ruled by an over-mighty mayor.

Curiously, a combined anti-Ken and anti-GLA vote might just work in the Lib
Dems' favour.

Back on the pedestrianised high street, the Tory leader was jacketless in the
heat but kept his tie on.

A small patch of sweat was visible on the back of his shirt, but nothing
unpleasant enough to put off the buggy-pushing mothers.

Young football fans wearing Brazilian and Italian shirts were told that they had
"the wrong T-shirt on".

He approached an elderly lady browsing a fruit stall. "Flying the flag for
British raspberries!" he exclaimed.

Baroness Thatcher would have been mocked for these patriotic inanities. Mr
Cameron gets away with it.

People who approached him were told firmly and smilingly that he was "doing my
best" to fix whatever problem concerned them; those whom he buttonholed blushed
and walked away grinning.

A passing Frenchwoman told her friend that he was the next "premier ministre
d'Angleterre".

A woman with a clipboard asked Mr Cameron to sign a petition to keep the NHS
public. Mr Cameron sensibly declined: "The important thing is that it's free at
the point of use."

In Bromley, even young public sector workers are as likely as not to vote Tory:
a newly qualified physiotherapist who couldn't find a job locally because of the
redundancies in the health service told me she had voted Conservative last year
and probably would again.

As far as the Tories and Labour are concerned, however, the byelection is being
fought on the single issue of crime.

The failings of the Home Office are less of an issue here than antisocial
behaviour and Saturday night violence.

The Labour candidate, Rachel Reeves - who, despite her local origins, got off to
a dubious start by misspelling Chislehurst on her campaign website - is
promising a "knife crackdown", more police and better security at railway
stations; Mr Neill promises to make crime his "number one priority".

"Safe to go out?" demands one of Ben Abbotts' leaflets, which claims that
two-thirds of locals are afraid to do so at night.

If that is good news for canvassers, Mr Neill does not intend to test the
patience of England fans.

While Ms Reeves has pledged a St George's Day celebration, he has promised not
to knock on doors during England matches and has produced a downloadable poster
- "Please don't call here ... I'm watching the World Cup!" - for supporters.

"If you stick this leaflet in your window, you shouldn't be bothered by any of
the other parties either," he says.

And that, one suspects, is exactly how many Bromley residents want it.
Fortunately, there are no matches scheduled for June 29.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               29 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday

Cameron prepares to drop Thatcher's Tory torch

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS

SECTION: FB; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 306 words


DAVID CAMERON is to signal his determination to distance himself from Margaret
Thatcher by scrapping the Tory Party's torch logo introduced in the Iron Lady's
Eighties heyday.

Party officials confirmed he has had talks with senior advisers on finding a new
logo in line with his younger, trendier image.

Mr Cameron hopes to unveil the logo at the Tory conference in October, his first
as leader.

'We have a number of ideas but this is still in its early stages,' said a party
source.

MPs close to Mr Cameron say he regards the torch as ' oldfashioned and too
strident' for the modern Tory Party, which he is trying to present as more
'compassionate and radical' than in the Thatcher era.

Sensitive to criticism that Mr Cameron pays more attention to presentation than
policies, a Tory insider said: 'It is a very small part of our plans for the
party.' But it will lead to further claims that Mr Cameron is aping New Labour,
which replaced the red flag with a red rose to ditch its Leftwing image. Mr
Cameron has already changed the Tory colours from dark blue to pale blue.

The 'freedom torch' was introduced by Mrs Thatcher in 1987 to symbolise her
crusade against the unions, the Soviet Union and anyone else who stood in her
path.

Two years ago, under Michael Howard's leadership, the torch design was changed
so that it was held aloft by an arm. It was meant to represent a rolled-up
sleeve in line with Mr Howard's pledge to 'get the job done'.

The colour of the torch was also changed to red, white and blue to head off the
threat from the anti-European UKIP Party. But critics said the logo looked like
something from the Thirties.

Mr Cameron's advisers say they are keen to hear ideas for a new logo.

Some of the more light-hearted suggestions include a bicycle, an Eton straw
boater, a silver spoon, a pair of flip-flops and a blue rose.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 11, 2006

A cunning Euro plot that could bolster Cameron

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1371 words


For Sir Menzies Campbell, leader of the Liberal Democrats, to be dubbed mediocre
as he was last week was something of a triumph. Since his election as party
leader three months ago his performances in the Commons have been more usually
described as dreadful.

Some people are puzzled about why Ming evidently finds performing in the chamber
terrifying, so unlike Tony Blair and David Cameron, who appear relaxed despite
bearing a heavier weight of responsibility.

It is not a mystery. However difficult life is for Blair he goes to the Commons
with the credibility that attaches to his office and a formidable reputation
built up over 12 years as Labour's leader. Cameron's photo opportunities outside
the house have boosted his self-confidence, a commodity that is in any case not
lacking in Old Etonians. Entering the fray at the beginning of prime minister's
questions, Cameron can choose the theme of the day. Allowed to ask up to six
questions, he can choose to keep the pressure on Blair, or to switch mood and
topic by opening a second front.

You will never see an iconic image of Campbell on a front page, because he lacks
charisma. When Cameron poses with a team of huskies in the Arctic Circle he
resembles a Hollywood star. If Campbell tried it he would merely look
ridiculous.

So his appearances in parliament are almost Campbell's only opportunity to make
an impression. Intervening each week after Cameron, he has to choose whether to
rake over the ground already covered by the leader of the opposition or to pick
a topic of secondary importance. He is permitted to ask only two questions,
which makes it easy for Blair to bat him away. With so many poor Commons
performances Campbell must feel the tension horribly. He probably lives all week
long dreading the coming Wednesday.

Last week Campbell tried to move the focus away from his unhappy experiences in
the chamber by announcing a shift in party policy. Whereas the party used to
advocate increasing the top rate of income tax it now promises to cut the basic
rate by 2p. Lost revenue will supposedly be made up by taxes on energy and the
capital assets of the rich.

In itself the change is nicely calculated. It is wholly incredible, of course,
but no more so than other Liberal Democrat promises, or indeed the policies of
the other parties. If voters were ever repelled by the old pledge to raise
income tax they can now return to the Liberal Democrat fold. The new approach
positions the party on green issues just where its natural supporters wish it to
be.

But if Campbell believes he can make up for his deficiencies in the house with
eye-catching policy announcements he will be disappointed. Charisma is the
currency of politics today. A leader who lacks it cannot be redeemed by a clever
manifesto.

Voters have little concern for any party's policies for the good reason that
they do not believe what they are promised. The public does not think of the
Liberal Democrats as a party of government so its proposals are of still less
interest.

The party is unlikely even to be in a position to renege on its implausible
commitments.

Campbell's policy U-turn illustrates that each of our three leading political
parties is focused on escaping its past. Blair also provided a good example when
he told public sector workers they must provide better services, because
otherwise voters would withdraw their consent for the huge increases in
spending. The tough talk was a ruse. Blair hopes to disguise his government's
incompetence in stuffing the pockets of doctors and other public sector groups
without securing any meaningful improvement in productivity. Since the era of
huge rises in public spending is over, the government has exhausted what
leverage it had. It is now left with spin alone.

Cameron made a speech telling the same workers how much the Conservative party
values them. That was sensible since the Tories are widely thought to hate
doctors, nurses, teachers, firefighters, postmen, railway workers and policemen.

Not to mention gays, single mothers and asylum seekers. Making so many enemies
is not good politics. If you repel a million voters here and another million
there, before you know it, it adds up to big numbers.

By and large, Cameron's policy of daily saying the opposite of what you expect a
Conservative to say is working well and the opinion polls reflect his success.

There remains a single exception: Europe. On that one issue Cameron turns from
Jekyll to Hyde, foaming like a Tory reactionary of the old school.

In part that is explained by the paradox that many leading Tory modernisers
converted from the party's right wing. Francis Maude and Michael Gove are
examples. As all the party's intellectual paraphernalia has been heaved
overboard, Euroscepticism is the one survivor. The modernisers' distrust of the
European Union's centralising tendency remains a core emotion, even if it is not
always accompanied, as it is in Gove's case, by admiration for the American
neoconservatives.

Euroscepticism also provides the one link between the party leader and that
large body of right-wing opinion that did not convert to modernisation. During
the Tory leadership contest Cameron promised to withdraw the Tories from the
European People's party (EPP), a grouping in the European parliament that
includes French and Germans who are committed federalists. The pledge bought him
the votes of Iain Duncan Smith and other unlikely supporters.

That commitment is costing Cameron dear. If he fulfils it, some Conservative
MEPs will defy him by remaining in the EPP where they enjoy a measure of
prestige (perhaps too strong a word to use in the context of the European
parliament). If Cameron reneges, he will lose a high-profile MEP, Daniel Hannan.
He cannot now avoid a party split. By blundering into this terrain he will
resurrect the party's reputation for being divided and self-obsessed.

Meanwhile, the woman fast emerging as the key figure in European politics,
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, refuses to see Cameron. While she receives
Blair and Gordon Brown, supposedly across the political divide, she keeps at bay
the Tory leader who is in theory her political soul mate.

Cameron's great achievement is that he seems normal. But he may start to look
odd if across Europe right-of-centre leaders are reluctant to be photographed
with him. They are, alas, less compliant than huskies. Things can only get worse
as William Hague, sent out to deliver on Cameron's foolish pledge, courts a
Polish party accused of homophobia, an Irish republican and a Lithuanian MEP who
is thought to be an extremist. The quest calls to mind Cameron's description of
the UK Independence party as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

I hope Cameron recalls Machiavelli's advice to his prince. "A prudent leader
will not and should not observe his promises, when such observance will work
against him and when the reasons for making the promise are no longer valid."

Arch Eurosceptic Freddie Forsyth is bubbling with indignation because he thinks
Cameron is about to break his word. I long for him to be right, but last week
Hague was still promising to deliver a new European party grouping. He is a
Eurosceptic without the mitigation of also being a moderniser.

In his speech last week Hague struggled to avoid the narrow nationalist rhetoric
that characterised his leadership of the party. But when chairing the television
programme Have I Got News for You, Hague recovered his Basil Fawlty tone,
remarking: "If anyone has got a history of making themselves feel at home in
other people's countries, it's the Germans." Thus spake the shadow foreign
secretary as England fans headed for the World Cup.

With Hague so committed to constructing a fruitcake alliance, an interesting
possibility suggests itself. Perhaps Cameron is being cleverer than it appears.
So far from being reactionary over Europe, maybe he is building up to his most
dramatic demonstration yet that the Tories have broken with their recent
history.

He could now go back on his promise, which would shatter Hague's credibility and
force him to resign, providing a double disavowal of the party's past. Now that
would be truly Machiavellian.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

Warning to Tories on poll complacency

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Political editor

LENGTH: 459  words


Dave's racing ahead..but he might fall off

TONY BLAIR used to boast he was the "eternal warrior against complacency".

David Cameron would do well to mark his rival's words.

He is riding high in the polls but he's got a mountain to climb if his new look
Tories are to return to power.

Mr Cameron celebrated six months as Tory leader this week with a startling
ten-point lead over Labour.

But he is only at base camp on his mission to claw the party back to Downing
Street.

The Tories remain down and out across Scotland, Wales and huge swathes of the
North. Voters are turning their backs on Labour -but he can't count on them
voting Conservative.

His Shadow Cabinet team remain virtual unknowns.

And that's before he has told the nation what he plans to do about tax,
immigration or the European Union.

Buried

One senior aide says: "We have had a good start. But we are only in the
foothills.

Anyone who thinks we've cracked it and are on our way to No10 is in cloud cuckoo
land.

"The only certainty is that we have a bloody long slog ahead of us -and even
then, we will need luck."

The Tory party machine is dead and buried in parts of the country.

There are virtually NO party officials in northern cities such as Manchester or
Liverpool. Not a single Tory councillor exists in major northern cities and
there is only one Conservative MP in Scotland.

The crucial 25-35 age group may be turning its back on Tony Blair's Government.

But there is no guarantee they'll switch to supporting the Conservatives. Party
chiefs fear they may back the LibDems or experiment with the Greens, UKIP, the
BNP or single-issue groups. Others may simply not vote at all.

Voters also need to know who the Tory big-hitters are.

William Hague needs no introduction. But who are George Osborne, Liam Fox, David
Willetts, Andrew Lansley and Theresa Villiers?

They hope to be running the country in three years yet none would pass a High
Street recognition test.

Mr Cameron has not let the word "immigration" cross his lips for six months. Yet
a Sun Mori poll this week showed it's the No1 issue on voters' priority lists.

No one really knows what the Tory tax promises will be.

Who can say what the Conservative policy is on law and order?

The Tories have seen their popularity rocket thanks to a deliberate policy of
ignoring these issues.

Mr Cameron has focused on the environment and life-work balance and has even
been wooing Labour- supporting state workers.

He has shed their "nasty party" image and enjoyed the first consistent lead in
the polls for 14 years. He can't ignore such crucial issues. But he fears
wrecking his good work by talking about immigration, the EU, crime and taxes.

Mr Cameron has given himself a flying start. But stage two of the mountain will
be a lot harder than stage one.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday

Anxiety crawled in his gut as ants gnaw at a rotting bough;
QUENTIN LETTS yesterday in parliament

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 611 words


Yesterday in Parliament SIR Menzies Campbell is proof that, even in his seventh
decade, even when he has been a top lawyer, when he has seen off an attack of
cancer and is married to one of the most bullet-proof Lady Snorts north of
Hadrian's Wall, a man can still suffer from a bout of treacherous ab-dabs.

I was watching Sir Menzies shortly before he was called at Prime Minister's
Question Time yesterday. He was a string bag full of nerves.

Outwardly the Liberal Democrat leader did his best to appear at ease.

He failed. One glance was enough to show that he was eaten away inside like an
old, fallen log.

The waiting was agony for him.

Anxiety crawled into his gut as ants and woodlice will gnaw at a rotting bough.
Waiting. Dreading. Shaking.

It's always more daunting to be next man in rather than the batsman at the
crease.

The Chamber's air was filled with the cacophony of primetime parliamentary
argument.

David Cameron was shouting at the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister was
happily shouting back.

They were discussing Gordon Brown's cock-up with tax credits. Mr Brown himself
was absent.

A nearly full House was in uproar as the two main party leaders slugged it out.

Mr Blair had a good disclosure about how George Osborne (silly ass) seems to
have been cosying up to the housing lobby.

Mr Cameron had a good hit about the 'incompetence' of ministers. He has not
taken long to look completely at ease in the Chamber.

The galleries switched their gaze from PM to Mr Cameron like spectators at
Queen's Club during the tennis.

Mr Cameron said that the tax credits carryon showed ministers were a menace.

Mr Blair hit back with accusations of how the Tories, in power, had bitten the
heads of hamsters and had glugged back their warm, foamflecked blood.

Something like that, anyway. Mr Blair is in such trouble at present that he will
take almost any argument going.

Yesterday, for instance, he opened with an assault on where the Tories intend to
sit in the European Parliament. Apart from the Today programme and ardent Ukip
-ites, does anyone care?

Great was the din yesterday, anyway. Labour backbenchers tried to shout down Mr
Cameron.

The Tories yelled at Tony Blair.

Ballyhoo crowded in from all sides. All it needed was a power horn and a chorus
of 'the referee's a banker' (isn't that how the words go?) and we could have
been at a football match.

Inside the capsule of Sir Ming's mind, however, there was little room for such
noise. He was concentrating hard on the ordeal to come.

The outside rumpus seemed to be penetrating his skull no more than the churn of
a distant motor boat will reach the ear of a scuba diver.

Sir Ming kept glancing at a small crib card held in his left palm. He crossed
and uncrossed his elegant legs.

He swallowed with a tweak of his elderly neck and he arranged, and rearranged,
and re-rearranged the Corby-pressed creases of his trim suit.

Goodness, he was nervous.

each 15 seconds or so ticked past, Sir Ming's movements only became more
animated. He sucked his gums. He removed his spectacles and dithered over where
to place them.

He smoothed down his eyebrows, rotated his thumbs, glanced up at the ceiling
(with an expression that said: 'Spare me, O God') and then managed to drop the
crib card on the floor.

He was glad to have to retrieve it from the floor. It gave him something to do!

'Sir Menzies Campbell!' cried Speaker Martin. But Ming was already on his feet
and had started talking within fractions of a second.

He did okay. Not nearly as badly as has been reported in recent weeks.

But what an ordeal Wednesday mornings must be to him at the moment.

It's almost enough to make one sick with worry for the poor old boy.

Almost.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  June 6, 2006

Byelections set for June 29

LENGTH: 327 words



HIGHLIGHT: Labour and the Conservatives face twin tests of their popularity with
their own voters in two traditionally safe seats, after it was announced today
that both the Blaenau and Bromley byelections would be held on the same day -
June 29.


Labour and the Conservatives face twin tests of their popularity with their own
voters in two traditionally safe seats, after it was announced today that both
the Blaenau and Bromley byelections would be held on the same day - June 29.

The contest in the true-blue London suburb of Bromley and Chislehurst was caused
by the death of Tory MP Eric Forth last month, whilst the death of Peter Law
means the Blaenau Gwent seat is up for grabs.

Mr Law was a former Labour councillor, before standing and winning as an
independent in last year's general election in a protest over Labour's all-women
shortlists.

Writs for both the Westminster byelections were moved today.

The Tories have already selected their candidate for the Bromley seat, the
current Tory leader of the London assembly, Bob Neill. At the last general
election, the Tories had a 13,000-plus majority, making it one of the safest
seats in the country.

At the last year's general lection Mr Law won Labour's former Blaenau Gwent
stronghold as an independent after he quit the party in protest at all-women
shortlists for its candidates.

He turned a majority of more than 19,000 into a 9,121 margin for himself.

Blaenau Gwent results

General election, May 2005: Peter Law (Ind) 20,505 (58.17%); Maggie Jones (Lab)
11,384 (32.29%); Brian Thomas (LD) 1,511 (4.29%); John Price (PC) 843 (2.39%);
Dr Phillip Lee (Con) 816 (2.31%); Peter Osborne (UKIP) 192 (0.54%). Majority
9,121 (25.87%). Turnout 66.14%.

Welsh assembly election, May 2003: Peter Law (Lab) 13,884 (70.22%); Steve Bard
(LD) 2,148 (10.86%); Rhys Ab Elis (PC) 1,889 (9.55%); Barrie O'Keefe (Con) 1,131
(5.72%); Roger Thomas (UKIP) 719 (3.64%). Majority 11,736 (59.36%). Turnout
37.36%.

Bromley and Chislehurst results

General election: Eric Forth (Con) 23,583 (51.12%); Rachel Reeves (Lab) 10,241
(22.20%); Peter Brooks (LD) 9,368 (20.30%); David Hooper (Ukip) 1,475 (3.20%);
Ann Garrett (Green) 1470 (3.19%). Majority 13,342 (28.92%). Turnout 64.82%.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               34 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

The diary

BYLINE: by Christopher Silvester

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 861 words


Labour MPs already twitchy about those croquet photos would be even more
horrified if they knew what used to be inside the grace-and-favour
Buckinghamshire manor house, which was given to the National Trust in the 1940s.
Until not so very long ago, Dorneywood's most impressive conference room
contained a set of 18th-century, life-sized statues of Venetian blackamoors in
gold gesso robes, depicting them in the role of flunkies. Dorneywood's
historian, JNP Watson, is dismissive of politically correct sensitivities. In
his book on the house, he regrets that the blackamoors were ever moved. "One
cannot help feeling how the conference room must have been much more impressive"
when they were there, he writes. "Alas those magnificent statues were removed
lest they should cause offence to some visitors."

Derek Laud, the former 'Big Brother' contestant and gay black Tory, has said he
will refuse to join David Cameron's A-list of parliamentary hopefuls, despite
various informal approaches from party high-ups. One wonders whether Laud has
been approached or whether he is regarded by the Cameron establishment as likely
to be too confusing to the electorate, since although he is gay and black he
speaks with a cut-glass accent and rides to hounds. Laud says he remembers when
the party was less favourably disposed towards minorities. He recalls being
vetted by the former Tory MP Matthew Banks, who asked him: "Do you not feel it
would damage the party if it comes out you are gay?" Laud retorted: "As a matter
of fact, it is no secret. But do you not feel it would damage the party if it
comes out you are lower middle-class?"

I was amused to see that former Coronation Street actor Adam Rickitt, another
name on Cameron's A-list, is intending to apply for the vacancy in Folkestone
and Hythe, where former Tory leader Michael Howard is retiring after many years'
service. But I was even more amused to see that the man in charge of selecting
the shortlist of candidates, the chairman of the local Conservative Association,
is none other than Jonathan Holborow, former editor of The Mail on Sunday. Will
Holborow be consulting Oswald about the shortlist? "Oswald" is the name Holborow
gave to the white cotton handkerchief he used as a security blanket, habitually
clasping it to his mouth in moments of stress, during his career as a newspaper
executive.

David Cameron has charged the former chancellor Ken Clarke with running a
Democracy Task Force to restore trust in politics. But has the notoriously lazy
Clarke read his own brief. On the Democracy Task Force website is a message from
Cameron that explains what he is looking for. "We must focus on what is
seriously wrong," writes Cameron. "The failure to scrutinise laws effectively.
The power of the whips and patronage. And the unchecked growth of government by
bureaucrats - in Britain and in Brussels." What, I mischievously inquire of
Clarke, does he make of the Brussels reference? "Does it say that?" he asks
airily. "That sounds like Eurosceptic twizzle."

Tory Euro MP Dan Hannan discloses that he has an unlikely hero. "I have always
had a sneaking regard for the new Italian Prime Minister, Romano Prodi - a
feeling which, as far as I can tell, is wholly unreciprocated," Hannan tells me.
Indeed, Hannan has little in common with the Euro-federalist politician, who has
been accused of being a former KGB agent by UKIP MEP Gerard Batten. Soon after
Prodi was appointed President of the European Commission in 1999, Hannan asked
him about his involvement in tracing the remains of AldoMoro, the former Italian
PM, kidnapped in 1978 and subsequently murdered by the Red Brigades. "While Moro
was being held, Prodi, then an academic, went to the police and told them
(correctly) that Moro could be found at a place called Gradoli. Asked how he
knew, he replied that he had been playing with a Ouija board when the spirits of
dead Christian Democrats had moved the glass to spell out G-R-A-D-O-L-I. Prodi
became testy when I raised the subject. Later, when the interview was published,
his press officer falsely claimed that he thought he had been speaking off the
record. But the episode did nothing to diminish my admiration for the old boy."

Spotted in the audience enjoying Rik Mayall's Alan B'Stard show at the York
Opera House recently was shadow Home Secretary David Davis. Talking to some
slightly amazed members of the audience, Davis joked that he had come along to
see how an MP's job is done and to pick up some tips. However, Davis's young
researcher, Kate Taylor-Richards, sat watching in panic as Alan B'Stard made
light relief of jamming his

assistant's fingers in filing cabinets, setting traps and generally shouting
madly. "I just hope David did not take notes," she briefly commented. "The
office can be scary enough as it is without him getting further ideas from Alan
B'Stard."

Madsen Pirie, president of the Adam Smith Institute, was on waspish form at an
Oxford Union debate, responding to the argument that private schools monopolised
the top jobs: "I went to a state school, so I never got to be a general or a
High Court judge.. And when I tried for a peerage, they'd sold out."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cabinet question: Mayall's B'Stard, with Marsha Fitzalan GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 4, 2006

Tory constituency rejects Cameron's candidates

BYLINE: Kitty Donaldson

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 630 words


THE attempt by David Cameron, the Conservative leader, to get more women and
ethnic minorities onto the Tory benches in the Commons failed its first test
last night when party members rejected centrally selected candidates to fight a
by-election.

Two candidates from Cameron's "priority list" made the final shortlist of three
to fight the by-election in Bromley and Chislehurst, south London, left vacant
by the death of the former minister Eric Forth.

However, constituency association members last night selected the third
candidate, Bob Neill, a locally chosen man, above the woman and the Asian man
sent down from Central Office.

Neill, 53, the leader of the Tory group on the London assembly, and other
Conservatives at the meeting played down any suggestion that the selection
result represented a victory for the local party.

"The whole point of David Cameron's policy, which I very much support, is that
we want to give people the widest possible choice of candidates," said Neill.

Earlier, Forth's widow Caroll had been knocked out in the first round of
interviews by the local party association. Sources said she lacked experience.

Before the selection weekend, Cameron had made an appeal to the 1,000 members of
the Bromley and Chislehurst association. He defended candidates selected
centrally for inclusion on his controversial priority list, which has been
criticised for putting "beautiful people" such as Adam Rickitt, the former
Coronation Street actor, and Louise Bagshawe, the romantic novelist, ahead of
local campaigners.

Forth, who was 61, served as a trade and an education minister in the 1990s and
enjoyed a majority of more than 13,000.

Before his death last month from cancer, the MP had told members of his local
party that he would do all he could to prevent a priority candidate being
foisted on them to succeed him.

Senior Tories chose not to run the risk of provoking an open clash with the
Bromley association. Francis Maude, the party chairman, decided not to impose
candidates on it from the priority list, although he has the power to do so.

In the event, two of the three names that made it to the shortlist were from the
priority list: Syed Kamall, a Tory MEP, and Julia Manning, chairwoman of the
Conservative Christian Fellowship.

The by-election on June 29 is the first poll scheduled since Cameron drew up his
new ideas for selection, which are designed to ensure that fewer Tory MPs are
male and middle-aged.

On Friday Cameron used a Tory weblog to address critics from his party, standing
by his priority list but insisting that the Bromley party was not being forced
to pick from the list.

However, the Tory leader declared it was time for everyone in the party to "will
the means" needed to end the "total scandal" that less than 10% of the
parliamentary party was female. "Anyone who believes in party democracy should
wholeheartedly support the drive to get more women and BME (black minority
ethnic) candidates selected in safe and winnable seats. We've been willing the
end; it's time we willed the means as well," he wrote.

"Please don't insult the hard-working, dedicated people on the priority list.
Have a look at them. Leaders of councils. Candidates who've stood in difficult
seats in difficult times."

Other candidates for the seat include Nigel Farage, leader of the UK
Independence party in the European parliament. he Liberal Democrats are fielding
Ben Abbotts, their environment spokesman on Bromley council. The local Labour
party will meet today to choose its candidate.

The Tories went to considerable lengths last night to emphasise that the
selection result did not represent a clash between the constituency and Central
Office.

Neill was heard telling Maude by mobile telephone: "I promise you I'll put my
best foot forward, mate."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 4, 2006

Eric Forth's widow fails in bid to become new MP

BYLINE: Kitty Donaldson

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 623 words


THE widow of Eric Forth,

the Tory MP who died last month, has failed in her attempt to become the party's
candidate to replace him in his constituency.

Carroll Forth was knocked out in the first round of interviews yesterday by
Bromley and Chislehurst Conservative Association in southeast London. Sources
said she lacked campaigning experience.

The selection is the first test of David Cameron's attempt to put more women and
ethnic minority MPs on the Conservative benches in parliament.

Bromley and Chislehurst Conservatives have a reputation as wealthy and
independent minded, with right-wing views. They are determined not to bow to
pressure from Tory HQ to accept an imposed candidate.

The Tory leader made an appeal just before the selection to the 1,000 members of
the local association. He defended candidates selected centrally for inclusion
on his controversial "priority list", which has been criticised for putting
"beautiful people" ahead of local campaigners.

Before his death last month from cancer, Forth had told members of the local
party that he would do all he could to prevent a priority candidate being
foisted on them to succeed him.

Senior Tories decided not to run the risk of provoking an open clash with the
Bromley association. Francis Maude, the party chairman, decided not to impose
candidates on them from the priority list, although he has the power to do so.

In the event, two of the three names on the shortlist are from the priority
list: Syed Kamall, a Tory MEP, and Julia Manning, chairwoman of the Conservative
Christian Fellowship.

The other applicant who made it to the final three, Bob Neill, the leader of the
Conservative group on the London Assembly, is not on the priority list.

The by-election on June 29 is the first poll scheduled since Cameron drew up his
new ideas for selection, which

are designed to ensure that fewer Tory MPs are male and middle-aged.

Forth, who was 61, served as a trade and an education minister in the 1990s and
enjoyed a majority of more than 13,000.

Some MPs from the right-wing Cornerstone group have attacked the inclusion of
celebrities on the A-list, which features Adam Rickitt, the former Coronation
Street actor, and Louise Bagshawe, the romantic novelist.

Cameron addressed critics on a Tory web log, standing by his priority list but
insisting that the Bromley party was

not being forced to pick from the list under internal by-

election rules.

The Tory leader said it was time for everyone in the party to "will the means"
needed to end the "total scandal" that less than 10% of the parliamentary party
was female.

"Anyone who believes in party democracy should wholeheartedly support the drive
to get more women and BME (black minority ethnic) candidates selected in safe
and winnable seats. We've been willing the end; it's time we willed the means as
well," he wrote.

"Please don't insult the hard-working, dedicated people on the priority list.
Have a look at them. Leaders of councils. Candidates who've stood in difficult
seats in difficult times."

Other candidates for the seat include Nigel Farage, leader of the UK
Independence party in the European parliament, who is planning a campaign on his
party's main themes of Britain leaving the European Union, the abolition of
inheritance tax and curbs on migration. "We are anti-Cameron but we are also
anti the fact that you can't put a cigarette paper between the three main
parties," said Farage.

Some Tories fear Farage could win support from some right-wing voters and that
more might have been tempted to defect if Cameron had tried to impose a
candidate.

The Liberal Democrats are fielding Ben Abbotts, their environment spokesman on
Bromley council. The local Labour party will meet today to choose its candidate.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How BNP racists are targeting UKIP

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 37

LENGTH: 420  words


THE British National Party is targeting hundreds of prominent members of the UK
Independence Party in a bid to boost its support.

Personal letters from Nick Griffin, the chairman of the extreme right-wing party
urges them to join his racist organisation - saying they "will feel very much at
home among fellow patriots".

But the letters - to all UKIP Parliamentary, European and local election
candidates as well as local party branch officers - have ignited a bitter war
between the rival parties, which both stand at four per cent in opinion polls.

In a barbed response Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP's MEPs in Brussels, said
any members who considered leaving for the BNP "would have been in the wrong
place anyway".

In his bid to lure members from UKIP Mr Griffin wrote: "Our membership consists
of very ordinary men and women who love this country. . . You will, I'm sure,
feel very much at home amongst such fellow patriots.

"I urge you to give serious consideration to coming across to join our winning
team. You won't be the only one, that's for sure! A very significant number of
ex-UKIP activists are already helping to shape and build the BNP" Mr Griffin
accused the UKIP leadership of "inertia", of having "squandered" their 2004
election success and of being under the "growing influence" of a "liberal-left
faction".

And he said the party was now "being manipulated by the very Europhile
establishment it is supposed to be against".

In last month's council elections the BNP enjoyed alarming success - winning 34
new seats to give it a total of 54 councillors across the nation.

But UKIP has been unable to capitalise on its success in the 2004 European
elections, when it won 16 per cent of the popular vote.

Last night Mr Farage said: "These letters have gone out to a few hundred people.
All the names are in the public domain and this is not the first time that we
have had letters from the BNP.

"Our members have also been targeted by the English Democratic Party and all
sort of other fringe parties, just as we regularly write to thousands of Tory
councillors asking them to join us.

"There is no way in which our two parties are bedfellows in any way, shape or
form. Anyone who did want to leave UKIP to join the BNP would have been in the
wrong place anyway.

"The difference between our party manifestos is enormous. We are absolutely
emphatic about being a nonsectarian and a non-racist party.

"We believe in international free trade, while they are protectionists.

We are anti-state and they are authoritarians."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday

Bribe your own voters first, young George

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Simon Heffer on Saturday; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 624 words


Like many of you, I muse from time to time on exactly how stupid the people who
now run the Conservative Party think we all are. Judging by the comments on
Thursday about taxation by the shadow chancellor, George Osborne, the likely
answer is "very''.

Young George - he looks, bless him, as if he is just about to wrestle with some
particularly chewy Latin prep - was once a lad of promise. He used to believe in
a flat-tax regime that would have put money back into the pockets of working
people, and reduce the size of our increasingly sovietised state. But that was
before Dave and his pals got their hands on him, and told him that the secret of
running the modern British economy - and keeping his job - was to do the same as
the Labour Party.

Of course, because they are the Opposition - technically, anyway - the
Conservatives aren't allowed to admit this. So young George made a slippery and
egregious speech two days ago, saying Labour took too much in tax, but he
offered no credible alternative.

The catchphrase that Dave, young George and their friends all use is "sharing
the proceeds of growth'' one day between tax cuts and more public spending. But
why, when we can afford to waste one fifth of the annual NHS budget on a
computer system that doesn't work, do we need more public spending? Indeed, why
do we need as much public spending as we have?

Have Dave and young George looked at the map? In regions where everyone votes
Labour, huge amounts of public money are shovelled at them. Where people vote
Tory, the amounts are rarely two thirds as much. Young George won't dare talk of
cutting handouts to Labour voters because it means sacking hundreds of thousands
of useless people, doing socially unproductive and pointless jobs, and making up
Gordon Brown's client state. Instead of learning a valuable lesson from Mr Brown
- that a party's own people should be bribed first - young George prefers to
maintain the status quo, and offer to carry on bribing Labour's supporters
exclusively.

Sadly for the Conservatives, all that will happen by bribing Labour voters and
not incentivising their own is that people will continue to vote Labour, and
those who used to vote Tory will either stay at home or vote UKIP. Not the least
hypocritical aspect of the supposed great Conservative victory in the recent
elections was Dave's visit, in triumph, to Hammersmith the morning after the
poll. In celebrating the victory of the councillors there, he neglected to
mention that the main reason they had done so well was that they had campaigned
on a strong council tax-cutting platform.

Most would-be Tory voters are intelligent, sensible people who are well aware of
basic facts of economic and political life in a way for which Dave, young George
and their mates give them no credit. They know Labour's current levels of
taxation and spending are obscene. They know the scope for savings, and
therefore for massive tax cuts, is huge. They know that, unless the tax burden
is reduced urgently and seriously, there will be no growth from which to have
any proceeds, shared or otherwise. They know our main international competitors
are not other sclerotic, high-tax economies such as France, Germany or Italy,
but deregulated, low-tax ones such as China and India. And they anxiously, but
with little hope, await the moment when the Conservative Party recognises this,
too.

Instead, the utter cowardice of young George - who is, I fear, only obeying
orders in order to keep his nose in the trough - is dressed up in promises of
"sharing the proceeds of growth''. It's just as well he won't have the
embarrassment of being chancellor in 2009, and having to explain to an angry
public why talking about growth is easier than actually achieving it.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2006, Saturday

Cameron digs deep to save women MPs plan

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 602 words


David Cameron made an eleventh-hour appeal to grassroots Conservatives yesterday
to back his faltering plans for more women MPs.

On the eve of the first significant test of his strategy to transform the public
face of the party, the Conservative leader issued a statement on an activists'
website defending candidates on his controversial priority list and urging
members to take them seriously.

His extraordinary plea came as up to 1,000 members of the Bromley and
Chislehurst Conservative Association prepared to choose the successor to Eric
Forth, who died last month. Five "Chislehurst cavemen", local councillors and
activists from within the constituency, will take on three "Notting
Hill-billies" plucked from Mr Cameron's priority list of high-flyers, including
two women. Tonight's selection contest is billed as a showdown between party
traditionalists and modernisers.

Mr Cameron urged activists to give his priority list candidates a fair chance.

"Please don't insult the hard-working, dedicated people on the priority list,"
he said. "Have a look at them. Leaders of councils. Candidates who have stood in
difficult seats in difficult times. Years of hard graft for our party. Some with
less experience in politics, but with great potential, who need to prove
themselves."

The priority list has been called lightweight by critics, who say that too many
have little experience of campaigning for the party. There was a further setback
this week when it emerged that half a dozen of the 35 constituencies lined up to
choose new candidates from the priority list this month have pulled out, saying
that they were not impressed with the applications.

A vacancy in Bromley and Chiselhurst is unfortunate for Mr Cameron. Maverick,
independent-minded and wealthy, Bromley and Chislehurst Conservatives are among
the most hostile to his efforts to increase the number of women and ethnic
minority MPs. As revealed in The Times, Mr Forth told friends before his
unexpected death that he would do all he could to fight the next election in
Bromley to prevent an A-list candidate succeeding him.

Sensing a bloodbath, Mr Cameron quickly decided that Bromley and Chislehurst was
not the place to pick the first fight in what is certain to be a long and bloody
war over candidate selection. Francis Maude, the party chairman, passed up the
chance to impose a line-up of priority list candidates on the association, which
is his right under by-election rules.

In an exceptional move, he has allowed the association to include local
candidates, councillors and association officials on the shortlist. They even
fast-tracked the application of Carroll Forth, the MP's widow, to placate the
local party.

These are the Chislehurst cavemen, named after the labyrinth of underground
passages, reputedly used by Druids, that run under the constituency. Their
chances of success tonight have been boosted by the announcement yesterday by
the UK Independence Party that Nigel Farage will contest the seat. Activists
will favour a traditional right-wing Eurosceptic as the best chance to keep the
UKIP at bay.

Modernisers still hope that the Notting Hill-billies will be so impressive on
the night that activists will have little option but to select one of them.

TWO TRIBES

CHISLEHURST CAVEMEN

Bob Neill leader of Tory group on Greater London Assembly

Michael Harris chairman of Bromley and Chislehurst Conservative Assocation

Colin Bloom local councillor

Stephen Carr local councillor

Carroll Forth Eric Forth's widow

NOTTING HILL-BILLIES

Syed Kammall MEP

Julia Manning chairman of Conservative Christian Fellowship

Mary Macleod ex-merchant banker

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

Prodi 'was KGB's man in Rome', says former Soviet spy

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 223 words


FRESH claims that Italian prime minister Romano Prodi was a Soviet agent have
emerged just hours before he is due to meet with Tony Blair.

Euro MPs have demanded an investigation into the claims that Leftwing Mr Prodi
was the KGB's man in Rome.

Similar rumours have circulated for years and resurfaced recently during the
bitter general election campaign. Mr Prodi , pictured, has always denied the
allegations.

Now the European Parliament has been told of a statement made by Alexander
Litvinenko, a former lieutenant colonel in the Russian FSB, which was the
successor to the KGB.

Litvinenko defected to Britain in 2001 and lives in the constituency of UK
Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten.

Mr Batten told the Strasbourg assembly that Litvinenko had considered defecting
to Italy, but was told by an ally: 'Don't go to Italy, there are many KGB agents
among the politicians. Romano Prodi is our man there.' EC president Jose Barroso
rejected demands for an inquiry, saying: 'The commission has no knowledge of any
facts concerning the allegations.' Last night Mr Prodi's spokesman said there
was 'no truth' in the claims, and added they were raised in a newspaper owned by
defeated prime minister Silvio Berlusconi in 'a blatant attempt at
electioneering'. Mr Blair is paying Mr Prodi a 'courtesy visit' today while he
is on holiday in Italy.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Alternative allies

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 112 words


Who might the Cameron Tories tie up with ?

* The Polish Law and Justice party: now leading the coalition government in
Warsaw. Favours capital punishment and opposes homosexuality.

* France's Movement for France, led by rightwinger Philippe de Villiers. Three
MEPs sit with Ukip.

* Italy's Carlo Fatuzzo, sole MEP representing the Pensioners' party.

* Ireland's Kathy Sinnott, a mother of 10. Independent, sitting with Ukip.

* Holland's Paul van Buitenen, Brussels whistleblower and alleged Christian
fundamentalist. Europe Transparent group. Sat with Greens

* Latvian and Lithuanian nationalists, dismissed by some Tory MEPs as "wool
gatherers".

* Czechoslovakia's Civic Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2006 Tuesday



CORRECTION: The Civic Democrats are a conservative party in the Czech Republic,
not in Czechoslovakia, which ceased to exist 13 years ago (Alternative allies, a
panel accompanying EU threatens to wreck Cameron's honeymoon, page 15, June 2).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  June 2, 2006

Cameron: I won't impose 'A-lister' on Bromley

LENGTH: 398 words



HIGHLIGHT: David Cameron has confirmed that he will not impose an 'A-list'
candidate on the constituency of Bromley and Chislehurst, where a byelection
will be held on June 29 after the death of the sitting Tory MP Eric Forth.


David Cameron has confirmed that he will not impose an "A-list" candidate on the
constituency of Bromley and Chislehurst, where a byelection will be held on June
29 after the death of the sitting Tory MP Eric Forth.

The Conservative leader reassured the ConservativeHome website today that the
local constituency association would not be expected to pick their candidate
from the list, which is intended to increase the number of women and ethnic
minority MPs on the Tory benches.

Several senior local Tories gave warnings two weeks ago that they considered the
list unconstitutional and that they would resist any effort by the party HQ to
impose a "politically correct" candidate on them.

One said there would be a "real problem" if a "gay person took over the mantle
of Eric Forth", who was strongly opposed to any form of positive discrimination.

Mr Cameron writes today that the byelection was "never going to be a test of the
A-list" and that procedures for choosing byelection candidates would remain the
same as before.

However, he reiterates that it was imperative that a greater proportion of
female and ethnic minority Tory MPs were elected. "We've been willing the end;
it's time we willed the means as well," he says.

"Please don't insult the hard-working, dedicated people on the priority list.
These people have all been through a parliamentary assessment board or fought
hard seats in the past, and then through a further selection process.

"... Our party believes in opportunity, doesn't it? Our party believes in giving
people a chance, whatever their background. People should not be criticised
because they fail to fit a certain Tory stereotype."

His critics, however, are likely to accuse Mr Cameron of balking at the first
major hurdle his A-list faces. Bromley and Chislehurst is a safe Conservative
seat where voters would have been unlikely to reject an A-list candidate,
however unconventional.

Howard Flight, an enthusiastic advocate of tax cuts who was controversially
sacked by Michael Howard last year after he suggested the Conservatives planned
to cut public spending, is thought to be interested in standing.

Other would-be candidates include Mr Forth's widow, Caroll, the London MEP Syed
Kamall and Bob Neill, the head of the Tory group in the London Assembly.

The Ukip MEP Nigel Farage, who lives in the borough of Bromley, has announced he
intends to fight the seat.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               43 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday

UKIP fear for Tories

LENGTH: 62  words


TORIES face a challenge to the safe seat of Bromley next month from UKIP chief
Nigel Farage.

High-profile Mr Farage is to stand as a candidate in the by-election caused by
the death of colourful MP Eric Forth.

The anti-Europe party came fourth in the 2005 General Election but MEP Mr Farage
hopes to dent the 13,342 Tory majority with the slogan: "New Labour or Blue
Labour."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday

UKIP Challenge

LENGTH: 84  words


THE Tories face a by-election challenge to one of their so-called "safe seats"
next month - from UKIP chief Nigel Farage.

The anti-Europe party was pushed into fourth place in Bromley, South London, in
the 2005 General Election with just 3.2 per cent of votes. But high-profile MEP
Mr Farage hopes to dent the 13,342 Tory majority with the slogan: "New Labour or
Blue Labour."

The poll follows the death of former Tory schools minister Eric Forth, 61. The
Tories are expected to call a June 29 by-election.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved
