
                               1 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Cigarette firm gets GBP 4m handout from taxpayer

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL E DITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 36

LENGTH: 468  words


TOBACCO giant Philip Morris is pocketing millions of pounds in taxpayers' cash
under Europe's Common Agricultural Policy.

The firm, which makes the top-selling Marlboro brand, gets GBP 4.4million a year
in farm subsidies because it uses sugar products in its cigarettes.

Philip Morris is just one of a long list of multi-national companies which
benefit under the EU's controversial farming policy.

Tony Blair has repeatedly promised to reform the system but at the end of
Britain's six-month presidency of the EU in December he failed to force other
member states to agree.

The European Union spent GBP 30billion on the Common Agricultural Policy in 2004
- more than 40 per cent of the whole EU budget - with billions going to support
the sugar industry.

The policy guarantees artificially high prices to EU sugar producers,
maintaining them through tariffs and production quotas. When multi-national
manufacturers export sugar or processed goods using sugar, they are entitled to
refunds on the difference between the EU price they have to pay and the lower
world market price.

Tate & Lyle, the EU's largest sugar exporter, received nearly GBP 120million in
subsidies in 2004, while Nestlé and GlaxoSmithKline were also among the global
giants to get taxpayers' cash.

Gate Gourmet, the airline catering company, is paid huge sums for its use of
sugar and milk sachets. And even KLM Euro, the Dutch airline, received EU cash
through the rural restructuring fund towards the cost of adding fruit to its
in-flight meals.

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said: "As the most Eurosceptic person in Britain, even I
am amazed at these revelations.

The extent to which the poor taxpayer is subsidising wealthy multi-national
companies and paying higher prices under the Common Agricultural Policy has
never been as clearly revealed.

"People will be shocked to think that even cigarette manufacturers are
beneficiaries of the CAP, which Tony Blair has failed repeatedly to reform."

Matthew Elliot, of the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "People think the CAP keeps
small farmers in business, but in fact it's the big agrifarmers who are the main
beneficiaries - businesses like Philip Morris and Tate & Lyle.

British taxpayers pay nearly GBP 2billion to overseas farmers each year and GBP
88million to subsidise tobacco production. Even Eton College received GBP 2,626
from the Rural Development Agency last year.

"Reform of the CAP is long overdue to give taxpayers value for money."

The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said:

"This is part and parcel of the CAP system which we want to reform. However, it
is important to remember that we secured significant reforms in 2003, 2004 and
most recently to the sugar regime in late 2005.

"This will go a small way to address unusual subsidies. We want to see reform
going much further."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SWEETENER: Firms get EU subsidy for using sugar products in cigarettes
Picture: BARBARA WALTON/EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 28, 2006 Saturday

Americans got control of defence labs on the cheap

BYLINE: JAMES ASHTON; JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 560 words


THE Ministry of Defence was facing new questions last night over why it handed
control of Britain's state - owned military research laboratories to a U.S.
firm.

Carlyle was given 51 per cent of the voting rights when the stake it bought in
defence firm QinetiQ was only 31 per cent.

That gave it enough power to call the shots without having to pay for the
privilege, critics said. Defence Secretary John Reid made a blustering defence
of the sell-off yesterday, insisting the taxpayer had not been short-changed.

But there is growing disquiet at Westminster at the Pounds 1.3billion flotation
of QinetiQ, Labour's first full privatisation since Tony Blair came to power in
1997.

Former defence ministers and opposition parties have complained that Carlyle was
sold its stake in the company too cheaply.

Britain's spending watchdog, the National Audit Office, is to investigate
whether the taxpayer has been left out of pocket.

The value of Carlyle's investment of Pounds 42million will increase eightfold,
to Pounds 338million.

The MoD said Carlyle had been given 51 per cent voting rights because it wanted
to hand over 'operational, day-today control'.

But it insists it kept back decision-making powers over issues of national
security.

'We wanted Carlyle because of their management expertise and experience in the
defence industry,' the MoD said. 'From a value-for-money perspective, they
offered the highest price for the lowest share of QinetiQ.' The company is at
the cuttingedge of technology. Recent breakthroughs include missile-guiding
equipment and a device that helps identify the best sites for wind farms.

Mr Reid insisted Carlyle's profit merely reflected the value the U.S.

firm had added to QinetiQ and said its expertise in running the firm had been
invaluable.

'The taxpayer, for those shares we are now selling off, is getting eight times
as much for those shares as we could have done in the market a few years ago
precisely because of the value that has been added,' he said.

'It is since we brought in the private sector management that the value of the
company has increased.

'The MoD is very good at certain things but it is not necessarily very good at
running companies.' Mr Reid told Radio 4's Today that ordinary investors could
buy shares in the new issue, but not by subscribing as they did when British
Telecom and British Gas were privatised 20 years ago. They must apply through
stockbrokers.

'The shares will be sold off at the present market value to anyone large or
small, institutional or individually,' Mr Reid said.

He said the Government refused to 'waste taxpayers' money' by spending millions
on an advertising blitz making people aware of the sell-off.

On Monday, protests at the sell-off will be staged at six QinetiQ sites across
Britain.

Gerard Batten, the UK Independence Party Euro MP and defence spokesman, who is
organising one rally at Burntisland, Fife, described the privatisation as 'a
sell-out, not a sell-off'.

'Carlyle didn't even have to buy half of the company to gain control over it,'
he said.

'In these troubled times when defence and security issues are among our most
pressing concerns, we find a Labour Government selling off the heart of the
British defence industry, and handing multimillion-pound jackpots to executives
who have already benefited from the cut-price sale of the first 30 per cent of
the company.'

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            January 27, 2006, Friday

Looking up

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words


(Photograph) - The Lib Dem candidate Willie Rennie continues his search for more
votes at an outdoor climbing centre during the Dunfermline and West Fife
by-election campaign yesterday. The seat is held by Labour, for whom Catherine
Stihler is standing in succession to Rachel Squire, who died this month.

Nominations closed yesterday and the other candidates in the race are: Ian
Borland (UKIP), Douglas Chapman (SNP), George Hargreaves (Scottish Christian
Party), John McAllion (Scottish Socialist Party), Tom Minogue (Abolish Forth
Bridge Tolls Party), Dick Rodgers (The Common Good), Carrie Ruxton
(Conservative)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo. Caption not available

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                January 22, 2006

PROTEST NOTE

LENGTH: 116 words


Sir - You say UKIP is to reposition itself as a protest party for libertarian
Conservatives. Is this in the same way that the Labour Party is a protest party
for those on the left?

<b>Dr PP Gardner<br>

Oxford</b>


<I>Letters for publication should include the writer's name, address and
telephone number. We reserve the right to edit them. We do not publish letters
sent by e-mail unless accompanied by the writer's name, full postal address and
telephone number. Writers who do not want their e-mail address published should
state so clearly. Send to: The Business, PA News Centre, 292 Vauxhall Bridge
Road, London, SW1V 1SS or email letters@thebusiness.press.net</I>


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group

                               5 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 22, 2006

Kirkcaldy flags up the union's true colours

BYLINE: Paul Lamarra

SECTION: FEATURES; Ecosse; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 687 words


Gordon Brown wants to reclaim the Union flag, but his home town has other ideas,
writes Paul Lamarra

Standing in a car park in Kirkcaldy I pull on my Union Jack T-shirt - or Union
flag to be correct - and brace myself.

I wait to be flooded with a sense of overwhelming pride, the kind of resolute
spirit that carried the day at Balaclava, the siege of Mafeking and Dunkirk.

Instead I am immediately overcome by an urge to explain to those trying not to
stare that I am not racist, an Ulster Loyalist, or a Little Englander.

Last weekend Gordon Brown, the local MP and prime minister-in-waiting, called
for the Union flag to be reclaimed from the British National party as a symbol
of national unity, patriotism and tolerance. The flag, he thundered in a speech
to the Fabian Society, should be honoured throughout the United Kingdom.

To test reaction to this proposal I am in Kirkcaldy, where Brown grew up, clad
conspicuously in a red, white and blue top. Surely here, in a town famous for
producing linoleum for the sculleries and back lobbies of the British empire, my
defiant act of patriotism will be applauded.

Or perhaps not. I catch the odd furtive glance, while others march past with
pursed lips and an Asian gentleman looks dismayed.

Soon there is a more vocal expression of disapproval. "Look at that tit in the
Union Jack," shouts one young man.

I catch up with him, eager to make the point that it is only referred to as
Union Jack when flown at the bow of a ship and ask what he finds so
objectionable.

In his defence Jack Buckingham, a joinery student, mutters, "You don't see many
folk in Kirkcaldy wearing a Union Jack - if you do they're English. I thought
you were English and were trying to start something.

"I don't care what Brown says, it is an English flag and I would refuse point
blank to put one in my garden - it wouldn't be long before someone put my
windows in." In his village of Cardenden, he warns, they would put me out of my
misery.

Next stop Cardenden. But, my lonely walk along the rain-soaked streets of the
former mining village doesn't provoke so much as a bark of disapproval from a
passing alsatian. I decide to gauge reaction in the Railway Tavern. It is a
brave man who interrupts the viewers of the afternoon movie but fortunately
their curiosity is aroused. They are well aware of Brown's comments and have
some advice for a man they consider a defender of the working class.

"I'll feel British when I feel equal," says Hugh MacDonald. "I felt British when
we had our

shipyards and steelworks and coalmines - they treat us like second-class
citizens down in London."

For a more patriotic view they suggest I try nearby Cowdenbeath. There the
reaction is immediate. Another man in a passing van suggests I take myself
elsewhere. I seek refuge in the Clansman bar on the High Street and I am
welcomed like a long-lost brother. More specifically, I am welcomed as a fellow
Rangers fan.

The man at the bar introduces himself as Rab Bowland, TB. He says that just like
me he is also a "True Blue". However when I clarify the situation and describe
myself as a British patriot there is a flicker of anger in his eyes. "That's a
weegie accent you've got there so why the hell are you proud to be British -
you're Scottish, man," says Bowland. Cowdenbeath folk, Bowland adds, are as
Scottish as cholesterol and have the fake tans to prove it.

It appears reclaiming the flag from the BNP will be a pushover compared with
disentangling it from the morass of contradictory loyalties that exist in the
minds of many of Brown's constituents.

As a last stop I choose Dalgety Bay, a charmless dormitory town where large
houses command views of the Firth of Forth.

My public display of patriotism, however, does not go down well in the aisles of
Tesco Metro. "I thought you were from UKIP or the BNP," says John Lloyd, who
adds that he doesn't object to the flag as much as my exhibitionism.

Removing my T-shirt I slip it back into a bag where it will stay until the day
when we take a holiday, hang out the Union flag and light fireworks in
celebration of our Britishness. More likely it'll end up as a duster.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday

Joan Collins and her shoulders of fortune The actress talks to Caroline Sullivan
about love, Dynasty, and a moment of madness with Robert Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: Caroline Sullivan

SECTION: ART; The Arts; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 849 words


At 72, Joan Collins has a lush, va-va-voom quality you'd describe as "ageless''
if it didn't sound so patronising. It's not that she looks vastly younger than
she is - with her hourglass figure and bouffy dark hair, she could be 60ish. But
there's a switched-on cheekiness that probably explains what attracted Percy
Gibson, her Peruvian/Scottish fifth husband, 32 years her junior.

Their happiness appears to be the real thing - certainly for Collins, who sees
Gibson as "my soulmate, the best thing that's ever happened to me''. Her only
regret is not finding him sooner. "When I think of the hours I spent in discos -
Annabel's, Tramp, 54 - drinking and carousing, night after night, trying to have
fun...''

But if she'd met Gibson at that point - say, in the early 1980s - he would have
been a schoolboy, while she was just hitting her stride as the vixenish Alexis
Carrington in Dynasty (he was probably one of the legion of teenage boys who
grew up with Collins lodged in his head as the archetypal sexy, scary
fortysomething (those shoulder pads, that mid-Atlantic froideur...).

Collins has claimed she's never dated a man over the age of 40. In Gibson she's
found a young one who shares her rather old-fashioned showbiz tastes. While
she's funny and unsnobbish - and, paradoxically, rather grand, curled like a
pasha in her armchair - she's also not entirely of this century. Not for Collins
the democratically casual lifestyle of newer stars. She wears diamonds in the
afternoon, summers in St Tropez and hangs with a gang that has included, at
various times, Liza Minnelli, Gregory Peck and Noël Coward.

Then there was Princess Margaret - they weren't bosom buddies, but she did "come
to my house a few times''. She remembers the night Margaret came to see her
while she was starring in a revival of Coward's Private Lives. "Afterwards she
came back and said, 'I re-read the play this afternoon, and you were very true
to the text.' Imagine that, actually reading a play you were going to see that
night. I thought that was amazing.''

Collins's selling point for the past several years has been the fact that they
don't make 'em like her any more. This is the premise of her latest project, a
one-woman UK tour, starting in April, called An Evening With Joan Collins. She's
full of anticipatory relish - and understandably so; her life being a
raconteur's dream, the problem will be what to leave out. Only the beginning of
her career, when she trained at Rada in the expectation of a serious acting
career, was conventional. She moved to Hollywood in her twenties, and life took
a rakish twist; for a long time, she was decorative and naughty, enjoying
liaisons with Warren Beatty, Ryan O'Neal and other Hollywood Romeos, but not
rated as much of a thespian.

Then came Dynasty, which made her suddenly famous at the age of 48 and the
highest-paid TV actress in Hollywood. She hasn't stopped working since. In the
past few years, during a lull in acting jobs, she's kept busy by writing a
beauty book and a bonkbusting novel, Misfortune's Daughters.

Boy George recently declared her to be "the ultimate gay icon'', which seems to
make sense (those shoulder pads again) until you consider that she lacks the
tragic vulnerability that typifies gay icons. Does she see herself as one?

Mulling it over, she decides that she doesn't. "I'd have thought the ultimate
gay icon of today is Liza Minnelli, not me. She's incredibly vulnerable and
delicate. Maybe they like my hair and dress. If you're too analytical you can
get really screwed up in your head.

"I've never been analytical. When I first arrived in Hollywood, all my young
friends went to shrinks, and told me I should go, so I did, 'cos it was the
trendy thing to do. I didn't have any great insights. Because the thing is, I
had an extremely happy childhood - and, you know, I'm so fed up hearing about
celebrities who say they were abused. I'm sure some of them make it up.''

This is the kind of robustness, I imagine, that led to her famous brief alliance
with Robert Kilroy-Silk's anti-immigration UKIP party a few years ago. Reminded
of what she now considers a misjudgment, she looks pained. "Oh, God! That was a
mad moment of boredom in Newcastle. I got out of it a few weeks later. Because
I'd written a rather stirring article for the Sunday Times about what was wrong
with Britain, suddenly I was the poster girl for UKIP.''

Recent appearances in Have I got News For You and Gordon Ramsay's The F-Word
have marked her return to prime time UK TV, after a period she describes as
"famine''. She has also filmed two episodes of Footballers' Wives

Are these profile-raising British-based jobs a way of lining up a damehood to go
with the OBE she received in 1997? She smiles gently. "I've no intention of
lining up for my damehood. I wouldn't get one. I don't have the body of work of
Judi Dench and Diana Rigg.'' Come on - you're something of a national treasure.
She shrugs. "I'm not stuck-up enough.'' Nor is she ever likely to be.

'An Evening With Joan Collins' opens on April 14 at St David's Hall, Cardiff.
Details: www.joancollins.net

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           January 21, 2006, Saturday

Nationalists feud over blame for Union Flag attack

BYLINE: Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 751 words


A SCOTTISH National Party MSP has become involved in an angry squabble with her
former researcher over who was to blame for a press release that attacked the
Union Flag as "the butcher's apron".

Mark Hirst, who was researcher to Sandra White, a Nationalist list MSP for
Glasgow, resigned yesterday claiming that he had been authorised by her to issue
the statement. Earlier in the week Ms White said that while the release, which
also referred to the Union Flag as having "a tarnished global image", had been
sent out in her name, she had not given permission.

Yesterday, Mr Hirst produced an e-mail he had sent to Ms White asking "for
approval before I fire out". She replied: "Yes. OK. Ta, Sandra."

The original press release that mentioned the "butcher's apron" (a term of abuse
referring to bloodshed at the hands of British government forces during and
after the 1715 and 1745 rebellions) caused the SNP acute embarrassment. Ms White
spoke with party officials for some time on Tuesday before she released another
statement saying: "This statement was released to the press without my approval
.

. . the sentiments expressed in the press release do not reflect my views on the
issue."

Mr Hirst agreed he had had a second e-mail from Ms White, sent an hour after her
initial approval, in which she asked for two paragraphs of the press release to
be deleted but leaving in the phrases that offended other MSPs. He added: "The
release had already been issued by this point as per instruction following her
first e-mail. I notified Ms White of this immediately on receipt of her second
e-mail. I did not hear anything further from her."

SNP sources described the row as "a complete balls-up" and said Ms White had
sent her reply to Mr Hirst "in error". There were, the sources said, other
e-mails in existence that contradicted Mr Hirst's version and that Ms White
stood by the statement she issued when the affair first surfaced.

The controversy is damaging to the SNP leadership, which is trying to throw off
any suggestion that it is anti-English. Alex Salmond, party leader, tried last
night to play the row down by describing it as a breakdown in communications. He
expressed his regret at Mr Hirst's resignation and said: "We accepted that
there's been confusion, which was why Mark wasn't disciplined, but he decided to
resign. .

. That's unfortunate, but I imagine that when a relationship breaks down between
an MSP and his or her members of staff then that is an outcome that is likely."

Bill Aitken, the Conservative chief whip at Holyrood, accused the SNP of
"ducking, weaving and trying to pass the buck" on to one of their employees.
"This whole matter illustrates to us a party with a blinkered, bigoted
anti-Englishness and anti-Britishness which should concern us all," he said.

The controversy distracted attention from the launch yesterday of the party's
campaign for the Dunfermline and Fife West by-election on February 9, caused by
the death of Rachel Squire, the Labour MP for the seat. The Nationalists came
third, behind Labour and the Liberal Democrats, at the general election and
yesterday Mr Salmond set his sights on overtaking both parties.

He pointed to a recent council by-election victory in nearby Burntisland and
said that his party had achieved a swing of more than 10 per cent from Labour in
last September's Livingston by-election. "If anything, I would say the
discontent with the Labour Party is greater here than even it was in Livingston.
We think we are in a neck-and-neck contest with Labour and we expect to win."

The Nationalists have chosen Douglas Chapman, a former local councillor, for the
by-election, while the Scottish Conservatives unveiled Carrie Ruxton, 38, as
their candidate. Labour activists were meeting last night to choose their
candidate, with Catherine Stihler, an MEP, the favourite. The Lib Dems have
chosen Willie Rennie, a former chief executive of the party in Scotland. The UK
Independence Party named Ian Borland, an insurance broker, as its candidate. He
fought the seat at the general election, where he polled 643 votes.

A memorial service for Rachel Squire will take place at Dunfermline Abbey on
Friday, February 3. Gordon Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and Catherine
Stihler, who shared an office with her, will be among those paying tribute.

2005 RESULT

At last year's general election

RACHEL SQUIRE (Lab) 20,111 (47.44%); Lib Dem 8,549 (20.17%); SNP 8,026 (18.93%);
Con 4,376 (10.32%); SSP 689 (1.63%); UKIP 643 (1.52%). Turnout 59.9%

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday

Salmond's leap into a smaller pool

BYLINE: JOHN MACLEOD

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1178 words


IT'S ridiculous, it's audacious it's Alex Salmond. The SNP leader's long-trailed
return to Holyrood, at the Scottish parliament elections next spring had already
taken on the air of the biggest comeback in Scottish politics since the Old
Pretender stepped ashore at Peterhead.

Now new drama is thrown into the mix, for Mr Salmond is doing it the hard way.

He is to contest the Gordon constituency, long in the paws of some Liberal or
other a seat where, though the Nats came a good second in 1999, they did rather
badly in 2003.

It will take a pretty substantial swing of 10 per cent for Mr Salmond to wrest
Gordon from Nora Radcliffe, the Liberal Democrat incumbent. And, while his
return to Holyrood is assured in any event he will certainly sit atop the SNP
regional list, ready to be parachuted in under Holyrood's ridiculous electoral
rules the enterprise is fraught with political risk.

If Mr Salmond doesn't win Gordon, he will look distinctly ridiculous. And, if he
doesn't win it, the general national swing to the SNP will be a long way short
of winning the Holyrood elections outright.

Claymores will doubtless slide from the SNP thatch and Alex Salmond's
comfortably jowly neck will be their most obvious target.

But the howls of derision from assorted political opponents, to say nothing of
La Radcliffe's whines of defiance, have a distinctive, nervy edge, for Mr
Salmond has a very nasty habit of pulling off his predictions.

And, behind the chutzpah of the happy gambler on the gee-gees, which he has
always insisted he ain't, lurks the cold, calculating brain of the one
indisputably first-rank politician the SNP has ever produced.

Other options were no doubt considered. One was simply to stand on the regional
list, without contesting a constituency but this is against SNP rules, the sole
exception being the wonderful Winnie Ewing, who was allowed so to run in 1999.

Another was to displace Stewart Stevenson, the MSP for Mr Salmond's Westminster
constituency. But Mr Stevenson, we gather, was less than enthusiastic about
relocation to London, far less plain redundancy. Nor are Salmond/Stevenson
relations so hot in that damning, very Scottish conclusion, one is told 'their
wives don't get on'.

Mr Salmond no doubt pondered Moray, a safeish SNP seat from which the present
veteran, Margaret Ewing, is to retire.

Still another option was the Aberdeen Central division, where the Nats in 2003
ran Labour's Lewis MacDonald a respectably close second.

A jaunt in either direction, though, would inevitably expose Mr Salmond to the
taunt of 'carpetbagger'. It would have been a still bigger gamble to brave a
Central Belt odyssey and fight, say, Cumbernauld & Kilsyth, although the local
party were very keen on him.

He had, in addition, to await the Arbuthnott Report, due for unveiling later
this week and which many thought might radically rework the Holyrood voting
system. In the event, we are assured its reforms are modest no single
transferable vote, no multimember divisions, merely a tweaking of the list
system, to give voters a choice between party candidates.

The last worry was Richard Lochhead, an able Nationalist MSP on the North-East
regional list, whose position is threatened by a Salmond candidacy. That
embarrassment faded a fortnight ago when Mr Lochhead was selected for Moray,
edging out Annabel Ewing.

Gordon, now, is in the heart of Mr Salmond's North- East stamping ground. It has
a strong SNP tradition and, better still, Mr Salmond already represents some
bits of it in his new Westminster division.

Between local presence, campaigning skills and sheer chutzpah and largely
regardless of any wider SNP performance he should almost certainly win it.

But there is a wider strategic dimension. Mr Salmond has gaily forecast that the
SNP will grab at least 20 first-past-thepost seats in the new Holyrood
parliament. Few expect him to get that, or anything like it but Gordon sits a
neat 18th on the SNP target list and, by putting his credibility on the line in
such terms, Alex Salmond is indubitably leading from the front.

Meanwhile, he's happy, Stewart Stevenson is happy, Richard Lochhead is happy and
the SNP generally rejoices in the smack of firm government.It has not, of late,
been an easy time for Scotland's National Party. The Nats drifted badly under
the decent but inept leadership of John Swinney and have seen their vote decline
through successive contests. At the last general election, they were edged into
third place by the Liberal Democrats.

The SNP struggles for the headlines at the best of times and, in the enjoyable
psychodrama of Westminster in recent months with the Tories, and now the
LibDems, consumed by leadership change has all but vanished from the radar. But
the SNP still matters. It matters because it remains the dynamic core of
Scottish politics. When the Nats are moribund, and toiling, it's Dullsville.
When the SNP is on a roll, anything can happen.

And it matters because it is the only political force that seriously threatens
the rotten hegemony of Scottish Labour, and is the one party of which Labour is
genuinely afraid.

The Nats, too, get a much fairer crack of the whip in a Holyrood contest an
equal number of election broadcasts and much more equitable coverage in the
broadcast media.

There are other encouragements. In recent years, nationalism has been badly
damaged by fringe parties. The Scottish Socialists did serious damage in 2003
especially in the second, list vote, although it is arguable that SSP gains also
cost the Nats the likes of Galloway and Dundee West.

The unexpectedly strong showing of UKIP also contributed to the poor European
election result that cost Swinney his leadership.

Subsequently, both parties have selfdestructed UKIP is back to being a national
joke and Colin Fox is not remotely in Tommy Sheridan's league as a politician or
public figure. But the SNP may prove the biggest winner from the crisis
presently engulfing the Liberal Democrats. For all Charles Kennedy's manifest
failings, he was until the last popular with the wider British public, and
especially so in Scotland. There is little doubt that recent SNP general
election disappointments were down to the disparity of TV coverage between their
campaigning endeavours and the roadshow that was Chatshow Charlie.

Even if Sir Menzies Campbell can win the LibDem leadership which looks much less
probable than it did only ten days ago the Liberals' Scottish appeal will
certainly be diminished and the likes of Mark Oaten or Simon Hughes would dent
it still further.

There is but one Nationalist nightmare: Prime Minister Brown. Were the
Chancellor at last to attain No 10 ideally, some weeks before the Holyrood poll,
with a honeymoon glow and bonnie babies the SNP would find itself on a new
electoral planet and, up against such a formidable Scottish operator, in very
serious trouble.

Mr Salmond next spring will head up a bold and sweeping campaign, with all the
usual vigour. He may do very well. But be sure, for the duration, he prays
without ceasing for the health and wellbeing of Tony Blair.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 712 words


Under the leadership of Dave Cameron, the Conservatives are clearly adopting a
more relaxed attitude towards cannabis. It seems that the party is looking not
so much for blue-sky thinking on the issue as, perhaps, a marmalade-sky
approach. On Tuesday we referred to the Tory leaflet in Islington that argued
against a drugs "witch-hunt" and suggested that people should realise that there
was a difference "between buying a bit of 'pot' and actually harming someone".
The author of the leaflet is Mike Heeneman, 33, whom we reached yesterday. "Drug
use has gone down where it has been decriminalised," says Mike, citing the Dutch
experience while pointing out that "alcohol is very dangerous, and so is
nicotine - and so is mountaineering". Mike says that he personally had had "a
most amazing experience at White Hart Lane (the Spurs ground)" where police had
searched him for drugs.

It would have made more sense, he says, to frisk people "for knives or
breathalyse them for excessive alcohol". Mike, a former star of the University
College London debating society, had a two-year dalliance with the Labour party
before returning to the Conservatives, for whom he could well be standing in the
May council elections. He is an enthusiastic Cameron supporter and the Diary
looks forward to hearing more from any Tory who can conclude a conversation with
the Guardian, as Mike did, with the words "that's cool". But no, Mike, that does
not count as an endorsement.

Our reference to the late comedian Chic Murray as a "genius" has provoked an
argument as to whether he merits the title. Albert Einstein faced the same sort
of quibbling in the 50s, not least because people refused to accept that someone
who picked up fagends from the pavement could be brilliant. Einstein let his
work speak for him. Chic is, alas, no longer with us but, by an extraordinary
coincidence, the discussion of fashion prompted by the Golden Globes this week
inevitably calls to mind Chic's very timely pensee : "After I told my wife that
black underwear turned me on, she didn't wash my Y-fronts for a month." We rest
our case.

Trouble in Strasbourg. This week, Ukip had scheduled a meeting critical of the
European parliament and entitled its press conference "Parliamentary Autism".
This angered some members, including Labour MEP Richard Howitt, who called on
Ukip to withdraw the title as it was offensive to people with autism. Now, the
East Midlands Conservative MEP, Roger Helmer, has responded to Howitt by asking
him, via email: "Would you have a problem if I were to write a maritime novel
and say 'the ship was crippled by a torpedo'? Perhaps you would but, if so, it
only illustrates the absurd lengths to which political correctness and the
verbal fascism of the left has gone."

Talk of Ukip inevitably brings to mind thoughts of its lost would-be leader,
Robert Kilroy-Silk. What is he up to these days? Yesterday, the Guardian
reported that concerns over skin cancer caused by sunbeds had prompted new
courses to be introduced into Scottish schools on how to apply fake tans. Who
can be teaching these courses? Cometh the hour, cometh the man.

George Galloway's camp have hit back at Chris Bryant, the Labour MP who queried
how Galloway could have signed an early-day motion while inside the BB house.
"This is pants," said GG spokesman, Ron McKay, of Bryant's claim. Political
insiders and internet users will realise this is a double-edged, Y-fronted barb.
Mr McKay adds: "I was so pleased about GG's non-eviction last week after the cat
prank that I broke out a bottle of milk!"

We asked earlier in the week for your favourite answerphone messages. Richard
Klein responds from California with the message left by his friend Jim. It works
best if you deliver it in the style of an American baseball commentator:
"There's the wind-up. And the pitch. And he swings. And he connects. And it's a
long drive to centre field. And he's heading for first. And he's rounding first.
And he's heading for second. And he's rounding second. And he's heading for
third. And he's rounding third. And he's heading for home. And the crowd's going
crazy. And there's the throw. And he slides. And Jim Ptacek is . . . OUT !"
Blimey. Could be adapted for cricket, of course.

duncan.campbell@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 19, 2006

Dunfermline byelection will test Labour's grip on power

LENGTH: 192 words



HIGHLIGHT: The government will face its third byelection of its third term on
February 9th, it was announced today.


The government will face its third byelection of its third term on February 9th,
it was announced today.

The contest, in the Scottish constituency of Dunfermline and Fife West, was
caused by the death from cancer of the Labour MP Rachel Squire earlier this
month.

The constituency borders chancellor Gordon Brown's, and will be an important
test of Labour's grip on power.

Although nominally a safe Labour seat, with a majority of nearly 12,000 at the
May 2005 election, it will also provide the first test of David Cameron's
campaigning skills.

The Liberal Democrat leadership candidate, Simon Hughes, is campaigning in the
constituency today.

This is the third by-election this parliament and the second in Scotland. The
first was caused by the death of LibDem MP Patsy Calton in Cheadle, and the
second by the death of Robin Cook. Both parties held on to their seats.

* May 2005 General Election result: Rachel Squire (Lab) 20,111 (47.44%), David
Herbert (Lib Dem) 8,549 (20.17%), Douglas Chapman (SNP) 8,026 (18.93%), Roger
Smillie (C) 4,376 (10.32%), Susan Archibald (Scottish Socialist Party) 689
(1.63%), Ian Borland (UKIP) 643 (1.52%). Turnout 59.90%.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               11 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 18, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Revealed: Far right links of Barrymore's bte noire;
Pandora

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 230 words


If you thought the plot surrounding the return to public life of Michael
Barrymore, right, couldn't possibly get any thicker, think again.

On Monday, Tony Bennett, a lawyer representing the parents of Stuart Lubbock,
who died at Barrymore's Essex home in 2001, turned up at the Celebrity Big
Brother studios, and attempted to serve legal papers on the troubled
entertainer.

Now it emerges that Bennett, who has quickly become Barrymore's bte noire, is
himself in possession of a - shall we say? - "colourful" past, on the fringes of
right-wing politics.

A few years back, when he was known as plain Anthony Bennett, the retired
solicitor made unflattering headlines when was sacked by the UK Independence
Party after publishing a pamphlet that described the prophet Mohamed as a
paedophile.

He swiftly decamped to Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas party, where he briefly
became leader. However that also ended in tears, after The Guardian published a
front-page exclusive detailing his close links with Ian Anderson, a former
chairman of the National Front.

How such a chap ended up taking on Barrymore is anyone's guess. But yesterday,
the man himself insisted that politics were irrelevant to the legal proceedings.

"It would be amazing if anyone brought that up," he said. "The Guardian piece
was very unfair. The so-called link was tentative. My career shows that I am in
no way a racist."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          January 18, 2006, Wednesday

Lib Dems pick candidate for crucial test of strength

BYLINE: Angus Macleod Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words


THE former chief executive of the Scottish Liberal Democrats is to be their
candidate in the Dunfermline and Fife West by-election, expected to be held on
February 9. Willie Rennie needs a 14 per cent swing to win the Commons seat left
vacant in the wake of the death of the Labour MP Rachel Squire, who died this
month after a long illness.

The by-election will be a test of Lib Dem strength in the area and comes in the
middle of the UK leadership contest. Sir Menzies Campbell, one of the leadership
candidates, is MP for neighbouring Fife North East and one fascinating aspect of
the by-election will be whether his alleged role in the resignation of Charles
Kennedy will hit the party's vote. The Liberal Democrats will be hoping at least
to dent severely Labour's 11,500 majority as well as hold off the challenge from
the Scottish National Party, who ran them close for second place in the general
election last May.

The Nationalists have chosen Douglas Chapman, a former councillor in the area,
as their candidate while Labour seem certain to select the MEP Catherine
Stihler, who is expecting a child in March. The Conservatives are expected to
have a candidate in place by Friday. It will be their first by-election since
David Cameron became leader and the party will be looking to increase its share
of the vote, which was just over 10 per cent last May.

All four of the Liberal Democrat leadership candidates are expected to take part
in the by-election campaign, underlining the importance of the contest to the
party.

Until the redrawing of the Scottish constituency boundaries for Westminster,
part of the Dunfermline and Fife West seat was in Gordon Brown's former
constituency of Dunfermline East. The area is very much regarded as the
Chancellor's political base in Scotland and he will be expected to have a large
say in how the Labour campaign is run as well as to pay several visits to the
constituency.

Labour is concerned to avoid a repetition of the Livingston by-election last
September, when the party's 13,000 majority was slashed to 2,000 after a strong
challenge by the SNP.

Mr Rennie, 38, claimed yesterday that Labour had neglected the area and vowed to
campaign for more teachers to raise standards in schools and to oppose proposals
for Forth road bridge tolls and any moves to centralise hospital services in
Kirkcaldy. He would not say who he was supporting in the party's leadership
contest.

His most high profile experience of by-elections was in Christchurch in 1993,
when he was agent for Diana Maddock, now Baroness Maddock, who achieved a huge
swing to win the seat from the Tories.

MAY 2005 RESULT

At last year's general election RACHEL SQUIRE (Lab) 20,111 (47.44%); Lib Dems
8,549 (20.17%); SNP 8,026 (18.93%); Con 4,376 (10.32%); SSP 689 (1.63%); UKIP
643 (1.52%) TURNOUT 59.9%

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday

Heckling to be banned in European Parliament

BYLINE: David Rennie in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 471 words


THE European Parliament will this week approve a strict new disciplinary code to
stamp out banner-waving, heckling and other protests.

British Eurosceptics say it targets anti-federalist MEPs.

The 732-member parliament has agreed to increase the powers of its president and
senior MEPs who run the parliament and interpret its rules of procedure.

The new rule book will tell MEPs to base their conduct on "mutual respect'' and
the "values and principles laid down in the basic texts on which the European
Union is founded''.

The code will apply in all three seats of the parliament - in Strasbourg,
Brussels and Luxembourg.

Sanctions will include being rebuked, being denied the daily subsistence
allowance for up to 10 days, and exclusion for up to 10 days, though voting
rights will remain intact.

The president of the parliament, Josep Borrell, a Spanish Socialist, has long
sought powers to clamp down on what he considers disruptive behaviour, such as
waving national emblems during speeches.

The new code vows to uphold "vibrant'' free speech and to leave intact the right
to stage silent "visual actions'', provided they are "not offensive and/or
defamatory''.

Gérard Onesta, the French Green MEP who drew up the new code, said Greens
supported the right to political protest in the chamber: "We have held up
umbrellas to protest against acid rain, worn T-shirts with slogans, or held up
flags but we know how to do it without resorting to insults, defamation and
violence - and we have seen too much of that in the last year.''

A British Labour MEP who approved the rules in committee, Richard Corbett, said
the parliament's leaders currently had far less power to maintain order than the
Speaker of the House of Commons.

But Daniel Hannan, a Conservative MEP who sat on the committee that drafted the
new rules but voted against them, said they handed "still more arbitrary power''
to senior MEPs, who were "blatant'' in their bias against Eurosceptics. He
pointed to wording in the motion outlining the new rules, which explained that
disruptions had increased since the last European parliamentary elections in
2004.

He said that referred to the arrival of large numbers of new Eurosceptic
members, from the United Kingdom Independence Party, but also from new member
states in eastern and central Europe.

"Everybody knows what that wording means,'' he said. "It tells the majority of
MEPs, this isn't aimed at you, it's aimed at newcomers who've been rocking the
boat.''

Dock workers fought with police and smashed windows at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg yesterday during a protest over a proposal to liberalise port
services across the European Union. Several policemen were injured as they used
water cannon and tear gas to try to keep about 6,000 protesters away from the
parliament building.

david.rennie@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron should beware the centre ground. It is more treacherous than he realises

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1168 words


Party leaders, potential leaders, ardent followers of leaders and potential
leaders rush to the centre ground. Some aspire to be there. Some assume they are
there already and cling on jealously. For all of them, the centre is the only
safe place to be.

Indeed no ambitious politicians acknowledge any more a divide between left and
right. In the apolitical consensus, the terms are discarded ruthlessly. Listen
to Liberal Democrat candidates in their leadership contest. They are not left,
nor right. They are liberal, an adjective so flexible it explains in itself the
party's identity crisis. Meanwhile, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown do not dare
argue for a left of centre consensus. They seek a progressive consensus, knowing
few will counter them by joining an unfashionable-sounding reactionary
consensus. Now David Cameron states his party must be on the centre ground,
turning his back on traditional right-wing solutions.

The risk-averse political leaders and aspiring leaders take more of a risk than
they realise. For all its allure, the centre ground fuels a defensive timidity.
After four election defeats, New Labour's pioneers assumed Britain was more
conservative than it really was. Here is Michael Portillo writing last weekend
in The Sunday Times: "By comparison with the Americans, the British are
socialistic They believe in the NHS, progressive taxation and the welfare
state". No senior Labour minister would dare to put it as boldly as that. Some
of them do not even privately subscribe to such an analysis. In Tony Blair's
view, a Conservative administration could govern from the right in conservative
Britain. The Labour Party has the space only to rule from the centre.

Yet in the view of a former Conservative cabinet minister, Michael Portillo,
Britain is a left-of-centre country. Perhaps that is why Oliver Letwin has
sought headlines about his party's support for redistribution, a term never
deployed by Mr Brown, and why David Cameron has stressed that the Conservatives
were capable of challenging businesses, whereas Mr Blair goes out of his way to
deliver whatever businesses demand of him.

Perhaps that is also why yesterday it was Mr Cameron who dared to propose
sweeping reforms of the hopelessly outdated police service, whereas the
Government, scared of being seen as soft on crime, has failed to reform the most
conservative institution of the lot.

Mr Portillo is on to something. In 1997, voters turned away from 18 years of
Tory rule and were receptive at least to left-of-centre arguments. Instead, they
continued to receive from their newly elected government more lectures about the
virtues of the market, the extreme limits of the state and the overwhelming
importance of Britain's alliance with a US Republican president. Now in the
overcrowded centre ground, it is the defeated Tories who pay homage to the
centre left while some in New Labour bow still to the centre right.

The fearful timidity is heightened by the lack of any clear route map on the
centre ground. After the 2001 election, as Mr Blair clung to the centre ground,
he was against further significant rises in public spending. The former Downing
Street adviser Peter Hyman writes in his recent book that Mr Blair felt the
spending increases in the first term were sufficient. Yet those more rooted on
the centre left, including Mr Blair's advisers, recognised that additional
investment was urgently necessary. Already Gordon Brown was planning an increase
in national insurance contributions, a rise that Mr Blair had wanted to rule out
during the 2001 campaign. The centre ground had offered Mr Blair poor guidance
in relation to the massive public spending needs of the second term.

The same terrain will offer erratic guidance to Mr Cameron, too. At the moment,
he is in the protected position of announcing policy reviews rather than having
to decide on their outcome. But will he find scope for tax cuts and maintaining
public services? Can he extend the mar-kets in the NHS without dismantling the
institution? Can schools be independent and free while the Government determines
whether or not they select pupils? The centre ground offers no clear answers,
one of the reasons why the schools' White Paper is a muddle. Those on the centre
left and centre right have plenty of answers, and that is where the real
political debate should erupt. The left of centre argues that markets cannot
work effectively in schools and hospitals, there is no scope for tax cuts while
public services struggle to recover from the parsimony of the past three
decades, and that schools are part of a community and are therefore best
regulated by a locally accountable body.

The right believes tax cuts will lead to higher economic growth, markets will
liberate schools and hospitals and that free standing schools will lead to
improvements across the board. The centre offers little more than a meek
suggestion that parties should reassure voters. As a result, Labour is
pro-markets, anti-state and tough on defence by supporting the US in the war
against Iraq. The Conservatives stress their commitment to a publicly funded
NHS, support for redistribution and express their willingness to stand up to the
police and business.

This is where the centre ground becomes especially treacherous. As leaders make
the leap to apparent safety, they leave their parties behind. Mr Blair has made
his differences with Labour part of his distinctive pitch, but now he finds even
the ultra-loyal Neil Kinnock opposing his plans to create supposedly free
standing and independent schools.

A significant section of the Cabinet is worried too. Britain is still a
party-based system. Leaders cannot be at odds with their party for very long.
What should cause Mr Cameron some concern is the early reaction to his leap on
to the centre ground. The right are protesting more noisily than I had thought
likely. The letter writers to The Daily Telegraph fume. Lord Tebbit has waded
in. Yesterday, a former adviser to Mrs Thatcher, John O' Sullivan, warned that
disillusioned Tories had ways of protesting about the centrist direction, by
staying at home or supporting UKIP or the "flag waving" Gordon Brown. Mr Cameron
leads aparty still largely entrenched on the right, so much so that even as he
takes them into a lead in the polls some heavyweights squeal in anguish. If they
squeal too loudly, the benevolent narrative will switch to one about splits
within his party.

With good cause and bleak personal experience, Neil Kinnock said to me during
the last election: "I like my politics raw, but elections are won on the centre
ground." He was speaking in relation to the Conservatives' disastrous moves
further to the right as New Labour marched on to some of their terrain. But New
Labour marched too far, and now the Conservatives do not march together. Beware
the centre ground. It is not as safe as it seems. s.richards@independent.co.uk

Heavyweights squeal in anguish because he leads a party stil largely entrenched
on the right

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STEVE RICHARDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                January 15, 2006

UKIP seeks out Conservative voters with domestic agenda

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

LENGTH: 290 words


THE UK Independence Party, which campaigned for Britains withdrawal from the
European Union, is to lay out a domestic agenda aimed at wooing Conservatives
dismayed with the leadership of David Cameron.

The party has appointed David Campbell-Bannerman, great nephew of the former
Liberal Prime Minister Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, as its new chairman with a
remit of conducting a radical libertarian policy review.

It aims to recast itself as a party campaigning for independence from government
whether in Brussels or in Westminster and believes it can win funding from
disgruntled Conservative donors.

After last weeks conferences, UKIP ñ which finished third in the 2004 European
Parliament elections ñ decided to pitch itself as the only alternative to what
it will call the social democratic consensus in Westminster.

Its policy review is likely to result in calls for a flat tax in Britain, and
full liberalisation of the state health and education apparatus using a voucher
system. This will in effect position it as a protest party for libertarian
Conservatives.

Nigel Farage, leader of its MEPs, said some Conservatives fear they are too
right-wing for Camerons new party and that they are going to be expunged.

Since being elected last month, Cameron has made several policy changes ñ
signalling that he does not believe in helping people go private if the National
Health Service cannot treat them in time.

Specifically, he has abolished the parents passport policy that would allow
children to go private if the school charged less than the state. This has
caused ructions among Tory MPs who all fought on a platform of implementing the
passport system.

UKIP fared badly in last years general election, finishing fourth with just
2.2%.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 15, 2006

UKIP

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 94 words


UKIP has abandoned plans to take a fancy dress ostrich to the European
parliament.

The Eurosceptic party wanted to protest about this week's debate on the European
constitution, but was perhaps deterred by new moves to improve the behaviour of
members.

Under the plan, also to be debated this week, MEPs who misbehave (for example,
by dressing up as ostriches) could face the ultimate penalty: having their
allowances withdrawn for up to 10 days. UKIP insists it did not cave in under
this threat. A crestfallen spokesman admits: "We couldn't find an ostrich
costume."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            January 9, 2006, Monday

Not Today, thanks

BYLINE: Carol Sarler

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 391 words


It was scarcely news to any who listened that the Today programme woz done up
like a kipper. But then, nobody could say they hadn't richly deserved it. For
weeks on dreary end its poor presenters had to flag up their "listeners' poll",
designed to discover the most powerful person in Britain, as if the exercise
carried investigative merit. Last Monday, with drum-rolling razzmatazz, they
announced the winner (?) to be Jose Manuel Barroso; on Thursday it was revealed
to have been rigged.

Well, of course it was. The moment we heard it we knew that there aren't enough
people to reach that conclusion who would recognise Barroso if he fell on them.
It turned out that our chums at Ukip, with fellow Eurosceptics, had "encouraged"
supporters to vote, in order that the rest of us would be shocked into Brussels
phobia.

Today loves its forays into the wastes of time it passes off as democratic its
vox pops, its recent "Citizen's Jury", its polls. In fact, on every level,
scientific, intellectual or moral, they are on an exact par with the memorable
red-top front page: Diana WAS Murdered!...followed, in tiny print, by "say you,
The People readers".

It would be possible to poll Today listeners properly. MORI would happily do it.

At a price. But these self-selected samples are, at best, just samples of Today
listeners who also happen to be sad bastards with nothing better to do than
participate in a meaningless exercise in filler programming.

At worst, they are samples of barmy pressure groups cheerfully enabled -by those
who should least wish to assist them -to hijack the BBC and its flagship radio
programme in pursuit of self-serving and essentially false headlines.

You'd mind less if these projects were clearly labelled as light entertainment.

But when the nonsensical "result" is discussed in much the tone used for the
result of voting in, say, Afghanistan, it is a joke too far. We depend upon
Today for its professional veracity; we leave to Fleet Street's poorest the
tell-us-what-YOU-think hotlines, cash cows fed by the foolish and the fanciful.

If Today loses sight of the delineation between the two, we'll all lose. Once
trust is dented, it quickly rusts; carry on like this, and come the demise of
the next princess we'll find it quicker, easier and infinitely more exciting to
rely instead upon the probing inquest of The People.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 8, 2006

Business & Media: Media: Press and Broadcasting: The annual farce of Today's
poll position

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 240 words


One early resolution for John Humphrys and his Today Inc friends: put away your
wretched listeners' polls forever. They're a bad, flawed joke.

That flaw has been obvious ever since, time and again, Today 'Man of the Year'
ring-or-write-in polls made Enoch Powell the alleged people's choice. Such crude
opinion tests have nothing scientific about them; they are prey to whichever
fringe lobby group gets organised at the end of a phone. Today 's editors must
have grown tired wiping egg from their corporate faces.

Examine this year's effort, in which a panel of wise men provided a pre-sifted
list of Britain's 10 most powerful persons-cum-organisations for listeners to
choose from. Would Number One be Tony, Gordon . . . the BBC itself? But top of
the shop, with 22 per cent, came Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European
Commission, (along with much chirruping from Ukip and much sonorous prose about
the Today audience's wisdom from Stephen Glover of the Mail

Ludicrous, of course. Barroso isn't even the most powerful man in Brussels, let
alone GB. He's an Aunt Sally, set up by tight-knit Eurosceptics in order to be
summarily knocked down, another phoney peg to hang their grubby Union flag on.

See, we fixed it! chortles Daniel Hannan, MEP and occasional Telegraph leader
writer. See, we made an ass of the Beeb (and Stephen Glover). But next time
round, chaps, leave such putrid 'polls' to Sky.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               19 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Relax - it's not our cash we're wasting;
Spa treatments and glass eyes top 'obscene' list of freebies for MEPs

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 613  words


THE shocking extent of MEPs' perks and benefits is exposed today for the first
time in leaked documents revealing a range of health benefits, which include a
"glass eye allowance".

European Parliament Members can claim expensive benefits and perks from spa
treatments and acupuncture to mud baths and hydrotherapy - all paid by
taxpayers.

Among the freebies worth thousands a year, the most ludicrous come under
"medical expenses" MEPs are entitled to claim back from the European Parliament.

Many were enjoyed by Euro Commissioners and staff for years.

But MEPs have demanded - and won - similar benefits, including a "thermal baths
attendance allowance" of GBP 14 a day for up to 21 days a year.

Members may also claim a GBP 636 hearing aid allowance plus free batteries, as
well as two pairs of orthopaedic footwear and soles every year at GBP 248 per
pair.

MEPs and their families are each allowed up to 60 sessions a year of a
combination of medical massage, medical gymnastics, traction, mud baths,
hydromassage and hydrotherapy and may also claim 60 sessions of electrotherapy
and 30 sessions of "aerosol" and "beam" therapy, plus 80 per cent off costs of
21 days' "thermal cure" at a spa.

In addition, 30 free acupuncture sessions a year and huge sums for dental
treatment (including free false teeth) are allowed, while MEPs, spouses,
children and staff are also entitled to up to GBP 375 for spectacle lenses and
GBP 44 for frames.

There are also subsidies of up to GBP 102 for contact lenses and GBP 103 for
disposables.

The outrageous perks are revealed in The Bumper Book Of Government Waste by
Matthew Elliot and Lee Rotherham, published next month.

It exposes huge levels of waste in Britain and Europe.

The information in the book is based on official documents issued to MEPs and
staff leaked from the Council of Presidents of the European Parliament.

Mr Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Ordinary UK
taxpayers will be horrified MEPs and EU staff are able to claim such extravagant
perks.

"European Commission staff already pay a lower rate of tax than British
taxpayers, they get massive salaries and incredible gold-plated pensions.

"It's obscene that they take advantage of us in this way. The Government should
put a stop to this gravy train and give a helping hand to ordinary British
taxpayers suffering from council tax hikes and a growing pensions crisis."

The medical perks come on top of pay, pensions and expenses already enjoyed by
MEPs, of whom Britain has 78, each estimated to cost taxpayers GBP 2.4million a
year.

Westminster MPs are estimated to cost a little more than GBP 375,000 each.

A British MEP earns a basic GBP 56,000-a-year salary but critics say extra
allowances, expenses and perks mean a total package worth up to GBP 250,000.

On top of salary, they can claim a "daily subsistence allowance" of GBP 185 a
day as well as all travel costs to and from the European Parliament. The Sunday
Express readers can pre-order The Bumper Book Of Government Waste (GBP 9.99) at
a special price of GBP 7.99 with free delivery. Call 01730 233870 or visit www.
harriman-house. com/express MEPs also have access to official cars and
chauffeurs - although it is customary to tip - as well as being entitled to up
to GBP 2,575 annual travel allowance and GBP 36 per week taxi allowance. They
can also spend GBP 3,445 on language courses - in Brussels or anywhere in the
world.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage, who campaigns against EU overspending,
said:

"There is no limit to the scale of indulgence the taxpayer is not asked to fund
for the European Union.

"Most people have no idea exactly how much money is spent on the perks for
MEPs."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday

Cameron's social democracy could win voters, at a cost

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 146 words


SIR - Some of us were critical of Mr Cameron during his leadership campaign for
being so vague about his beliefs and intentions and could not understand how
others could be so mesmerised by his rhetoric and charm. Now we can see why he
was so imprecise about the change he had in mind: it would not have got him
elected.

Having discovered that they have hired themselves another social democrat, many
radical Tories will opt out of the political process or drift off to Ukip.

But the general mass of the apolitical electorate and disillusioned, formerly
Conservative, Lib Dems will vote for Cameron in preference to Brown on aesthetic
grounds.

So the Conservatives do have a good chance of regaining office on the backs of a
much more state-dependent population. But what will be the point, apart from
satisfying the egos of Cameron and his cronies?

Michael Bright

Langton Green, Kent

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday

Eurosceptic party admits rigging BBC poll

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 266 words


A great deal of marmalade may have been spilled in vain on Monday morning when
the nation reacted with astonishment to the news that Jose Manuel Barroso, the
European commission president, is Britain's most powerful man.

Eurosceptics need not have panicked after the UK Independence party admitted
yesterday that it tried to rig the poll on the Today programme to find out who
runs Britain. Tony Blair was relegated to seventh place, with Gordon Brown in
ninth. Rupert Murdoch came second.

Amid surprise in Brussels, where Mr Barroso is often regarded as something of a
marginal figure, the BBC said the results should be taken seriously.

It appears to have underestimated the energy of Eurosceptics who followed the
example of zealous Labour party officials who once tried to rig a BBC poll in
favour of Tony Blair. Ukip and Dan Hannan, the fiercely Eurosceptic Conservative
MEP, both admitted to the Guardian that they had separately sent emails
encouraging supporters to vote for Mr Barroso.

Gawain Towler, Ukip's spokesman in Brussels, said: "It would be a lie to say
that people weren't encouraging each other - of course we were."

But he denied the ploy had been officially sanctioned by the party.

Mr Hannan said last night: "I had no idea Ukip were doing it. I was going to
take sole credit for it. I heard the programme and thought why not tell people?"

Ben Jones, of the European Movement, criticised the Eurosceptics' tactics.
"They're using neo-con-style tactics - fairly ruthless, almost propagandist
means. Politics should be done through rational argument, not by manipulating
the media."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 3, 2006 Tuesday

EU chief 'most powerful man in Britain'

BYLINE: JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 480 words


THE man who heads an army of faceless penpushers in Brussels is the most
powerful person in Britain, according to a poll published yesterday.

Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, came ahead of Tony Blair
and Gordon Brown in the survey to find who has most influence over our lives.

More than a fifth of Radio Four listeners chose the EU's top bureaucrat,
underscoring fears that unelected politicians in Brussels have more sway in
Britain than those chosen through the ballot box.

Mr Barroso oversees the team who dream up an array of EU directives which are
then enshrined in UK law.

He has called for Brussels to have tax-raising powers and, along with French
president Jacques Chirac, kept up the pressure on Britain during the fraught EU
budget negotiations last month.

He told Mr Blair his proposals were 'wholly unacceptable' and in the end the
Prime Minister surrendered Pounds 2billion a year from the British rebate.

The Radio Four Today poll, Who Runs Britain?, offered listeners a shortlist of
ten influential people or institutions.

Twenty-two per cent chose Mr Barroso, ahead of media tycoon Rupert Murdoch on 15
per cent.

Parliament was deemed the next most powerful, with 14 per cent support, while 12
per cent thought the British public themselves held the greatest influence.

Mr Blair scored just 7 per cent, behind Cabinet Secretary and head of the Civil
Service Sir Gus O'Donnell, another unelected appointee, at 10 per cent.

The Premier was judged to be as influential as Sir Terry Leahy, chief executive
of Tesco.

Internet search engine Google scored 6 per cent ahead of the Chancellor and the
only woman in the shortlist, Liberty director Shami Chakrabarti, who both came
in last at 4 per cent each.

The poll was set up three weeks ago, with experts and listeners suggesting
contenders.

A panel including former MI5 boss Dame Stella Rimington and Today programme
editor Kevin Marsh then whittled down the list to ten.

Mr Barroso, the former prime minister of Portugal, was appointed head of the EC
in 2004.

He heads a team of 25 Commissioners, one from each EU member state, including
twice-disgraced ex-Cabinet Minister Peter Mandelson as trade commissioner. Roger
Knapman, leader of the eurosceptic UK Independence Party, congratulated
listeners for highlighting his overwhelming influence on Britons' lives.

He said: 'Seventy per cent of our laws are now made in Brussels. Of course it is
the only chance you'll get to vote for him, or for that matter against him.

'He is now a bureaucrat perceived as the most important man in this country and
that is quite shocking.' Former Europe Minister Denis MacShane claimed it was an
'urban myth' to suggest Britain's laws were decided by Europe.

The EC is the only body that can propose EU legislation, employing several
thousand civil servants in Brussels to implement it. Mr Barroso was unavailable
for comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO: TOPPED POLL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             January 2, 2006 Monday

From the mouths of babes and suckers

BYLINE: KEITH WATERHOUSE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 726 words


A police statement later said: 'Words of suitable advice were given and we will
not be taking any further action.' Reacting to a threat to ban smokers from
their own homes during visits from local NHS workers, a spokesperson from the
antismoking group ASH says: 'Asking patients to refrain from smoking in the
presence of healthcare visitors is not unreasonable and will dramatically
improve the lives of staff.' (For asking read telling.) One of Home Secretary
Charles Clarke's frequent letters to The Times: 'Plans for police restructuring
will boost neighbourhood policing, not detract from it.

Under the Government's proposals, by 2008 each neighbourhood will have a
dedicated team. Every resident will know the name of their local bobby, see them
on the street and will have their phone number and email.' (The heading should
have been: 'A likely story.') A Court of Appeal ruling by Mrs Justice Pauffley
on an Essex pair whose two children were taken from them by the Social Services
because they were deemed not competent to look after them properly: 'They are
decent people but they are not capable of managing the intricate anticipatory
process of parenting.' THE FIRST authenticated case of someone taking personal
offence at the adjectival use of the neutral word black came to light when PC
Zahid Malik of Nottinghamshire Police wrote to a Home Office in-house magazine:
'In a piece on the Met's crime museum you use the term Black Museum and "the man
in black" to accompany a picture of the curator. I question the negative use of
the word black in these contexts. I feel that this does not help the hard work
of many colleagues who seek to establish good relations and promote a positive
image of a police service which values diversity.' The term Black Museum has
been in use since 1877.

This is the only recorded complaint.

Deputy Prime Minister and European minder-in- chief John Prescott has dispensed
with the convention that only national flags may be flown from British
flagpoles, thus giving the go-ahead for the widely disliked EU flag to be flown
without planning permission. A spokesman explains silkily: 'We have had requests
for this from local authorities who have had problems with members of the UK
Independence Party demanding that they take flags down because RANDOM clutch of
observations plucked from the dying embers of 2005 as perpetrated by some who
might by now be wishing that they had observed a little more closely, or at any
rate more carefully: Reported by their local council to the Lancashire police
for 'potentially homophobic attitudes' after asking if they could display
Christian literature alongside gay rights material in council buildings, a
couple who had committed no offence faced an 80-minute police inquisition during
which they were warned against 'hate crime' and told they were 'walking on
eggshells'.

they do not have planning permission.

'Councils, in particular, often fly the EU flag, and we are saying that they
should be able to do that without the need for planning permission.' And
finally, while Two Jags remains held in the spotlight like a petrified fatted
calf, perhaps I might be allowed to endorse my learned leader Andrew Alexander
in nominating Mr Prescott for this gem as his quote of the year award: 'If you
set up a school and it becomes a good school, the great danger is that everyone
wants to go there.' I can't top that. Over and out.

A happy New Year and God save us all.

Who's calling?

I CAN'T understand why there should be such a fuss about the nuisance of cold
telephone calls from salesmen - 1.5billion calls a year resulting in 35,000
complaints in just eight months - when it is so very easy not to get them. Just
don't answer the thing until you know who's calling.

Like countless other telephone subscribers I have an answering machine which
picks up my messages and, if I happen to be in, broadcasts a message from my
desk to the effect that I am out.

So if it's a call I don't want to take - say from a double-glazing salesman or
someone in Bombay flogging timeshare holidays in Malaga - I simply don't
respond.

Why should I?

Yet, as if mesmerised, millions feel an obligation to answer the telephone
simply because it has rung for them. They might as well feed the cat just
because it meows for extra sardines.

My message to cold callers: don't ring me, I'll ring you. Maybe.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 2, 2006

Jose? No way

LENGTH: 983 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nicholas Watt marvels at radio listeners' nomination for the title of
most powerful person in Britain.


Tony Blair is enjoying an early dip in the warm waters of the Red Sea when an
aide rushes out with an urgent message.

"Prime minister, it's the most powerful man in Britain on the phone. You must
come quickly."

With no time to grab a towel, and with the worried look of a pupil summoned to
see his headmaster, the prime minister rushes to the phone to speak to Jos.
Manuel Barroso, the president of the European commission. "Good morning Mr
President, what are my orders from Brussels today?" the prime minister inquires.

Perhaps such exchanges occur in the imaginations of listeners of Radio 4's Today
programme, because they decided, in one of the most farcical votes arranged by
the programme, that Mr Barroso wields more power over the British people than
the prime minister. Mr Blair takes seventh place in the poll, with Gordon Brown
ninth, while the usual suspect, Rupert Murdoch, is relegated to second place
behind Mr Barroso.

The vote provoked guffaws in Brussels where Mr Barroso has endured a miserable
year struggling to enforce his writ in the European commission, let alone across
the Channel in Britain. The finger was being pointed at highly organised
Eurosceptic groups - about the only people in Britain outside Westminster to
have heard of Mr Barroso - for ensuring that he came out top in the Today poll.

Eurosceptics, who are on a roll after the rejection of the EU constitution and
the government's decision to shelve a referendum on euro membership, want people
to believe that the unelected European commission runs Britain. They seize on a
few odd directives emanating from the commission's Berlaymont headquarters and
distort much of the rest of its work to portray individual governments as
hapless bystanders as Brussels sweeps all before it.

A classic example was a recent piece in the Spectator, which opened with a
fictional air crash over London that was all the fault of the EU. The magazine
invented this scenario after the commission proposed a blacklist of unsafe
airlines to apply across the EU.

As the list will be decided by "qualified majority voting" - with individual
countries denied the right of veto - the magazine suggested that one country
could insist that a dangerous airline be kept off the list, thereby endangering
people living under the Heathrow flightpath. Judges at the European court of
justice in Luxembourg would be able to overrule the British government if it
tried to keep "Banana Republic Airline" out of Britain, the magazine claimed.
The piece blithely ignored two key facts about EU business. First, if Britain
felt unhappy about the proposal it could have blocked the entire idea when it
first came before ministers. Second, in the negotiations that will draw up a
blacklist in March it will be impossible for a member state to protect a
favoured overseas airline if there is compelling evidence that it is dangerous.

What sophisticated Eurosceptics know, but refuse to admit, is that the real
centre of power in Brussels is the council of ministers, where elected ministers
and heads of sovereign government thrash out EU deals. At last month's European
summit in Brussels, which decided the highly important business of an EU budget,
Mr Barroso was a mere bystander as he watched heads of government slash his
proposal for a trillion euro budget to ¿862bn.

Eurosceptics understandably criticised the prime minister, who chaired the
negotiations as part of Britain's presidency of the EU, for abandoning a part of
Britain's budget rebate without winning a French commitment to cut its generous
farm subsidies. But Britain's failure to secure a wholesale reform of EU
finances had nothing to do with Mr Barroso, a reformer who is sympathetic to Mr
Blair. It was Jacques Chirac, the elected head of the sovereign French
government, who blocked the Blair plan.

The negotiations showed that Britain has, in common with the other 24 members of
the EU, handed over some of its sovereignty to the EU - mainly to the council of
ministers. A truly sovereign nation would not have to negotiate with other
countries on how a proportion of its budget is spent.

Pro-Europeans have been utterly hopeless in explaining to the British people
that Britain has pooled some of its sovereignty to achieve a greater good. The
prime minister finally hit back last month when the United Kingdom Independence
party asked him why Britain should help fund "sewers in Budapest". Mr Blair
replied that it is in Britain's interest to spend a relatively small sum of
money rebuilding eastern Europe to build up economies that will become strong
markets for British business.

Had the Today programme held its poll a decade ago, voters would probably have
handed the top slot to Jacques Delors, the most powerful European commission
president ever. The voters would have had a point because Mr Delors was a
formidable figure who did more than anyone else to put the Union into Europe.
But he was only a powerful figure because he had the strong backing of France
and Germany, the traditional motors of European integration. Mr Barroso enjoys
no such support, making him an at times marginal figure.

Denis MacShane, Britain's former Europe minister, told Guardian Unlimited: "The
notion that Jos. Manuel Barroso has effective executive power over any European
country is just silly. It is no coincidence that Rupert Murdoch came second in
the poll because he leads the anti-European media moguls who tell Today
listeners every morning that Europe is taking over their lives. But the laws
that affect my constituents - their taxes, their hospitals, their pensions and
their schools - begin and end with elected British politicians and not Mr
Barroso, nice though he is."

Results of Today programme poll on who runs Britain:

1 Jos. Manuel Barroso

2 Rupert Murdoch

3 Parliament

4 The British people

5 Sir Gus O'Donnell

6 Terry Leahy

7 Tony Blair

8 Google

9 Gordon Brown

10 Shami Chakrabarti

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               25 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday

Thanks Bob, nowwe know they're ing Useless Tories

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1166 words


MY THANKS to David Cameron for recruiting the ghastly Bob Geldof to his New
Sky-Blue-Pink Party.

It would have taken me months to explain so clearly what Princess Tory is
actually doing.

Mr Geldof is exactly what so many of us loathe about the New Britain in which we
are forced to live.

His mouth emits dirty words as a drainpipe emits slime. He represents the rock
industry, that celebration of reward without talent or real effort that has done
so much to undermine education and true achievement.

He personifies the self-regarding, noisy sentimentality that has driven out
true, effective compassion and unselfishness. I suspect that, inwardly, he
scorns the way in which our boneless Establishment has embraced him.

So, thanks, Dave, for letting everyone know what otherwise you might have
concealed until after it was too late.

I know how I know that there are millions in this country aching to see an end
to the dictatorship of intolerant liberalism that we now suffer. They identify
this arrogant regime with your twin, Princess Tony, and are so anxious to shake
themselves free of him that they have not until now looked very closely at what
you stand for.

That would be hard in any case because you are so careful to say nothing
specific.

They would have found out in the unlikely event of you coming to power, that you
were more or less the same as Mr Blair.

Now they know.

Some people complain about my supposed 'obsession' with the Useless Tories, or
the Effing Useless Tories as I suppose we shall now have to call them, after
their recruitment of this Olympic-standard blasphemer. It is anything but.

There are a thousand other things I'd rather write about than this collection of
chancers, careerists and dullards.

But when your country is being transformed into a new East Germany, where all
political parties are exactly the same, and they all despise the opinions and
values of millions of citizens, so that democracy and liberty are menaced, it
would be irresponsible of me to stay silent.

JOHN PRESCOTT is taking steps to allow the EU flag (which already disfigures
many of our embassies abroad) equal status with the Union Flag at home. This is
his response to a clever campaign by UKIP members who have enforced the law that
says this depressing, meaningless dishrag can't be flown here without planning
permission. Those who think the EU's constitution and takeover plans are dead
are in for more surprises of this kind in the months to come.

LAST November I praised PC Diederik Coetzee for his excellent work in the town
of Mansfield. He gives the local criminals a hard time. But I warned that his
chiefs might try to stop him when they found out what he was doing.

Well, just before Christmas, this happened. Managers of a 'day centre'
complained that he was frightening away their clients. Diddums. And so PC
Coetzee has been told to let up. You see, it doesn't matter how many good
coppers there are if the leadership is all wrong.

Aveteran's tears for the'Dambuster' orphans

SO MANY of you commented on my criticisms of the film The Dambusters and my
remarks on the use of the N-word and on the morality of bombing German
civilians, that I would like to quote extracts from two of the many letters I
received.

A veteran of 28 raids over Germany wrote: 'We would chalk on the bombs, "Here's
one for you, Adolf," and so on.

Each raid, we rained high explosives on something in the dark below. We were so
scared of losing our own lives without worrying what was happening on the
ground.

'Well, that was until the war was over and I was transferred to Transport
Command, which meant regular trips taking supplies to the Forces in all the
major cities. And what I saw horrified me great areas of residential buildings
reduced to bricks and rubble.

'But the most heartbreaking part was seeing the numbers of starving orphans who
had created cave-like shelters among the ruins and would come out to us as we
walked by, pleading for food. We did what we could and on every trip scrounged
any food, old or stale, to take with us.

'Then Nemesis played her trick on me. As I was walking along, a tug came on my
jacket and I looked down on a little girl, about eight years old, carrying a
baby and pleading, "Food, please, food, please, baby die." ' 'Unfortunately, I
had given all my scraps away and tried to get on my way but the tiny figure
clung until I pushed her away. As I walked away with a guilty feeling, I looked
back to see the scruffy little urchin with tears streaming down her face and an
outstretched hand a picture I shall never forget.

'I swore that every time I was in Berlin I would bring enough food that she and
her little baby would never starve again.' When he returned a few days later he
found the child and baby had been killed in an accident while trying to beg food
from a passing Jeep.

He says: 'I am now 81 and can still see that tearstained, dirty face and hope
that when I pass on we meet again, so I can say "Sorry".' As for the N-word,
many of you argued it was inoffensive at the time the film was made in 1954. But
one reader wrote: 'I watched the film shortly after its general release and I
remember that the audience was uncomfortable at its use.'

Let the Welsh bang up Blair in Bangor . . .

THE intimidation of those who oppose political correctness is now a serious
scandal. I suspect we hear about only a small number of the actual cases, since
the victims are often too afraid to tell anyone about what has happened to them.

Much of it goes on in workplaces, where employers, scared stiff of lawsuits or
employment tribunals, impose dreadful speech codes on their staff.

So we should loudly applaud all those who resist it. Joe and Helen Roberts of
Fleetwood, who rebelled when reported to the police by their local (Tory)
council over a wholly false accusation of 'homophobia', are on my New Year
Honours list.

And so is Lord Mackenzie, the former copper who wrote to me last week to reveal
that, in his own words, 'even I was being "leaned on" to toe the PC line'.

After publicly criticising what he views as a misuse of police resources on an
inquiry into an alleged anti-Welsh remark by the Prime Minister, he received a
ridiculous and menacing letter from Clive Wolfendale, Deputy Chief Constable of
North Wales. This officer is already famous for his skills as a rap singer.

Lord Mackenzie rightly told Mr Wolfendale that this sounded like an attempt to
silence a Member of Parliament, and told him where he could put his letter in
beautifully robust terms.

It is always a pleasure to see an Englishman who knows that freedom is his
birthright and who knows how to stand up for it.

Meanwhile, since the North Wales Police take this matter so seriously, oughtn't
they to arrest Mr Blair under the new Serious And Organised Crime Act, swab him
for DNA and subject him to 'extraordinary rendition', perhaps to Bangor, where
he could be interrogated for hours in Welsh?

It might boost their clear-up rate, as well as giving the rest of us a lot of
innocent amusement.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

The 2005 Westminster Follies awards go to. . .

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: NEWS; 43

LENGTH: 1411  words


IT WAS a year in which Britain's war on terror abroad claimed its first victims
at home, where two party leaders faced calls to quit and one, eventually, stood
down. The nation mourned the untimely deaths of two great Labour politicians,
witnessed the demise of the European Constitution and the resurrection of fox
hunting. Tony Blair celebrated a historic third term victory but went on to
suffer his first Commons defeat at the hands of his own backbenchers. Deputy
Political Editor KIRSTY BUCHANAN reviews the highs and lows of 2005 and hands
out gongs for the good, the bad and the downright funny.

Insult of the year Runner-up: Fearless George Galloway showed little respect for
his critics in 2005, handing insults out like campaign leaflets.

He branded a US Senate Committee looking into his dealings in Iraq the "mother
of all smoke screens" and likened the Labour Government to the Nazi propaganda
chief Joseph Goebbels. The anti-war Respect MP reserved his sharpest sarcasm for
the pro-war writer Christopher Hitchens before their US debate on Iraq. Hitchens
was dismissed as a "drink-sodden former Trotskyist popinjay".

Winner: The Conservatives' new leader David Cameron called for an end to Punch
and Judy politics, shortly before delivering the best putdown of 2005. Facing up
to Tony Blair in their first Prime Minister's Question Time clash, Cameron told
the Premier: "I want to talk about the future. You were the future - once."

The 'Faint Praise' Award. . .

Liberal Democrat deputy leader Sir Menzies Campbell gives his backing to party
leader Charles Kennedy, well sort of. "As long as Charles Kennedy remains leader
of the Liberal Democrats he has my full support".

Watch your back Charlie.

They said what. . . ?

Runner-up: Respect MP George Galloway snatches second prize for highlighting the
plight of MG Rover workers facing redundancy - only to be asked why he did not
drive a Rover car. He said: "I drive a Mercedes because there is no Rover
equivalent for the tasks my Mercedes has to perform." Eh?

Winner: It's not often that politicians are prepared to be brutally honest - so
full marks to Robert Kilroy-Silk for admitting his new party, Veritas, would not
do well at the polls. "Most of us won't get elected. We haven't got a chance, "
he conceded. He was almost right. No Veritas candidates were elected, including
Kilroy-Silk.

The 'Own Goal' Award. . .

Otherwise known as the David Blunkett prize.

Runner-up: Second place belongs to Blunkett for his triumphant return to the
Cabinet and spectacular departure within six months following stories about his
outside business interests.

Winner: The Labour Party takes top prize by demonstrating its belief in
democracy and free speech by evicting a protester from its September conference
for shouting "nonsense" at the Foreign Secretary. Evicted Walter Wolfgang was an
82-year-old peace protester who fled Nazi persecution in Germany.

The 'U-Turn If You Want To' Award. . .

Tony Blair may have "no reverse gear" but he certainly pulled Labour into plenty
of handbrake turns last year. The Premier dubbed "more slippery than an eel in a
tub of grease" has, in the last 12 months, changed course on everything from key
terrorism legislation and education reform to the welfare overhaul and
antisocial behaviour.

But nothing topped his spectacular U-turn over the European Union rebate to
Britain.

At the start of Britain's EU Presidency in June, Blair insisted the rebate would
not be cut unless the union agreed to reform of the bloated Common Agricultural
Policy. "We are not going to be giving up the rebate, " he vowed, "The rebate on
any basis, on any proposal, will grow - not diminish." By the end of the year
Britain had given up GBP 1bn a year in rebates, while French farmers have lost
not a single euro in subsidies.

The 'Dead If Not Buried' Award. . .

Runner-up: After eight years and 700 parliamentary hours, the foxhunting ban
came into force in February. On Boxing Day more than 200 meets were held in
defiance of the unworkable ban.

Winner: The European Constitution, the blueprint for the European project, was
killed off in June - and we have the French to thank for it.

French voters, along with the Dutch, scuppered the road map for Europe's future
by voting against it in a referendum. Eurosceptics however will be keeping a
watchful eye on the Constitution in 2006, warning it may be revived piecemeal.

The 'Ego Has Crash Landed' Award. . .

Runner-up: Second prize to Robert Kilroy-Silk for quitting the UK Independence
Party after it failed to make him leader. He set up his own party Veritas,
dubbed Vanitas by Westminster wits, but walked away from that too after a dismal
showing in the general election.

Winner: Former Chancellor and two-time Tory leadership contender Ken Clarke
framed his third leadership pitch by chastising the party for taking so long to
elect him. The big beast was felled in the first ballot of Tory MPs.

The 'Westminster Jargon' Award. . .

Runner-up: "Hoodies" and "hard-working families" were both overworked words or
phrases at Westminster in election year but second prize belongs to the
"dog-whistling" strategy which came from Down Under to dominate the campaign. In
theory the strategy, devised by Conservative election guru Lynton Crosby, was
designed to send out messages only certain voters could hear. Maybe the pitch
was wrong.

Winner: Extraordinary rendition. No it's not the X Factor auditions - this is
the sinister practice of transporting terror suspects in secret to countries
where they face torture.

The 'Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory' Award. . .

The undeniable winner was the Labour Party for displaying some old-fashioned
control freakery which went wonderfully wrong.

Against protests, Labour imposed its own candidate on the Welsh seat of Blaenau
Gwent.

The Valleys constituency is the fifth safest seat in Britain and should have
been a shoe-in for Labour candidate Maggie Jones.

But that was before popular local politician Peter Law quit Labour in protest
and launched an independent challenge despite a recent operation to remove a
brain tumour. Law overturned a 19,000 majority to take the seat.

The 'Longest Goodbye In History' Award. . .

Michael Howard announced his decision to stand down as Conservative leader after
the May 5 General Election. Seven months later he made good on that promise. The
succession race was so long David Cameron was a year older by the time he took
over.

But the clear winner is Tony Blair who promised before the election to stand
down before the next. In 2006 Gordon Brown's supporters will be pressing for a
more definitive timetable.

The 'Non-Event Major Event' Award. . .

You may have forgotten but 2005 saw an election in which Labour won a historic
third successive term. The poll created problems for all three party leaders
after a series of so-so results.

Blair's majority was slashed from 167 to 66.

The Liberal Democrats and Conservatives both made gains but did not live up to
the expectations. Britain's Presidency of the European Union started with a bang
in June with Blair making one the best speeches of his life.

He lectured Brussels on the need to heed the "wake up call" and weed back the
bloated Common Agricultural Policy. It ended with a whimper - the loss of part
of the British rebate and no pledge on CAP reform.

Image Of The Year Award. . .

After agreeing a GBP 28.8bn aid and debt-cancellation deal for Africa at
Gleneagles in July, the G8 leaders stood shoulder to shoulder behind Tony Blair
as the Prime Minister condemned the barbaric London bombings which claimed 52
innocent lives on July 7.

"Whatever they do, it is our determination that they will never succeed in
destroying what we hold dear in this country and in other civilised nations
throughout the world, " Blair declared.

They may make us laugh but sometimes our politicians do us proud.

The 'Too Painful To Watch' Award. . .

We watched with horrified fascination as we relived David Blunkett's ill-fated
affair with publisher Kimberly Quinn in the televised toe-curling satire, A Very
Social Secretary (above).

Charles Kennedy almost snatched the top prize with his "new father no sleep"
bumbling explanation of the Lib Dems' local income tax policy.

But all that was before the David Davis leadership bid.

The Shadow Home Secretary stumbled out of the starting blocks with a lacklustre
leadership pitch, admitted a preference for briefs over boxers and blondes over
brunettes and then there was that interview with his wife. Ouch.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
