
                               1 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 31, 2006

The bastards got me: From Alexander Litvinenkos own epitaph, to George Bushs
unconventional greeting to Tony Blair, they said it all in 2006: BACK IN THE
PLAYGROUND

BYLINE: Emily Butselaar

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 95 words


'I always thought that the party was full of them.' John Prescott on the Tory
party's advertising campaign featuring a man called Mr Tosser.

'You'll make an effing awful Prime Minister.' Shadow Chancellor George Osborne
says what's on Tony Blair's mind, while addressing their mutual friend Gordon
Brown.

'I'd shoot myself.' Lord Hattersley on what he would do if John Reid were to
become Labour leader. Steady on with those gun offers, chaps

'Ukip is a bunch of fruit cakes and loonies and closet racists mostly.' 'Dave'
Cameron wins over all those voters tempted by Ukip.


LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 31, 2006

The bastards got me: From Alexander Litvinenkos own epitaph, to George Bushs
unconventional greeting to Tony Blair, they said it all in 2006: 'The bastards
got me...'

BYLINE: Emily Butselaar

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 52 words


Up for a fight. It's been a combative year for, top, Ingrid Tarrant, Cherie
Blair and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, while, bottom, Paris Hilton did
sartorial battle, David Cameron rubbished Ukip and Zinedine Zidane, well, simply
lost his head.

Modest Keira Knightley, left, and the under-fire Gordon Brown, right.


LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now EU wants a GBP 510 income tax

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Kirsty Buchanan DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 611  words


BRUSSELS politicians have drawn up proposals to create a European income tax
which would leave Britons shelling out GBP 510 a year to the superstate.

The rumbling row over the size of Britain's rebate from Europe resurfaced as an
influential committee of MEPs received recommendations for sweeping reforms to
the Union's current funding system.

The Committee On Budgets is facing calls to scale back the current system in
favour of a form of direct taxation when Britain's rebate is re-negotiated in
2008.

A report drawn up for the committee urges MEPs to "seriously consider the
necessity of ensuring a direct and transparent link" between the Union's
resources and its citizens.

It adds that, "in the search for such a link due consideration be given to
paying part of an identified direct tax" to the Union's budget.

The recommendations, drawn up by the Committee On Regional Development, have
been seized on by the UK Independence Party as evidence that Britons face the
threat of a Brussels tax on their pay packets on top of ordinary tax. Currently
the Treasury pays GBP 9billion to the European Union and receives a rebate of up
to GBP 3billion annually.

Our Euro funding is not sliced from earners' income tax but is raised primarily
on levies on imports into Britain and on VAT charged on most goods we buy.

A portion is also taken from Britain's own gross domestic product.

John Whittaker, Ukip MEP, warned that Britons would end up out of pocket if
Brussels looked to raise revenue through direct taxes.

"British taxpayers are already paying through the nose to fund the EU, the last
thing they need is yet another tax, " he added.

"The EU is not directly accountable to the people of this country. To give these
unelected bureaucrats power over tax is a massive step in the wrong direction.

"Most people see the EU wasting money left, right and centre.

The last thing we need is them having more to pour down the drain.

"If they want fewer fights over national contributions then maybe they should
consider the way they spend the money."

The committee's paper accepts that while national contributions will remain an
important source of the Union budget for the "foreseeable future" it proposes a
"revenue-raising system which will reduce the relative importance of such
national contributions".

Rebates which are "manifestly no longer justified" should be abolished, the
paper adds, while any new system should "reflect the relative prosperity of each
member state and its ability to pay".

The paper suggests a direct tax could take the form of an income tax or a
corporation tax.

Mark Wallace, spokesman for the anti-EU Better Off Out campaign, said:
"Currently the European Union costs the British taxpayer and British business a
huge amount of money while providing very few, if any, valuable services for
Brussels.

"To take tax-raising powers and yet more money from the pockets of hard-pressed
British citizens would be another slap in the face - and a confirmation that
Britain would undeniably be better off out of the European Union."

The rebate was won by former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in 1984 to make up
for the huge farming subsidies enjoyed by France and Germany.

But even with the rebate, Britain remains the second highest Union contributor
out of an institution that will, from tomorrow, boast 27 member states.

In 2005, Tony Blair suggested Britain would be prepared to give up some of the
GBP 3billion rebate in return for cuts in German and French farm subsidies but
French President Jacques Chirac refused to give way.

The Union budget is still dominated by farming payments which eat up 56billion
euros (GBP 37.73bn), or 49 per cent of all spending.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday

Now EU wants a GBP 510 income tax

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Kirsty Buchanan DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 504  words


BRUSSELS politicians have drawn up proposals to create a European income tax
which would leave Britons shelling out GBP 510 a year to the superstate.

The rumbling row over the size of Britain's rebate from Europe resurfaced as an
influential committee of MEPs received recommendations for sweeping reforms to
the Union's current funding system.

The Committee On Budgets is facing calls to scale back the current system in
favour of a form of direct taxation when Britain's rebate is re-negotiated in
2008.

A report drawn up for the committee urges MEPs to "seriously consider the
necessity of ensuring a direct and transparent link" between the Union's
resources and its citizens.

It adds that, "in the search for such a link due consideration be given to
paying part of an identified direct tax" to the Union's budget.

The recommendations, drawn up by the Committee On Regional Development, have
been seized on by the UK Independence Party as evidence that Britons face the
threat of a Brussels tax on their pay packets on top of ordinary tax. Currently
the Treasury pays GBP 9billion to the European Union and receives a rebate of up
to GBP 3billion annually.

Our Euro funding is not sliced from earners' income tax but is raised primarily
on levies on imports into Britain and on VAT charged on most goods we buy.

A portion is also taken from Britain's own gross domestic product.

John Whittaker, Ukip MEP, warned that Britons would end up out of pocket if
Brussels looked to raise revenue through direct taxes.

"British taxpayers are already paying through the nose to fund the EU, the last
thing they need is yet another tax, " he added.

"The EU is not directly accountable to the people of this country. To give these
unelected bureaucrats power over tax is a massive step in the wrong direction.
Most people see the EU wasting money left, right and centre. The last thing we
need is them having more to pour down the drain."

The committee's paper accepts that while national contributions will remain an
important source of the Union budget it proposes a revenue-raising system to
reduce the importance of national contributions.

Rebates which are "manifestly no longer justified" should be abolished, the
paper adds, while any new system should "reflect the relative prosperity of each
member state and its ability to pay".

The paper suggests a direct tax could take the form of an income tax or a
corporation tax.

The rebate was won by former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in 1984 to make up
for the huge farming subsidies enjoyed by France and Germany.

But even with the rebate, Britain remains the second highest Union contributor
out of an institution that will, from tomorrow, boast 27 member states.

In 2005, Tony Blair suggested Britain would be prepared to give up some of the
GBP 3billion rebate in return for cuts in German and French farm subsidies but
French President Jacques Chirac refused to give way.

The Union budget is still dominated by farming payments which eat up GBP
37.73billion, or 49 per cent of all spending.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

EU is after GBP 510 in tax from Brits

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Kirsty Buchanan, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 40

LENGTH: 501  words


BRUSSELS politicians have drawn up proposals to create a European income tax
which would leave Britons shelling out GBP 510 a year to the superstate.

The rumbling row over Britain's rebate resurfaced as an influential committee of
MEPs received recommendations for sweeping reforms to the Union's funding.

The Committee On Budgets is facing calls to scale back the current system in
favour of a form of direct taxation, when Britain's rebate is re-negotiated in
2008.

A report urges MEPs to "seriously consider the necessity of ensuring a direct
and transparent link" between the Union's resources and its citizens. It adds
that, "in the search for such a link due consideration be given to paying part
of an identified direct tax" to the Union's budget.

The recommendations, drawn up by the Committee On Regional Development, have
been seized on by the UK Independence Party as evidence that Britons face the
threat of a Brussels top-up tax on their pay packets.

Currently, the Treasury pays GBP 9billion to the European Union and receives a
rebate of up to GBP 3billion annually.

Our Euro funding is not sliced from earners' income tax but is raised primarily
on levies on imports into Britain and on VAT charged on most goods we buy. A
portion is also taken from our gross domestic product.

John Whittaker, Ukip MEP, said: "British taxpayers are already paying through
the nose to fund the EU, the last thing they need is yet another tax. The EU is
not directly accountable to the people of this country. To give these unelected
bureaucrats power over tax is a massive step in the wrong direction.

"If they want fewer fights over national contributions then maybe they should
consider the way they spend the money."

The committee's paper accepts, while national contributions will remain an
important source of the Union budget for the "foreseeable future", it proposes a
"revenue-raising system which will reduce the relative importance of such
national contributions".

Rebates which are "manifestly no longer justified" should be abolished, the
paper adds, while any new system should "reflect the relative prosperity of each
member state and its ability to pay".

The paper suggests a direct tax could take the form of an income tax or a
corporation tax.

Mark Wallace, spokesman for the anti-EU Better Off Out campaign, said: "To take
tax-raising powers and yet more money from the pockets of hard-pressed British
citizens would be another slap in the face - and a confirmation that Britain
would undeniably be better off out of the European Union."

Even with the rebate, Britain remains the second highest Union contributor out
of an institution that will, from tomorrow, boast 27 member states.

In 2005, Tony Blair suggested Britain would be prepared to give up some of the
GBP 3billion rebate in return for cuts in German and French farm subsidies, but
French President Jacques Chirac refused to give way.

The budget is dominated by farm payments which eat up 56billion euros (GBP
37.73bn), or 49 per cent of spending.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday

David Cameron has fallen into Labour's trap Most Tories are idealists for a free
and responsible society. So why, asks David Green, isn't the party standing up
for its core principle?

BYLINE: David Green

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 995 words


David Cameron is anxious to reassure the growing number of doubters in the Tory
party. But it transpires that the assurances are being varied to suit the
occasion. Recently, I was talking to two journalists, one on the Left of the
spectrum and one on the Right. The Cameron team had told the Left-wing
journalist that they did not care if the "old fogeys'' joined Ukip, if they
could not accept "modernisation'' good riddance to them. The Right-leaning
journalist, however, had been told that Mr Cameron was a true Tory; all party
members were valued, and that everyone will be pleasantly surprised when he gets
to Downing Street. In the meantime, it was necessary to say counter-intuitive
things to "win the right to be heard''.

It is understandable that the Tories are trying to combat the accusation that
they celebrate "narrow selfish individualism'' and do not care about the least
advantaged members of society. So they should. But they have gone about it by
accepting that the charge was true in the past and setting out to demonstrate
that it is no longer true under Mr Cameron. As proof of their new compassion
they have made policy announcements associating themselves with the policies of
the Left, including support for the redistribution of income and hostility to
school choice through education vouchers.

By accepting that support for Labour's policies is proof that he cares, Mr
Cameron has given Labour an effective veto on Tory policies. If the Tories ever
have the nerve to advocate school choice or to reduce welfare dependency, Labour
can accuse them of relapsing into old "nasty-party'' ways. Moreover, far from
providing fresh thinking, Mr Cameron has stepped back 30 years to a time when
ideologues thought that the state was good and the market bad. He has renounced
market solutions in health and education as evidence of how much he cares, but
most thoughtful people, including some in the Labour Party, have stopped
thinking that way. The real challenge is to discover how both the market system
and the political system can be empowered to do what each does best. The
political process can guarantee access for all, but it can't manage schools and
hospitals. A market system can. It invites innovation and creativity among
diverse suppliers who compete to find better ways of meeting human needs and
thereby provoke a chain reaction of mutual learning from the successes and
failures of others.

Mr Cameron should be fighting back, not by accepting past guilt, but by slapping
down the false charge that Tories have ever celebrated selfish individualism.
Most Conservative supporters believe themselves to be idealists for a society of
free and responsible individuals. They want individual freedom not just so that
a few people can make money, but because an authoritarian society suppresses
opportunities for people to make the most of their lives. A free society allows
everyone, whether their origins are humble or mighty, to discover their personal
best. For anyone with talent, it means the chance to strive for the heights of
human accomplishment in any walk of life, from making scientific discoveries
that vanquish disease to using words, paint, stone or music to encapsulate truth
and beauty.

The false accusation that freedom is an excuse for selfishness has a long
pedigree. Typically it has been the cry of anti-democrats who wanted a society
run by the elite few who thought they knew best. In the early years of modern
liberty, some such elitists were religious fanatics who wanted to impose
uniformity of worship. Today, they are more likely to want to use legal force to
control smoking and enforce what they see as good nutrition. For at least 150
years, Tories have been the champions of keeping the use of legal force within
reasonable limits, believing that a good society is created by the energy, drive
and idealism of the people themselves acting in mutual concert, not under
instruction from on high.

It was accepted that some people would use their freedom to advance their
private ambitions, but the higher belief was that private energy would be used
to enhance the public sphere. History has shown that such idealism was not a
naive hope. Once the ideal of government limited to maintaining conditions that
would allow private action for the common good had been established by the
Glorious Revolution of 1688/89, the people of Britain transformed themselves
into the most successful nation ever known.

Moreover, the high point of laissez faire during the 19th century saw the
emergence of philanthropic organisations for every need, so much so that it was
common to complain that there was too much charity. In Pygmalion, George Bernard
Shaw mocked, through the mouth of Alfred Doolittle, widows who received cash
from half a dozen different charities for the death of the same husband. The
instinct of the Fabian founders of the welfare state was to control what to them
seemed little more than chaos.

To Conservatives, who were often the backbone of the voluntary organisations in
every locality, the freedom to establish and run charities meant that no genuine
need would go unmet for long. With due allowance for human frailty, the great
professions at their best have embodied the spirit of private action for the
common good, including journalists who uphold the freedom to speak the truth
without fear or favour, doctors who stand for ethical standards in medicine, and
lawyers who fight for impartial justice.

In New Labour's world view we have to choose between "political action for the
public good'' and "private action for private gain''. They ignore "private
action for the public good'' and would rather we didn't talk about "political
action for private benefit'', although David Blunkett and John Prescott were
only too aware of it. Instead of apologising for a false caricature of their
past, the Tories should reclaim their heritage of private action for the public
good.

David Green is Director of Civitas

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            December 29, 2006 Friday

A New Year message we may never hear

BYLINE: ANDREW ALEXANDER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 818 words


PRESIDENT Bush claims to be making good progress on thinking through his Iraq
policy for 2007.

But not good enough, apparently, to be included as once planned in his New Year
message on January 1. Whether an extra week or month will do any good is
doubtful. The crisis threatens to worsen in 2007, come what may.

Meanwhile, Britain can take some pride in the Basra operation, where our troops,
with marginal support from Iraqi regulars, wiped out the headquarters of the
Serious Crimes Unit, without losing a single soldier. And all done, as the local
commander has pointed out, despite the politicians in London leaving our troops
short of everything from supplies to pay.

But it remains quite a thought that this local gestapo HQ originated in
coalition plans to train Iraqis in running an effective police force.

Bush is considering a 'temporary' increase of the American force in Iraq from
140,000 to 170,000. The main idea would be to separate the warring factions,
especially in Baghdad. The execution of Saddam also threatens more violence as
Sunnis retaliate.

The President really must reread the Vietnam story. In 1961, Washington decided
on a major increase in the number of military advisers, to 16,000, to train the
South Vietnamese army. They would withdraw in 1965.

But the Saigon government was hopeless, and the population was also split along
religious lines (sound familiar?). With successive presidents committed to
'victory', the U.S. had a tiger by the tail. The one-more-push-for-success
school of thought led eventually to raising troop levels to well over 500,00 -
and still being defeated.

THE White House constantly deceived Congress and the public throughout. The
obvious parallel is Bush's deception about weapons of mass destruction and
Saddam's imaginary assistance to Al Qaeda.

The U.S. also attacked Laos and Cambodia because North Vietnam used their
territory for supply routes. Some minds in Washington now feel that Iran and
Syria should be forcibly deterred from their support for Iraqi insurgents.

Bush has already rejected pleas to negotiate with those governments.

As governments in Saigon rose and fell, a State Department official was asked
who would be the right man to lead the South.

Anyone who tells us to get out was his sensible answer.

NO 10 has a new plan - or gimmick. It proposes to recruit a panel of 100
'ordinary people' to advise on policies for the public services and the like.

Specialists may be called in to devise the perfect cross section. I can,
however, promise you on my mother's grave and as God is my witness that it will
be no such thing.

The imagination reels at the thought. For a start, it would have to include one
or two arriving under police escort representing our large prison population.
There would also be one or two subject to Asbos.

We would also need a couple of alcoholics, no doubt sipping surreptitiously from
their hip flasks. Also add in a dozen or so, maybe more, who regularly use drugs
of some sort.

There would be some recent immigrants from Eastern Europe, perhaps aided by an
interpreter.

And it would be unfair not to have a representative of our overstaying asylum-
seekers. There would certainly need to be half a dozen Moslems, some of them no
doubt insisting that future policy should be governed by the Koran.

The unemployed would have to be represented, including those who live on the
dole by choice.

There would be scope for the odd tramp or a couple of gipsies, maybe a hoodie or
two.

AMONG the inevitable eccentrics, we might encounter the view that everything can
be solved by vegetarianism or nudism. A religious fanatic might be properly
included, perhaps with his tracts warning that the end is nigh.

The presence of anti- smokers would have to be balanced by the presence of
smokers, the latter demanding an interval when they could nip out into Downing
Street for a quick drag.

There would be those who say we must have nuclear power stations and wind farms
- and those who insist with equal fervour that we mustn't.

Among those with clear political views would be UKIP supporters, asking why we
bother about reforms when the rules come from Brussels anyway. The odd Scottish
Nationalist would insist that matters can be properly decided only after
Scottish independence.

Among the quota of the elderly would be those insisting that raising pensions is
the key issue.

And some yet-to-be pensioners would demand to know why Chancellor Gordon Brown
has destroyed their savings.

In short, you can be confident that a genuine 'cross-section' will not be
allowed. The chosen will be conveniently malleable and wellbehaved; and Tony
Blair can make a fine show of listening before setting out the future aims he
has in mind anyway.

This weird plan is an insult to democracy. What are MPs for if not to act as
channels for reasonable public opinion?

Why bother to have Parliament - or elections? No doubt Tony Blair has often
wondered.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 29, 2006 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: The best way to deal with the BNP threat

BYLINE: Jason Stone

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 300 words


* Many of your readers will be alarmed by your expose of the BNP. But should
they be? Throughout the report, the BNP is condemned for trying to improve its
image. There are continuous references to Nick Griffin's desire to rid the party
of its hooligan stereotype. We are told racist language and anti-Semitism are
now frowned upon within the party and Cobain admits that during his time
undercover he did not hear a single anti-Semitic remark and witnessed almost no
racism. Bizarrely, this leads Cobain to suggest that the absence of overt racism
actually proves the party is more racist than ever. . . and dishonest with it.

You also suggested in your leader column that it is sinister that the BNP has
"acquired a strategy" of targeting what it regards as winnable seats. This is
what all political parties quite sensibly do. Readers are also supposed to find
it extremely alarming that some members of the BNP are gloomy about this
country's future, as if we don't find such disillusionment among other parties.

The BNP is being listened to on immigration because it is the only political
party talking about it (apart from Ukip). The main parties are terrified to
mention immigration because they fear being accused of racism and, more
cravenly, of upsetting the many people who oppose the arrival of more
immigrants.

By constantly suggesting that the BNP's message lies outside the limits accorded
by freedom of speech, we abdicate our responsibility to challenge it. Are we
afraid we cannot win the argument? Shami Chakrabarti of Liberty is one of the
few people who grasp the importance of allowing the BNP to be heard so it can be
contradicted. Surely this is a better than attacking its members in a way that
confirms their belief they are victims of persecution and conspiracy?

Jason Stone

Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 29, 2006 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Relief for Labour as poll reveals 1% lead over Tories

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: POLITICS / HOME; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 549 words


Labour enters the new year one point ahead of the Conservative Party, according
to the latest poll by CommunicateResearch for The Independent.

It puts Labour on 37 per cent (up one point on last month), the Tories on 36 per
cent (up two points), the Liberal Democrats on 14 per cent (down three points)
and others on 14 per cent (up one point).

The findings will provide some relief for Labour, which might have expected a
dip in its fortunes following the bad headlines provoked by the "cash for
honours" affair. They will disappoint the Tories who, having seen their ratings
revive after David Cameron became leader a year ago, seem to have hit a plateau.

The CommunicateResearch survey is a setback for the Liberal Democrats, who seem
to be making little progress under the leadership of Sir Menzies Campbell. His
deputy, Vince Cable, denied at the weekend that the party faced a "major
problem" but conceded that Sir Menzies' qualities of authority and maturity of
judgement took time to get through to voters.

The poll calls into question other surveys suggesting that Mr Cameron is winning
over women voters. Labour (38 per cent) has a two-point lead over the Tories (36
per cent) among women, while the two parties are neck and neck among men (on 35
per cent). While the Tories are well ahead amongst the top AB social group (by
42 per cent to 26 per cent), Labour owes its overall lead to its advantage among
the bottom two C2 and DE groups, where it is 19 and 15 points ahead
respectively. But the regional breakdown issues a warning for Labour. While the
party is ahead in the North and Scotland, the Tories enjoy a lead in the
South-east, the Midlands and Wales and the South-west.

CommunicateResearch's initial polling gave the Tories a two-point lead but this
changed after a "squeeze question" designed to draw out people who are reluctant
to disclose their voting intention.

This suggests that Labour may be experiencing a "spiral of silence" under which
people are wary of admitting they will vote for the party. The Tories faced a
similar phenomenon during their 18 years in power. The three main parties will
be worried by the strong showing for other parties, suggesting that a "none of
the above" option is an attractive one for many.

The Green Party, on 5 per cent, appears to be making the most impact. The
Scottish National Party and the far-right British National Party are both on 2
per cent, with Plaid Cymru and the UK Independence Party, which wants Britain to
leave the European Union, both on 1 per cent, and others on 3 per cent.

Yesterday the Green Party dismissed the environmental policies of the three main
parties as "soggy, muddled, and compromised". Caroline Lucas, a member of the
European Parliament, said there was "a gulf between rhetoric and reality" and
accused them of lacking "political guts and courage" to discourage people from
flying. "We should be having a much more up-beat message, saying that the Green
Party isn't about brown bread and it certainly isn't about wacky ideas - it's
about practical solutions," she said.

CommunicateResearch, a member of the British Polling Council, interviewed 1,009
adults by telephone on 19-20 December. Data were weighted to represent all
adults. The full tables are available online at www.communicateresearch.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          December 27, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron must engage grassroots not quangos

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 489 words


According to the Conservatives, the most influential Briton of the 20th century
was Aneurin Bevan, a Labour politician who called for "the complete political
extinction of the Tory party''. His wish may yet be granted, at least so far as
the grassroots are concerned: there are now only around 250,000 Tory activists,
as opposed to 350,000 in 1997.

But any pleasure Nye might take in the plight of a party he considered "lower
than vermin'' would be cancelled out by the knowledge that Labour membership has
more than halved over the past decade. Its fall from 405,000 in 1997 to 198,000
in 2005 is the sharpest on record. John Cruddas, the Left-wing candidate for
Labour's deputy leadership, pointed out yesterday that his party would have no
members at all by 2013 if the rate of decline continued.

The grassroots of Britain's main political parties are dying, and for similar
reasons. Never have the metropolitan elites that run Labour and the
Conservatives (it is not clear who, if anyone, runs the Lib Dems) resembled each
other so closely, or their own party supporters so little.

Senior politicians do not appear to be too worried by this development.
Blairites and Cameroons both give the impression that they would like their
stick-in-the-mud grassroots to sink into the ground and leave them to get on
with the business of "connecting'' with "real people''. Yet the latter do not
wish to connect: the last general election was the first since 1929 in which no
party received more than 10 million votes. Since then, only two parties have
significantly increased their membership - the Left-fascist BNP, whose core
voters are ex-Labour; and the anti-EU, free market Ukip, whose new members
include surprising numbers of active Tories, including former constituency
chairmen.

In the end, voter disenchantment and falling party rolls are aspects of the same
crisis. One of the best analyses of the situation comes, surprisingly, from
Charter 88, a Left-wing pressure group whose prescriptions (such as its demand
for a written constitution) are mostly wrong-headed, but which understands
clearly that representative democracy in Britain is being destroyed by
bureaucracy. It writes: "Governments have become locked in a vicious circle of
centralising power in an effort to improve public services, only to find this
leads to increased dissatisfaction. The quango state - unaccountable bodies
which have a direct impact on people's lives - has become a common feature of
our political life.''

Political parties are a vehicle for connecting voters to public life; and one of
the glories of the British system was that people were attracted to the
mainstream, not the fringe. There was, however, always a local dimension to that
allegiance. Mr Cruddas knows this; so did Margaret Thatcher, who built powerful
associations in Labour heartlands. David Cameron must do the same - in the
interests not just of his party, but also of democracy.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'I hope the gypsies go to Britain, ' said the Bucharest barman. 'It would solve
a lot of problems for us . . . ';
FOCUS

BYLINE: From Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT IN BUCHAREST

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 1224  words


SEVENTEEN years ago this week, Romania stunned the world by executing its hated
communist leader Nicolae Ceausescu after a summary trial on Christmas Day. The
country's ravaged economy is still recovering from the damage done by half a
century of communist rule.

The countryside is littered with the shells of abandoned factories, the horse
and cart still plays a prominent role in farming and wages remain a fraction of
those in the UK.

The government is struggling to control crime and millions of the country's
brightest workers have left for a better life abroad.

Yet in just one week's time Romania and its neighbour Bulgaria will be admitted
to the European Union - allowing their citizens free access to Britain for the
first time.

The biggest question is what Romania's four million Roma gypsies will do when
the EU's borders are opened. The community remains despised by many Romanians
and is blamed for many of the country's ills. Most live in abject poverty.

Daniel Dimitrescu, a well-educated young barman in the Romanian capital
Bucharest, freely admits he would like to see the Roma head west. He believes
"only" about 200,000 Romanians will head for a new life in the EU - and hopes
most of them will be gypsies.

"I hope the gypsies will go, " he shrugs. "It would solve a lot of problems for
us."

British Immigration Minister Liam Byrne admits he has no idea how many migrants
will come here when Romania and Bulgaria join the EU on January 1.

Mr Byrne has also been forced to concede that the Government's feeble
last-minute efforts to slow the tide of workers from Romania and Bulgaria will
have little effect if people are determined to come.

The only official estimate of numbers has come from the Romanian Embassy in this
country, which suggested that just 7,000 of its countrymen would take the
opportunity to move to Britain.

The tiny figure was publicly mocked by Nigel Farage, leader of the UK
Independence Party, who offered to bet the Romanian ambassador GBP 1 for every
extra countryman of his who came.

The cheeky wager led to an angry response from the Romanian president who
invited Mr Farage to visit his country. The president did not take up the bet -
but Mr Farage accepted his challenge Last week he met ministers, officials and
ordinary Romanians, who faced an uphill battle to convince him that EU
enlargement would be good for either Romania or Britain.

Mr Farage says the last round of EU enlargement - when Government estimates of
migrant numbers were woefully wide of the mark - placed huge pressure on
services, drove down wages for some British workers and made it tougher for
others to get a job at all. A further influx will only make matters worse.

"It is indisputable that there is oversupply in the low-skilled jobs market.
That has led to a substantial increase in unemployment over the last year, "
says Mr Farage.

"Three years ago I was condemned for warning that opening our borders to Eastern
Europe would lead to mass migration, but we have been proved right.

"Instead of 13,000 people coming, as the Government predicted, more than 600,000
have come. Unemployment has risen sharply, 55,000 of those who have come who are
on some form of benefit, there is huge pressure on the bottom of the housing
market, and what are we doing to solve it? We are about to invite in two
countries that are even poorer."

Travelling with Mr Farage to Romania it is not hard to see why he believes many
more people will head to Britain than anyone has predicted.

Romanian government ministers initially stick to the official line that most
workers who want to head west have already done so.

But it is clear they fear they may be on the verge of a mass exodus.

Interior minister Alexandru Mircea insists that growth in the economy will
persuade people to stay. But he admits: "Yes, we are worried that many people
might go.

We want our citizens to make our economy grow, not the economy of other
countries."

Foreign minister Anton Niculescu takes a similar stance. "How many will come to
the UK? I doubt it will be a big change, " he says.

"Unfortunately, most of the people leaving are the skilled ones - it is a brain
drain. Even if there is a significant rise it would not affect Britain as much
as it would affect Romania."

Officials repeatedly claim that Romanians seeking a better life will head for
southern European states like Italy and Spain where the language is similar. But
English is taught to Romanian children from primary school and the standard is
impressive.

Chartered surveyor Tiberiu Dancovici says even low-skilled factory workers are
quitting the country, forcing the government to bring workers from China. He
says the huge gulf in wages means people will continue to go, even if they hope
to return one day.

His cousin's wife moved to Ireland where she can earn 2,000 euros (GBP 1,300) a
month as a nurse - 10 times her wage at home.

TWENTY years ago Romanians had to queue for hours to buy meat and basic
provisions. At a market in central Bucharest there is plenty of meat on sale.
But the grimy conditions do not come close to meeting EU hygiene standards and
traders are blissfully unaware of the rules they are meant to observe in a
week's time.

The point is not lost on Mr Farage. "A British trading standards officer would
have a coronary if he saw this, " he says. "It's yet another sign that Romania
is not ready."

The market is also a reminder of the grinding poverty still endured by many
Romanians. In the bitter cold a gypsy woman holds out two pitiful handfuls of
potatoes for sale. Another sells unwanted branches from Christmas trees.

Mihail Mandoiu, a pastor who runs educational and humanitarian projects, says
gypsies have faced generations of prejudice.

"The Roma were like the black people in the United States, " he says. "They were
slaves, treated almost like animals - and if you treat people that way they will
behave that way.

"There are two attitudes over here to the Roma. One is to kill them all. The
other is to help them to the same level of education as the rest of the
population. That is what I want to do."

Viorel Oprisan, leader of a 2,000-strong Roma community on the edge of the
industrial city of Ploiesti, insists most of the gypsies with an urge to leave
have already gone, with others well aware they are not wanted in Britain and
other EU countries.

"Of course people will be drawn to the money, but I think our young people
realise they are not welcome in the EU, " he says.

"Life is hard, but there are many gypsies like us who would rather live with
dignity than eat more and be humiliated.

"If countries like England or Germany were more permissive gypsies would go
there. But we know they are looked on as third-class citizens all over the
world." Yet with EU rules threatening to shake up Romania's farming industry,
which employs 80 per cent of those gypsies who have a job, many may be forced to
leave to find work.

It is not hard to see why Romania wants to join the EU. Aid money could
transform its crumbling infrastructure and polluted environment. And membership
will help it break free from Russian dominance - a factor easily forgotten in
the west.

But for Mr Farage at least, the move remains a potential disaster. "Before I
came here I didn't think Romania was ready to join the EU and I have seen
nothing to change my mind, " he says. "It is absolute madness."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHALLENGE: UKIP leader Nigel Farage meets Roma gypsies who might pose a
problem by coming to Britain Picture: PETRUT CALINESCU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                               December 23, 2006

Brown's takeover to be one smooth spot in rocky year;
'The theme will be disengagement. State funding will relieve parties from the
need to find an agenda the public think is worth supporting financially'

LENGTH: 904 words


IF a week is a long time in politics, a year is an eternity; and 2007 promises
perhaps more tumult than any year since Tony Blair took power. We will have a
new Prime Minister (Gordon Brown) who knows he can only survive by enacting
radical change. So my one firm prediction for the year is that it will be a
political maelstrom with more action than perhaps any MP would like.

But what kind of action? This is where forecasting gets harder. But if I had to
place my bets, this is where my money would lie.

Blair will hang on until after the May elections. He will be cleared in the
loans-for-honours investigation, as he would have been five months ago had his
office not tried to obstruct the police investigation. Brown will not make a
move against him. The Chancellor's Budget in April will be boring but the
Spending Review in June - a vision for the next 10 years - will be the launch of
his leadership manifesto. A token leadership election will last through the
summer.

There will be no heavyweight contender. As a party, Labour considers itself
predestined to go with Brown: it does so with resignation rather than
enthusiasm. But only a major terrorist attack could put the public in the mood
for John Reid, the Home Secretary, who plays the warrior-leader far better than
the reclusive Chancellor. Reid will keep his powder dry for a later leadership
attempt (perhaps after Brown has lost a general election) rather than make a
human sacrifice of himself.

Prime Minister Brown will debut at the Labour Party conference in Bournemouth
and, mindful of his limited appeal, he will have in his Cabinet as many
glamorous youngsters as possible. Unlike David Cameron he has plenty to choose
from: David Miliband, Liam Byrne, James Parnell, Andy Burnham are all smart,
articulate and battle-ready. It will not be Brown v Cameron (much as the Tories
would like such a juxtaposition) but Brown's Angels v Cameron.

The Conservatives will have rather a tough year. The commanding opinion poll
lead which has accompanied Cameron since he became leader is already thinning:
the last poll, by Populus, shows the Tories at 34% versus 33% which Michael
Howard achieved at the general election. Cameron has changed the party's image
but has not yet equipped it with an agenda. He will find this the harder task.

The six policy review groups Cameron commissioned report in the summer and he
will choose policies by the year-end. Tories discomfited by his approach (ruling
out tax cuts, embracing environmentalism) have been reserving judgement until
this day.

Yet when Brown's Spending Review is published setting budget limits until April
2011, Cameron will pledge to match it. This will close down the debate on tax
and spending; and leave the Tories little latitude to produce a noticeably
different agenda.

The scramble for the centre ground of politics has been noticed by the public;
political disengagement will intensify. For all the hype about Cameron, Tory
party membership is down since his arrival as leader. Labour has lost half its
membership since it won the election. At election time, abstentions will rise.

The theme of 2007 will not be realignment but disengagement. This will be made
worse when the parties effectively nationalise themselves by seeking state
funding, relieving them from the need to find an agenda the public think is
worth supporting financially.

The gap between the public and mainstream political parties will widen and be
exposed in the May elections. The Scottish Parliament elections will show
significant gains for the Scottish Nationalists (who will still lose); and the
Scottish Tories will fare abysmally both there and in the Welsh Assembly
elections. This will underline the geographical limits of Cameron's message.

Minority parties will prosper in the English local elections, with Labour voters
in neglected seats fuelling the far right British National Party. Disaffected
Tories will register a protest against Cameron by supporting the UK Independence
Party which, despite its problems, remains well positioned for a revival.

The last few months of Blair's premiership will be spent attempting a withdrawal
from Iraq, on a prospectus every bit as misleading as that devised for the 2003
invasion. The original aims, a secure and democratic country, will be quietly
dropped and "victory" redefined as an ability to hand over to an Iraqi police
force no matter how corrupt its officers are. Iraq will then descend into
sectarian warfare.

Brown, who will give the military a miserable financial settlement in his
spending review, will keep his head down. His policies will be judged by whether
they will help Labour win the general election.

There will be no snap election: Labour cannot afford one and the Tories, who are
finally close to selling their Smith Square headquarters in Westminster, can.
But there will be no military adventurism: this has its own separate
implications for world politics.

By next Christmas it is possible that Brown may be attacking the Conservatives
from the right - perhaps even promising to lower tax, a move Cameron has said
will threaten "stability". But such political cross-dressing may only serve to
strengthen the cynicism with which the British public now regards its political
class. Loyalties have never been thinner, and the political wheel never faster
in spin. The conditions point to a disorientating, tumultuous and unpredictable
year for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday

Tories at their strongest for 14 years - poll: Conservatives 40% ( + 3) Labour
32% (no change) Lib Dems 18% ( = 4)

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words


David Cameron has led his party to its strongest sustained position in 14 years
according to a Guardian/ICM poll published today, which shows the Conservatives
have extended their lead over Labour to eight points at the end of the new Tory
leader's first year in office.

The poll puts the Conservatives on 40%, three points up on last month's
Guardian/ICM result. Labour remain on 32% while the Liberal Democrats fall four
points to 18%, their lowest rating in a Guardian poll since the summer.

The result underlines the big shift in public opinion that has taken place since
Mr Cameron took over in December last year. Since then the Conservatives have
averaged 37% in the Guardian/ICM series, four points ahead of Labour, which has
averaged 33%. That is Labour's lowest annual average since 1992, the year that
the Conservatives last won a general election.

The poll was carried out last weekend, after Tony Blair was questioned by police
at Downing Street, and the party can draw comfort from the fact that its rating
has remained unchanged.

Labour's resilient performance confirms a trend suggesting support for the party
has hit a bedrock of just over 30% and will not drop below that.

Meanwhile Conservative support seems to have reached a maximum of 40%, almost
certainly not enough to give Mr Cameron a majority at a general election.
Although the result would leave him as leader of the largest party,
Conservatives have yet to break through to an election-winning position.

The party will draw comfort, however, from the drop in Liberal Democrat support.
Until now support for Sir Menzies Campbell's party has held firm despite Mr
Cameron's attempts to appeal to the centre ground.

Underlying the shift in party support is the growing public belief that the
Conservatives may be on course to win next time.

Only 12% of voters now think that the Conservatives will never win again,
compared to 37% who think the party will win the next general election. When ICM
last asked the question in July 2002, only 19% of voters thought the Tories
would win next time.

Crucially, Conservative voters are now enthusiastic about their party's chances,
with 67% saying they believe that Mr Cameron is on course for victory. That may
encourage them to turn out and vote. By contrast, 29% of Labour supporters think
that their party will lose to the Conservatives.

The poll also shows that the Green party, and not rightwing groups such as the
UK Independence party, poses the biggest threat to the main three parties.

Despite recent publicity about Conservative defections to Ukip, and fears inside
the party that Mr Cameron's remodelling of Conservative policy could alienate
traditional support on the right, only 14% of Tory supporters say they might
back Ukip instead.

Asked to name one or more other parties that they might support, Conservatives
are much more likely to choose the Liberal Democrats or the Greens: 32% of
Tories say they might vote Lib Dem and 19% say Green.

The result appears to strengthen Mr Cameron's hand in arguing the Conservatives
must embrace a radical environmental and social justice agenda.

Labour supporters are also more likely to switch to the Lib Dems (30%) or Greens
(16%) than Ukip (9%).

Nationally, Green support stands at 3% this month, against Ukip on 1%.

Around a third of Tory and Labour supporters say they would not consider
changing their vote. Of those Labour voters who do say they might switch, 18%
say they would consider voting Conservative and 30% Lib Dem.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,006 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
December 15-17. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 19, 2006

Party funding report delayed

LENGTH: 799 words



HIGHLIGHT: A report on cleaning up party funding has been delayed because
politicians are divided over the proposal to cap individual donations to
political parties, it emerged today.


A report on cleaning up party funding has been delayed because politicians are
divided over the proposal to cap individual donations to political parties, it
emerged today.

Sir Hayden Phillips, whose report was scheduled to be published before the end
of the year, revealed the sticking point in a statement in which he outlined
progress in drawing up a package of measures to restore public confidence in the
political process.

The other main bone of contention over proposed funding reforms is whether to
reduce campaign spending levels outside a general election year - a move widely
opposed by the Conservative party.

Sir Hayden's admission coincides with the publication of separate report by MPs
urging all main political parties to sign up to a cap on donations and spending
as a precondition for substantially increased funding from the state.

Sir Hayden warns in his own statement that the degree to which he will recommend
additional public funding to boost party coffers could be "contingent" on the
degree to which there is consensus on the rest of his recommendations.

The former mandarin cited key areas of "common ground" already reached over
proposed reforms: transparency on party income and spending; scaling back
campaign spending in a general election year; reforming funding regulation and
additional public funding for political parties.

"I believe that an agreement on a future system of party funding would be
clearly in the public interest.

"The challenge is now for me and the parties to make a final push to achieve an
agreement on the way forward."

Sir Hayden said that though Ukip was the only political party to flatly oppose
the principle of a limit on party donations, the details had split opinion
across parties.

Evidence submitted to the review included concerns that parties would find
loopholes to circumvent the donation limit.

One contributor called for organisations to be banned from donating anything at
all.

The proposal of a blanket limit on donations is particularly sensitive for the
Labour party, which receives the bulk of its funding from affiliated trade
unions.

Though Mr Blair is rumoured to favour the proposal, which would break the
unions' hold over the party, the wider Labour party membership resists such a
move.

The party's ruling body, the national executive committee, insists that the 3.50
paid by affiliated members is not a donation, but an affiliation fee.

Sir Hayden said today: "Differences exist over how and whether a cap on
donations should apply to affiliation fees from trade unions and socialist
societies to the Labour party.

"Affiliation is a collective decision by a trade union or socialist society.
Under the current legislation the total affiliation fee from the union counts as
one donation, and so, were a cap to be introduced, affiliation fees would be
limited to the level of the cap."

The Conservatives seized on Sir Hayden's statement today to accuse the Labour of
holding up moves to "clean up politics".

Francis Maude, the Tory party chairman, said: "It is regrettable that a divided
Labour party, paralysed by their forthcoming contest for their leader and deputy
leader, is wrecking the opportunity to clean up politics.

"Tony Blair has recognised that controls on trade union funding are essential to
any reform of party funding. But his authority is now so diminished that no-one
in the Labour party is listening.

"We must not allow this to become a missed opportunity to improve the way that
British democracy works."

An inquiry into party funding by the constitutional affairs select committee
said that state funding was the only way to achieve "cleaner and healthier
politics" following the row earlier this year over cash-for-honours allegations.

Tony Blair was interviewed by police last week as part of a police inquiry
triggered by speculation earlier this year that rich businessmen had been
nominated for seats in Britain's unelected upper house of parliament in return
for lending Labour large sums for its 2005 election campaign.

Mr Blair and other Labour politicians and officials have denied there is any
link.

The committee report warned today that "failure to undertake reform, or the
promulgation of reforms which are seen to be of a partisan nature will serve
only to alienate the public".

Hazel Blears, Labour party chairwoman, said: "Of course it is right that Sir
Hayden should have more time to debate the issues, but we are encouraged to note
that the select committee report suggests an all-party consensus is now emerging
around voluntary donation limits and continuous spending caps.

"Over the coming weeks we will continue to work closely with the review on the
basis of the party's submission agreed by our annual conference."

Sir Hayden said his report would now be published before the end of January.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               15 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 18, 2006 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

FOOTBALL: 3PM - EUROPEAN XI

BYLINE: BY STEVE ANGLESEY

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 122 words


MEMBERS of UKIP are no doubt already booking their tickets for an Old Trafford
friendly in March, which marks the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome - the
document which paved the way for a unified Europe.

The attractions? Not just David Beckham's return as part of a European XI to
face Manchester United, but hopefully a few public words from Sir Alex Ferguson
on how he sees our continental colleagues.

Don't forget, Fergie is the man who recently slammed the "ever-fragile Germans"
over Owen Hargreaves, who accused the Spanish of fixing the 2003 European Cup
draw and who famously accused another European race of being so untrustworthy
that "when an Italian tells me it's pasta on the plate I check under the sauce
to make sure."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 17, 2006

Sleeping on cheese-graters

BYLINE: Matt Rudd

SECTION: FEATURES; Travel; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 678 words


As BAA faces new calls for regulation, Matt Rudd votes Heathrow the world's
worst airport.

I might be risking a particularly vigorous rubber-glove probe the next time I
fly, but I'd just like to say that Heathrow is the worst airport on the planet.
Sure, Miami is hellish, Bangalore is plagued by mozzies and Lagos is just plain
suicidal, but Heathrow trumps the lot with its own special brand of misery. It
is, as I'm sure you're aware, the most sprawling, ugly, depressing place to
begin or end a holiday, a twilight zone of queues, rip-off restaurants, broken
travolators and seating made of cheese-graters so you can't sit down, you just
have to keep shopping in the overpriced shops.

Then there are the toilets: they can leave you psychologically scarred for life.

The last time I risked it, while waiting for my (delayed, of course) luggage at
Terminal 4, I slid across a fetid floor to a toilet so blocked, it looked as if
someone had patted it down with a spade. I still have Vietnam-style flashbacks.

Then there's getting to and from the place in the first place. We're always
whinging about certain no-frills airlines depositing us in obscure tertiary
airports miles from where we wanted to be. But Heathrow is just as bad. It can
take hours, which feel like days, to get to London. The Tube is
soul-destroyingly slow and traveller-unfriendly (where do I put my suitcase?),
the Heathrow Express is expensive and, the last time I was on it, smelly, and
taxis are out of the question for anyone who doesn't play Premiership football.

What's worse -and I know I'm starting to sound all UKIP-apoplectic here -all
these grumbles pre-date the new security measures. Since August 10, Heathrow has
become even more intolerable. Manchester coped well in the aftermath of the
attempted terrorist plot, bringing in extra staff quickly and keeping passengers
informed, but Heathrow went to pieces. Almost six months on, it still doesn't
have enough staff to keep security queues down.

You just have to stand there looking at all the unmanned X-ray machines,
wondering why they couldn't have hired a few more people to tell us to take our
shoes off.

Last week, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) stepped in with a lengthy report
damning the British Airports Authority (BAA), which owns Heathrow, Gatwick and
Stansted (but not Manchester).

It blamed the sorry state of London's airports on BAA's virtual monopoly in the
southeast (90% of passengers in the region use them) and announced its intention
to report the company to the Competition Commission (CC).

"Greater competition could bring significant benefits for passengers," said John
Fingleton, the OFT's chief executive. "There is evidence of poor quality and
high charges... and we believe that a full inquiry into BAA's structure is
justified."

The report details long queues, lack of staff, poor facilities and bad
maintenance among the many deficiencies of BAA airports. The conclusion the
average grumpy passenger has to draw is that because airlines and passengers
have no choice but to use these airports, BAA doesn't need to be efficient or
provide good value. It can even let its toilets brim with sewage.

British Airways welcomed the report, calling for Stansted and Heathrow to be
forced into separate ownership. Virgin Atlantic also welcomed it, saying that
consumers would benefit from better terminals and more efficient services if
there was competition between airports.

In May, BAA posted pretax profits of £ 620m. This strongly suggests that in the
areas of Heathrow where passengers aren't being forced to buy teddy bears at
Harrods or queue for a frisk, BAA has large printing presses from which flow
crisp £ 50 notes.

Hopefully, the writing is on the wall for BAA's monopoly, and we might see an
end to the cheese-grater seats and shoddy treatment of passengers. But the plan
to refer the company to the CC is only provisional. There is an eight-week
consultation period, during which interested parties can register their views. I
might e-mail them.

Just in case you want to too, it's airport.study@oft.gsi.gov.uk.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip's big issues

SECTION: LETTERS; 24

LENGTH: 184  words


AS an ardent and active member of the UK Independence Party (Ukip) I would like
to lay to rest the old belief that it is a one-issue party. Maybe six to seven
years ago when I joined Ukip from being a very disillusioned Tory, that idea may
have had some credence, but no longer.

Although Ukip's manifesto is based on the reclamation of the billions wasted on
the failing federal state of Europe, it covers everything from the lack of
street lighting to the ailing NHS. It is against the EU's decimation of our
fishing and farming industries, and the possible eradication of the UK as a
self-governing independent sovereign state.

With a dynamic new leader, backed by the experience of tried and tested former
leaders, the party structure is as good as, if not better than, the three tired,
old has-beens that have brought our country to the big brother, lawless offshore
satellite of the most corrupt political experiment ever. What Adolf Hitler could
not achieve with muscle is now being done by stealth, aided and abetted by what
can only be described as traitors to the Magna Carta.

Len Baynes, Fenland, Cambs

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Long road to a post office also leads to the death of a way of life;
FOCUS Christine Allison used to be a village postmistress. Now, with her branch
closed, fetching her pension is a lengthy ordeal

BYLINE: By Hilary Douglas Additional reporting by Marthe Gomer

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 1287  words


MANY communities across Britain have been left fearing for their future by the
news that a further 2,500 post offices are to close.

The local shop is often run by the postmistress, selling vital supplies of
bread, milk and other daily necessities.

More worringly, the move could spell an end to independence for thousands of
pensioners up and down the country, whose short stroll to the post office to
pick up their weekly pension will be replaced by a long and difficult journey.

Already under Labour, 4,000 post offices have closed, ripping the heart out of
small towns and villages. Cities, too, have been affected with smaller post
offices closing, forcing pensioners to use larger central post offices, often
miles away from where they live.

The UK Independence Party believes that the decision to downgrade Britain's post
office network has been taken by Tony Blair because of rules drawn up in
Brussels, which do not allow the Government to subsidise the Royal Mail.

"The plain truth is that the scandal of these closures is directly because of a
ruling from the European Commission, " said Nigel Farage, Ukip leader. "Three
years ago, this Government signed away the Royal Mail's ability to conduct its
own financial affairs."

In 2003 the Government struck a deal allowing it to provide GBP 150million to
the post office, a deal later extended for another three years. Subsidising the
service costs GBP 4million a week, however, adding up to a GBP 58million deficit
a year. "The Government still refuses to admit this is the real reason, " added
Mr Farage.

"Why should we have to go to Brussels to beg permission to fund a service which
is important to so many local communities, especially in rural areas? In spite
of Alastair Darling declaring investment of GBP 1.7billion, he will still have
to ask permission from the EU to do this.

"Thanks to the EU, the profitable services have been 'cherry-picked' while the
small and rural post offices will get cut or axed."

These cuts, which will see more than a sixth of all branches closing, have
already made life extremely difficult for former postmistress Christine Allison,
who lives in the tiny village of Doddiscomsleigh, Devon.

Mrs Allison, 78, used to have a twominute walk to pick up her pension.

Now, following the closure of the post office she ran from 1971 after her
predecessor failed to get to grips with decimalisation, she has to endure a
four-hour round trip.

"In areas like this it is a nightmare relying on public transport, " she said.
"It makes my life a misery having to endure this journey week in, week out.

"Although our nearest post office is in Christow, which is just over a four-mile
round trip, because of the bus timetables it takes just over three hours. Once
I've walked to and from the bus stops it's nearly four hours. If I catch the
11.41 bus in the village, the journey is only 12 minutes.

"After I've posted my parcel and picked up my pension, I have to wait until 2pm
for the bus to take me back.

In winter or when it's raining it is a dreadful expedition. There is no coffee
shop or anywhere warm to wait. It is very miserable but necessary as there is
just no choice."

Even this doleful service is now under threat, as the possibility of closure now
hangs over the Christow post office as well.

Christine, who lives with her husband, Donald, 85, believes strongly that post
offices are not just commercial enterprises. They are important social services,
vital for the very lifeblood of rural communities.

"Our post office was a point of contact throughout the village, " she said.

"It was as much the nucleus of village life as the church and the pub and it
provided a very important social function for all age groups. It is true to say
that the older generation did rely on its services more once they found it more
difficult to get about.

"Over the years there was more and more bureaucracy and red tape.

Conversely the very services that made us necessary and financially viable began
to be withdrawn.

"I used to make most of my money from selling vehicle licences and TV licence
renewals but they took away my right as a small post office to sell these sort
of things.

"I was also able to offer customers the ability to pay their telephone bills and
electricity over the counter of my shop and for every such transaction I was
paid a reasonable sum. Pensions also made up a big part of my income but more
and more people started having their money paid straight into a bank account.

"This is fine for those who have bank accounts and are happy using bank cards at
cash dispensing machines, but there is a large section of pensioners for whom
this is not something they could be happy with.

"I have to get into the main post office now to get my own pension and also if I
need extra cash from the bank, as there isn't a banking machine in the village."

Christine's life was easier, in spite of being unable to find someone to take
over the village post office when she retired, when her husband was still able
to drive.

"Now that Donald is too old to drive it makes things very hard indeed. I am
sometimes lucky and get a lift from friends, but usually I want to go into town
at a time when most younger people are at work, so it's public transport or do
without really, " she said.

By the time Christine retired, she was taking home just GBP 300 a month from
opening the post office six mornings a week, rarely taking a holiday and paying
for the shop's electricity.

"How can they expect rural post offices to stay open when they've taken away all
the things that allowed them to make money?" she said. "I don't think the powers
that be actually want post offices to stay open, so they've gone about it in
this underhand way by making them ludicrous for anyone to want to keep open.

"On the occasions I did go away on holiday with my family, they brought in a
substitute postmistress who got paid more than I did. This Government has
deliberately forced many customers away so post offices have to shut.

There is no doubt in my mind that this is a deliberate and ongoing strategy.

"They blithely talk about customers abandoning the post office and using emails
and such like instead, but they always fail to mention that they took away the
very services that we were supplying.

"By the time I walk to the bus stop, wait, travel and then walk home again, I
have been out for nearly four hours. I am just getting too old for all that.

"It's plain unfair and shows just how much the powers that be care about
pensioners. For someone older or less fit it would be an impossible journey to
make." It is not just rural communities that have been affected by post office
closures. When the post office in Maida Vale's Clifton Road in north London
closed last year, hundreds of pensioners were left high and dry.

The owners failed to give customers any notice whatsoever, with pensioners
queueing for hours outside the locked doors having no idea what was going on.

"They claimed that the lease had run out, " said Claire Hunter, 75, who used the
post office since she retired.

"Now I have to get the bus all the way down to the office on Edgware Road. It's
only about a mile away but the bus can take ages and it's too far to walk for
someone of my age. The buses just come whenever they fancy, often three or four
at a time, so you can be waiting for ages in all weathers.

"It can take up to two hours or even longer by the time I wait for the bus and
then queue up in the post office where there is hardly ever anyone serving. It
is not a nice experience.

"Going into the local post office used to be fun, something that was a social
experience where you would meet people you saw every week and have a good
natter.

"In closing the post office, they've taken that away."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VITAL SERVICE: Christine makes it safely to the post office in the next
village but now she faces a two-hour wait in the wind and rain before she can
catch the next bus back
SCANDAL: Nigel Farage blames the EU
SETTING OFF: Former postmistress Christine Allison, 78, faces a four-hour round
trip to post a parcel after the office in her Devon village was closed. 'Public
transport is a nightmare in rural areas like this, ' she explains

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 16, 2006 Saturday

Clement Crabbe;
More from our columnist, the scabrous Clement Crabbe, of The Rockpools Register,
who takes a wry, whimsical look at a world increasingly beyond parody

BYLINE: CLEMENT CRABBE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1124 words


by Joan le Carre

AGENT Manningham-Buller shivered, staring at the drop. It was cold but that was
not the only reason goose pimples bobbled on her arms, making her skin look like
the bottom of a shower mat.

In her mouth: the sour taste of that last meeting with the PM. Blair! Smiley had
always told her not to trust politicians. Smiley had been right.

'Double Oh Dear' they sneeringly called her at No 10, rather than the codename
'C' normally accorded to MI5 chiefs. Eliza had felt the draught ever since the
July 7 bombings. Of course she had told Blair's people it could happen. Had they
listened? Had they altered his neo-con foreign policies? No.

Blair was a bullet-dodger, a squealer, sly. The worst sort, you could say.

Funny thing is, he could have made a good spy. The office liked them flawed.

If they were spivs it made it easier when they had to be liquidated. Meant you
didn't feel a sensitive tooth-twinge of conscience.

In her hand Manningham-Buller cradled her P45, so new it was still shiny.

Latest issue. In happier days she'd hoped things would never come to this.

The P45 was the service's most deadly weapon. Or was it? In her handbag
Manningham-Buller had something equally destructive. Computer discs.

A smile slowly spread across her ginny, patrician face. A twinkle came to her
tired eyes.

Memoirs. Yes. Memoirs. Suddenly the drop seemed not so frightening after all.

As Manningham-Buller prepared to step into the void a distant conductor's baton
gave a small, upward tick and a zither started plinkety-plink-plinking the theme
tune of The Third Man. Eliza Manningham-Buller, we'll 'C' you later.

PROFESSOR Jonathan Furey, protector of the Thatcherite flame, is preparing for
his first trip to a professional football match. The ginger prof was outraged to
hear that Sir Alex Ferguson had planned a Manchester United v.

European All Stars game to 'celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of
Rome'.

Furey and some of his UKIP adherents intend to 'work the crowd' at the next Man
U home match, telling all those admirable lads with the knuckle tattoos and
Union Jack banners exactly what the Treaty of Rome entails. Once the Prof gets
going with his Johnsonian invective he's pretty unstoppable.

One way or another, there could be an old-fashioned football hooligan punch-up.

DOWN at Scotland Yard the lads from the Bungs Unit have yet to be debriefed
about their trip to Downing Street. The moment they returned they were placed in
a sterile unit, told to undress ('down to your turban, Smudger'), and were then
given hot showers. DI Andy Starch explained: 'Anyone who's been near the PM is
treated the same way as those exposed to Polonium 210. We regard politicians as
a source of possible contamination.' Quite right, too.

THE media still found room to report the discovery in Torquay of a piece of
ancient jaw. Archaeologists said the object, which included dental fragments,
could be 40,000 years old.

This was read keenly by Edith Marmite, 73, amateur motorist.

Only last month she and her navigator (and childhood sweetheart) Phyllis took a
spin through Devon in their tangerine-coloured Metro. 'Phyllis!'

barked the salty Marmite.

'Yes, skipper?' 'You know when we were missed that green traffic light in
Torquay and I let rip with such a loud swearword that my false teeth flew out of
the window?' 'Yes, skipper.' 'Well. I think they may have just turned up.'

TALK about a Maginot Line!

There the Ministry of Defence was, going on about al-Qaeda and Johnny Taliban,
when up pops Gen Sir Mike Jackson and drops a Dimbleby Lecture down the chimney.
A Dimbleby Lecture! Hah!

Hadn't prepared for that, had they?

The Ministry sustained severe casualties. There were some particularly nasty
cases of narcolepsy. A Chatham House worthy was resting his chin on his hand
during Sir Mike's oration and drifted off to the land of Nod. His elbow slipped,
his chin hit the desk and two of his front teeth were smashed.

Stretcher bearers!

Sir Mike was dismissed by some as a 'hypocritical old wino'. Admiral Basil
Angostura, chief of Home Defences, was not impressed by this.

'Jackson a drinker?' said Angostura. 'Nonsense. He keels over after the second
bottle of rum. The man's a beginner.'

ALPINE ski resorts may be short but there was no shortage of snow in Whitehall
this week.

Government propaganda chief Sheila McDour organised a major 'dump' (to use
skiing terminology) on Thursday.

The Princess Diana report, Blair's interrogation, Post Office closures, the
Attorney General's intervention on the Serious Fraud Office - it was a whiteout!

Not since the Ice Age had Whitehall seen such a blizzard. It was like the
opening sequence of Ice Station Zebra.

McDour yesterday gave her noon briefing wearing goggles and a Scott of the
Antarctic-style snowsuit, with a pair of tennis racquets strapped to her feet.

'Some journalists will no doubt try to dig,' she said, 'but we are pretty
confident many unpleasant truths will be buried in these news drifts for weeks,
if not years.'

Obituary

FRANK JOHNSON, who died yesterday, was one of Crabbe's 'stringers', a term
newspapers use to describe correspondents whom they pester, underpay and
generally maltreat in exchange for occasional ideas.

Stringers often have purple noses, frayed collars and broken marriages.

Johnson, maddeningly, was a handsome devil, lived in Chelsea, and leaves a
beautiful, loving widow.

Frank's death is most inconvenient.

We, his many friends, are taking it personally. That is to say, we feel hollow
and lumpen (and tearful) without him.

Frank loved the way the most highflown, interfering strutters in public life
could crash to earth. One of his favourite expressions, drawn from those
melodramatic Sunday Express adventure yarns of old, was: 'It was a plan which
was to go horribly wrong!' Whisper this urgently to yourself next time you hear
some irritating politician boastfully setting forth his wares. Frank, we loved
you.

SOUTHWARK CATHEDRAL

Advent Services

8am - Holy Communion. A light hock will be served from the altar rail for all
confirmed boozers.

10am - Matins. The Dean will deliver a pointed homily on 'The Grapes ofWrath'. A
collection will be taken for the Temperance League.

2pm - Act of Penitence. Bishop to attend. Or maybe not.

5pm - Evening Eucharist.

Selection of rather good Portuguese Dao wines to be consecrated. The Rt Rev Tom
Butler will preach to the theme 'Do as I say, not as I Dao'.

7pm - Knees up in the cloisters.

9pm - Last Orders. (Should this be 'last rites?' - Verger.)

NB: It is proper liturgical practice for the priest to knock back the remaining
wine in the chalice once communicants have been served. Although it is unusual
for a clergyman to smack his lips loudly and issue a low burp of appreciation,
we ask that you tolerate this local custom.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Watch out for the 'others' - they could stop David Cameron winning a general
election

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1144 words


It was probably no more than coincidence that David Cameron's positive embrace,
this week, of Iain Duncan Smith's publication emphasising the benefits of
marriage as a way of countering "breakdown Britain" came only the day before the
latest Populus poll shows the Tory advance stalling. Yesterday's poll shows the
Tories down 2 points, on 34 per cent, giving them only a single percentage point
lead over Labour. And some on the right suggest that this is due to a drift away
from the Tories by more traditional voters uneasy at Mr Cameron's pitch to the
centre ground. They appeared to be reassured, however, by the apparently more
traditional fare foreshadowed by Mr Duncan Smith's social justice commission.

Certainly Mr Cameron's embrace of the commission contrasts with the cooler
reception given to Lord Forsyth's similarly traditional tax proposals two months
ago. On that occasion, Mr Cameron left it to his shadow Chancellor, George
Osborne, to distance the front bench from calls for tax cuts. By contrast, Mr
Cameron seemed happy this week to be identified personally with a message more
subliminally Thatcherite than that usually offered by his Notting Hill
outriders. Does this suggest that Mr Cameron is anxious to throw a bone or two
in the direction of the Tory right for fear of losing his "core" vote?

Certainly there is some worrying evidence that his drive to the centre in order
to convert the followers of Polly Toynbee upset hardcore Tories. Now that Ms
Toynbee has spurned the Tories' billing and cooing as soon as the IDS document
was published, I doubt that there will be any instruction to remove the
yellowing photos of Churchill and Thatcher from the Conservative Club in
Cleethorpes in favour of the arguably more attractive photo that adorns Ms
Toynbee's byline.

Mr Cameron will brush aside the latest poll figures on the basis that his party
is still ahead and that the general trend of the past 12 months supports the
view that the Tories are back in contention as a serious alternative to Labour.
But something funny is going on. In 1992 it was claimed to be " The Sun wot won
it" for the Tories. Next time it may well be the "others wot lose it" for the
Tories. The most revealing, but little-noticed statistic in the latest poll is
the rise to 14 per cent in the support for "other" parties. "Other" does not
include the Lib Dems, currently on 19 per cent.

This growth in voter support for "others" has taken place by stealth, almost
unnoticed by Westminster politicians, but it has the potential to prevent Mr
Cameron entering Downing Street. In the 1992 general election, the three main
parties accounted for a total of 94 per cent of all votes cast in the United
Kingdom. By the 2005 general election this figure had fallen to 89 per cent.
"Other" (which excludes the Welsh and Scottish Nationalists) support increased
from 3 per cent to 8 per cent.

This trend looks set to continue with the latest poll suggesting that the Greens
and Ukip are the principal beneficiaries. It is the latter that have the
greatest impact on Tory fortunes with the ConservativeHome.com web-site recently
suggesting that one third of Tory members are dissatisfied with Mr Cameron's
leadership. On its own, this figure need not worry Mr Cameron - after all, a
similar number of members voted against him, for his rival David Davis, in the
leadership ballot last year. But 43 per cent of Tory members said that Ukip was
the political party closest to their views. Tory members are, of course, not
necessarily the same thing as Tory voters.

While the Referendum Party added to the Tory woes in 1997, it did not stand
between the Labour victory and the Tory defeat. In 2005, however, Ukip could
already claim to have helped Mr Blair to a Commons majority of 67 instead of
what might have been half that figure. In 17 constituencies where the Labour
majority over the Tories was less than 1,000, the Ukip vote was greater. Imagine
how long Mr Blair might have survived if the overall Labour majority in the
Commons had been 33.

In the past few weeks, unease among the grass-roots has resulted in some
defections to Ukip, including the man who ran William Hague's local party when
he was leader. Another defector, Mark Hudson, who was the Sevenoaks constituency
chairman and on the Tory candidates' list, quit for Ukip because he claimed the
Tories away from their core values. He told the World at One yesterday that
"it's not that I have left the Conservative Party, but that the Conservative
Party has left me." Mr Hudson is concerned about the "hug the hoodie" line one
week contrasting sharply with a recent newspaper article by the Tory leader
calling for tough action on crime. Bewailing the lack of difference between "New
Labour and Blue Labour", he suggested that fellow travellers had the option of
staying at home or voting for fringe parties such as Ukip.

So far the mumblings have been confined to party activists concerned as much
about party autonomy and the selection of candidates from Mr Cameron's "A list"
as about policy direction. Troubled MPs have, by contrast, been muted. The Tory
leader is certainly delivering on his promise to select more women candidates,
with the latest figures showing that over one third of candidates for Tory-held
and winnable seats are women. By his own standard, set at the beginning of his
leadership, this is a success story, although he acknowledged that a similar
drive for a more diverse ethnic mix of candidates has proved more difficult.

Balancing the desire of local parties to maintain their autonomy with the
leader's pledge to change the face of the party has caused tensions. Last week,
the 16-strong executive committee of the winnable Tynemouth constituency
selected a woman of outstanding quality, Wendy Horton, from a short list drawn
up by the wider party membership. But had the members had the final say, Michael
Macintyre, a local councillor, would probably have been chosen. The problem of
motivating a volunteer army to work for a candidate not of their choice suggests
that some may take their ball home. Last year, no Ukip candidate stood in
Tynemouth. But it is almost certain that Ukip will select a candidate at the
next election, when just a few hundred votes could deny Ms Horton victory.

Next year, Angela Merkel's presidency of the EU and her desire to return to the
European Constitution will give Ukip the oxygen of publicity, forcing the Tories
to confront matters continental. Sensibly, Mr Cameron has steered clear of
"banging on" about Europe, but he needs to watch the right side of his back as
growing evidence emerges that while Ukip may have no prospect of winning even
one Commons seat, they could certainly withhold the keys of Downing Street from
him. Mr Cameron may have no option but to continue cracking his modernising
whip. But volunteers can vote as they please.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 486 words


DAVID Cameron recently described members of UKIP as 'mostly closet racists,
loonies and fruitcakes'. Pretty damning stuff. But even racists and loonies and
fruitcakes, apparently, are acceptable when they've turned green.

On Friday the Tory leader will visit the market town of Charlbury in his
constituency to open a new shop selling power-generating windmills. The owner is
one James Robertshaw, twice UKIP district council candidate in Witney and both
treasurer and chairman of the local UKIP branch. You certainly know where you
are with Dave!

REFERRING to the report of the Iraq Study Group set up to assess the situation
in Iraq and chaired by former U.S.

Secretary of State James Baker, President Bush announced: 'To show you how
important this one is, I read it.' Isn't it when he's trying to be reassuring
that the President is at his most frightening?

JOLIE LAIDE film star Ellen Barkin, 52, whose credits include Ocean's 13, offers
a refreshingly frank assessment of her career in a new book about Hollywood by
character actor John Leguizamo.

Miss Barkin, pictured, says: 'I f****d my way to the middle.' RE Mr Cameron's
attempts to establish a broad church within his party, a question mark still
hangs over a meeting he claims to have had with Lord Tebbit. In an attempt to
mend fences with the Right last week, Cameron assured Tebbitite MPs that he had
had a 'cosy breakfast' with their hero. Over the weekend, however, Tebbit denied
this.

Who is telling the truth? Technically, Tebbit. A pal tells me: 'Norman did go
round for coffee but wasn't given a single bite of food. It certainly wasn't
cosy. He left hungry and insulted.'

SKY News appears to be adopting the weasel words so favoured by the BBC.

Correspondents covering the hunt for the Suffolk serial killer have been using
the term 'sex worker' instead of prostitute. Is Sky being advised by
hoodie-hugging Cameroon euphemiser Camilla Batmanghelidjh, who last week called
young killers 'thermostatically impaired'?

Mercifully, the police are sticking to plain English for their press briefings.

NEW best friends Katie Cruise (nee Holmes) and Victoria Beckham have been
photographed for the cover of the February edition of American fashion magazine
Harper's Bazaar. During the Los Angeles shoot the 300-strong production team was
allegedly told by the pair to look neither of them in the eye.

An uncharacteristic show of shyness from Mrs Beckham, at least.

BLACKPOOL'S surprise offer to rehouse London's troubled Theatre Museum, which is
due to close in January, has met stiff opposition from Sir Donald Sinden, 83.
'Blackpool's not exactly the centre of theatrical excellence,' harrumphs the
veteran luvvie. 'It's only famous for its three piers and the fact that the
defrocked Vicar of Stiffkey, the Rev Harold Davidson, used to appear in freak
shows there. It's the very last place we want the Theatre Museum.' Email:
ephraim.hardcastle@dailymail.co.uk END

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 680 words


Despite his famously sunny disposition, young Dave Cameron's tastes in music are
decidedly glum: perky Mancunian popster Morrissey was, after all, among the Tory
leader's Desert Island faves. So staff at Sanctuary records were not
over-surprised to receive a last-gasp call from Dave's office last week,
inquiring politely, if rather insistently, whether there might not be a ticket
to be had for Friday night's Wembley gig. The tickets were duly forthcoming -but
not, we're told, before a most unhappy Mozza, whose love of the Conservative
party is well documented in such melodious serenades as Margaret on the
Guillotine, had let it be known that a fate worse than the chop awaited anyone
who allowed his most loyal fan anywhere near backstage. A missed opportunity,
wouldn't you say?

In a fine five-minute clip on ConservativeHome.com, meanwhile, clinically sane
Melanie Phillips gives us her considered take on Mr C's first year at the top.
Sadly, her incisive analysis doesn't seem to have convinced all the site's
visitors. "Melanie Phillips manages to contradict herself quite openly in this,
leaving herself open to the charge of intellectual and philosophical
incoherence," complains one. A "garbled rambling from someone some people
actually take seriously as a political voice," laments another. "Her supporting
the Conservative party is one reason people are put off. Can't she go and
support Ukip or the BNP?" asks a third. For shame!

We are indebted to Local, the English-language news service of Sweden, for the
undeniably heartening news that police in the western town of Hagfors have
placed their first order for toilet paper since early March 1986, when a minor
administrative error - the result, it seems, of an understandable if, on the
whole, regrettable confusion between the Swedish equivalents of the word
"packet" and the word "pallet" - left them with a small 20-year surplus. "It
took all day to unload," recalled station chief Bjorn Fredlund fondly. "We
filled 12 garages with it. But we started the last roll on Thursday." (What's
more, we did not make that up.)

Nor, sadly, did we invent the following alarming all-points news alert:
according to uber-reliable US gossip rag In Touch, Paris Hilton wants to become
a mother . Since she's been seeing more of Britney and her two lovable boys, it
seems, the respected American socialite, singer, actress, model and author has
confided to a friend who has confided to a friend who has confided (honestly) to
the magazine that she "just can't wait to be a mum too". Worse, she says: "It's
my dream to have four babies by the time I'm 30." Is there nothing anyone out
there can do?

Our coveted Near Miss Award, meanwhile, goes to the sports editor of the Daily
Express, reviewing the papers on 5 Live and commenting on the supposed spat
between Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger and his star striker, Thierry Henry. "It's
about time," remarks said editor, over whose name decency (if not ignorance)
obliges us to draw a veil, "that Henry accepts that Wenger is the organ-grinder,
and he is the . . . er . . . ah . . . cough." Yes? The what? That's really the
word you'd choose to describe Britain's leading black player? "The one who's . .
. supposed to dance to the tune." Phew!

But Mr Tony's e-petitions just get better and better. "We the undersigned," runs
the latest, "petition the PM to apologise publicly in the Millennium Dome for
the Iraq war." Iraq, it explains, was "the worst decision by any British postwar
government"; a public apology "would allow Mr Blair to depart with some measure
of honour and, if performed where suggested, "would fill the Millennium Dome for
the only time in its life". Does no one at No 10 have time to edit these bloody
things?

Finally: blimey. Oliver Kamm, this column's favourite hedge fund-trading
leftist, has re-activated his blog - and all because we so regretted his
decision to take a sabbatical! Reader, we apologise. We had no idea a couple of
light-hearted quips about Ollie's absence from the ether would have such
far-reaching consequences.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           December 12, 2006, Tuesday

Tory support leaking in reaction against Cameron's policies

BYLINE: Peter Riddell and Philip Webster

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


* Unease on Right over leader's views

* Fresh hints that Blair could go early

David Cameron faces fresh unease from the Conservative Right after a new poll
showing a fall in the party's rating to its lowest level since April.

The Populus poll for The Times, taken over the weekend, suggests that the main
shift has been from the Tories to the UK Independence Party.

Support for the Tories has been level since the summer at 36 per cent, but has
fallen by two points over the past month. Labour is unchanged on 33 per cent,
with the Liberal Democrats down a point at 19 per cent.

But support for other parties has risen by three points to 14 per cent, the
highest in any Populus poll since the last election. The main beneficiaries of
the gain have been the Greens, on 4 per cent, and the UKIP on 2 per cent. While
the numbers of voters here are very small, the drift away from the main parties
is potentially significant.

The poll follows defections to UKIP by some prominent Tory activitists and
rumblings of discontent on the Right about Mr Cameron's leadership over his
views on green policies, tax and Europe. A recent survey by the ConservativeHome
website found that, next to their own party, 43 per cent of Tory members felt
closest to UKIP.

Nevertheless, the poll shows that the Tories under Mr Cameron would still enjoy
a big lead over Labour led by Gordon Brown at the next general election, of 39
to 32 per cent. This compares with a 38 to 34 per cent gap last month.

The poll, the first to be undertaken after the Pre-Budget Report, coincides with
a period of frantic activity by Mr Blair.

The Prime Minister, who made three keynote speeches last week as well as dashing
to Washington to see President Bush, will hold his monthly press conference
today.

Tomorrow he faces the last Prime Minister's Questions of the year before
travelling on Thursday to the European Council summit in Brussels. He is also
expected to make an extensive trip to the Middle East before Christmas.

Mr Blair's energetic behaviour has provoked speculation that he is preparing to
call it a day earlier than expected, and that he could announce his departure
early next year. However, senior party figures want him to stay on until after
the Scottish and Welsh elections in May, giving his successor, almost certainly
Mr Brown, a chance to start afresh.

Mr Brown's advisers are aware of the need for him to break through public
scepticism about his prime ministerial potential.

A series of heavyweight speeches on subjects beyond his Treasury brief have been
designed to underline his credentials for the top job.

But advisers admit that Mr Brown's lengthy occupation of the Treasury has
reinforced a public impression of dourness which makes people feel less
comfortable with him than perhaps they were with Mr Blair.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,513 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between Dec 8 and 10. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to be representative of all adults. Populus is a
member of the British Polling Council and abides by its rules. For more details
go to www.populuslimited.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            December 11, 2006 Monday

Cameron has made me a UKIP man

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 242 words


LIKE many people, I'm disappointed by how David Cameron's first year as
Conservative leader has gone. I was a lifelong Conservative supporter, have been
a constituency association chairman and a prospective Parliamentary candidate.

And as a successful 44-year-old businessman, I'm not quite in the blue-rinse
wing of the party and felt myself to be part of the solution rather than the
problem.

I supported Cameron's leadership bid because, like many others, I believed a
victory for him was the last real hope the Tory Party had of winning an election
and forming a government.

I was impressed by the promises of change he made during his campaign for the
leadership, and I took particular pleasure when Cameron seemed courageous enough
finally to grasp some of the more embarrassing Tory nettles.

A year later, it's clear his promises were false. Nothing has happened.

He hasn't delivered. He has lost touch. For me, hearing a clearly uncomfortable
spokesman on TV making lame excuses for Tory MEPs remaining in the European
People's Party until 2009 was the final straw.

I no longer believe David Cameron, and I no longer believe that either he or the
Conservative Party can be trusted.

This man's efforts as Tory leader are persuading an increasing number of my
former Conservative colleagues to do as I've done and join UKIP.

Now that is a party which is proud to say we think Winston Churchill more
significant than Polly Toynbee.

KEVIN D. HALL, London SW3.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISILLUSIONED: FORMER TORY CANDIDATE KEVIN HALL HAS JOINED UKIP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                                 Fourth Edition

Cameron backs calls to encourage couples to marry

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Home Affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 781 words


David Cameron has moved to reassure his traditionalist critics by signalling
that a future Conservative government would seek new ways of encouraging couples
to marry.

The Tory leader endorsed a party policy report which warns that children from
single-parent families are more likely to turn to crime. The report will argue
that unmarried parents are more likely to separate than their married
counterparts with devastating social effects, including higher rates of
offending and drug abuse and poorer school results.

As a senior opposition frontbencher also praised some aspects of the Victorian
approach to family life, the party faced accusations that it was planning a
moral crusade reminiscent of John Major's ill-fated "back to basics" campaign.

However, the tone of comments from the party's high command will please many
older grassroots activists worried by its direction under Mr Cameron, who has
attracted criticism for his liberal approach to many social issues.

The head of the party's Social Justice Policy Group, Iain Duncan Smith, will
today connect the existence of a "growing underclass" in Britain with the
increasing number of broken homes.

He will paint a grim picture of a society in which family breakdown, reliance on
benefits, addiction to drink and drugs, educational failure and debt is coming
together in a "vicious spiral, pulling down millions of the most vulnerable
people in this country".

Mr Duncan Smith accused the Government of undermining marriage through its tax
and benefit policies. He said his group had discovered that 50 per cent of
unmarried parents, who he described as the "biggest rising group in
child-rearing", split up before their child was five. "We do know that children
from a broken home, particularly in these difficult poverty-stricken areas, are
something like 75 per cent more likely to fail in education and that leads to
problems with drug addiction and failure and dependency," he said.

Mr Cameron welcomed the "powerful and convincing report about the extent of
family breakdown and the damage this causes society". He said: "It underlines my
belief that the family is the most important institution in Britain and that if
we are serious about tackling the causes of poverty and social breakdown then we
must look at ways of supporting families and also supporting marriage so that
couples are encouraged to get together and stay together."

He said that all of the party's future policies would be judged against the test
of whether they encouraged family life.

John Hutton, the Work and Pensions Secretary, said yesterday: "This looks to me
like 'back to basics' all over again."

Meanwhile, Dominic Grieve, shadow Attorney General, called for citizens to have
the right to tackle unruly teenagers without fear of prosecution for assault.
His comments were seen as a break with Mr Cameron's call to "hug a hoodie".

Tender Tories

"Hoodies are more defensive than offensive. In a dangerous environment, the best
thing to do is keep your head down, blend in. When you see a child walking down
the road, hoodie up, head down, moody, swaggering, dominating the pavement,
think what has brought that child to that moment."

DAVID CAMERON

"The traditional Conservative vision of welfare as a safety net encompasses
another outdated Tory nostrum, that poverty is absolute, not relative. It is the
social commentator Polly Toynbee who supplies imagery that is more appropriate
for Conservative social policy in the 21st century."

GREG CLARK Cameron policy adviser

"We will not be promising up-front, unfunded tax reductions at the next
election."

GEORGE OSBORNE shadow Chancellor

"[Marriage] means something whether you're a man and a woman, a woman and a
woman or a man and another man. That's why we were right to support civil
partnerships, and I'm proud of that."

DAVID CAMERON

Tough Tories

between David and me is I would hug them a little harder and a little longer I
suspect."

DAVID DAVIS shadow Home Secretary

"The papers claim David Cameron wants us to 'hug a hoodie'. I support that. The
only difference "The Conservative Party should not become a recruiting sergeant
for the UK Independence Party."

EDWARD LEIGH the Tory chairman of the Public Accounts Committee

"You can argue that our Victorian forebears succeeded in achieving something
very unusual between the 1850s and 1900 in changing public attitudes by - dare
one use the word - instilling moral codes."

DOMINIC GRIEVE shadow Attorney General

"Children from a broken home, particularly in these difficult poverty stricken
areas ??? are something like 75 per cent more likely to fail in education and
that leads to problems with drug addiction and failure."

IAIN DUNCAN SMITH former Tory leader

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukipwoos Tories who are dismayed by Dave

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 261  words


THE UK Independence Party is holding secret talks with up to 24 more Tory
activists after luring its first wave of defectors angered by David Cameron's
lurch to the left.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage told the Sunday Express that negotiations were ongoing
w ith several serving Conservative councillors and approved parliamentary
candidates.

But Conservative high command last night insisted it had nothing to fear from
the "single issue" party despite open criticism w ithin its own ranks about Mr
Cameron's style of leadership.

The Tory leader's "hug a hoodie" stance, his high-profile campaign for emissions
cuts rather than tax cuts, and his admiration for left-wing columnist Polly
Toynbee have proved too much for some long-serving activists.

Tory supporter Toby Horton, a party member for 40 years and a former
constituency chairman for William Hague, last week became the party's most
high-profile defector to Ukip.

But Mr Farage promised further embarrassment for Mr Cameron, whose warm w ords
to the European Union on Thursday w ere the "final straw" for many Tories.

Mr Farage said: "We are in serious talks with a couple of dozen activists."

He added: "They cannot bear the fact their own party looks like 'Blue Labour'."

A new poll of Tory activists by the website Conservative Home, found 43 per cent
now sympathise with Ukip.

The survey of 1,288 Tories revealed only 31 per cent said they w ould only ever
support the Conservatives.

The defection of Mr Horton is the third announced by antiEurope Ukip, which has
sent emails to 17,000 councillors from other parties.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday

Cameron gives the Tory core the pip

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 153 words


Matthew d'Ancona cites the YouGov poll indicating that 71 per cent of Tory
voters consider that David Cameron is "taking the party in the right direction''
but he is exceedingly optimistic if thinks that this means Mr Cameron "broadly
retains the faith of the Tory core vote'' (Comment, December 3).

Judging by the past three general elections, the Tory core vote is about 32 per
cent. On this basis, the fact that only seven in 10 of these core supporters
believe the party to be headed in the right direction is a cause for alarm
because it indicates the inner core vote is a mere 23 per cent.

The rest, the outer core, is softer, and presumably liable to desert if it can
find a more comfortable berth.

Should sufficient "outer core Tories'' head for the fringe (presumably Ukip) we
will find that Mr Cameron has won some votes on the party's Left at the expense
of leaking some to the Right.

Stephen Maund

Mynydd Isa, Mold

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday

Cameron gives the Tory core the pip

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 102 words


I have been a Conservative constituency association chairman and a prospective
parliamentary candidate and I supported David Cameron for the leadership
because, like many, I believed he was the last real hope the party had of
winning an election.

I was impressed by the promises of change and took particular pleasure that he
seemed courageous enough to grasp some of the more embarrassing nettles such as
Conservative MEPs sitting with the EPP group in Europe. A year later, nothing
has happened.

I no longer believe that either he or the Conservative Party can be trusted, and
have joined Ukip.

Kevin D Hall

London W1

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday

Cost of being in EU

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 272 words


SIR - It is curious that, at a time when support for Britain's relationship with
the European Union is waning even among our chief executives; when a study by
the Swiss government has rejected accession; when an official think tank in
France concluded that the EU economic integration project has failed, our major
political parties are united in not mentioning it in front of the public.

The possibility cannot be ruled out that the British people will be faced with
the choice of which they were deprived when the constitutional treaty was
dismissed by France and Holland.

After all, the ambition of Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, to use her
country's presidency of the EU in 2007 to reimpose the constitution is public
knowledge. Voters would be faced with barrages of claims and counterclaims, of
generalisations and predictions, and would have to judge them with limited
understanding of the factors involved.

We call on the Government now to commission and publish an objective
cost-benefit analysis of Britain's membership of the European Union, to include
its historic results, the current situation and its prospects. There are both
costs and benefits that are not readily quantifiable but, given that we began
with a Common Market and that the bulk of union legislation enforced here
relates to the single market, following the money would be a good way to start.

Should the Government not grant this request, we call on the Opposition to hold
the executive to account.

Lord Willoughby de Broke

Lord Pearson of Rannoch

Austin Mitchell MP (Lab)

Christopher Gill

Prof Antony Flew

Nigel Farage MEP (UKIP)

Gerard Batten MEP (UKIP)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday

Join in our culture or don't come to Britain;
Blair accused of a hypocritical U-turn after he warns migrants...

BYLINE: JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 759 words


ETHNIC minorities must integrate into British society or stay out of the
country, Tony Blair said yesterday.

The Prime Minister issued a tough warning to Muslims and other faith groups that
they must conform to British values of democracy and respect the country's
heritage.

But he refused to give up celebrating multiculturalism even though the policy
has been widely blamed for fuelling divisions in UK cities.

The significant hardening of language was seen as an admission that the
Government's policies have failed to root out extremists.

Mr Blair said: 'The reason we are having this debate is not generalised
extremism. It is a new and virulent form of ideology associated with a minority
of our Muslim community. It is not a problem with Britons of Hindu,
Afro-Caribbean, Chinese or Polish origin.' He added: 'I always thought after 7/7
our first reaction would be very British: we stick together; but that our second
reaction, in time, would also be very British: we're not going to be taken for a
ride.' He launched a six-point plan to encourage different races and religions
to integrate including a crackdown on public funding for groups which failed to
tackle extremism, tighter rules on forced marriages, and telling Muslims to
adhere to British not Islamic law in the UK.

He pledged tougher measures to clamp down on preachers of hate, raised the
prospect of twinning faith schools with those of other religions and set
requirements on immigrants to speak English before gaining full citizenship.

In future, faith and racial groups that receive Pounds 13.8million of taxpayers'
money including Pounds 3.2 million for 96 Muslim bodies will have to pass a test
to prove they are probombingsmoting integration. Mr Blair also entered the row
over Muslim veils saying it was 'plain common sense' that teachers should have
to remove them in the classroom. The Premier has repeatedly underlined his
commitment to multiculturalism which critics say has led to the Government
failing to impose a single British culture.

Trevor Phillips, as head of the Commission for Racial Equality, and Dr John
Sentamu, the Archbishop of York, have both expressed serious doubts about
multiculturalism.

Mr Blair said he had been forced to look again at the concept of multicultural
Britain in the wake of last year's London 'Very good intentions got the better
of us,' he said in a lecture at Downing Street.

'We wanted to be hospitable to new groups. Money was too often freely awarded to
groups that were tightly bonded around religious, racial or ethnic identities.

'In the future, we will assess bids from groups of any ethnicity or any
religious denomination, also against a test, where appropriate, of promoting
community cohesion and integration.' He added: 'It is not that we need to
dispense with multicultural Britain. On the contrary, we should continue
celebrating it.

'But we need in the face of the challenge to our values to reassert also the
duty to integrate, to stress what we hold in common.' He added: 'For the first
time in a generation there is an unease, an anxiety, even at points a
resentment, that our very openness, our willingness to welcome difference, our
pride in being home to many cultures, is being used against us abused, indeed,
in order to harm us.

'We are a nation comfortable with the open world of today. But we protect this
attitude by defending it. Our tolerance is part of what makes Britain Britain.
So conform to it; or don't come here. We don't want the hate-mongers, whatever
their race, religion or creed.

'If you come here lawfully, we welcome you. If you are permitted to stay here
permanently, you become an equal member of our community and become one of us.'
Shadow Attorney General Dominic Grieve said: 'The speech constitutes a
remarkable turnaround. Many of the problems in relation to the issues he
addresses are at least in part the consequence of a philosophy of divisive
multiculturalism and political correctness that has been actively promoted by
the Labour Party over many years.' UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said:
'It is hypocritical of the Prime Minister to say that "integration is a duty"
when it is his Government who has pushed, paid for and promoted the
multicultural agenda which is already starting to cause problems in this
country.' Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari, secretary-general of the Muslim Council of
Britain, said: 'It was worrying to see the PM using emotive language such as
Britain "being taken for a ride". That can only help reinforce a "them and us"
attitude.' j.merrick@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MULTIRACIAL BRITAIN: POLITICIANS ARE DEMANDING INTEGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday

This Week: What they said

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 70 words


'There was a Polly Toynbee moment - that was the tipping point' Toby Horton,
William Hague's former constituency chairman, on his decision to defect from the
Tory party to UKIP.

'We were completely committed but things change in any relationship'

Darryl Bullock on the forthcoming dissolution of his civil partnership to Mark
Godfrey, the first "gay divorce" to be announced since the provision came into
effect a year ago.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                December 8, 2006

Senior Tory activist quits, blaming Toynbee factor

LENGTH: 415 words



HIGHLIGHT: Toby Horton, the former chair of William Hague's constituency, has
defected to the UK Independence party in protest at a Conservative adviser's
praise of Polly Toynbee, the Guardian commentator.


A senior Conservative activist today blamed Polly Toynbee for his decision to
defect to the UK Independence party.

Toby Horton, who chaired William Hague's Richmond constituency while he was
party leader, said he had been tipped over the edge by calls for the Tory
party's social policy to be inspired by the Guardian commentator rather than
Winston Churchill, the UK's wartime leader.

"I didn't leave the Conservative party, the Conservative party left me," said Mr
Horton, who had been a Conservative party member for 40 years.

"People are bound to ask me why I have chosen to leave now. The answer, in a
nutshell, was Polly Toynbee. That was my tipping point."

Mr Horton claimed that Ukip was the "party of real opposition" in Britain.

"There is a real need in this country for a party of the centre right, and, if
the Conservative party doesn't want to fill it, there is inevitably a vacuum
that Ukip will fill."

In response to the defection, Toynbee said: "Sadly, this shows the Conservative
party hasn't changed at heart, as many of its members still don't think it
matters that a quarter of all children are born into poverty."

The defection of Mr Horton - who was the Tory opponent to Tony Blair when he
first became MP for Sedgefield in 1983 - is the third announced by Ukip this
week.

And the party today reported a "very encouraging response" to emails it has sent
to 17,000 local councillors across the country in an effort to secure more
supporters from other parties.

Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, said: "This shows that the UK Independence party is
being seen as the real voice of opposition in British politics."

But a Tory spokesman said: "Ukip is a party of the few dedicated to a single
issue.

"The Conservative party is the only political party that can replace this
failing Labour government.

"We are committed to representing modern Britain and working on all issues of
concern to the British people.

"Those who think this means giving up our traditional values are misguided."

Greg Clark, who is reviewing the Tories' policy on poverty for Mr Cameron, wrote
last month: "The traditional Conservative vision of welfare as a safety net
encompasses another outdated Tory nostrum - that poverty is absolute, not
relative.

"Churchill's safety net is at the bottom: holding people at subsistence level,
just above the abyss of hunger and homelessness.

"It is the social commentator Polly Toynbee who supplies imagery that is more
appropriate for Conservative social policy in the 21st century."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               33 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 8, 2006 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

Football's foreign invasion: A global cause for concern for the most
21st-century fan;
English footballFOR SALE;
An Independent investigation

BYLINE: Sam Wallace Football Correspondent

SECTION: FOOTBALL; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 1051 words


This is Anfield. But can that famous old sign ever mean the same when the
controlling power sits 3,500 miles away in an air-conditioned suite looking out
over a man-made paradise on the Gulf ? Manchester United's corporate address is
a lawyers' office in Reno, Nevada. So what do the men from the desert know about
the wet pavements of Stretford or Lou Macari's fish shop?

Five Premiership clubs in foreign hands, another seven possibly to follow. And
one of the worst things about the debate over foreign ownership is the fine line
it obliges you to tread. Express any reservation about the big sell-off and you
can find yourself standing shoulder-to-shoulder with members of the UK
Independence Party or, even worse, the kind of Englishman who still has not come
to terms with losing the Suez Canal.

Take a deep breath and remember that the Maktoums, Randy Lerner, even that
strange secret coven of Glazers, are not buying clubs because they are cheap
assets to be picked off. They are doing so because they are considered great
investments and smart businessmen nurture great investments, not run them into
the ground. And clubs like Liverpool need the money - we know that because
previously they even courted a Thai prime minister with a lousy human rights
record.

But it is not racist or reactionary to say you feel concerned about the
ownership of Premiership clubs by foreign investors. And you are not alone. It
is a different industry, but the same principle in France where, for instance,
the government has blocked a recent bid by Pepsi to buy the French company
Danone by the ingenious tactic of including yoghurt companies on a list of
"nationally strategic assets". The Spanish are trying to do the same with a
major utility company. We are not alone in worrying about losing ownership of
national institutions, but we are the most vulnerable.

The ownership of our football clubs is just the latest stage in the fractured
relationship between the modern game and the fans - in the same category as the
spiralling wages of Premiership footballers that make them seem disconnected to
supporters. The same as the rising ticket prices and the cost of Sky. It is all
part of the unreality of English football and it is about to become even
stranger.

How were football clubs originally intended to be run? In one chapter of David
Conn's brilliant book The Beautiful Game? he traces the history of Sheffield
Wednesday to make a point about the chaos there in recent years. Their founders
were the Clegg family, 19th-century Methodist lawyers with a strong belief that
football could be a moral force for good.

All that is fanciful now, not least the Cleggs' hope that football could promote
the temperance movement. But what remains from those times is the principle that
football clubs should be run with the people in mind and, critically, be
accountable to them too.

Even in the previous century when clubs fell into the ownership of successful -
and sometimes unsuccessful - local businessmen that accountability principle
survived in a different way. The chairman may not have come from the same
streets as the man on the terrace, but at least he shared the same town or city.
He might not listen to the complaints of supporters, but he would have to hear
them all the same.

Some of the owners of clubs, to borrow a phrase from Ken Bates, were shysters,
but at least they were our shysters. Fans could judge their club's chairman from
close up, from his actions within the community, and there was a primal
democracy in the way that, if the fans were dissatisfied, they could bring
pressure of some kind to bear.

The 21st-century billionaires are not buying just electricity companies or
airports, they are buying institutions that many English people love. And fans
want to love their football clubs in their entirety, without secretly grimacing
at the thought of where the money comes from. What sensible Chelsea fan has not
considered that the £5m annual wages lavished on Andrei Shevchenko might have
been better off in the Russian economy?

The Maktoums are respected businessmen who clearly love sport and in many
respects they seem ideal people to take Liverpool forward. But Dubai's luxury
resorts are under criticism that they are built on cheap Bangladeshi and
Pakistani labour, who are then packed off home without a UAE passport.

Will the Glazers or Lerner decide in years to come that relegation from the
Premiership is an unacceptable financial peril and advocate scrapping it? If
that sounds ridiculous, ask yourself which was the last team relegated from
American football's closed shop, the NFL? And if there is public disapproval it
will be hard for those owners to feel under pressure when they are on the other
side of the world.

I remember seeing Liverpool's chairman, David Moores, in Athens airport before
the Olympiakos game, part of the club's 2005 European Cup triumph. He was among
the players by the baggage carousel, dressed in a team tracksuit with a
cigarette lit up beneath that Souness-esque moustache. He might not have been
the richest football chairman in the world but he was a member of the Scouse
brotherhood and was judged by his club's fans accordingly.

Will they be able to say that of their new owners?

From around the world they came

Foreign owners in British football

Where the eight foreign owners of British football clubs come from, and how much
they paid for their clubs

Aston Villa

September 2006

Owner: Randy Lerner (American)

Based: Long Island, NY, US

Cost: £62.6m

Manchester Utd

May 2005

Owner: Malcolm Glazer (American)

Based: Palm Beach, Florida

Cost: £790m

West Ham Utd

November 2006

Owners: Bjorgolfur Gudmundsson (95%) & Eggert Magnusson (5%) consortium
(Icelandic)

Based: Reykjavik, Iceland.

Cost: £85m and inherited £22.5m debt

QPR

September 2005

Owner: Gianni Paladini (Italian)

Based: London - part of a Monaco-based consortium Wanlock LLC

Cost: £1m for 30%

Fulham

May 1997

Owner: Mohamed Al Fayed (Egyptian)

Based: Switzerland

Cost: Initial £7.5m

Hearts

October 2005

Owner: Vladimir Romanov (Lithuania)

Based: Kaunas, Lithuania

Cost: £4.4m + assumed £19.2m of debt

Chelsea

June 2003

Owner: Roman Abramovich (Russian)

Based: London, but also governor of Chukotka

Cost: £60 + 80m for debts

Portsmouth

2006, in stages

Owner: Alexandre Gaydamak (Russian)

Based: London - French-born

Cost: £36.9m

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            December 8, 2006, Friday

Tories driven into the arms of UKIP by Toynbee twist

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 722 words


* It was the tipping point, say defectors

* MPs say Cameron has been warned

He joined the Conservatives 40 years ago and fought a number of elections for
the party he loved, taking on Tony Blair in Sedgefield in 1983. He was
constituency chairman to William Hague, when he was in the Cabinet and the
party's leader.

But the Tory party's recent embrace of the left-wing columnist Polly Toynbee has
stretched Toby Horton's loyalty beyond breaking point.

In the most high-profile of a wave of defections that is shaking the party
leadership, Mr Hague's former constituency chairman has resigned from the
Conservative Party and joined the United Kingdom Independence Party. Other
defections include a local party chairman and another former parliamentary
candidate.

Conservative MPs said that these were warning shots across the bows of David
Cameron's campaign to take the party to the centre ground, and declared that
many more defections were likely. UKIP is hailing the defections as proof that
it is now the true party of the Centre Right.

"I didn't leave the Conservative Party, the Conservative Party has left me," Mr
Horton said yesterday at his home in Mr Blair's constituency. "There is a real
need in this country for a party of the centre Right, and if the Conservative
Party doesn't want to fill it, there is inevitably a vacuum that UKIP will fill.
If you want to vote green, there is a thriving Green Party. If you want to vote
Liberal Democrat, there is a thriving Liberal Democrat Party."

Mr Horton's frustration has been building as Mr Cameron has tried to shed the
party's "nasty" image by ditching its past, focusing on issues such as the
environment and social justice, and promising to show love to louts. But the
final straw for Mr Horton came last month when the party embraced Ms Toynbee,
who has made a career out of attacking all things right-wing. A Conservative
policy review suggested that the party adopt her views on poverty rather than
Winston Churchill's, and Mr Cameron suggested that she would be invited to next
year's party conference.

"There was a Polly Toynbee moment -that was the tipping point," said Mr Horton,
who met Mr Cameron at the hustings during his leadership campaign.

He gave warning that many people would follow him. "It will become increasingly
common. Most Conservatives are instinctively loyal, but there's always a tipping
point."

The defection of such long-serving and high-profile Conservatives has caused
alarm among the party's MPs. One said: "This is undoubtedly a warning shot. Many
people tempted to join UKIP are cast-iron Conservatives, but they must feel they
have something to vote for. It is essential we keep on board traditional
Tories."

Another defector is Mark Hudson, 36, a vice-president of the Bank of America,
who was president and chairman of the Sevenoaks Conservative Association in
Kent, and on the official Conservative candidates' list.

"The way Cameron has led the party means I can't be part of it, and there's lots
of people like me," he said. "He's turned it into something indistinguishable
from new Labour, so what's the point?"

Kevin Davidson Hall, a former Conservative candidate in Peterborough, has also
defected, declaring: "UKIP are now the only voice of opposition in this country,
speaking up for all those who feel betrayed by the other parties."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said: "These activists know it makes no
difference who wins the election -their manifestos are pretty much identical.

They're pretty cheesed off. We are the only ones offering real commonsense
policies."

The defections are the latest turbulence to hit Mr Cameron's changes to the
party.

On Tuesday Paul Offer, the selected candidate for Chester, resigned in protest
at the racist and sexist attitudes of local party officials, prompting a formal
investigation.

Labour said that it showed how deep the problems were in the Conservative Party.

Denis MacShane, a former Europe minister, said: "This shows the failure of
Cameron to get any grip on his party."

A clearly rattled Conservative headquarters issued a statement declaring: "UKIP
is a party of the few dedicated to a single issue. The Conservative Party is the
only political party that can replace this failing Labour Government."

2.38. The percentage of national votes gained by UKIP in 2005

Source: the UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 7, 2006 Thursday

Patently intellectual

SECTION: CITY; Diary; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 60 words


I EXPECT Andrew Gowers' team had hours of fun coming up with a proposed new
moniker for The Patent Office. The former FT editor's review of intellectual
property rights, which Gordon Brown unveiled, opted for the catchy ''UK
Intellectual Property Office''. That's UKIPO for short. Not be confused with
UKIP. I hear they quickly dismissed the alternative: I-PUK.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 7, 2006 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 677 words


All's well with Ukip, then. So flush with support is our favourite anti-EU
outfit that it's sending out emails to local councillors asking if they'd
consider defecting. "We intend to build up on local government representation
and would welcome a conversation with anyone that might consider working with us
or joining us," runs Nigel Farage's personal message, a copy of which has
unaccountably landed on our desk(s). "It is time to stand up and be counted."
Thankfully Nige adds: "We give you an absolute assurance that you can contact us
on a completely confidential basis." Thank heavens for that.

Our heartfelt gratitude, meanwhile, to the untold legions of you who so
thoughtfully forwarded the biggest US news story of the day, namely Plane
Diverted After Passenger Lights Match to Disguise Flatulence. We presume this
means you'd like us to mention the Dallas-bound American Airlines flight forced
to land in Nashville, Tennessee, after passengers complained of smelling burning
sulphur. Local TV station WSMV said a woman passenger later told the FBI she had
struck several matches "to hide the smell she had emitted". Although none of
this, of course, would have happened had the War Against Hand-Cream not brutally
deprived her of her air freshener.

But wasn't the Channel 4 Christmas party the other night rubbish? In some giant
white cube-like place similar to a walk-in freezer, chock-full of commissioning
editors and not a celeb in sight. Plus the canapes were crap and - can you
believe it? - there was no champagne. "It was so desperate," laments our
glamorous gatecrasher, "that the people in the loos who hand out tissues and
perfumes and stuff were asking punters to bring them out a few bottles of beer.
'Go on, you know it's free . . . '" Sounds perfectly ghastly

A brief word of advice, if we may, to all those of you tempted by the vast
profits to be made from breeding black ants in China: as attractive as they may
at first appear, these schemes are invariably scams . According to an alarming
report from the Xinhua news agency, the Donghua Ecological Breeding Company -
the latest in a string of utterly bogus black-ant-breeding projects promising an
alluring 35-60% return on investment - alone conned £200m out of eager investors
before it was finally wound up this week. We are, we confess, a tad confused as
to why anyone might want to put their pennies into black ants, but thought it
best to mention it. Forewarned is, after all, forearmed.

Time for what we think you'll agree is an electric first contribution from our
new star-guest columnist, uber-guru, life coach and gangsta motivator
extraordinaire L Vaughan Spencer, with (we think) some precious words of wisdom
for our newly caring Conservative party. "Think compassionate conservatism, not
with a small c or a big c but with a Middle C!" urges, thrillingly, the man they
call L-Vo. "Someone the kidz can get into! Not Toynbee/Churchill. Not nanny
state, but supernanny State. Every town should have a Naughty Step, where Bad
'Uns go to focus on their issues and listen to chill-out music. The message
should be: Tough Love, and Tough on The Causes of Love. Also, reward good
behaviour, don't just punish bad! Asbos are negative. Why doesn't the Prince's
Trust award Chasbos, with texts - U r gr8: P/Wales - from the man himself?"
L-Vo, thank you. Food for thought indeed.

Finally, a fight! Ziauddin Sardar, writer, broadcaster, critic and campaigner,
has, we hear, penned a veritable broadside in the New Statesman against those
pillars of the British literary establishment, Messrs Amis, Rushdie and McEwan,
accusing them of being "the vanguard of British literary neoconservatives, or
'Blitcons'" - writers "using their celebrity status to advance a clear global
political agenda" based on "three conceits: that American culture reigns
supreme; that Islam is the greatest threat to this idea of civilisation; and
that American ideas of freedom and democracy are not only right, but should be
imposed on the rest of the world". Seconds, we'd say, away.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday

Unequal inflation

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 77 words


SIR - When Gordon Brown gave the Bank of England its independence, he also
changed the inflation index to the one used by the EU.

Both these measures were to establish convergence with the EU and the euro,
which, alert readers may remember, was a fairly strong prospect at the time.

Having dumped the euro, he should now also dump the EU inflation index and
restore one that accurately reflects the real facts of the British economy.

Graham Booth MEP (Ukip)

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday

In large tracts of the UK, the Tories still don't have a prayer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1266 words


If the business of government is now mainly rhetorical, the business of
opposition has to be completely so. There are no departments to run, no policies
to implement: in short, no power. The only judgment the electorate can make is
on the evidence of what is said, pending the time when actions can speak louder
than words. And it must be on that basis that we conclude that David Cameron's
first year as Leader of the Opposition has not been so brilliant as his
apologists would have us believe.

He told this newspaper on Saturday that his party must back him, or lose for a
fourth time. Rightly, he is not brooking the possibility that it might back him
and yet still lose. Hoping for victory against the odds has become regulation
for leaders of his party. John Major genuinely seemed to believe that he might
win in 1997. William Hague and Michael Howard probably didn't believe they would
win either of the next two, but they made a reasonable fist of believing there
would be great improvements. There weren't.

Mr Cameron has advantages over his predecessors. His party leads Labour in the
polls. There is no conceivable threat to his position, and (as yet) no serious
internal opposition. Above all, he has managed what I have always felt to be the
aim of his policy-free, Left-leaning PR campaign of the past 12 months: to
neutralise the BBC to the point where his party's activities are reported
without what had become the compulsory sneer. Next to this achievement, getting
reverence from the Guardian and the Independent is as nothing.

The Cameron approach, orchestrated by his friend and svengali Steve Hilton, and
kept on track by his deeply unpopular party chairman, Francis Maude, can
superficially be seen as making the party attractive to those who have not voted
for it. What should worry Mr Cameron - and what already worries a growing number
of his MPs and constituency activists - is that in the process the party is
becoming distinctly less appealing to them.

Yet according to some of the leader's friends, he is not fussed by that. For
him, that many young people, metropolitan people, and indeed young metropolitan
people now claim they might vote for him is a great success. If some old,
crusty, conservative Conservatives don't like it, they can lump it. Some
Cameronian ultras openly say that they think the party looks much better without
such people having a high profile in it, or indeed any profile.

And, indeed, in one of the many conscious echoes of Tony Blair circa 1994, when
socialism was (probably temporarily) ditched by Labour, friends of Mr Cameron
say that, come polling day, the disaffected will have nowhere else to go. That
is not how the UKIP sees it; and it is a cause of alarm how many former Tory
voters in urban areas say their next port of call will be the BNP. There is also
one other belief, which is that Gordon Brown will be so unmitigatedly horrid to
Middle England that it will, almost to a man, demand the coronation of Mr
Cameron as its prime minister and saviour.

As Denis MacShane points out below, Mr Brown may have some surprises up his
sleeve. He is not stupid. He does not wish to be prime minister only for a year
or two. He is likely to do whatever he feels is needed to win in 2009.

The Cameron construct has relied as much on invention as on empiricism. He and
his circle talk of a party that was out of touch and representative of a small,
privileged minority. That has been nonsense for most of our lifetimes. It was
nonsense at the last election, when Mr Cameron himself wrote the party's
manifesto, for heaven's sake: but he has to paint the party pre-2006 as evil so
as to look all the better himself. Sometimes the obloquy becomes careless. When
he made his vapid and shallow speech on poverty recently, Mr Cameron chided John
Moore, the Social Security Secretary from 1987-89, for a speech he made in 1989.

Mr Cameron said of Lord Moore: "He suggested that because 'the stark Dickensian
poverty of a hundred years ago' had ceased to exist in Britain, poverty itself
was history.'' For this, he added, Lord Moore was "wrong''. Sadly, what Lord
Moore said was rather different. He did indeed use the words quoted by Mr
Cameron, but used them to support his unarguable point that "the true history of
our economic development this century is not a story of failure, it is one of
tremendous success. To pretend otherwise undermines confidence in the system
that actually has abolished the stark Dickensian poverty of a hundred years
ago.'' Was the quotation out of context incompetence, or was it the
unscrupulousness of a PR man keen to make his point? You choose.

Let us leave propaganda and connect with reality, and ask what is going to
propel the Tories from their present 198 seats in the Commons to the magic
number of 324, where they would enjoy an overall majority. First, they will be
helped by boundary changes, which could add anything up to 15-20 seats to their
tally without much effort. Then there are still many quite rural seats that
Labour holds outside the South-East. And the Lib Dems are weak, too, especially
given the plodding performance of Sir Menzies Campbell.

This might boost the Tories to 250 seats, and it might threaten Labour's overall
majority; and perhaps Mr Cameron could make a strong case to the then leader of
the Lib Dems (whoever he may be) that they would be better off dealing with the
new centre-Left Conservative Party than with the Right-wing, authoritarian
Labour Party. But that would be messy.

The fact remains that, in large stretches of the United Kingdom, the
Conservative Party, even under the benign, unthreatening leadership of Mr
Cameron, hasn't a prayer. Seats in urban and suburban areas outside the
South-East remain winnable only on the most elevated flight of fancy. There are
three years to turn that round, but many local party organisations are at best
moribund. Shadow cabinet ministers are occasionally parachuted in on stunts to
tell the locals they care, but the party falls back into obscurity the minute
they have been airlifted out again. Scotland and Wales tell, for different
reasons, a similar story.

"He doesn't play outside the M25,'' an old party hand told me recently. Another
who has seen it all before said he thought the crisis would come when Mr Brown
became prime minister, for he felt Mr Cameron and his circle were
underestimating him. "But now I fear it may come sooner. There is great concern
at the grass roots that he rejects all their values and beliefs. I know Dave
doesn't care about such people, but, without them to stuff envelopes, knock on
doors and drive old folks to vote on election day, we're finished.'' Add to that
the froideur towards him from big business, and it is clear that there may not
be an entirely smooth path ahead.

The only belief I feel Mr Cameron holds is in his own ambition. This is helped
by the fact that he has shown himself supremely flexible of principle. He is not
by most definitions of the term a conservative, but the Conservative Party is a
ripe vehicle for him and for those who would hitch themselves to him.

Yesterday on this page, Nicholas Boles, of the think tank Policy Exchange, said
Mr Cameron had moved his party "back on to the same ground as the British
people''. At 37 per cent in the polls, I suppose that interesting claim is about
one third true. About 40 per cent of the British people are still waiting for
someone they regard as fit to be voted for. Mr Cameron will have do considerably
better in the next three years if he is going to make them believe that their
saviour has, indeed, arrived.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 6, 2006 Wednesday 7:08 PM GMT

David and Goliath Gordon

BYLINE: By George Jones

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 441 words


David Cameron has promised voters some "real grit" in his second year as
Conservative leader. It is an ackowledgement that charges that he is all style
and no substance are beginning to hit home.

David Cameron looks to the future

Yet as Mr Cameron today celebrates a year since he was elected leader by a
margin of more than two to one over David Davis he can look back on some
considerable successes. And not just photo-opportunities hugging huskies or
ridings his bike.

His first term report card would surely mark him at least eight out of 10. He
has put the Tories back in contention and has established a lead in the opinion
polls, though not yet sufficient to guarantee a return to power.

Labour MPs grudgingly admit that the Tories could win the next general election
- and some are still in shock at his audacious raids into their territory, even
overtaking the Government on its Holy Grail issue of the NHS.

Some of the toughest criticism he has faced has come from his own side. There is
a hard-core of Tory traditionalists who regularly choke on their cornflakes over
some of Mr Cameron's efforts to present a more caring, compassionate image -
whether it is calling for more understanding of teenage "hoodies" or adopting
Polly Toynbee's ideas on tackling poverty.

They claim that traditional Tories will either stay at home or may even defect
to the UK Independence Party unless he promises tax cuts and a tougher approach
to Europe.

Ukip remains a serious threat to the Conservatives - and its intervention could
have cost the party up to 20 marginal seats by creaming off Eurosceptic voters
who might otherwise have voted Conservative at the last election.

But Mr Cameron is determined to drag the Tories, kicking and screaming, back to
the political centre-ground where he believes elections are won or lost. He saw
how his predecessors, William Hague and Iain Duncan Smith, were blown off course
and forced to retreat to the party's "comfort zone" of the Right.

The polls show that Mr Cameron's strategy appeals to disaffected Lib Dem and
Labour voters - who for the first for more than a decade are ready to listen to
a Conservative leader. The trick will be to keep hold of the Tory core while
continuing to win back the "floaters".

But this is still a "phoney war". The real battle lies in the future when the
heavyweight Gordon Brown takes over from Tony Blair as Prime Minister. It is
already being compared to a boxing match - remember Mr Blair's reference to the
Chancellor's "big clunking fist" flooring the Tory pretender. But what about
David and Goliath?

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2006 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           December 5, 2006, Tuesday

No to Cameron

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 133 words


Sir, In all the examples of Conservative victories William Rees-Mogg gives,
liberal though the Conservatives might have been, they were still clearly to the
right of their opponents ("My Cameron verdict: so far, so good", Dec 4).
Nowadays there is no difference between the Conservatives and new Labour so the
old compulsion to vote Conservative for fear of Labour getting in no longer
applies.

The last thing dyed-in-the-wool Conservatives want is a Cameron victory because
that would cement his reforms in place.

It would be better to show that the Conservative Right cannot be taken for
granted by switching to the UKIP and defeating him at the next general election.
So what if we have to endure more Labour; it's no worse than the Blue Labour
promised by Mr Cameron.

Richard Rawsthorn

Cliviger, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 4, 2006 Monday

David Cameron is the true heir of the New Labour project

BYLINE: Janet Daley

SECTION: FEATURES; COMMENT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1077 words


Here we are then, at the end of David Cameron's first year as party leader.
(Doesn't time fly?) Among the more disinterested analysts who have assessed his
progress, the consensus seems to be: not a bad start, but the real tests are yet
to come.

There is, however, one group of commentators and enthusiasts who are jamming up
behind one another to declare that the Cameron project has got off to a
brilliant beginning and that, barring some catastrophic (and uncharacteristic)
lapse of judgment, he is headed for Downing Street. This loyal clique is totally
convinced by the changes that the new leadership has brought and profoundly
confident that they are in the interests of the party and the country. Who are
these adoring acolytes who offer such unreserved support to Mr Cameron? Why, the
Blairites, of course.

The Conservative press and the party membership may oscillate between doubt
("What does all this amount to?'') and occasional fury ("Hug a what?'') but, in
one corner of political life, and most notably in one section of the media, the
praise for Mr Cameron's leadership is volubly unstinting. Which newspapers are
most likely to cover Cameron initiatives on the environment and social justice
with unambiguous reverence? The Independent and the Guardian. Which sections of
the public seem most attracted to the Tories' metropolitan makeover? The ones
that have recently voted Labour or Liberal Democrat. Which commentators are
busily declaring the Cameron concept a triumph? Those who once ardently promoted
Tony Blair. New Labour (as it no longer calls itself) has found a new hero.

You might think that there are some simple, cynical explanations for all this
open adoration of the Opposition leader by the Prime Minister's band of public
champions. The most obvious one is that they want to damage Mr Cameron's project
further in the eyes of Conservative voters by embracing him as one of their own.
They may also want particularly to reinforce the idea that any Conservative
return to the themes of immigration, crime and tax would be a Big Mistake,
because those are the issues on which they have most to fear.

There may be something in this Machiavellian interpretation but, from what I
hear, at least some of the more vocal Left-liberal Cameron fans are sincere in
their admiration.

A second, and seemingly more perverse, explanation is that the Blairites just
want to get up Gordon Brown's nose. So furious have they been with the Brown
camp's plotting and treachery that they would prefer to see their own party
defeated than to have him and his team walk into power. What could be a more
cunning final act of vengeance than to talk Mr Brown down in favour of a Blair
clone, even if he is a Tory?

Then again, there is the possibility that all this salivating over the Cameron
effect is intended as a warning to the Labour party ranks: elect Mr Brown as
leader and you will lose to this rising star. Better to go for someone (John
Reid?) who can outflank Mr Cameron on the Right. Mr Cameron's New Conservatives
are determined to steal Labour's "social justice'' clothes, and have taken a vow
of silence on immigration, so wouldn't it be clever to offer the voters a leader
who could say what the Tories have decided is unsayable?

There is a gap in the electoral market. Why leave it to be filled by the BNP or
Ukip? The way to seduce the electorate will be to talk dirty on crime and border
controls, and that is not Gordon's style. By emphasising (in the form of
"praise'') Mr Cameron's softness, the Blairite camp could be clearing a space
for a tougher Labour leader.

Any or all of these explanations may be accurate in part. But I believe that
there is also a larger, and stranger, compulsion at work. The club that once
promoted Mr Blair, and which now cheers on Mr Cameron, is actually fighting for
what it sees as (and what it once called) the New Politics. According to this
orthodoxy, it does not matter so much what party is actually in office so long
as it subscribes to the rules of the soft centre: a general acceptance of the
status quo in terms of a controlled market economy combined with relatively high
taxation and public spending, and no serious reforms of the welfare state. To
have achieved a condition in which virtually all the political parties are
forced to accept this basic doctrine can be seen as the great triumph of Mr
Blair's reconstruction of the Labour Party.

What Mr Cameron's conversion to the Left-of-centre consensus means is that if
the Conservatives win the next election on the Cameron prospectus, Mr Blair's
legacy will be redeemed. In the longer term, Mr Cameron is a better protector of
the Blair inheritance than Mr Brown would be, because he continues and confirms
the Blairite transformation of democratic politics into media management.

If Mr Cameron's Conservatives succeed, the electoral future belongs to image
consultants and marketing experts. But if Mr Brown prevails, there might be a
return to real politics. We might actually find ourselves arguing once again
about the basic principles of taxation and spending, welfare dependency and
wealth creation: as far as Blairites are concerned, this would be a step back
into the dark ages before we kicked all this ideological nonsense into the
undergrowth. In so many respects - not least those that Mr Brown himself would
choose to emphasise - a Brown ascendancy would be a repudiation of what Mr Blair
has stood for. But a Cameron win would be a vindication.

For those whose aim is to salvage the Blair Place in History, the succession of
Mr Cameron is essential. Mr Blair can then see himself as having transformed
British politics in an irreversible way, as his idol Margaret Thatcher did
before him. Mr Blair's biographer, John Rentoul, wrote last weekend that
"Thatcher's great achievement was to reconcile Labour to the market. Blair's
great achievement has been to reconcile the Tory party to public services and
equality.'' (The Tories may have forced us to re-invent ourselves; but now we
have done the same to them.)

This is the frankest statement possible of what Mr Blair's camp sees as his
inheritance: all future political contests must take place on that tiny strip of
territory known as the "centre ground''; fundamental principles may never again
be openly debated; and personable management is more important in a political
leader than conviction. And the Blairites know, or think they know, which
politician will carry their torch.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 4, 2006 Monday

David Cameron's leadership is not inspiring Tory stalwarts

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 61 words


SIR - The backbone of the Conservative Party - the members who do all the work -
expect robust policies on the EU, immigration, tax, and selection for secondary
education.

If we don't get such policies, we know from what we have been told on the
doorstep that the core voters whose support we need to win will either defect to
Ukip or abstain.

Ron Forrest

Wells, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                December 3, 2006
                                 Fifth Edition

Scaramella;
The Italian Connection;
Inside story: The Litvinenko mystery;
He claims to be a professor at a university that has never heard of him, and
consultant to a body that has no fixed address. The more we learn about Mario
Scaramella the more mysterious his role in the events surrounding the death of
Alexander Litvinenko becomes. Peter Popham reports from Rome

BYLINE: Peter Popham

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1680 words


Ten days after Alexander Litvinenko succumbed in a London hospital to poisoning
by highly radioactive polonium-210, the mystery surrounding the death of the
former Russian agent has merely deepened.

The affair has drawn in the Kremlin and its security services, Russian exiles in
Britain, and reports of radioactive traces being found not only in London but on
aircraft plying the Moscow route. Only yesterday a Finnair jetliner tested
positive in the Russian capital. But in an exotic cast of characters, nobody is
more mysterious than Mario Scaramella, the self-styled Italian "professor" who
lunched with the Russian defector on the day he was poisoned.

It was at the Itsu sushi bar in Piccadilly, where the two men met at 3pm on 1
November, that the highest levels of polonium-210 radiation have been found. Mr
Scaramella says he only drank water, while Mr Litvinenko had miso soup and
sushi. Traces of the radioactive substance have also been found in the
Millennium Hotel in Grosvenor Square, where the defector had tea with Russian
associates, including a former colleague in the FSB, the successor service to
the KGB, later in the afternoon.

And Mr Scaramella himself has now tested positive for the deadly isotope, and is
being treated at University College Hospital, where Mr Litvinenko died. Mr
Scaramella is not said to be in danger, but somehow or other he came into
contact with the substance.

Mr Litvinenko accused Mr Scaramella of poisoning him from the day he first fell
ill: as the Italian told me, his name was all over Russian and Chechen websites
as the main suspect in the poisoning of the former FSB agent long before the
story hit the British press. Mr Litvinenko retained his suspicion right up to
his death. Speaking of the Itsu meeting, he said: "Mario didn't want anything,
he gave me the email printouts ??? I said to myself, he could have sent these
emails by computer. But instead he wanted to come and give them to me in person:
why, and why in such a hurry? He was very nervous."

Mr Scaramella told me that he wanted to hand over the emails in person, because
their contents were so sensitive. He said that he told the Russian at the
restaurant: "You introduced me to [former Russian spy] Yevgeny Limarev, now
Limarev has sent me a very strong statement."

The emails, which The Independent on Sunday has seen, stated that "Russian
intelligence officers speak more and more about the necessity to use force"
against Mr Scaramella and Mr Litvinenko, among others. But Mr Limarev has denied
sending the emails, and his name does not appear anywhere in them.

British police have said they do not consider Mr Scaramella a suspect in Mr
Litvinenko's death. He flew to London again last week to meet detectives
voluntarily, and the two bodyguards keeping an eye on him at University College
Hospital are there for his protection. Since being named as Mr Litvinenko's
murderer in the Chechen press, he told me, his life has been at risk. "I was
told, if you touch Mr Litvinenko, the Chechens will kill you," he said. "The
Chechens have identified me as a military target." Mr Litvinenko was a strong
supporter of the Chechen cause after defecting to the UK in 2001.

But while Mr Scaramella's problems in Britain may be mostly medical, in Italy
last week he found himself at the centre of a criminal investigation. The
accusations date from the five years when he was a consultant to the Mitrokhin
Commission, an Italian parliamentary body set up in 2001 on the orders of the
then Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, to investigate the activities of Soviet
and post-Soviet spies in Italy.

Mr Scaramella claims to be many things, including a professor at Naples
University, an honorary magistrate, and consultant to something called the
Environmental Crime Protection Programme (ECPP). But Naples University has not
heard of him. The ECPP has no fixed office. The post as magistrate is
non-paying. The only job he has had in recent years over which there is no doubt
is with the Mitrokhin Commission.

Yet it is this job, which finished before Italy's general election in April,
that has now landed him in hot water. On the orders of the public prosecutor of
Naples, Mr Scaramella's phone was tapped; last week Italian papers published
what were reported to be transcripts of conversations between him and the
president of the Mitrokhin Commission, Senator Paolo Guzzanti, a member of Mr
Berlusconi's Forza Italia party.

The transcripts allegedly show the two men discussing how Mr Scaramella is to
acquirestrongenoughevidence from Moscow to label Romano Prodi, then the leader
of Italy's centre-left opposition, now Prime Minister, a tool of the Russians.
Other members of the Prodi government were also said to have been targeted,
including the head of the Green Party, Alfonso Scanio, who is now environment
minister. "We can't go so far as to say Prodi is a KGB agent," Mr Scaramella
allegedly says at one point. "But we can say that the Russians consider Prodi a
friend ???" Mr Guzzanti explodes. "Friend doesn't mean a fucking thing!" he
roars. "Are you taking me for a cunt?"

Lawyers for Mr Scaramella and Mr Guzhome zanti have protested at the bugging,
but have not questioned the authenticity of the transcripts. After they
appeared, Mr Prodi announced that he would sue "all those who, by words and
deeds, have wounded my dignity as a citizen and as a representative of
institutions".

Doubts about Mr Scaramella's work for the Mitrokhin Commission are not new. In
2004, opposition members of the commission described his contributions as
"barely credible and not at all helpful ... grotesque and mysterious ..." But
yesterday Oleg Gordievsky, the most senior Russian agent ever to defect to
Britain, said Mr Scaramella's main source for allegations against Mr Prodi was
none other than Mr Litivinenko, who came to this country in 2000 and recently
became a British citizen.

"I was with Litvinenko when we met members of the UK Independence Party," Mr
Gordievsky told the IoS yesterday. "He told them that a KGB general, Anatoly
Trofimov, had said to him: 'Prodi is one of ours.' The UKIP members later
repeated the allegation in the European Parliament, when Mr Prodi was head of
the European Commission in Brussels."

Mr Gordievsky, who was smuggled to Britain by MI6 after coming under suspicion
as a double agent in 1985, said he knew nothing to support the allegations
against Mr Prodi. But he was at one with Mr Litvinenko's other associates in
accusing the Kremlin of murdering him. "Since July Russia has had a law
permitting the FSB to kill people abroad that it doesn't like," he said. "They
killed a British citizen on British soil, and they are smearing other people,
including me."

The death of the former FSB agent is an undoubted embarrassment to Britain's
security services, amid suggestions that they relaxed their guard once he had
been in the country for a few years. But one well-connected source claimed the
investigation into the affair showed there were wider implications. He
speculated that Mr Litvinenko's poisoning could have been an accidental
by-product of a terror plot involving radioactive material, and directed against
Russia.

But the more the affair is discussed, the murkier it becomes. Nuclear experts
insist that only a state would have the resources necessary to produce the
polonium-210 used in the killing. One source said that officials from the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) had helped investigators identify the
Russian reactor where the polonium used to kill Mr Litvinenko was produced. In
Russia, the source, added, security is not tight around Russian reactors. There
would be plenty of highly qualified but poorly paid scientists with access to
the material who could be tempted to obtain it on behalf of a criminal gang in
return for money.

All this, however, does not answer the question: who killed Alexander
Litvinenko? "All we have is a significant date of 1 November, because that is
when Litvinenko became ill," said a Whitehall source. "According to the records,
that is the first time that he called an ambulance."

Scotland Yard is still working round the clock to plot the radiation trail,
which appears to have spread not only round parts of England but also the world.
Detectives are trying to work their way back to a "clean episode" where there is
no radiation contamination. Only then can they establish when and where Mr
Litvinenko came to ingest such a huge dose of polonium-210. They have not ruled
out murder or suicide, but it is understood officers have ruled out a link
between a reported firebomb attack on Mr Litvinenko's London home and his
poisoning. His body suffered extreme trauma as a result of the level of
radiation it received, but experts hope they can still establish the exact dose
that he ingested.

But Whitehall is playing down any suggestion that the contamination of Mr
Scaramella makes him a likely suspect. "It is unlikely for a major suspect to
return to a crime scene and even more unlikely for them to voluntarily give
police a debrief. This is being treated as a suspicious event, not as a murder
inquiry," one source said.

Additional reporting by Sophie Goodchild, Raymond Whitaker and Francis Elliott

From Moscow to Rome

Some of Italy's leading figures have crossed Mario Scaramella's path

SILVIO BERLUSCONI

Set up the Mitrokhin Commission, which hired Scaramella as a consultant. The
commission has been called a crude attempt to smear Berlusconi's opponents as
communists

ROMANO PRODI

Now Prime Minister. Said to be the principal target of attempts to link Italian
politicians with the KGB. Among his accusers, according to another defector, was
Alexander Litvinenko

PAOLO GUZZANTI

Senator from Berlusconi's Forza Italia party and head of the Mitrokhin
Commission. Phone transcripts allegedly show him using obscenities as he tells
Scaramella to find more dirt on Prodi

ALFONSO SCANIO

Now environment minister and another alleged target of political smear campaign.
Right, the front page of La Repubblica, carrying leaked transcripts of calls
between Guzzanti and Scaramella

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                December 3, 2006

Revealed: Litvinenkos Russian 'blackmail plot': Poison victim 'had intelligence
files'FBI probe KGB agent over new claims

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Jamie Doward and Tom Parfitt, Moscow and Barbara
McMahon, Rome

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words


THE FBI has been dragged into the investigation of Alexander Litvinenko's death
after details emerged that he had planned to make tens of thousands of £
blackmailing senior Russian spies and business figures.

The Observer has obtained remarkable testimony from a Russian academic, Julia
Svetlichnaja, who met Litvinenko earlier this year and received more than 100
emails from him. In a series of interviews, she reveals that the former Russian
secret agent had documents from the FSB, the Russian agency formerly known as
the KGB. He had asked Svetlichnaja, who is based in London, to enter into a
business deal with him and 'make money'.

Litvinenko also handed a series of pictures of himself to Svetlichnaja that are
published by The Observer today. One shows him with murdered Russian journalist
Anna Politkovskaya, another serving as an army officer in an elite Russian army
unit two decades ago and the third draped in the Union flag celebrating getting
his British passport just before he was poisoned.

We can also reveal that Scotland Yard officers involved in the investigation
travelled to Washington to interview a former KGB agent, Yuri Shvets, who said
he had vital information. He was a contact of Mario Scaramella, the Italian
security consultant being treated at London's University College Hospital after
having been found to have been contaminated with polonium. His doctors said
yesterday that he did not appear to be suffering from radiation poisoning.

'I believe I have a lead that can explain what happened,' Shvets confirmed last
week before he was interviewed as a witness in the presence of FBI agents.
Shvets, who lives in Virginia and is now apparently in hiding, declined to
elaborate. However, a business associate of Shvets, who asked to remain
anonymous, told The Observer that Litvinenko had claimed in the weeks before his
death that he possessed a dossier containing damaging revelations about the
Kremlin and its relationship with the Yukos oil company. The associate claimed
that Shvets compiled the dossier.

Yukos was once owned by the oligarch Mikhail Khordorkovsky, who is serving seven
years in a Russian jail for tax evasion. His supporters say he was convicted as
a result of a show trial orchestrated by the Kremlin.

The claims that Litvinenko had a dossier containing damaging information about
the Kremlin echo separate claims he made to Svetlichnaja, who interviewed the
former KGB agent earlier this year for a book she is writing about Chechnya.

In today's Observer , Svetlichnaja, a politics student at the University of
Westminster, says Litvinenko claimed he had access to Russian intelligence
documents containing information on individuals and companies that had fallen
foul of the Kremlin.

'He told me he was going to blackmail or sell sensitive information about all
kinds of powerful people, including oligarchs, corrupt officials and sources in
the Kremlin,' she said. 'He mentioned a figure of £ 10,000 that they would pay
each time to stop him broadcasting these FSB documents. Litvinenko was short of
money and was adamant that he could obtain any files he wanted.'

Litvinenko's access to such documents could have made him an enemy of both big
business interests and the Kremlin. However, his claims are almost impossible to
verify and some political analysts have gone as far as to dismiss him as a
fantasist.

Shvets, 53, emerges as yet another character in an espionage saga linking
Britain, Italy, the US and Russia. Like Litvinenko, Shvets worked for the
Russian billionaire Boris Berezovsky, whom the Kremlin has tried unsuccessfully
to extradite from Britain. Shvets was a KGB major between 1980 and 1990, during
which time he worked undercover in Washington as a correspondent for the Russian
news agency, Tass. He emigrated to the US in 1993 and wrote a book about his
experiences.

Shvets met Scaramella in Washington last year to discuss the Italian's role as a
consultant to the Mitrokhin commission, set up by the Italian government to
investigate Russian infiltration during the Cold War. It has been alleged that
Scaramella discussed with the commission's chief, Paolo Guzzanti, whether they
should look for evidence that Romano Prodi, Italy's Prime Minister, was linked
to the KGB. Prodi denies any link.

Last night another link connecting the worlds of Italian politics and Russian
intelligence emerged. Gerard Batten, an MEP for the UK Independence Party,
confirmed Litvinenko had told him a man called 'Sokolov', who worked undercover
as a Russian agent in the Seventies as a reporter for Tass, was the key link
between senior Italian politicians and the KGB.

This week Scotland Yard will interview two Russians who met Litvinenko on the
same day he had lunch with Scaramella. Andrei Lugovoy, a former agent with the
FSB, and Dmitry Kovtun met Litvinenko in the Millennium Mayfair hotel. Traces of
polonium have been found on the planes on which they are believed to have
travelled between London and Moscow.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 49 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                December 3, 2006

Business & Media: Media: Cameron faces barrage of 'friendly' fire: He's been
mauled by the likes of the Mail and the Telegraph, but the Tory leader's bullish
stance toward the press shows signs of paying off.

BYLINE: Ned Temko

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1472 words


As you glide up the escalator into the Telegraph 's new multi-million-£ London
headquarters and beep in at the entrance to the huge, hi-tech newsroom, it's
hard not to feel that you're somehow crossing the border between the old media
world and the new. 'Victoria Central,' with its widescreen TVs, audio-video
studios and forests of computers, is part of an audacious and ambitious remake
by the most venerable of Tory newspapers. All of which would seem to make it a
natural cheerleader for David Cameron, who has been doing some fairly audacious
and ambitious remaking of his own.

But not so. One year after becoming leader of the Conservative Party under the
banner of 'change to win', Cameron finds himself routinely pilloried on the
opinion pages of the Telegraph . In last Friday's paper, no less a figure than
the editor-at-large, Jeff Randall, ridiculed the Tory chief as 'Camera-on' for
having snubbed the CBI in favour of a photo opportunity with the troops in Iraq.
Cameron, he warned, has become so fixated on proving 'his lovey-dovey,
caring-sharing credentials' that he has forgotten core Conservative values.

Randall's barbs are mere pinpricks compared with the weekly assaults from the
paper's associate editor, the right-wing Tebbitite Tory Simon Heffer. In his
main review of October's Conservative conference in Bournemouth, Heffer compared
the gathering with 'an SDP conference from the mid-1980s'. Cameron, he said, was
a 'vacuous' and 'manipulative' PR politician obsessed with focus groups and
image consultants. 'All that matters,' wrote Heffer, 'is that the leftist press
and their co-religionists in the BBC can be persuaded not to be horrid to the
party.'

The Tory leader is faring little better at the other main 'Tory' paper, the
Daily Mail , whose heavyweight columnist Melanie Phillips has accused the
Cameron Conservatives of becoming a kind of off-brand New Labour and last week
was particularly scathing in denouncing the 'sheer cynicism' of Cameron's
adoption of Guardian columnist Polly Toynbee's views on poverty. 'Throwing
Cameron stardust in people's eyes may work for a while,' she wrote. 'But the
British people are not likely to buy a Polly in a poke. If they can vote for the
organ-grinder, after all, why elect the monkey?'

And Rupert Murdoch's mass-circulation Sun , effusively Thatcherite until Tony
Blair spectacularly captured its backing in the run-up to his 1997 election
victory, is so far showing no signs of swinging back behind a Cameron-led
Conservative Party.

Which way the Sun , or Murdoch's Times , will ultimately jump is too early to
say, although the Guardian 's political writer Michael White cautioned against
'forgetting that Murdoch likes backing winners. That's why he's been a Communist
in Beijing, a Republican in Washington and New Labour in London. The key for
Cameron is how the electoral arithmetic ultimately turns out'.

'We're in the phoney war period,' the Sun 's associate editor, Trevor Kavanagh,
who led its political coverage for more than two decades, added. 'The real
battle will begin when it's Cameron against Brown after Blair has left.' While
the paper's preference seems for Brown, and Kavanagh himself has criticised the
Tory leader's lack of policy substance on the key issues, he said realistically
he could see why 'Cameron is not about to waste any political ammunition while
Blair is still in charge'.

As for the Telegraph and Mail , Kavanagh's hunch is that when push comes to
shove they will, reluctantly, back the Tory leader in the next election.

Cameron himself remains unruffled by the bad press from newspapers courted, and
often taken for granted, by past Tory leaders. 'We're not going out of our way
to rattle people's cages, or to pick a fight with any newspaper,' his media
spokesman, George Eustice, told The Observer . The remark seemed to signal an
important change in tone toward Tory papers from the period in which Cameron was
campaigning for the leadership. The Telegraph had initially wanted David Davis,
while the Mail favoured Kenneth Clarke, and during the controversy over the
eventual winner's refusal to say whether he'd used drugs at university, Cameron
seemed to revel in publicly facing down newspaper demands that he come clean. At
the time, Eustice and others stressed that Cameron wanted it known that he would
not have policy 'dictated by the Daily Mail '.

Still, the substance of Cameron's views on the press have not changed, Eustice
made clear. 'Frankly, we don't think the national newspapers will make a huge
difference politically. Our focus is on the broadcast media, particularly the
main evening news bulletins, where we feel we have much greater impact and a
much greater prospect of getting our message across.'

Where the newspapers are concerned, he added, the main emphasis was now on the
regional press, particularly in areas of the country that Cameron and his team
view as crucial in a future General Election. A dedicated 'regional media'
director was hired recently to run that campaign.

Some Tory MPs, even pro-Cameron ones, are not so sanguine. 'A lot of
Conservatives read the Telegraph and the Mail ,' one influential MP commented.
'The question is whether, if those papers constantly send out an anti-Cameron
message, it might influence some of our core voters to support parties like
UKIP, or to stay at home.'

But Cameron's approach is increasingly winning support from media and political
opinion-formers within the party and beyond. One PR expert who was part of the
team around Blair in the 1990s remarked that Cameron seemed to be avoiding a
major Blairite pitfall. 'We put such emphasis on the newspapers that we ended up
giving them enormous power,' he said. 'I do think Cameron has problems - it's
still hard to see how he is going to provide a compelling policy direction - but
in his approach to the press, particularly the Tory press, he has reduced their
power at a time when their influence is probably waning anyway.'

Peter Oborne, the former Spectator political editor and now broadly pro-Cameron
Mail columnist, would not be drawn on his current employer's stand on the new
Tories, but did say he felt 'it is to Cameron's credit that he has a low-key,
unspinning guy like George Eustice handling the media rather than someone like
Alastair Campbell, who was central' to government policy and strategy.

Behind the scenes, Cameron and his inner circle appear, none the less, to be
trying to reduce what one close aide termed 'unnecessary' friction with the key
national papers, and are particularly keen to keep up a dialogue with the main
national editors and their owners.

Cameron flew down to the Channel Islands hideaway of the Barclay brothers, who
own the Telegraph , earlier this year at the height of Hefferian invective for
what one senior Tory source described as a 'positive and productive' meeting.

A meeting with Murdoch during the summer was less successful. 'David was given
some briefing notes on the kinds of things he should say in the aim of ensuring
things went well,' one insider told The Observer . 'But he largely ignored them.
He did what he does in all such encounters: he explained why what we're doing is
right and why the concerns that are expressed are wrong.' Murdoch was, and
reportedly remains, unconvinced.

At the Telegraph , despite Heffer and Randall, Cameron's camp last week said
they had begun to discern signs of a change - not a sudden swing behind his
political project, but a new openness to the 'need for change' that was driving
it. The key, both they and Telegraph insiders agreed, was the recent arrival of
the paper's new editor, Will Lewis, who is driving its hi-tech transformation.
'Lewis is involved in a process at his paper that really is similar to what
we're doing,' a top Cameron adviser said.

'He understands the need for change, and he understands the difficult
challenges, the opposition, that such change involves.'

WHAT THE PUNDITS SAY

SIMON HEFFER

DAILY TELEGRAPH

'Dave claims, in a distressingly Blairist phrase, that he wants to treat the
'causes' of poverty. Well, unless he cuts taxes and public spending . . .
provides fiscal incentives for the married family and reintroduces selection in
education to help poor children get a decent chance in life, that assertion,
too, is just complete flannel.'

JEFF RANDALL

DAILY TELEGRAPH

'For Camera-on, here's the danger. So anxious is he to prove his lovey-dovey,
caring-sharing credentials that he risks doing precisely that which he is
telling colleagues they must avoid: boxing in the party on future policy.'

MELANIE PHILLIPS

DAILY MAIL

'An opinion poll suggests that Mr Cameron's progress may be stalling. If so,
this is undoubtedly because people can see through the spin. They don't want
Blue Labour; and they will never trust politicians speaking out of both sides of
their mouths.'


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Was ex-spy trying to sell dirty bomb to Al Qaeda?

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 789  words


THE radiation spy scandal took a sensational twist last night with the
revelation that KGB defector Alexander Litvinenko had converted to Islam before
he died.

Scotland Yard detectives are now trying to discover if he had any secret links
with Islamic extremist terror groups.

Their biggest fear is that the former Soviet spy, who died of polonium-210
poisoning in a London hospital, may have been helping Al Qaeda terrorists or
other extremist groups get hold of radioactive material to be used in a
devastating "dirty" atom bomb.

The news comes on top of a claim by Litvinenko's friend Mario Scaramella that
the former spy helped smuggle radioactive material from Russia to Switzerland in
2000.

Litvinenko's sympathies with Chechen rebels, seeking to break away from Moscow
and create an independent Muslim state, are well known.

And when Chechen rebels were blamed for a massive bomb attack in 1999 that
destroyed a Moscow block of flats with the loss of 400 lives, Litvinenko enraged
Russian President Vladimir Putin with his claim that the Russian leader himself
ordered the attack in a bid to damage the Chechen cause.

Counterterrorism officers will now be scrutinising any possible Muslim links
which could have assisted Al Qaeda's avowed aim to detonate a radioactive bomb
in America or Britain.

Litvinenko's conversion to Islam w as a closely guarded secret and came as a
complete shock to his close Russian friends in Britain. The shock admission came
from his next-door neighbour, moderate Muslim and Chechen dissident Akhmed
Zakayev, w ho revealed: "He was read to from the Koran the day before he died
and told his wife that he wanted to be buried in accordance with Muslim
tradition."

Despite the claim, a statement written by Litvinenko shortly before he died
referred to "God", not "Allah" and said he could hear the beating of angel's
wings, leading most people to infer he was a Christian.

Last night his friend, London-based Russian emigre Vladimir Bokovsky said: "It
is news to me. I don't believe it. Why did he refer to God in his statement
before his death and not Allah. I think this is misinformation."

Professor Scaramella, his Italian friend who suffered some polonium210
contamination but is not showing signs of poisoning, has already said Litvinenko
masterminded a secret shipment of radioactive material from Russia to Zurich in
2000.

At the time he was a high-ranking officer in the FSB, formerly the KGB, and was
apparently acting on the orders of senior officers in Russia's secret service.

The same year saw Litvinenko investigated for corruption, though he claimed the
move was retaliation for his public claim that the Russians w anted to
assassinate his friend, billionaire exile Boris Berezovsky, who is now based in
London.

But the admission that he had been smuggling radioactive material six y ears ago
creates a completely different picture of the man, who claimed he was poisoned
by Kremlin secret agents because he was an enemy of Russian leader Vladimir
Putin. When he leaves London's University College Hospital Mr Scaramella will
face detailed questioning about Mr Litvinenko's activities, particularly his
knowledge of moving radioactive material.

Doctors said yesterday Professor Scaramella shows no "evidence of radiation
toxicity", adding, "he is well."

It emerged that Prof Scaramella flew into Britain on easyJet flight EZY3506 from
Naples to Stansted airport on October 31 and returned two days after meeting
Litvinenko in a central London sushi bar, on November 3 on flight EZY3505.

Following the death of Mr Litvinenko, Prof Scaramella returned to the UK and has
been staying in a hotel in East Sussex under police protection until being
admitted to hospital. He came to London to tell Mr Litvinenko his name was on a
list of people rogue elements in the Russian secret service wanted killed. The
two men had also been meeting to discuss a major investigation into ex-KGB
officers in Italian life, being conducted in Rome.

Prof Scaramella was a consultant on the Italian government commission, called
the Mitrokhin inquiry.

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten had met Mr Litvinenko several times to discuss the work
of the commission and more particularly the Italian leader Romano Prodi, former
head of the EU.

Earlier this year Mr Batten caused a stir in Italy when he alleged at the
European Parliament that the Italian prime minister had KGB connections.

No investigation into the claims was launched by the EU after Mr Batten's speech
last April.

Mr Prodi has denied the accusations and has threatened to sue media
organisations over them in the past.

Over the past week, traces of polonium-210 have been detected at 12 sites,
including three British Airways planes which have flown between the UK and
Russia.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SYMPATHY: Litvinenko supported the Chechen cause and claimed President
Putin was behind the 1999 Moscow bomb attack that killed 400 people

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

One year on: The backlash begins

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 615  words


DAVID Cameron last night defied signs of a backlash from Tory traditionalists as
he v owed that the party's march to the left would continue.

Speaking just days ahead of his first anniversary as party leader, Mr Cameron
said the Tories needed to make further radical changes and abandon "outdated
policies" if they were to have any hope of winning the next election.

He claimed the changes made in the last year had transformed the Conservatives
into the "new force in British politics".

And he bluntly told Tory traditionalists it was "tough" if they did not like the
way he was leading the party.

But with opinion polls suggesting his popularity may be on the w ane, there are
growing rumblings of discontent from within the party, with one senior Tory MP
warning the leadership not to "spit in the face" of traditional Conservative
supporters.

Right-winger Derek Conway said traditional Tory voters might stay at home or
drift away to minor parties if they felt abandoned. And he asked: "How can we
have a government that's in the state the Labour Party is in, with the police
knocking on the doors, and yet we're still where we are in the polls?"

Fellow MP Bob Spink warned: "The public are sick to the back teeth of political
correctness.

They want parties that will address real issues in a grown-up fashion and speak
the truth."

And he added: "After a very successful first year in changing the image I hope
David Cameron will address these matters in his second year."

But Mr Cameron, whose leadership has seen a revival in the party's fortunes in
the polls, is in no mood to alter his stance, stressing that losing three
elections in a row proved the Tories needed to "modernise and change".

And he was unrepentant about the unhappiness being sown in traditional Tory
ranks. He said:

"If you want to change that is the price you have got to pay. I don't go out to
annoy anybody, but I want to change the Conservative Party and get us back to
the centre ground and in a position where we can win.

"If you have to annoy people along the way - that's tough."

Mr Cameron's aides insist he will toughen his stance against Labour in the
coming weeks in a bid to silence critics who say he is letting Labour off the
hook.

He will also use the results of a series of policy reviews to flesh out Tory
thinking on key areas such as education and health - though he will stop short
of making firm policy commitments.

There will also be no let-up in the headline-grabbing gimmicks - dreamt up by Mr
Cameron's advertising guru Steve Hilton - that have appalled many traditional
party members.

The Tory leader's first anniversary on Wednesday comes a week after an opinion
poll suggested the "Cameron effect" had peaked and the Tories were once more
trailing Labour. But Tory aides point out that the party is still doing better
than at almost any time in the last decade.

However any further slip in popularity is likely to create more unease among
Right-wingers.

Last night one senior backbencher confided: "The trouble is that David has
surrounded himself with PR people who tell him that hugging hoodies and talking
about 'tossers' is the way to grab headlines. It's exactly what Blair did in
opposition and he has never been able to kick the habit.

"A lot of people are very worried about where David is going.

Many people in the associations just can't understand it. It's becoming a joke -
what are we going to stand for next?"

The Tory high command insists Mr Cameron's strategy will broaden its appeal with
floating voters. But concerns remain that his approach and his failure to
promise tax cuts could push traditionalists into the arms of minor parties such
as the UK Independence Party and even the BNP.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNREPENTANT: Cameron vows reform will continue

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Tory backlash begins;
One year on, right-wing Conservatives are unhappy about Cameron's lurch to left

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 44

LENGTH: 479  words


DAVID Cameron last night defied signs of a backlash from Tory traditionalists as
he vowed the party's march to the left would continue.

Days ahead of his first anniversary as leader, Mr Cameron said the Tories needed
to make further radical changes and abandon "outdated policies" to win the next
election.

He claimed his changes so far had transformed the Conservatives into the "new
force in British politics".

And he bluntly told Tory traditionalists it was "tough" if they did not like the
way he was leading the party. But with opinion polls suggesting his popularity
may be on the wane, there are rumblings of discontent, with one senior Tory MP
warning the leadership not to "spit in the face" of supporters.

Right-winger Derek Conway said traditional Tory voters might stay at home or
drift away to minor parties if they felt abandoned.

Fellow MP Bob Spink warned: "The public are sick to the back teeth of political
correctness. They want parties that will address real issues in a grownup
fashion and speak the truth. After a successful first year in changing the
image, I hope David will address these matters in his second year."

But Mr Cameron, whose leadership has seen a revival in the party's fortunes in
the polls, is in no mood to alter his stance, stressing that losing three
elections in a row proved the Tories needed to "modernise and change".

He said: "I don't go out to annoy anybody, but I want to change the party and
get us back to the centre ground in a position where we can win. If you have to
annoy people along the way, that's tough."

Mr Cameron's aides insist there will be no let-up in the headline-grabbing
gimmicks - dreamt up by the Tory leader's advertising guru Steve Hilton - that
have appalled many traditional party members.

The Tory leader's first anniversary on Wednesday comes a week after an opinion
poll suggested the "Cameron effect" had peaked and the Tories were once more
trailing Labour. But Tory aides point out that the party is still doing better
than at almost any time in the last decade. However, any further slip in
popularity is likely to create more unease among right-wingers.

Last night, one senior backbencher confided: "The trouble is that David has
surrounded himself with PR people who tell him that hugging hoodies and talking
about 'tossers' is the way to grab headlines. It's exactly what Blair did in
opposition and he has never been able to kick the habit.

"A lot of people are very worried about where David is going.

Many people in the associations just can't understand it. It's becoming a joke -
what are we going to stand for next?"

The Tory high command insists Mr Cameron's strategy will broaden its appeal with
floating voters. But concerns remain that his approach and his failure to
promise tax cuts could push traditionalists into the arms of minor parties such
as the UK Independence Party and even the BNP.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNREPENTANT: Cameron vows reform will continue

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 49 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 2, 2006 Saturday

Weekend: HEIRS TO THE SLAVERS: Nearly 200 years after Britain abolished slavery
its legacy is all around. As the PM sidesteps a state apology, Andy Beckett
talks to descendants of slave traders. And prominent black Britons speak out.

BYLINE: Andy Beckett

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4395 words


Sir George Earle lives in a long thatched house in Devon with a small apple
orchard, a few rich green fields and an old barn. In the barn, under a
workbench, are several large black metal boxes. Their lids are scratched, their
insides rusty, but the boxes have protected the Earle family archive for
generations. "There are handwritten notebooks, in flowery language," he says.
"You need a lot of patience to read them." He has retired from a career in the
City, but is busy working for the UK Independence Party and writing to the
Times.

There is one document he has read closely: a family history from 1889. For 30
pages, it details their rise to prominence as merchants and shipowners and
politicians in 18th-century Liverpool; and then this passage appears about
William Earle, Sir George's great-great-great-great-grandfather: "He seems to
have had a number of ships. . . to have had much miscellaneous traffic with the
natives of Barbados, Virginia and the windward coast of Africa, dealing not a
little in the slave trade, which was then one of the most important of foreign
enterprises, and considered so small a question of humanity."

Sir George reads the passage aloud as we sit drinking his home-made apple juice
on a terrace overlooking the garden. "Dealing not a little in the slave trade. .
. considered so small a question of humanity. . ." - he says the indigestible
phrases again, softly this time, almost to himself. Does he feel any connection
to what his ancestor did? "No connection. I don't feel uncomfortable with it at
all. I don't see the point of just picking out one thing in history, splitting
it away from the values of the day, and trying to judge it by today's values.
Apologising for the slave trade. . ." - a dismissive look crosses his face - "is
just something for the intelligentsia to play with. It's just raking over
coals."

Next year is the 200th anniversary of the abolition of slave trading in the
British empire. The pioneering nature of this reform - Britain was the first
major slave-trading nation properly to ban the practice - and the charismatic
campaign for abolition led by William Wilberforce, MP for Hull, have been
virtuous elements of Britain's self-image ever since. In 2007, this sense of
national rectitude is likely to reach a peak. Yet the celebration of British
abolitionism has also obscured Britain's much less comfortable connections to
the slave trade.

As they tend to, historians differ about many aspects of Atlantic slavery, but
they agree that Britain was the second most important participant after
Portugal. Between the mid-16th and early 19th centuries, British ships carried
more than 2.5m slaves - over a quarter of the total. Investors and other
participants in the trade included members of the royal family, leading
politicians and aristocrats, the City of London and the Church of England, which
used slaves on its Caribbean sugar plantations and opposed the abolitionists in
parliament. "No nation in Europe," the then prime minister and abolitionist
William Pitt the Younger told the House of Commons in 1792, "has plunged so
deeply into this guilt as Great Britain."

Two centuries later the idea of British guilt for the slave trade remains
problematic. Although Tony Blair expressed "deep sorrow" at Britain's
involvement in the "shameful" trade last week, the government is unlikely to
make an official apology on the anniversary next March. The very suggestion has
already been condemned in the rightwing press as unpatriotic and absurdly
ahistorical. In February, an apology by the Church of England prompted a similar
response. In Bristol and Liverpool - along with London, the British places most
directly involved in the slave trade - controversies about how the practice
should be remembered, or whether it should be remembered at all, have ebbed and
flowed for at least a decade. Tellingly, there was not a single British museum
that dealt with the slave trade, except in Wilberforce's home town of Hull,
until 1994.

Few slaves ever passed through British ports as part of the Atlantic trade. Its
coldly ingenious mechanism - British goods shipped to Africa, African slaves
shipped to the Caribbean and America, American and Caribbean goods shipped back
to Britain, with profits accumulated at each stage - made that unnecessary, and
has made it easier for Britons not to think too much about the horrors behind
"the triangular trade". But, as the historian Hugh Thomas writes in his 1997
book The Slave Trade, "Though some of the traders were insulated from knowing
what the slave trade was, and looked upon it as just one more business, a high
proportion of them had been captains or mates in the traffic, and in their calm
houses in Liverpool. . . could easily imagine the crowding, the smell, the
savagery, and the fears normal on every voyage."

Andrew Hawkins grew up in Cornwall and Canada in the 70s and 80s. He never knew
that his ancestor Sir John Hawkins, the Elizabethan naval hero, businessman and
pirate, was also the first British slave trader. In 1562, after "being assured
that Negroes were very good merchandise", John Hawkins had sailed to west Africa
and acquired 300 Africans "by the sword, and partly by other means".

Andrew was brought up to see Sir John as a bit of a rogue. "We knew the stuff
about him fighting the Spanish Armada, and that he was a pirate. The family used
to joke about it." Andrew's understanding of the slave trade was as limited as
most Britons': "I saw Roots on TV in the 70s. I remember one history lesson at
school, a diagram of the slave boats. That's it."

Then, in 2000, as part of his work as a theatre director and Christian youth
worker, he went to a conference. And one of the speakers suddenly announced, "In
the audience today is Andrew Hawkins. Did you know that Andrew is a descendant
of the first British slave trader?" "I thought, 'No, I didn't know that,'"
Hawkins says. "It was a bit of a shock." But it wore off. He did a bit of
research on the internet. He thought about doing a slavery-related theatre
project, but he was too busy with other work.

Early this summer, he got another jolt: a message on his answering machine at
home from the Lifeline Expedition, a charity that arranges international
gatherings and expeditions for "healing the past", in particular the wrongs of
the Atlantic slave trade. Hawkins was asked if he'd like to take part in a
reconciliation festival in the Gambia that was due to happen in a fortnight.
Part of the event would be a public apology. He had a day to make up his mind.

"I happened to be free when the festival was on. I thought, 'This will be really
educational. I don't feel guilty about the slave trade personally. But I want to
take the story seriously and learn from it.'" That he would be the focus of
attention did not at first occur to him. "I hadn't really taken into
consideration the significance of going as a descendant of John Hawkins." Andrew
grimaces slightly. "Looking back, I was very naive."

Since his trip to Africa in June, Andrew has become public enemy number one for
the no-apology lobby. He has been described as "attention-seeking" and
"ridiculous" in the Daily Mail, and his African gesture as "beyond fatuous" in
the Daily Express; he has been misrepresented - "Someone went on the radio and
said we'd blacked up to go to the Gambia" - and has received electronic
hatemail.

Hawkins lives in Liskeard, a hilltop Cornish town, in a plain, medium-sized
house without ancestral portraits or antiques or other obvious signs of
inherited riches. His father was an electrician and his grandfather a postman.
Yet when he arrived in the Gambia, his links to Sir John Hawkins the slave
trader suddenly felt very real. "It was not easy to be there at first. I had a
lot of fear. Was I going to offend people? Get lynched? But the response was so
generous to what we were doing. Lots of people grabbing hold of your hand and
saying thank you. People said things to me that will never leave me. A lady
said, 'You don't know what it means for a white person to kneel down before an
African, in Africa.'"

The central event of the week-long trip was a public apology to an audience of
25,000, including the country's vice-president. Hawkins and 19 other Europeans
walked to the stadium wearing T-shirts saying "So Sorry" in different languages,
chained together by their wrists - just like Atlantic slaves. "I was a bit
concerned about the chain thing at first, but it was a good device," Andrew
says. "Walking for an hour like that, in that heat. . . The feeling of
dehumanisation really horrified me. Some people were laughing at us. My neck was
burning. The chains bite into you. You get a mark." In the stadium, the bald
symbolism of it went down well; back in Britain, less so. But Hawkins is
unrepentant. "AN Wilson (his main critic in the Mail) was so patronising. I was
really angry about it. I've been told all my life about the Holocaust, 'Never
forget.' We don't look at Hitler and say, 'He was a victim of his time.'"

It is a provocative parallel, but not an easily dismissed one. Between 1680 and
1688, for example, Hugh Thomas records that the London-based Royal African
Company (RAC), which monopolised the English slave trade at the time, "lost" 24%
of the people it transported. Such a death rate was high, but not unusual.
Hawkins also argues that, like the Holocaust, the British slave trade is
something for which a whole society should be held accountable - blaming
particular families and particular cities is not enough. Directly or indirectly,
a much broader Britain was involved. And the country was transformed in ways
that shape it still.

In his famous 1944 book Capitalism And Slavery, the Trinidadian scholar Eric
Williams wrote, "By 1750 there was hardly a trading or a manufacturing town in
England which was not in some way connected (to the slave trade). . . the
profits obtained provided one of the main streams of that accumulation of
capital in England which financed the Industrial Revolution."

Williams' thesis has been frequently challenged, but never convincingly. The
evidence of slavery-connected social and economic change in 17th- and
18th-century Britain is just too great. There was a surge in Atlantic exports
from Britain. Sugar and tobacco from the Caribbean slave plantations created new
social rituals. Countless country houses, estates and follies were built or
bought by slave traders and slave owners. Birmingham became a centre for making
metal goods that were exchanged for Africans. Cheap cotton from the plantations
helped Britain's textile industry overtake India's as the world leader.

Nowadays, the notion that modern Britain was built on slavery has some
surprising supporters. Bristol, at first glance, is not a place that has fully
come to terms with its slave-trading past. In Queen Square, with its tall,
handsome houses built for slavers, a blue plaque describes at length the local
18th-century notable Woodes Rogers - "Great Seaman, Circumnavigator, Colonial
Governor" - without finding space to mention his investments in slaving voyages.
Nearby, an old sugar refinery has been turned into a stylish hotel called The
Sugar House. This time the plaque on the wall consists almost entirely of
euphemisms: "(18th-century) Bristol was known as 'The Metropolis of the West'.
It was England's Second City, a Thriving, Wealthy Merchant Port and Important
Cultural Centre."

Yet up in Clifton, the famously grand Georgian suburb above the city centre,
where plantation owners bought mansions nearly as big as their sailing vessels,
a degree of honesty about the Atlantic traffic in slaves is suddenly in fashion.
The Society of Merchant Venturers - "The Merchants", as they call themselves -
has been influential in Bristol since the late middle ages. For centuries,
including the city's slaving heyday, the Merchants "controlled the city docks",
as their website puts it, "for the benefit of Bristol". At the end of the 17th
century, they lobbied successfully for the RAC's slave-trading monopoly to be
ended so Bristol could join in; at the beginning of the 19th century, they
lobbied unsuccessfully against the trade's abolition.

"In the 1700s, 60% of the business of the port of Bristol was the slave trade,"
says Tim Pearce, the society's current master. "We don't agree with it, and it
was wrong, but it was the business of the city." D'Arcy Parkes, the society's
spokesman, adds quickly, "And of course it was lawful."

We are sitting around a big, highly polished table in an upstairs room of the
Merchants' Hall, which occupies two entire Clifton houses. The society's
treasurer, Richard Morris, is also present. Almost immediately, Pearce brings up
the subject of the bicentenary. "I'm mindful of 2007," he says. "I've been
meeting community leaders. Going down to St Pauls (the West Indian part of
Bristol)." How did the visits go? "I found them very interesting and
educational. Most of the. . . Caribbean people really wanted to understand their
history and where they came from."

Next year, the society is planning to fund a collaboration with Bristol schools
and the city's British Empire and Commonwealth Museum to teach pupils about the
slave trade. For an organisation that until recently barely acknowledged in
public its involvement with the trade, this is a significant step. Would the
society be accompanying it with an apology? Pearce shrugs. "I don't mind
apologising for anything if it's meaningful," he says, "but I don't think we can
be guilty about what went on 200 years ago." Morris breaks in: "It would be like
the Italians apologising for what the Romans did!" Parkes adds, "Or like the
Danes for the Vikings raping and pillaging!" They all laugh at the absurdity.

At the end of the interview with the Merchant Venturers, Parkes, who is elderly
and can sound vague but has immaculate manners, offered me a lift back towards
the city centre. Who, he asked casually, would I be going to see next? I
mentioned a local family called the Eltons, once among the Bristol area's most
important landowners and entrepreneurs, who had links to the slave trade and
still had a country seat a few miles from the city, Clevedon Court.

Parkes gave a nod of recognition. Had the Eltons, I asked, ever been involved in
the Merchant Venturers? He said he wasn't sure.

Clevedon Court stood on a steep, wooded hillside, sandstone-coloured and
sprawling. From the top of its terraced gardens, laid out in the 18th century,
the Severn estuary, the Bristol slave traders' gateway to the Atlantic, was a
silvery flash on the horizon. At their peak, the Eltons owned a quarter of all
the land surrounding Bristol; now the estate is the house and a few acres, owned
by the National Trust, with the M5 droning in the near distance.

The family still live in the house for some of the year; inky portraits of
Eltons past pout at visitors to the Great Hall. A National Trust guide stands
under the pictures and eagerly describes the Eltons' successes as 18th-century
industrialists, property dealers and shipping magnates. Were they slave traders
as well? "We don't know that they were," the guide says tersely. "There's no
proof."

A dozen rooms later, a book called Annals Of The Elton Family, by a 20th-century
Elton, is displayed, not very prominently. It describes the basis of the first
Baronet's success in the early 18th century: "His profits. . . from making up
shipments of those goods most attractive on the Gold Coast (of Africa) in return
for slaves. . . were enormous." His business activities and those of his sons,
the book adds, included "estates in Jamaica", investing in ships "alleged to be
slavers" and petitioning parliament "on the danger of the trade to Africa being
monopolised" by London. The Eltons, it notes, "contributed seven Masters and 13
members of the Society of Merchant Venturers".

"They were fighting for Bristol," says Julia Elton, sister of the current
baronet. "You could argue that they were giving an economic opportunity to the
local peasantry. And they were exploiting the economic circumstances of their
times. All businessmen do." When Julia Elton is away from Clevedon, she lives in
Chiswick, west London. Her house is substantial and the area is prosperous, but
it is not Belgravia. "We are still living with the huge mistakes of my
grandfather and great-grandfather," she says. "In the 19th century they were
rich as Croesus. They spent money like there was no tomorrow. Then cheap corn
imports from the US hit the estate. My grandfather didn't repair Clevedon Court,
and didn't pay enough income tax. In 1960 the National Trust got the house.
Nowadays we have no power and no anything."

Instead, she owns and runs Elton Engineering Books, which publishes volumes
about Victorian canals and railways. She says she doesn't often think about her
family and slavery: "It is a small part of the whole Elton story." But she may
protest too much. There is a new copy of Thomas's history of the slave trade in
her attic office. Before I can ask, she offers her opinion on Andrew Hawkins's
gesture in the Gambia: "I thought the apology was absolutely nauseating. Talk
about publicity-seeking! You could rationally say the whole of Britain's modern
wealth is based on the trade. What are we going to do - tear down all our
buildings?" She takes a sip of very strong coffee. "This is probably wildly
politically incorrect - and I'm not saying we didn't treat slaves disgustingly -
but what would have happened to the Africans if they'd stayed in Africa? If you
had to choose between living in Darfur and living in America, which would you
choose? And actually you could argue that most working-class people in England
in the 18th century lived in effectively slave-like conditions."

Strikingly, the latter argument is one that was used by defenders of the British
slave trade in the final Commons debate before abolition in 1807. Sir George
Earle, too, echoed the 1807 anti-abolitionists when he made the case that
slavery was not especially immoral in an era when "children were sent up
chimneys". And when I saw the Merchant Venturers, the figure they cited for
slaving-related activity in the port of Bristol in the 18th century was the same
one their society had cited in a Commons debate in 1789.

At these moments, for all Elton and Earle and the society's modern
approachability, there was an eerie sense of suddenly striking ancient seams of
knowledge and ways of thinking that had survived 200 years. And the old social
networks, it became clear, endure too. At Earle's house, I noticed a picture of
a pretty yacht on the kitchen wall. "We took that old girl across the Atlantic,"
Earle said. Then he and his wife began to talk about a voyage to the Caribbean
during 1989 and 1990. "We went to a very good sugar plantation in Barbados
belonging to friends of friends. A descendant of the original family was still
in the original plantation house. A lovely plantation house! We visited a friend
on Nevis who was restoring another old plantation house. . . Who was it in
Jamaica who we knew had plantations? The Hamiltons - the Hamiltons had a big
plantation in Jamaica. . ."

The kind of people who are hostile to the idea of apologising or paying
reparations for slavery - it's so long ago, it's irrelevant - are often the same
people who are happy to recall equally distant but more flattering events, such
as military victories. And once you start tracing Atlantic slavery's importance
and its long aftermath, it doesn't seem so distant. For one thing, slaves were
allowed to be used on plantations in the British Caribbean for 30 years after
the trade's abolition. And the slave owners were handsomely compensated by the
British government when the business of abolition was finally completed.

Having a debate about slavery reparations or apologies at all is, in one sense,
the luxury of history's victors. In Africa and elsewhere, many descendants of
Atlantic slaves have no choice but to remember what happened to their ancestors.
Andrew Hawkins may have grown up knowing nothing about his slaving ancestor, but
when he went to the Gambia more than 400 years after Sir John, "I found the name
of Hawkins was feared and hated."

In his more idealistic moments, Hawkins hopes he can alter how people think
about the British slave trade. "John Hawkins was one of the few who got the
trade going. Maybe I'll be one of a handful of people who start a new dialogue
about it." In the past, he says, he "couldn't connect" with friends who saw
political issues in everything. Now he can. "Me and my brother went round a
National Trust house. He said, 'Isn't it lovely?' I said, 'I'm not sure. Isn't
this a celebration of the class system?'" Since the summer, he has been
investigating his family tree further. "I'm still processing what I went through
in the Gambia."

Julia Elton is planning to read Thomas's slavery book, which is almost 1,000
pages long, on holiday. Sir George Earle has given the Merseyside Maritime
Museum in Liverpool 17 of the metal boxes containing his family archives,
including the captain's log of an Atlantic voyage made by the Unity, one of
Willliam Earle's slave ships, during 1769 and 1770.

The voyage was notably brutal: on June 27 1770, the log records, "The Slaves
attempted to force up a grating in the night with a design to murder the whites
or drown themselves but were prevented by the watch." The log concludes: "In the
morning the Slaves confessed their intentions. . . Their obstinacy put me under
the necessity of shooting the ring leader."

In his house in Devon, Earle kept suggesting that I should visit the museum in
Liverpool and look at the material. Had he been there himself? He said he'd
never quite found the time. *

Benjamin Zephaniah, poet

My feeling about slavery is the nearest I can come to imagining what it's liked
to be raped. It's like something's invaded me. Stolen my soul.

I get the feeling the anniversary is a tokenistic thing for some people. I have
been campaigning for years for a slavery memorial day, and a physical memorial
somewhere in central London. But what we need more than anything is an official
apology from the British government.

There are dangers in celebrating the 'abolition'. People talk a lot about the
great white people who were involved in it, and forget about the great black
people. No one talks about Paul Bogle - one of the men who led one of the
biggest slave rebellions in Jamaica. Then there's Toussaint L'Ouverture, who
freed the people of Haiti and formed the first black republic. We would still be
slaves if black people didn't rise up and fight for their own freedom.

David Lammy, minister for culture

I was born in Tottenham, but my ancestors were taken from Africa to Guyana by
European slave traders in the 17th century. My parents came to these shores to
find a better life in the late 1950s.

I've been pleased with the work the museums, libraries and heritage institutions
are doing to mark the anniversary, but it is clear we have some way to go;
historical figures such as Olaudah Equiano, the autobiographer who bought his
own freedom, are barely known. This gives us all the chance to redouble our
efforts to stamp out modern forms of slavery.

Trevor Phillips, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality

The slave industry shaped the Britain we know, for better and for worse. Some
remnants of slavery are despicable - the continuing strain of white supremacy in
formal politics. Some are tragic, for example the continuing fragility of black
family life. But other legacies, principally those of struggle, are uplifting -
the resilience of black church life, the tradition of black popular music and
the fierce streak of dissent in British politics are all wholly or partly
products of war against the transatlantic slave trade.

Dizzee Rascal, musician

I was taught about slavery at school. It was the only thing we were taught about
black history, that we were slaves. It made me feel a bit shit. In America, it's
only a couple of generations ago and that's astounding. It's not a black/white
thing: man is bad in general.

The anniversary is a very important day. It's a celebration, and a reminder of
the evil that men do.

June Sarpong, TV presenter

I feel devastation that slavery was humanly possible and absolute pride that so
many of my ancestors (in Ghana) survived. I think it's a true testament to the
spirit of the African people that we have been able to triumph from such
adversity.

Trisha Goddard, TV presenter

In reality, the history of slavery in Britain doesn't mean a lot to me. Bear in
mind that I was educated in 60s and early 70s Britain, and was one of the first
black girls in my posh grammar school. However, I remember visiting the slave
caves of Zanzibar in 1984, standing in one of these huge caverns under the sea
where slaves were kept for months at a time, and feeling the most frightening
wave of fear, nausea and grief wash over me. It was like an instant connection.

We all need to know about each other's history, regardless of creed, colour,
etc. The more we concentrate mainly on teaching kids about the so-called
imperial superiority of white and western missionaries, kings, queens,
empire-builders, the more we reinforce the notion of 'splendid isolation'.

Beverley Knight, singer

I don't live my life from the 'I-am-the-daughter-of-the-oppressed' standpoint.
Instead, I think of the heroes - Paul Bogle, Nanny, Sam Sharp and indeed
Wilberforce, who fought to give me the freedom I have today.

The perpetuation of stereotypes is a legacy of slavery: black people as
aggressive, black people as overly sexual, black people as constantly late(!),
etc. Very tired views. The paradox is that while we hate the labelling, some of
us, particularly the young, have confused these stereotypes with 'proper'
culture, and hang on to them in the name of 'keeping it real'. The other legacy
is the lack of expectation of black success.

Ekow Eshun, artistic director, ICA

A couple of years ago I discovered that my
great-great-great-great-great-grandfather was white and a slave trader who'd
settled in Ghana, where my family comes from, in the mid-18th century. To put it
mildly, I was shocked. But this hasn't changed any of my views about the legacy
of slavery. I, and all black people, are still its victims. If you don't believe
that, just look at the state of modern Africa.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
