
                               1 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

I'll wager these killers and rapists are on benefits;
NHS is doomed unless we cut out the cancer of bureaucracy

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 1047 words


It shouldn't be difficult to trace the various foreign murderers, rapists,
paedophiles and so on who should have faced deportation after being released
from our prisons.

No doubt, they are in receipt of benefits, being housed at the public expense
and probably receiving hardship allowances.

Enquiries at the offices of their legal representatives should also prove
fruitful as I cannot see them losing contact with their clients, on whose behalf
they will have been adequately reimbursed with taxpayers' money.

Why should Charles Clarke resign? I would have thought that, after a gaffe like
this, he would be destined for higher office in the Labour Party.

Ian Walsh Bury, Lancashire

I'm not surprised that Margaret Cook despairs at the mismanagement of the NHS
and that a Nottingham GP has resigned over the same issue. These problems are
not new, but they are getting worse by the year.

In the Eighties, I worked in NHS management and the culture shock from leaving
the private sector was frightening.

Waste and misguided purchasing were rife. For instance, a newfangled computer
was bought for the then enormous sum of Pounds 5,000. It was tinkered with for a
day and then forgotten.

Resources were not spent on doctors and nurses, but wasted on new tiers of
management. Even then I wrote to Margaret Thatcher, who promised a complete
overhaul of the NHS, which would solve everything.

Instead, NHS management posts trebled and now, under Labour, there are more
managers than ever before.

The self-preservation instincts of this army of administrators prevents any
innovative solutions to the problems at the heart of our health system. Until a
government has the guts to cut out this cancer, the NHS is doomed.

Dr David Hill World Innovation Foundation Huddersfield, West Yorkshire Let's rid
Britain ofweasel politics Every time we pick up a paper or turn on the news we
are reminded of the massive drain on the public purse from the incompetence of
our self-seeking career politicians.

Take the Scottish parliament money is being siphoned off at an enormous rate to
maintain a white elephant, which houses third-rate political mediocrities whose
sole interest seems to be to inflate their precious expense accounts.

On the national scene, who is not disgusted by the conduct of those leading or
'misleading' our country?

We need a new code of conduct, both transparent and immediately publicly
accountable, to rid us of the weasel politics we now endure.

Denis Bruce Glasgow

Please, leave the Monarchy alone Now the Queen is 80, some commentators are
questioning the ability of the Monarchy to survive her. But if the British
public were ever asked to make a decision on this, I would strongly advise a
look at the alternatives. Do we really want a president and another layer of
government?

The present system, with a monarch as Head of State alongside an elected
government, has served us very well for many years. If it's not broken, why try
to fix it?

A. E. Phillips Colchester, Essex

I would like to ask all your readers to join me in taking some time to listen to
one more person each day.

We all know someone who just needs to talk. We have all seen the face at the
window, the person at the garden gate, even someone where we work.

It might be for a few minutes, it might be longer. Remember, to listen in the
true sense means we have to respond in some way.

But there's no need to be afraid that something will be asked of us.

Whatever our role in society, we all have something to contribute.

Just imagine how wonderful it could be if every living person enriched the lives
of those around them, however small their circle may be. We really do have the
power to make this planet of ours a better place to be.

Paul Dixon Cowden, Kent

Christians have feelings too I was shocked and offended by Suzanne Moore's
remarks last week about Christianity. Does she not realise that many people in
this country are committed Christians?

Similar remarks about the Islamic faith would not be tolerated by that
community, so why should we have to see such comments in our Sunday paper?

Even though Ms Moore does not share our faith, she should at least respect our
beliefs.

Jane Hallam Lincoln

Terrible trio bent on destruction UKIP is nothing like the BNP I'm sure everyone
will eventually realise there is no difference between Bin Laden, Bush and
Blair. All three are equally prepared for innocents to die in the pursuit of
their beliefs.

Most people of the Islamic faith and the various religions of the Western world
share the same problem. We are all represented by leaders who do not reflect the
views of the responsible mass of their people.

Those that wage war either by terrorism or invasion mock their religions by
choosing to ignore the diktats of compassion, humanity and humility. They mock
the oppressed, poor and starving by devoting their resources to acts of
destruction.

Despite what your correspondent Ken Russell thinks (Letters), the UK
Independence Party and the British National Party have Peter Thorndyke Diss,
Norfolk nothing in common. UKIP has no racist leanings; we embrace all who
legally reside in the UK, whatever silly remarks come from Tory leader David
Cameron and others like him.

We represent a fast-growing number among the population who want the power to
govern Britain to be taken away from Brussels and returned to Westminster.

Rhod Edwards UK Independence Party Oswestry, Shropshire This sheik is no
extremist I refer to your article, 'The Sheik, his two wives and murders at the
mosque'. The two murders did not take place at the mosque and Sheik Abu Yusuf
was not implicated.

Furthermore, he is no longer based at Kidderminster and has a following among
young moderate Muslims. With regard to the Deobandi movement, it is not extreme
in its doctrine but illustrates a long and deep tradition of Islamic apoliticism
and an embrace of democratic and liberal traditions.

Riaz Akhtar Manchester

Two-timerwho needs two Jags So Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott has been
having an affair with his secretary. At least we now know why 'Two Jags' needs
those extra cars and homes.

. . . Why all the fuss about poor Mr Prescott and his romantic affair?

After all, it is not his fault that he is so irresistible to women.

Vic Croft Westcliff, Essex Frank Butler Brewood, Staffordshire END

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

Ourpoliticalpartiesare played-out,discredited traitors. Butwecanget our country
back ... starting this Thursday

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1119 words


THE liberal elite is wedded to two policies above all others being nice to
criminals and encouraging foreigners to live in this country.

If you dare to disagree with them about these articles of their faith, they get
very righteous and tell you that you are a Nazi. They refuse to discuss the
matter.

These twin lunacies have now come together in the outrage about foreign
murderers, robbers and rapists being spat out into our towns and cities, to
continue their trades, after serving short sentences in useless, warehouse
jails.

When I first heard about this, I failed to feel any great sense of shock.

Wasn't this normal?

After all, we have thousands of home-grown criminals loping about our cities as
it is. Many of them have never even been locked up in the first place, since it
is now much harder to get into prison than to get into one of the new
universities.

And this event was at least accidental, unlike the recent deliberate release of
hundreds of IRA and UVF scum on to the lawless streets of Ulster.

Anyway, do you really think the vanished convicts would actually have been
deported?

You must be joking. That's probably why Charles Clarke lost them. It was cheaper
and had the same end result.

All illegal immigrants need to do is throw away their passports on arrival here,
and our feeble system has no way of getting rid of them.

This is the trouble with modern Britain. If you have been paying attention for
the past 20 years or so, there is very little left that can surprise you.

Once you have worked out that the United Kingdom is governed by arrogant,
sheltered, sub-Marxist cynics who despise the British people and actively seek
to dismantle this country, it's almost a relief.

You are not crazy after all.

So that's why nothing works any more. So that's why half your tax money is
wasted on handouts to frauds and wastrels, whereas the widow down the street is
forced out into menial work after a lifetime of caring for a family. So that's
why the schools are so bad that they might have been set up by a hostile
occupying power to destroy our culture, that's why the police want to arrest you
for homophobia, but can't solve crimes. And that's why our national broadcasting
system sneers at everything good, and rewards the bad and the coarse.

Like others subjected to mad rule by impregnable, spiteful tyrants, we have
taken to shrugging and making jokes about it rather than getting effectively
angry.

War veterans go to their graves wondering why they bothered. The rest of us
conclude there's nothing we can do, or emigrate, or wonder if the Americans
might be persuaded to invade us. Well, there is actually something we can do.

But will you do it?

A lot of you still absurdly hope for salvation from the Useless Tories, like a
kicked, starved dog that still licks its master's hand. Stop it. You are
deluding yourselves and sustaining your own contemptuous enemies.

DOES anyone seriously imagine this couldn't have happened under the Tories?

Why do you think their response has been so slow and flabby? They know perfectly
well they'd have done the same. Have you really forgotten the Major years, which
is the very best we could hope to go back to in the unlikely event that David
Cameron won an Election? As for the 'Liberal Democrats', what are they but
Labour with a smiley badge? None of them will do what is needed to set things
right. Voting for them only encourages them. Staying at home on polling day only
lets them get away with it,.

If what I suggest catches on, this wretched trio of playedout, discredited
phoneys and traitors will collapse. Gallons of makeup, legions of hairdressers,
brigades of snakeoil salesmen imported from America and Australia will not save
them from the mass withdrawal of our support.

It may take a few years, but it really can happen if you want it to. And then it
will be up to us to build new parties, ones that actually speak for us rather
than ignoring us. Not squalid little factions like the BNP, or amateur Dad's
Armies like UKIP, but real ones, with serious, thoughtful policies and the
welfare of the British people as their highest concern.

You do that for yourself when the time comes it's called standing on your own
feet.

Here's the plan. At every Election, in growing numbers, in a clear, neat hand,
inscribe the words None of the Above on your ballot paper. Turn up specially to
do it. Encourage your friends. It will start small.

They'll begin by calling it a spoiled ballot. But if enough of us do it, again
and again, they'll have to read it out. They may even have to put a special slot
on the paper.

Bit by bit, it will become clear that our supposed leaders have no mandate to
govern us. And then we'll have the chance to get our country back. Go on, try
it.

If you have a vote this Thursday, you can start then.

AND so they abolished the Radio 4 UK theme despite the protests. As an incurable
early riser, I had no idea how much I would miss it once it was gone. Listening
to the denuded slot in which the poetic shipping forecast is now read in flat
regional accents by people who appear not to understand what they are saying is
like visiting a piece of woodland which has been chopped down and replaced with
a car park.

THERE is one thing about losing all those criminals that really did make me
livid. The man responsible is Charles Clarke, the cut-rate Big Brother who plans
to tag the innocent people of Britain with his disgusting identity cards (though
he cannot explain why). For very shame, he should withdraw this scheme now.

A man who cannot even keep proper lists of convicted criminals surely cannot
claim that his first concern is our safety. And if the guilty are not to be
registered, then it is even more important that the innocent should not be.

Shouldn't the sisterhood now point the finger at Prescott?

I HAVE never been happy about the way John Prescott is treated as a joke. He is
a serious danger to Britain and, in his post as 'Deputy Prime Minister', he
works night and day to wreck the country and impose EU regions on us. As for his
office affair, I note that Labour and Useless Tories alike have now agreed that
it doesn't matter when a man betrays his marriage vows, the most important
promise he ever makes.

Well, that tells you a lot about them and I'm not going to argue about it here.
But if they have abolished the old morality, what about the new one political
correctness? Surely Mr Prescott's behaviour towards this young woman, lifting up
her skirt and molesting her in public as he did, and he in a position of great
power, comes under the heading of sexual harassment, even if she liked it? I
seem to have read about men being put on trial for similar actions.

So why aren't the sisterhood demanding his downfall?

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

Incompetent, credulous and clumsy... this is the FA at its very worst

BYLINE: PATRICK COLLINS

SECTION: HI; Pg. 123

LENGTH: 1143 words


THE bouquet is wilting, the bridesmaids are squabbling and a thin, black trail
of mascara is slithering down the bridal cheek. For Luiz Felipe Scolari has
disappeared over the hills and poor, jilted Brian Barwick is in a pitiful state.

The oldest lesson in football is that nobody can ever be taken at his word, yet
the chief executive of the Football Association genuinely believed he had landed
his man.

Now his tears tell a different story.

And, as Oscar Wilde famously remarked upon the death of Little Nell: 'You would
need a heart of stone to keep from laughing.' For the Scolari episode is the
latest chapter in a catalogue of calamity for England. It is the FA at its
worst; incompetent, naive, credulous and terminally clumsy.

Of all the decisions they are required to take, the most critical is the choice
of the England coach. And on Friday evening, as Big Phil washed his hands of his
prospective employers, they knew that they had got it hopelessly wrong.

Yet their intentions had been impeccable. Having studied the various candidates
on offer, they set their sights on Scolari, knowing that the choice was almost
beyond intelligent argument. And as the white smoke rose above Soho Square to
denote the election of a new coach, only the odd squawk of dissent marred a
nation's welcome.

'It's a kick in the teeth for English managers,' said Harry Redknapp.

'My Granny could probably have managed Brazil to World Cup success,' sneered
Gary Lineker.

While the Birmingham chairman David Gold, with all the gravitas that a leading
purveyor of sex toys can command, declared: 'It is a betrayal of Englishmen and
English fans.'

It was knee-jerk stuff and the FA could afford to ignore it. Even the usual
Little England ranters didn't seem to have much heart for their task. True, they
delivered their foam-flecked script as if they were addressing the UKIP Spring
Conference but it was little more than a xenophobic party piece.

Scolari himself seemed mildly amused by the preposterous notion that only an
Englishman can generate sufficient passion to lead the national team. He was
equally amused by concern over his lack of English, for he knew that he spoke
the language rather more fluently than one or two of England's previous,
native-born managers.

Whatever he now says, the prospect of dealing with the British media was not
causing him sleepless nights, since a man who can take the Brazilian media in
his stride is not easily alarmed by intrusion. The notion that he was
discouraged by threats to his life seems equally implausible. Big Phil is not
for threatening.

No, he had his reasons for rejecting England, and England must come to terms
with that rejection.

And that process involves asking serious questions of the people who run their
national sport.

Currently, there is a five-man selection committee which has been touring the
country for months on end. They have conducted interminable interviews and
organised some diverting side-shows, involving remote manor houses and large
vehicles with blacked-out windows.

And the outcome of all that effort is a Chosen One who ditches them at the
altar.

So now we must scrutinise the people who chose him. Brian Barwick, the FA's
chief executive, deserves some of the mockery he is now receiving, but he is a
talented man who has the good of the English game at heart. Relatively new to
the task, he deserves to survive.

Sir Trevor Brooking must also remain, as the only committee member-who combines
sound judgment with a distinguished background in international football.

Noel White, of Liverpool, has rendered valuable service in the past.

Indeed, he once prevented the FA from making a disastrous selection error.

But it is difficult to see what more he can contribute in current circumstances.

The presence of the Premier League's Dave Richards is comically indefensible.
Nothing personal, of course, but what has he ever done to demonstrate that he
possesses the knowledge and intuition to select anything more consequential than
a Sheffield Wednesday reserve team coach?

Yet there he was, this overpromoted functionary, weighing the relative claims of
Scolari and Martin O'Neill, when he might have been better employed trying to
recall what really happened in those good old days back in Sheffield. There is
no obvious reason why even a sliver of trust in his judgment would have been
placed in him.

Then there is David Dein, the vice-chairman of Arsenal. I mention Arsenal
because that is fundamental to an understanding of Dein's role on the committee.
The dogs in the street could tell you that by far the outstanding candidate to
manage England is Arsene Wenger. Scolari was an inspired target, yet Wenger,
with his flair and imagination, his record of sustained success and his
admirable knowledge of English football, would be even better.

But those same dogs will also tell you that he is in no danger of being
seriously approached by England while his Arsenal employer holds such sway at
the FA. It is said that Dein got himself co-opted to the selection committee.

It is high time to dispense with his services.

We have not mentioned Geoff Thompson, of course, because nobody ever does.

Geoff is the FA chairman. He is not the sharpest knife in the box and certainly
he is not the bravest.

HE desperately wants to become a power in UEFA and so, whenever the sniff of
controversy reaches his nostrils, he hurries away to a darkened room. Nobody
asks his views on anything and if they did they wouldn't get an answer.

And yet this apology for an administrator holds the most powerful job in the
English game. If a wish to seriously reform English football is genuine, I know
just the place to start.

In the absence of reform, the farce will continue. Names will proliferate,
improbable cases will be made for improbable candidates, another round of
interviews will be organised and we shall hear once again the old lie that only
the English need apply.

The outcome, if not the actual name, is miserably predictable.

They will settle for second best, while pretending that their chosen candidate
is the one they wanted all along.

It is more than a pity, it is akin to scandal. For if they had really set
themselves to the task, then the FA might have landed Arsene Wenger. As it is,
they are more likely to end up with Gary Lineker's granny.

PS A DAY or two before Senhor Scolari flung his spanner in the works, a
newspaper ran a poll on how well the FA had handled the process of appointing
the next England manager.

Twentyfive per cent said Not At All Well, while 31 per cent said Not Very Well.
Twenty per cent said Fairly Well and 22 per cent didn't know or care.

But the astonishing statistic was hidden in the detail. Two per cent said the FA
had handled matters Very Well! I repeat: Very Well! Now who on this planet could
have reached such a conclusion?

Well, at last count, I came up with five names...

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

Blair faces poll disaster as Labour slumps

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 318 words


TONY BLAIR'S hopes of staying in Downing Street could be dealt a hammer blow in
this week's town hall elections, according to a BPIX poll for The Mail on
Sunday.

It shows that David Cameron's Tories have shot into a nine-point lead among
people who plan to vote in local elections taking place in many parts of
Britain.

And if Thursday's town hall results do go badly for Mr Blair, Home Secretary
Charles Clarke may find himself the Labour scapegoat. An overwhelming three out
of four people think he should have resigned over the fiasco of 1,023 foreign
prisoners convicted for serious crimes who were let out on to the streets
instead of being deported.

More than half say they are less likely to vote Labour as a result of the
scandal, including one in five Labour supporters. And nearly 25 per cent say
they are more likely to vote Conservative. Asked whom they would vote for if
there were a General Election now, the Tories score 35 per cent, three ahead of
Labour with the Lib Dems on 19.

But when narrowed down to those certain to vote in Thursday's local elections,
the Conservatives soar to 35, with Labour trailing on 26, only just ahead of the
Lib Dems on 23.

It confirms Labour's worst fears of a disastrously low turnout by disillusioned
supporters.

The British National Party could also make gains. Its support has increased to
five per cent, putting them in fourth place. If the BPIX prediction is accurate,
Labour will lose hundreds of seats on councils throughout Britain, which in turn
could trigger a leadership crisis for Mr Blair. His allies are braced for the
threat of a fresh attempt to dislodge him.

The poll also shows a majority believes Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt should
resign over NHS job cuts.

. BPIX interviewed 2,094 people online between April 27 and 29.

Those certain to vote in local elections

Conservative 35 %

Labour 26 %

Liberal Democrats 23 %

BNP 5%

Green 4%

UKIP 2%

Respect 2%

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

Prescott's code silences dissent in local elections

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 395 words


While attention has focused on the Deputy Prime Minister's sexual antics, the
rather more serious issue of his wholesale assault on our local democracy has
produced a further startling twist. Candidates in this week's council elections
have been warned by officials that, under Mr Prescott's Code of Conduct for
councillors, they must not express an opinion on any contentious local issues.

A candidate who comes to a firm view on anything exercising voters' minds will
be disbarred from taking part in any council discussion of those matters,
Stephen O'Brien, a Cheshire MP, has given me a letter sent to all candidates for
election to Chester council by the city's monitoring officer, Charles Kerry.
This states that any prospective councillor who has expressed a
"pre-determined'' view on any issue cannot, "as a matter of law'', take part in
any decision relating to that issue. This covers "any expression of opinion in
any election material, newletters, letters or press coverage''.

The only way a candidate can refer to contentious issues, Mr Kerry says, must be
along the lines of: "From what I know at the moment, I am concerned by them.''

In Banstead, Surrey, there is much anger over Reigate & Banstead council's plan
to close the local swimming pool and sports centre, to sell off the land for
housing. A UK Independence Party (Ukip) candidate passes on the letter sent to
all who are standing for election by the council's chief executive, Nigel
Clifford, telling them that they cannot express any firm view on this proposal
during the campaign, because this would indicate that they had "closed their
minds''.

They must wait until they have seen the report on the plan being prepared by Mr
Clifford's officials. The net effect of Mr Prescott's revolution has thus been
to abolish the principle which lies at the heart of democracy.

If voters can no longer choose the candidate who best represents their wishes,
and councillors are not permitted to express a view until they are told what to
think by officials, what remains of representative democracy?

In the Soviet Union, this was known as "guided democracy''. Thanks to the fiat
of Mr Prescott, it is happening here.

Until councillors rise up en masse to defy this system, we can say that our
local democracy has, by an administrative edict which was never debated by
Parliament, been brought summarily to an end.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

Cameron must think we are as green as he is

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 429 words


Last week nine Tory MPs showed their support for the new, non-party "Better Off
Out'' campaign which argues that Britain should work towards extricating herself
from the increasingly dysfunctional system of government known as the European
Union (it is not as if we haven't got a sufficiently dysfunctional Government of
our own to worry about).

When, on Tuesday, Lord Tebbit and I spoke at a meeting in London organised by
the Eurosceptic Bruges Group, more than 200 people, including Tory MPs, crammed
themselves into a room designed for 100, and more had to be turned away. Some
250 people, representing the cream of the Scottish professional class, turned up
for a meeting in Edinburgh addressed by Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Marta
Andreasen, the European Commission's former chief accountant, sacked by Neil
Kinnock for refusing to sign off the Commission's chaotic and fraudulent
accounts.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the Ukip MEPs in the European Parliament, was
surprised when 150 came to a meeting in Chertsey, Surrey, more than half of
whom, on a show of hands, admitting to being Tories.

I doubt whether the leader of the "Not the Conservative Party'' could attract
such audiences for a lecture on watching glaciers melt, with his attempt to bury
"Europe'' as far from view as possible. Last week he told his front bench
spokesmen that any of them who indicated support for British withdrawal from the
EU would be sacked. They have been quietly warned not to draw attention to the
fact that such a vast range of our national laws and policies are now decided in
Brussels.

Of course, the irony of David Cameron's bid to concentrate all his appeal to
voters on the environment is that our right to decide environmental policy, on
everything from how we dispose of our waste to the emissions given off by our
cars, has long since been handed over to Europe. His entire bid for the "green
vote'' is thus based on "let's pretend'' politics.

Just when the country is crying out for proper opposition to the most chaotic,
incompetent, corrupt, undemocratic Government we have ever had, Mr Cameron
gambles that he can win popularity by looking the other way and putting all his
eggs into one environmental basket.

Then, when he visits one of the Norwegian glaciers which happens to be
retreating (while carefully avoiding those which are advancing), or gets caught
out cycling to Westminster while his chauffeur purrs discreetly behind with a
clean shirt, he becomes just a figure of ridicule. We see the eggs are all
rotten and that the bottom is falling out of the basket anyway.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 667 words


Is Veritas, the party formed by Robert Kilroy-Silk after his hissy-fit departure
from Ukip last year, in meltdown? It has been having merger talks with other
small parties, but a liaison with England's Parliamentary party now appears
unlikely because of the latter's desire that Veritas change its name. Now the
party, which aimed to have a candidate in every constituency at the last
election, has only "around 20" in all of next week's local polls, amid talk of
branches folding. Chester, are you still there? Chester? As for RK-S himself, no
truth in the rumour that he plans to announce the formation of Vanitas, a party
backing low taxes and high tans.

Dave Cameron may be trying to rebrand the Conservatives as a compassionate
party, but the grassroots apparently couldn't care less. In Basildon, the local
election candidate for Billericay, Tony Hedley, proudly informs voters that
"Conservative Basildon council does not house asylum seekers" and promises to
spend £2m to get rid of Travellers. Billericay Dickie, the creation of the late
Ian Dury, would doubtless be saddened that the place he made famous for its warm
and imaginative relations with all-comers should now be represented by someone
so afraid of the outside world.

Reality TV stars John and Ann Armstrong, double-glazing heroes of the eponymous
BBC2 show, are known for their directness and, well, foul language. What is less
well known is their global reach. At Coventry University last week, John
Armstrong shared his world-view with open-mouthed students. "Society is
fragmenting, thanks to the internet," he said. "It's breaking up into little
pieces like a stick of rock when it hits a chav's head."

We asked readers to share with us their most shamefully satisfying vigilante
moments. Wow. Back off, bullies and litterbugs, when you see someone with a
rolled-up copy of the Guardian. Reader Mick left a "late-teen prat . . .
crumpled on the pavement" after being called "fatty", and reader Paul bested two
would-be muggers with his walking-stick and an imitation of kung- fu films he
had seen. Ena Wordsworth followed a litterer home in her car and handed him his
discarded chocolate wrapper before she "strutted away feeling, let's face it -
smug!" But the winner is Doncaster's own Ed Marshall: "My daughter was homeward
bound on a Nottingham city bus in the rush hour. She had purchased some bedding
plants and some live mealworms (bloody great, wriggling maggots) for the pet
lizard. A ruffian jumped on the bus, knocked over an old lady, trampled on
daughter's toes and then stuffed his bag, with his take-away curry, on top of
said plants. Somewhat peeved, as she retrieved her squashed busy lizzies, she
had the presence of mind to drop, surreptitiously, a few choice specimens of the
lizard food into his chapatis." (Ethical note: we knew Ed ages ago when he was
called Ed "Memphis" Marshall but, honestly, that wasn't a factor.)

We had threatened to publish a damaging and completely untrue story about poet
Bernard Hebb unless he came up with a poem for us. Wisely, Bernard did. Here it
is. "An inge nious young poet named Hebb / Was eager to appear on the web. / His
muses were wily; his ambition was fiery / So he hit on a plan for his verses to
scan / And earn him a place in the Diary."

We hear from Annabelle, daughter of the late Scottish comic genius Chic Murray,
that she has put together a show with some of his former musicians entitled The
Essential Chic Murray. It has already had much praise. Any small London venues
prepared to bring the show south? It would be inappropriate to let the mention
pass without recalling Chic's account of the tight-fisted B&B landlady who asked
him if he had a good memory for faces. Chic: "Yes, I do." Landlady: "Good -
there's no mirror in the bathroom."

And one, literally, for the road, from reader Jim Todd in Sheffield. Chic Murray
is walking along the pavement. Car pulls up. Driver: "Would you like a lift?"
Chic: "No thanks, I live in a bungalow."

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Peugeot bung-le

LENGTH: 55  words


A £ 78MILLION bung to lure Peugeot to Slovakia broke EU state aid rules, it was
claimed last night.

It was key to the French car giant leaving Coventry at a cost of 2,300 jobs.

But the European Commission did not apparently approve the Slovakian government
grant.

UKIP MEP Mike Nattrass said: "It appears to have turned a blind eye."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Tory MPs sign up to anti-EU campaign

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin and Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 307 words


DAVID Cameron faced a backlash from Eurosceptic Conservative MPs yesterday, as
eight of them endorsed a campaign to take Britain out of the European Union.

The MPs threw their weight behind the new Better Off Out campaign, also backed
by the UK Independence Party, whose members were recently branded by Mr Cameron
as "closet racists, mostly''.

Only 24 hours earlier, the Tory leader warned aspiring backbenchers not to get
involved, by declaring that those advocating EU withdrawal could not serve on
his front bench, given that party policy was not to leave the EU.

But the MPs defied the warning, supporting the view that Britain would be
politically and economically better off on its own. Three of them, Philip
Davies, MP for Shipley, Douglas Carswell (Harwich) and Philip Hollobone
(Kettering), were elected only last year and have now effectively ruled
themselves out of serving as Tory frontbench spokesmen.

The others, including veteran Eurosceptics such as Sir Nicholas Winterton, his
wife Ann, Eric Forth and Bob Spink, laughed off any idea that Mr Cameron would
ever offer them jobs.

In a sign of impatience at Mr Cameron's desire to recast the party's Eurosceptic
policies, Sir Nicholas appeared to give the new leader a year to pull his
policies back into line with the anti-EU sentiments of Middle England, or face
the consequences.

"We have just changed the leadership. You have 12 months to prove yourself but
don't forget: you should listen,'' said Sir Nicholas, MP for Macclesfield,

The Better Off Out campaign, launched by The Freedom Association, vows to use
"every available medium'' to put the case to the British public for a
free-trading Britain, outside the constraints of Brussels.

The campaign is designed as a cross-party initiative but at yesterday's launch
at Westminster, only Tory MPs turned up to give their support.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Don't insult China's victims, Mr Mayor

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 882 words


LONDON Mayor Ken Livingstone's views on human rights in China certainly don't
represent me, a Chinese Londoner.

His claim, on his trip to China, that there's a 'clear parallel' between the
history of protests in Trafalgar and Tiananmen squares is ludicrous - and deeply
wounding to me and other family members of victims of the Tiananmen Square
massacre.

My cousin, Wang Nan, was shot dead near Tiananmen Square in the early morning of
June 4, 1989. He was a 19-year-old high school student and Chinese soldiers shot
him simply because he was standing with a camera in his hands, watching them
open fire.

Twice, an ambulance arrived to rescue him, but it was turned away. The soldiers
shouted: 'Anyone who tries to save him will be killed!' Since the massacre, his
mother has been trying to investigate his death, but she and other Tiananmen
mothers have been monitored, restricted in movement and detained.

Wang Nan's father said, with a broken heart: 'The authorities have been really
unreasonable. We have lost our beloved son but they have never left us alone.

They harass us and have arrested my wife and twisted the story.' The Chinese
Communist Party (CCP) denies to this day what happened in the square.

For almost 17 years, nobody has known how many families like ours have lost
their loved ones and suffered persecution.

We who have come to London from China cherish the freedoms we have here as we
continue to work for the most basic human rights for our family and friends left
behind. Then Mr Livingstone goes to China and says what he did: what kind of
democrat is he? He argues that the UK has a bad human rights history. Compare it
to China's recent past . . .

From its revolutionary days when it massacred landlords and induced a famine
which killed 40 million people, through to the Cultural Revolution, Tiananmen,
the persecution of Falun Gong, the cover-up of Sars and the shooting of
villagers near Shanwei, the CCP has killed between 60 million and 80 million
people. Blemished as UK history may be, have British governments caused 80
million deaths?

Exact figures are unknown, but the death toll of the massacre in Beijing was in
the thousands. No one was killed in London's poll tax riots.

Anyone who turns a blind eye to China's abuses is helping the CCP to persecute
innocent people.

Mr Livingstone owes London residents an apology and should undo the damage he
did in China. Chinese people deserve the chance to have the same rights that we
enjoy here.

Miss ZE XIA, London NW2.

DEBATE

Should Sir Patrick Moore stay out of politics?

YES

I'M GRATEFUL to astronomer Sir Patrick Moore for helping me to decide which
party to vote for at the next election (Letters).

His cure for the NHS - a golden opportunity for hospitals to go mad with our
money, knowing their debts would be written off (and a massive tax bill on the
rest of us) - is a perfect illustration of why I'm not nearly looney enough to
vote UKIP at the next election.

Having spent too much time stargazing and not enough on events down here on
earth, he seems not to have realised that it is the Labour Party which has been
running (or should that be ruining) the country for the past few years, not the
Tories.

But not a single criticism of the Labour Government has passed the lips of the
aged knighted seer. This seems a tad unfair, but it does tend to reinforce
UKIP's fruitcake image, so I suppose we should be grateful.

HUGH ROGERS, Ashby, Lincs.

I'VE always admired Sir Patrick Moore's knowledge of, and enthusiasm for,
astronomy, but his diatribe is way off the mark. If he had said 'Tony' instead
of 'Tory' I would have some sympathy.

Perhaps he would be better just sticking to the study of heavenly bodies.

J. H. HULL, Saltney, Chester.

HAS Sir Patrick had his monocle in the wrong eye?

The things he listed as Tory policies are the same things 'New Labour' has been
doing since it came to power. Margaret Thatcher should be proud of Tony Blair
and his cronies.

TONY WILLMOUTH, Higham, Kent.

NO

I'D LIKE to thank Sir Patrick Moore for putting forward the policies of UKIP so
succinctly, and for comparing them with those of the Tories, whom I've supported
all my voting life. Now I find a party whose aims and objectives are so close to
my own that I must change my allegiance to UKIP.

In Penrith, we have a very good Tory MP in David Maclean but he is often a lone
voice, battling for his constituents against the anarchy that is this Government
and against his own party members who can't agree among themselves, let alone
lead strongly from the Opposition benches.

I had no idea of the Tory Party's policies under David Cameron, who seems only
to jet around the world, at our expense, 'improving' his image. Now I do know
them, thanks to Sir Patrick, they don't make pleasant reading.

As a retired head teacher, I despair at the havoc caused to our educational
establishments.

I lost my husband and my disabled sister in the past 18 months, both of whom I
cared for at home, so I have personal experience of the demise of the NHS.

Many pensioners must worry about paying inheritance tax to a Government that is
constantly wasting money.

To me it is like the Sword of Damocles hanging over me: so much for the 'golden
years' of retirement. Hurry into power, UKIP, and practise what you preach.

DAWN ROBINSON, Penrith, Cumbria.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PAIN: ZE XIA'S COUSIN WANG NAN (INSET) WAS KILLED IN THE TIANANMEN
MASSACRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 27, 2006, Thursday

Vote for any colour you like, they are all calling it green

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 781 words


Richmond upon Thames is yet to be convinced about David Cameron's new shade of
blue, reports Greg Hurst.

"NOT a good time!" barks a stressed nanny, arms aloft, who answers the door to a
Liberal Democrat canvasser at tea-time. "There are children being sick," she
explains, gesturing beyond her.

This is Richmond upon Thames, the southwest London borough where nannies are
found even in former council houses and the chief competition for the orange Lib
Dem billboards comes not from Tory posters but from estate agents' hoardings.

With its high proportion of working parents and booming property market,
Richmond is a testbed for David Cameron's commitment to green politics as he
strives to convince affluent professionals that his party has changed. The
Tories won control of the council four years ago but are under siege from the
Lib Dems in a battle where environmental policy -recycling, tree-planting,
street cleaning and the upkeep of parks -is at the forefront.

The Lib Dems ran Richmond for 19 years until their defeat in 2002, but have
since rallied and won five by-elections. The Tories are defending 34 seats, and
the Lib Dems 19. There is one Independent, a Tory who joined the UKIP. Both
local parliamentary seats have Lib Dem MPs.

On the evidence of a night's canvassing across Richmond, doubtful Tory
supporters have yet to be convinced by Mr Cameron's green agenda.

Serge Lourie, leader of the Lib Dem group, is basing his attempt to seize
control on a promise of doorstep recycling of plastics and cardboard as well as
improving secondary schools and using £ 54 million reserves to cut council tax.
As he calls at former council houses in Kew he finds Yunis Khan, a Green Party
supporter. What did he make of Mr Cameron going green? "I basically see right
through him," says Mr Khan scornfully.

A few doors along he meets Mary de Hoyte, listed in his records as "probable
Tory", fretting in her apron about her husband's health and a cracked pathway.
Mr Lourie makes a note to contact social services and the housing association.
If green policies do not resonate, pavement politics kicks in.

Across the borough in Twickenham, a group of Tories is using Lib Dem tactics to
defend seats in St Margaret's ward: very local campaigning with surveys and
colour newsletters for each street. Here, too, the environment is a priority.
"Preserve our green and leafy borough," one says. Mel Stride, who lives outside
the ward but has been brought in to co-ordinate its defence, says that the
Tories must hold wards like this to keep power.

Tony Arbour, the council leader, says that Richmond Tories went green long
before Mr Cameron, and calls his the "cleanest, greenest, safest" London
borough. He is proud of planting 1,000 trees, many of them cherries now in
bloom.

Jeanne Hill, 83, who opens her door on a chain to Tory canvassers, likes Mr
Cameron but when she is asked about his trip to the glaciers her face clouds.
"We want to think in terms of what happens here," she says.

Down by the Thames, James Page, a Green candidate, is told by Terri Gibbons, a
disillusioned Tory: "I didn't like the way he was dragging the dogs about" -in
reference to Mr Cameron's ride by dogsled. "I wouldn't have picked David
Cameron, quite honestly."

Amy Harvey, 34, who previously voted tactically for the Tories, is equally
unimpressed by his Arctic excursion. "How did he get there?" she asks
scornfully.

"He went by plane."

Both women tell Mr Page they will seriously consider voting for the Green Party.

The Greens, fielding 12 candidates, admit they can only aim to influence the
council's agenda.

The young canvassers of the Labour Party, which is contesting only 38 out of 54
seats, admit that their best hope is to get a foothold on the council. Labour's
canvassers carry a bundle of unused Dave the Chameleon leaflets.

The newsletter they push through letterboxes attacks the Lib Dems. Here, in the
battle of Richmond, the objective is not defeating Mr Cameron's green Tories but
stopping the onward march of the orange hordes.

TARGETS

* In most of the Liberal Democrats' target councils across England their chief
opponent is Labour, not the Conservatives.

* The Lib Dems hope for net gains of at least 120 seats and of controlling more
councils.

* A subsidiary aim is to stop the Tories from making a recovery in inner-city
areas.

* Top targets include Hull, John Prescott's political backyard, Bristol,
Portsmouth and South Lakeland. They also aim to make big gains from Labour in
Manchester.

* In London, where all seats are up for election rather than a third as
elsewhere, Lib Dems hope to win outright control in Southwark and Lambeth, and
to make big gains in Camden, Brent, Haringey and Harrow

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Strasbourg council 'swindled' EU over rent for parliament

BYLINE: By Stephen Castle in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 707 words


The European Parliament has suspended payments for its Strasbourg site and
threatened to bring in fraud investigators after it emerged that millions of
euros of rent are being creamed off by French local authorities.

Senior MEPs believe that the City of Strasbourg may have been overcharging them
for the parliament's site for the past 25 years, and that as much as EUR2.7m
(pounds 1.9m) of taxpayers' money could have been kept by the Alsace
municipality last year.

Amid mounting anger, MEPs have set up a special inquiry and are expected to
delay giving their approval for the parliament's entire annual accounts.

Moreover the startling discovery, which emerged during negotiations for the
purchase of two buildings in Strasbourg, is likely to intensify the debate over
the future of the European Parliament's "travelling circus". Under a deal agreed
by EU leaders in 1992, the Parliament moves from its Brussels home to Strasbourg
for roughly one week in four.

Currently the Strasbourg buildings are owned by a Dutch property fund called
SCI-Erasme and are let to the City of Strasbourg, which in turn sublets them to
the Parliament. In exchange for selling the buildings - named after Winston
Churchill and Salvador de Madariaga - the City of Strasbourg has demanded
EUR29m, which it describes as compensation for surrendering a lease due to run
to 2047.

While probing the reason for this demand, MEPs discovered that the City of
Strasbourg is pocketing money from the taxpayer. A private document circulated
to the parliament's budgets committee says that "the rent paid by the City to
SCI-Erasme is considerably less than the EUR10m a year that the Parliament pays
to the City".

Jan Mulder, a Dutch Liberal and vice-president of the parliament's budgets
committee, said he was "very surprised" to make the discovery that cash is being
withheld, adding that "it could have been happening for the last 25 year s".

He added: "We have asked the City of Strasbourg [to explain]. They have not been
forthcoming. They have more or less said 'mind your own business'". One
explanation, that the payments were to cover construction near the parliament
including roadworks, was not supported by any evidence, Mr Mulder added.

An alternative reason for the payment might be that it represents an insurance
premium against the possibility that the European Parliament may quit its
Strasbourg site, leaving the building empty. But, under an agreement written
into an EU treaty, MEPs are obliged to spend one week in four in the city, and
that can only be changed with the approval of all EU governments, giving France
a veto against such a move.

Last night a joint declaration from the parliament's Committee on Budgetary
Control and its Committee on Budgets demanded from the City "access to all
financial and other documents" concerning the two buildings and the relationship
with SCI-Erasme.

It warned: "Failure to comply with this request within an appropriate time scale
would lead to the European Parliament lodging a complaint with the European
Anti-Fraud Office."

Jeffrey Titford, UK Independence Party member of the European Parliament's
Budgetary Control Committee, said: "We need to know why the matter only came to
light because of rev-elations in a French local newspaper. Why didn't the
parliament's own internal procedures expose the appalling manner in which the
tenancy agreements had been handled? This could potentially be one of the worst
examples of euro corruption yet seen."

Chris Heaton-Harris, Conservative member of the committee, said: "It is clear
that the City of Strasbourg has been pulling the wool over our eyes for years
and have siphoned of millions of EU taxpayers money. It's farcical that we have
to be uprooted once a month anyway for a four-day session that can easily be
accommodated in Brussels, but we have to go as its written into the founding
treaties. Now to find out that we have been swindled by the city in the process
is the final straw."

Terry Wynn, Labour spokesman on budgets, said that while he would await all the
evidence, "at first glance it looks pretty bad".

The City of Strasbourg did not provide a response when contacted last night.

'The City of Strasbourg has been pulling the wool over our eyes for years'

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           April 26, 2006, Wednesday

Null and void

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 59 words


Sir, The situation described by Samantha Hamilton (letter, April 25), where she
has the choice of three Labour, two BNP and one UKIP candidate in the
forthcoming local election, seems to me to be an ideal case for the option to
vote "none of the above". When are we going to be given that option on the
ballot paper?

STEVE WEBB, Barrow on Trent, Derbyshire

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday

When a vote for 'any other party' can be tactically harmful

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 30 words


SIR - Mr Cameron urges people to vote for any party except the BNP. Does that
include UKIP? And is he making a pitch for the fruitcake vote?

Ralph Berry

Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwicks

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 25, 2006, Tuesday

Tories spent £ 1.5m on leaflets targeting immigration issue

BYLINE: Sam Coates, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 488 words


THE Conservatives virtually abandoned attempts to attract votes from young
professionals at the last election, concentrating instead on crime and
immigration campaigns to capture core voters.

The first breakdown of party spending during election campaigns has revealed a
huge discrepancy over who the Conservatives attempted to target.

The advertising budget for the party came to approximately £ 8 million of the £
17.8 million total, with more than half of this going on unsolicited mail shots
to floating voters.

Invoices reveal that the party spent £ 1.5 million on immigration leaflets and £
523,000 on crime, with a further £ 7,000 on targeting UK Independence Party
supporters. The "Are you thinking what we are thinking?"

campaign, which led to claims of racism, cost £ 120,000.

While Labour fought the election on the public services, the Tories' combined
spending on health and education was £ 1.5 million.

This suggests that the Tories gave up on attracting voters in the centre ground.

This was reinforced last night when it emerged that they spent £ 380,000 on a
mailshot for pensioners, but a sixth of this -£ 49,000 -on targeting "urban
young professionals".

Much of this was the work of their Australian election guru Lynton Crosby, who
earned £ 441,000 in the campaign. He was blamed for the Tories' negative
campaigning. One of the biggest mailshots was an apparent appeal for money,
marked "postal vote / financial appeal", which cost £ 1.2 million.

Labour's campaign involved attracting upmarket film production companies to
produce party political broadcasts. The party spent £ 131,600 on six broadcasts.

Labour employed the Picture Production Company to buy "AOL Spots", spending £
9,000 on advertising space on the online service. The party also spent £ 2,000
to use six Press Association photographs on its website, all of which were more
easily available.

The Tories invested heavily in data from a Californian company, Cause-America
Branding in Brea, to provide them with a million e-mail addresses in marginal
constituencies.

Some donors to the Tory party may be unhappy that their funds were used to pay
for a libel action against a Labour MP. The party had to come up with £ 40,000
after Martin Salter, the Reading West Labour MP, successfully sued Liam Fox,
then Tory chairman, over remarks regarding his behaviour towards journalists.

An ICM poll for today's Guardian puts the Tories on 34 per cent, Labour on 32
per cent, and the Lib Dems on 24 per cent.

LITTLE LUXURIES

Michael Howard's make-up during the election by Carolyne Martini cost £ 3,638.35

Alastair Campbell billed Labour for £ 47,000 for four months' work

Charles Kennedy charged £ 4,800 for six bespoke suits and £ 355 for six shirts

Producing 5,000 hand flags for the Tories cost the party £ 1,715.50

Tony Blair billed the Labour Party £ 53.46 for his car to take him to Buckingham
Palace to call the election. The bill included two hours' waiting time

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 25, 2006, Tuesday

Sir Patrick Moore

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 89 words


An indignant Sir Patrick Moore has written to David Cameron to complain about
his description of UKIP as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists". We've seen
a copy of his letter and it is, for the most part, inherently reasonable stuff.
But, while there is undoubtedly a case to be made that UKIP aren't all as weird
as Cameron has alleged, we do remain unconvinced that Sir Patrick -whose vast,
monocled, disembodied, spluttering cyber-head was absolutely the highlight of
every episode of Gamesmaster -is really the man to make it.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 25, 2006, Tuesday

No way out?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 78 words


Sir, I have just received my ballot paper for the local election on May 4.

I have the choice of six candidates -three Labour, two BNP and one UKIP.

This means that Margaret Hodge's comments may be accurate. The only alternatives
to the Labour Party in my ward are parties on the far right of the political
spectrum. For those not wishing to vote Labour or for the far Right, the only
other option is to abstain or spoil the ballot paper.

SAMANTHA HAMILTON, Dagenham, Essex

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

If councils had real power, people wouldn't dream of voting BNP

BYLINE: Danny Kruger

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1056 words


A blind man in a dark room, looking for a black hat that isn't there - the
classic description of metaphysics applies just as well to British local
politics. Next Thursday there will be local elections. As our poll today shows,
sizeable minorities will vote, loyally but without enthusiasm, for their ancient
allegiances, Tory or Labour. But most will register their vote as a protest,
with various degrees of fury: Liberal Democrat, Ukip, BNP, or none of the above.
As usual, the local elections will be won by the Abstention Party.

The black hat that isn't there is power. Simon Heffer, in these pages on
Saturday, pointed out that the local Conservative campaign for "better
composting'' will hardly send voters rushing to the polling station. But the
fact is that waste disposal is about the only thing in which the council has a
free hand. If candidates offered policies on the issues people really care about
- more money for schools, say, or more police, or a new hospital, or increases
in benefits, or more housing, or the opposite of these policies - they would be
lying. Councillors have only the most tenuous influence on education, policing,
healthcare, welfare and housing. All politicians are the same? Of course they
are, because they don't have the power to be different.

"We are hypothermic: Britain is dying at the extremities because the blood of
power is diverted to the core. The heart - if government can be represented as
such - fails to pump it out again, but merely engorges and deforms itself.''
Libby Purves, writing in The Times last year, put it perfectly. Like an old, fat
cardiopath, bloated on carbohydrates and cigarettes, Britain wheezes on, through
elections and budget rounds, comprehensive spending reviews and tax rebanding.
We are the unhealthiest - because we are the most centralised - democracy in the
developed world.

The growing support for the BNP represents not (or not mostly) an emerging
racism, but the angry expression of voters' accurate perception that no one is
listening to them. Abstaining is like a teenager wearing the black clothes of a
Goth; voting BNP is like her cutting her arms. Both are cries for rightful
attention.

Everyone talks about "localism'' these days. Last year this newspaper serialised
a book called Direct Democracy: an Agenda for a New Model Party, which
encouraged the Conservatives to champion local empowerment. It was widely
approved: David Cameron, in particular, has pledged to restore local control
over local policy. But neither he, nor any mainstream politician, has got to
grips with the issue that lies behind all this: money.

British councils raise only a quarter of their cash from local taxpayers: the
rest comes in central grants, doled out according to Whitehall's assessment of
local spending needs. It is this that explains the tight grip exerted over
schools, hospitals, benefit agencies and the rest. Gordon Brown pays the piper.

It also explains our dismal local turnout. In France and Germany, councils raise
two-thirds of their finance locally; voter turnout in local elections is around
two-thirds. In Britain, where councils raise only a quarter of their own
finance, turnout is... a quarter. And why not? The funding system means that
councillors owe only a quarter of their loyalty to local people.

The system does not just erode accountability. It promotes Left-wing policy,
ratcheting up council tax with the excuse that local authorities have to meet
imperatives imposed on them from above. It promotes second-rate councillors (for
who would want to be in charge of waste disposal?) and, of course, this
justifies further central intervention. It also rewards inefficiency: councils
that overspend don't get turfed out by the voters, but get given bigger grants
from Whitehall.

How do we move towards the system common throughout the developed world, of
councils raising the majority of their money locally? Ultimately, there are
three ways you can tax wealth. You can tax it as it is acquired, as it is
invested, or as it is spent. At the national level, we do all three - income and
capital gains tax on earnings, all sorts of taxes on investments, pensions and
property, and VAT on retail. In a local context, things are necessarily simpler.
You can tax income, houses or sales.

The first option was adopted, briefly, by Margaret Thatcher and (albeit in a
different form) is preferred by the Liberal Democrats today. The poll tax was a
flat levy on individuals, irrespective of wealth; for this reason it was felt to
be unfair on the poor. The Lib Dems' Local Income Tax merely makes the poll tax
more progressive, by taxing a proportion of every individual's wealth. The
problem is that it is a tax on work, and would be a bureaucratic nightmare to
implement.

The second option, a tax on houses, is the current one. If the local income tax
is a tax on work, council tax is a tax on the workless. Pensioners living in
large houses but on fixed incomes are penalised most. The unique inequity of
council tax is evident in the fact that the valuations on which it is based have
not been updated for 14 years. Quadrupling council tax to make localities
self-funding would be horrendously unfair.

And so we come to the third option, tax on sales. Here there is a fact of pure
serendipity: the Government raises from VAT almost the exact sum - around pounds
80 billion - that it passes on to local councils in grants.

So the solution is obvious. Give councils the power to set VAT locally and to
collect the receipts. Or rather (and this is the bright idea of Douglas Carswell
MP), abolish VAT and replace it with a local sales tax (LST) - far easier and
cheaper to administer than a tax on "added value''. It would be a flat tax and a
fair one, for those with the largest disposable incomes would pay the most.

LST would be set initially at 17.5 per cent - the VAT rate - but thereafter at
councillors' discretion. Councils could raise the remaining quarter of their
finance as currently with council tax, or with an income tax, or a poll tax, or
- best of all - not at all. Tax competition would act as a downward pressure on
rates, leading to a virtuous cycle of improved efficiency and tax cuts. Rich
areas would help support poor ones with a cross-subsidy formula, but the link
between taxation, spending and representation would be restored.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

Will the Tories prove to be credible contenders? Robert Waller analyses the
likely gains and losses in the upcoming town hall elections

BYLINE: Robert Waller

SECTION: NEWS; MAY 4 LOCAL ELECTIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1722 words


ALTHOUGH they are important in themselves, the annual local elections are always
analysed to see what can be said about the national standings of the parties.

The contests on May 4 are significant in that two of the major parties have new
leaders, while the other is on his way out. It will also be fascinating to see
whether the trend for voters to declare "a plague on all their houses''
continues, in the shape of the impact of the BNP, Greens, Ukip, Respect and
other minor parties.

In London, all 32 boroughs will have all-out council elections, which make
changes of control more likely. These wards were last fought in 2002, when
Labour's share of the vote in London almost exactly matched that of the
Conservatives, at 34 per cent, with the Liberal Democrats achieving just over 20
per cent. In last year's general election Labour polled seven per cent more than
the Tories, with the Liberal Democrats on 21 per cent. Significant Labour losses
in London will therefore suggest that they have slumped dramatically in the last
year.

Outside London there is a different pattern of contest, with only a third of
seats up for election in those councils which do have elections, mainly in the
metropolitan areas such as Greater Manchester and the West Midlands. These wards
were all last fought in May 2004.

David Cameron's "modern and liberal'' leadership will clearly be assessed in the
light of the Conservative performance. Prospects of gaining councils are
relatively limited in the areas last contested in 2004, when the Tories' showing
was equivalent to a national share of around 37 per cent. Therefore any gains at
all would suggest that Cameron's party is now running at 38 per cent or more, a
fair target, or even 40 per cent - which may indicate that the Tories are on
track to form a government in 2009.

Among the few realistic chances of gaining control in town halls outside London
are Crawley (directly from Labour) and Coventry (taking an overall majority),
while the Tories might deprive Labour of overall control in Bury.

In London, however, the Conservatives have better prospects. In 2002 they won an
overall majority in only eight of the 32 boroughs. This time they are almost
certain to take Bexley, Hammersmith and Fulham, and Croydon from Labour. They
must also have a good chance of adding Merton, along with taking overall
majorities in Hillingdon and Harrow.

Overall, for the Tories, a net gain of 100 council seats across the country
would be disappointing, anything over 300 very good progress, and 500-plus would
raise hopes of an overall majority in the next general election. However, to
re-establish themselves as a truly national force, the Conservatives would need
to gain seats in cities where they currently have no councillors at all: a
challenging list, which includes Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle upon Tyne.
This seems highly unlikely.

For Labour, we can more or less reverse the figures: 100 councillor losses would
be a very tolerable outcome, but many over 300 might sharpen demands for Tony
Blair to "consider his position''.

As well as those already mentioned as Tory targets, Labour seem almost certain
to lose ground to Tories and Lib Dems in Camden and Brent, while Tower Hamlets
and Waltham Forest are likely to end up in no overall control. Labour are
counter-attacking against the Lib Dems in Southwark and Lambeth, but it will
come as no surprise if they fail to gain any councils at all on May 4.

Outside London they may lose control of Bury, Crawley, Derby, Warrington and
even Wigan. In national vote share Labour may plummet to around 25 per cent of
the vote, and third place behind the Lib Dems.

The Lib Dems always perform stronger in council elections rather than
parliamentary elections. This year should be no exception, for they have been
consistently achieving close to 30 per cent in recent local government
by-elections.

In London they already control three councils outright and are in minority
administrations in two others (Lambeth and Southwark). They also have chances of
further gains in Richmond against the Conservatives and in Haringey against
Labour. Outside London, the Liberal Democrats should also build on general
election success to take overall control of Rochdale, and move Solihull from
Conservative to no overall control.

Smaller parties may provide some of the stories of the night. In addition to
Respect taking its first council seats in Tower Hamlets (and possibly one or two
in Newham and Birmingham), the Greens, with 1,300 candidates, may gain in London
boroughs such as Lambeth and Hackney. Ukip are unlikely to take any seats, but
the performance of the BNP will be closely monitored.

Overall, given that May 4 will not see a turnout even of recent general election
level, Labour is likely to suffer from a poor set of results, and may lose
control of half their councils in London and more besides, adding to the
pressure on the Prime Minister.

The Lib Dems will perform stronger than in the general election (as usual), and
may finish second in national vote share, reinforcing optimism under Sir Menzies
Campbell.

The biggest question is whether the Conservatives can gain enough seats and
councils to look as if they are once more credible contenders for national
government.

Dr Robert Waller is the co-author of the eighth edition of the Almanac of
British Politics, which will be published by Routledge this year

What's at stake

WHEN?

Thursday, May 4. Polls open 7am and close at 10pm.

WHERE?

36 metropolitan councils (one third of the seats).

88 shire districts (one third or half the council).

20 unitary councils.

32 London boroughs.

4 mayors.

SEATS AVAILABLE

Overall: 4,360.

In the mets: 825: of which Labour is defending 401, Lib Dems 194, Tories 182 and
other parties and independents 48.

In the shires: 1,371: Tories defend 582, Labour 372, Lib Dems 318 and others 99.

In the 20 unitary authorities: 360: Labour defends 145, Tories 104, Lib Dems 83
and others 28.

In London: 1,861: Labour defends 849, Tories 640, Liberal Democrats 313 and
others 59.

CANDIDATES

In the mets: Labour 821, Tories 772, Lib Dems 708, others 875.

In the shires: Tories 1,326, Labour 1,172, Lib Dems 1,052, others 782.

In the unitaries: Labour 349, Tories 330, Lib Dems 295, others 302.

In London: Labour 1,827, Tories 1,812, Lib Dems 1,540, 1,240 others.

Among the "other'' candidates are 1,251 from the Green Party, 363 from the BNP,
319 from Ukip and 162 from Respect - the Unity Coalition.

Projected national share of vote 2002: Tories 34%, Labour 33% Lib Dems 27%,
others 6%.

Tower Hamlets

In Tower Hamlets, the loss of Oona King's Bethnal Green and Bow seat to George
Galloway last year suggests that Respect could gain at least nine councillors in
predominantly Muslim areas, and perhaps even the ward of Shadwell, solidly
Labour since 1919. With the Lib Dems strong in the north, and the Conservatives
likely to take all six councillors for the Isle of Dogs, Labour will lose this
borough.

Richmond upon Thames

The Lib Dems may regain Richmond, which was lost to the Tories in 2002, mainly
on the grounds of "time for a change'' and council tax; but the Tories have not
cut council tax and both parliamentary seats were easily held by the Lib Dems in
2005.

Haringey

In Haringey, the Lib Dems will do very well against Labour in the south of the
borough but are less likely to make the inroads in Tottenham needed to oust
Labour from control. The council could end up divided on north-south grounds,
with 30 Labour, 27 Lib Dems - and no others.

Barking and Dagenham

The BNP are presenting the major opposition to Labour this year as neither the
Tories nor the Lib Dems are entering a full slate of candidates, and they could
take at least one councillor in each of four wards (Goresbrook, Mayesbrook,
Parsloes and Vallance) at the heart of the still nearly all-white Becontree
estate.

Birmingham

The country's largest local authority is keenly contested - too keenly in 2004,
when some Labour candidates were disqualified for postal vote fraud. Can Labour
remain the largest party in the face of challenges from Tories, Respect and the
Lib Dems, who have been joined by the Kashmiri People's Justice Party?

Hartlepool

Hartlepool is Ukip's best chance of gaining councillors. In 2004 they narrowly
failed to catch Labour in several wards. This time there are only six Tory
candidates compared with 10 for Ukip. Labour had an overall majority of only
three in 2004. However, as far as true control goes, it doesn't matter -
Hartlepool has an elected mayor who holds most of the local power. He is
Hartlepool United's mascot, Stuart Drummond, an Independent better known as
H'Angus the Monkey, who will retain control.

Bristol

The Lib Dems seized Bristol West in last year's general election and now hope to
take the metropolis of the West Country at local government level. They need
four gains; they may well get just three, in Windmill Hill, Kingsweston, and
Whitchurch Park wards.

Derby

Labour took control in 2004, then depended on a solitary Ukip councillor after
defections. They recovered a majority of one in a by-election. Although they
held Derbyshire county council in 2005, Labour are likely to lose control this
time.

Wigan

George Orwell (The Road to Wigan Pier) must be spinning in his grave at the
prospect of Labour losing control of this stronghold. They had a combined
majority of 47,000 in the three Wigan seats in last year's general election.
However, the Community Action group held their deposits in two of them, and seem
set to join a motley crew of opponents who will deprive Labour of their overall
majority here.

Gosport

Look out for one of the rare Tory losses. They have an overall majority of two,
but this is only because three of their councillors defected from the Lib Dems -
and in two wards the Tories now have to defend their seats against the party for
which they were originally elected.

Harrow

On the face of it, an easy gain for the Tories, as they have to gain only two
wards to seize control. However, things are complicated by the re-emergence of
the Lib Dems.

Brent

Labour hold Brent, but they won't after May 4. They are faced with a squeeze as
the Lib Dems build on Sarah Teather's parliamentary success in Brent East, while
the Tories regain ground in the Asian north. It is clear there will be a hung
council, but unclear who will be the largest party.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

So who's the loony?

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 203 words


SOME policy comparisons: Tory - Spend Pounds 21million per day on Europe.

UKIP - Spend this on hospital equipment.

Tory - Close hospital beds and even complete hospitals.

UKIP - Write off all hospital debts and provide extra staff.

Tory - Build on school playing fields.

UKIP - Ensure all schools have playing facilities.

Tory - Build on Green Belt land.

UKIP - Preserve Green Belt land.

Tory - Prohibit free speech.

UKIP - Encourage free speech.

Tory - Allow unscreened immigration.

UKIP - Strict controls of immigration.

Tory - Do not allow citizens to defend themselves against attack.

UKIP - Allow citizens to defend themselves against attack.

Tory - Allow police to concentrate on motorists rather than muggers, burglars
and vandals.

UKIP - Put police back on the beat, and have zero tolerance regarding burglars
and the like.

Tory - Short prison sentences for violent criminals.

UKIP - Long prison sentences for violent criminals.

Tory - Allow EU fishermen to fish in our waters.

UKIP - Restore British control of our waters.

Tory - Allow Brussels to overrule the laws of our Parliament.

UKIP - Maintain our sovereignty in all ways.

So please, Mr Cameron, which is the party of fruitcakes and loonies?

Sir PATRICK MOORE, Selsey, Sussex.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

We want an honours system all of our own, say EU leaders

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 456 words


EUROPEAN leaders are drawing up plans to create an EU honours system, it emerged
yesterday.

Brussels politicians want to hand out medals and titles on a similar basis to
the British system.

German MEPs first raised the idea of a EU-wide award in January.

They wanted a 'European medal of honour' to reward firefighters who helped
tackle forest fires in Portugal last year.

Politicians who sit on the Conference of Presidents, which includes the
president of the European Parliament and chairmen of political groups, have
taken up the suggestion.

They are understood to want a system that honours people who have made
'outstanding contributions to society'.

If the system is approved, it could be introduced in 18 months.

One insider said: 'We now have a European flag and a European anthem, so it
naturally follows we should have a European honours system.

'But given what has been happening in Britain we intend to ensure these honours
are awarded on merit and not for money,' he said, referring to the
cash-for-peerages allegations. 'We won't be selling them.' However, critics fear
the system will reward eurocrats and politicians rather than genuinely brave and
deserving individuals.

Tony Blair, the French president Jacques Chirac and former European president
Jacques Delors are already believed to be in the running as the first recipients
of the new honour.

Bestowing an honour on Jacques Delors would cause outrage among opponents of the
push towards an EU superstate.

He is considered by many to be the father of European federalism.

Awarding Mr Chirac with a European 'peerage' would be likely to be just as
objectionable among opponents of his drive towards greater integration within
the EU.

Along with the previous German government, Mr Chirac has championed the idea of
a 'two-speed' Europe in which some member states would press on with greater
harmonisation of laws.

It has not yet been decided what term would be used for the European honours.

In Britain, male recipients are given titles such as 'Sir' and 'Lord', and a
woman can become a 'Dame'. In France individuals receive the title 'Chevalier'.

UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage said: 'I thought it would be impossible to design an
honours system more full of nepotism than that in Britain, but the EU are
managing it.' Tory MEP Chris Eaton-Harris said last night: 'This does not
surprise me one bit.

'I am very happy with the way the honours system works in the UK.

'But I see absolutely no point in having an honours system in the EU apart from
to glorify people who are out of touch with ordinary people.' A spokesman for
the European Commission said: 'This is happening in the European Parliament.

'The Commission has no honours system and never will have one.'

k.walker@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             April 24, 2006, Monday

Yobs, watch out, Mums' Army is on the warpath

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 767 words


Tony Blair has carefully courted the four million readers of Take a Break,
Britain's bestselling women's weekly.

Its readers, mostly 25 to 55-year-old mothers managing modest household budgets,
are precisely the sort of women swing voters Labour needs to stay in power.

So it must have come as something of a disappointment when the magazine launched
its own political party, Mums' Army, to challenge Labour in next month's local
elections.

A record 500 independent candidates are standing this year, many for the first
time, challenging Labour seats in its traditional strongholds.

To make matters worse, the Mums' Army platform is the very one Mr Blair has
chosen for Labour's campaign: tackling endemic antisocial behaviour that blights
communities.

Anger among readers that government initiatives -curfews, antisocial behaviour
orders and the rest -had done nothing to get rid of the yobs in their
neighbourhood prompted John Dale, the magazine's editor, to create the party and
back three mothers to stand as councillors on May 4.

One of them, Linda Martin, 56, is furious that parts of her suburban
neighbourhood have been taken over by gangs of teenagers who congregate outside
chip shops and convenience stores after dark. She is standing in West Shoebury
for a seat on Southend-on-Sea Borough Council.

Driving round Shoeburyness, where she has lived for 20 years, she says she is
incensed at what is being allowed to happen on the streets of the otherwise
quiet, neat Essex town.

"No one dares come here at night," she says, driving down West Road, a busy row
of shops by day and a no-go area for most residents by night.

The boarded-up post office is the chosen spot for the gangs, whose numbers swell
at weekends and during school holidays, when they drink, smoke and harass
passers-by.

"I would love to meet Tony Blair to tell him what I think. The problem with him
is he doesn't have to live in the real world. He and his family are completely
cosseted in Downing Street and ferried around everywhere. He has no idea what it
is like trying to bring up children in neighbourhoods like this," she said.

Ms Martin is aware of the Government's much-vaunted "Respect Agenda" but
believes that the Prime Minister is more talk than action. "If Tony Blair could
actually do what he promised he could stay in power for ever. But he tries one
thing and it doesn't work, so he leaves it and tries something else. He will not
do what it takes to make the streets safe."

This is her first foray into politics. But the former model and mother of three
has years of experience in the community to draw on as she prepares to pound the
pavements with her younger daughter Lindi, 19.

Ms Martin worked as a classroom assistant before ill-health forced her to retire
last year, and still serves as a Victim Support volunteer. But it was events
much closer to home that drove her to do something.

Her elder daughter, Maryanne, 36, who has Down's syndrome, was attacked by a
gang of youths near her home, who threw stones and yelled abuse at her and her
fiance, Tommy, who also has Down's.

The attack triggered a breakdown that took Maryanne months to recover from and
robbed the couple, now married, of the little independence they had.

More recently her son, Rhys, 26, had his nose and several ribs broken in a
"happy-slapping" attack. When friends and neighbours tried to comfort her by
saying it could have been worse, she flipped.

"People were saying to me I should be thankful he wasn't stabbed. That summed up
to me how complacent we've become. What sort of society are we where we should
be grateful a son is just beaten up?"

She blames a lack of deterrents and a culture that rewards bad behaviour. "Kids
don't know what is expected of them. I've seen it in the school I worked in.
Five and six-year-olds who get on with their work don't get noticed in the
classroom.

The people who get the attention are the ones misbehaving," she says.

This week she and her daughter Lindi will attempt to deliver 5,000 leaflets in
the West Shoebury ward, which is held by another independent, Verina Weaver, of
the Southend Alliance. If she wins, she sees her role as a campaigning one,
relentlessly highlighting the issue of yobbish behaviour.

If she loses, the fight goes on. "This movement is going to get bigger and
bigger.

If I don't win I'll stand again and so will many others. We're not going to let
this go."

MAKING A STAND

500 Independent candidates standing

2,000 Independent councillors already elected

12 English districts controlled by Independents

1,251 Green candidates

363 BNP candidates

319 UKIP candidates

162 Respect candidates

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

COMMENT & DEBATE: Sound the alarm! Man the barricades! The BNP is coming (and
it's all Tony's fault)

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1143 words


Sound the alarm! Ring that old liberal tocsin! The British National Party is
coming! And - guess what? - it is all Tony Blair's fault. He has abandoned the
Labour Party's working-class base for the fickle swingers of Middle (class)
England. What, therefore, could be more logical for the most disadvantaged white
parts of the working class, their patience exhausted, than to turn to the one
form of protest voting that will put the wind up their bleeding-heart do-gooding
masters? It is a knee-jerk thesis eagerly adopted by Blair-bashers. There are
many Labour people who think that the party's focus on centre-ground politics
has freed the white working class to flirt dangerously with racism. Their
analysis is wrong. Labour is, in fact, the party that takes the interests of the
working class more seriously than any other - and Labour voters remain the least
likely to defect to the BNP. Let us pause, first, to deconstruct the latest
panic over the electoral rise of the far right, one of many convulsions over the
years. This one was started by Margaret Hodge, the Work and Pensions minister
and MP for the outer east London seat of Barking, where the BNP won 17 per cent
of the vote in last year's general election. She said that most of the people in
her constituency whom she canvassed for next month's local elections told her
that they would consider voting BNP this time.

Why would she give Labour's opponents the benefit of such free publicity?
Because, one suspects, she was embarrassed by the BNP's success last year. There
were mutterings at Labour headquarters that the local MP should bear some
responsibility. The Guardian quoted "one senior Labour figure" as saying: "It is
a question of leadership. They have to take the fight to their opponent." Well,
Hodge reads The Guardian and her response can be understood if not perhaps
condoned. She launched a preemptive strike to prevent unnamed party "figures"
from saying, on 5 May, that disastrous BNP gains in Barking were all her fault
for being so passively complacent. Instead, she will be on television saying: "I
tried to warn you."

The second part of the de-construction is to point out that the BNP tends to
steal votes not from Labour but from the Conservatives. Friday's YouGov poll
suggested that aweek's free publicity had lifted the BNP's rating from 0.4 per
cent last month to 7 per cent. This gain came more at the expense of the
Conservatives, down three points, than Labour or the Liberal Democrats, down one
point each.

These are not, then, natural Labour working-class voters, but rather the
naturally Tory working class. Psephologically, the BNP is the blue-collar wing
of the same tendency as the UK Independence Party. It is unfair, of course, to
bracket UKIP with the BNP: UKIP is more plausible in its rejection of racism,
but both parties are fishing for the same right-wing voters who, if they vote
for a mainstream party at all, tend to vote Tory. Perhaps Hodge was not merely
engaged in self-defence, but in a stealthy attack. By raising the BNP's profile,
Labour might siphon off votes from David Cameron's resurgent Conservatives.

But let no one accuse Labour of mere negativism. After the synthetic fuss over
the party's "Dave the Chameleon" broadcast, one of the least personal and
lightest-hearted attacks in the history of political advertising, it is only
fair to point out that New Labour has positive policies too for holding on to
its working-class support. Currently, they are embodied in the substantial and
reassuring form of Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary.

Paradoxically, these policies are often condemned by the same people who lament
Labour's abandoning of the working class. New Labour is often criticised as
illiberal or accused of pandering to the baser instincts of the electorate (code
for the views of the white working class on immigration, violent crime and
anti-social behaviour). Yet much of this criticism seems confused. The
suggestion, for example, that the parole system is working well because "only"
100 serious offences are committed each year by criminals on early release is
hard to sustain. The Home Secretary was surely only doing his job last week when
he sought to tighten the rules on the supervision of offenders.

The middle classes are just as capable of being fearful of crime as the working
classes, but it was one of Tony Blair's New Labour insights that working-class
people suffer disproportionately from crime, and that being "tough on crime" was
an issue for the party's core voters.

But the real problem with this Government is that it has not been New Labour
enough. Another of Blair's insights was that it had to match rights and
responsibilities. It has made a start, with difficult and slow-acting incentives
for people to work rather than stay on benefit. But there are big issues that
remain.

A major cause of working-class resentment of immigration is the system for
allocating social housing. In a book called The New East End, Geoff Dench and
Kate Gavron revisit the territory of Michael Young's historic study, Family and
Kinship in East London. They discover that the white working-class resentment of
immigrants who are given council houses by simple measurement of "need" is
sharedby older immigrants who feel that they have contributed to their host
society, unlike newer arrivals who are given priority.

The problem of assessing need without reference to responsibility has been taken
up by Labour backbenchers of varying ideological sub-stripe, from John Den-ham
to Frank Field. As Field pointed out last week, the alienation of working-class
voters in areas of high state dependency is not really about race. In some of
the places where asylum-seekers or immigrants are most resented there are hardly
any of either. In others, such as his own Birken-head constituency, Field says
the sense of unfairness "centres on the advantage that single parents or the
homeless have in sweeping the weekly housing jackpots".

The principles apply to all forms of dependency on the state, whether for homes
or cash. In Barking, 15 per cent of the working age population is on benefit.
The BNP flourishes where dependency culture is strongest, pounds because those
are the areas where the sense that some people are getting something for nothing
is most poisonously strong.

The electoral threat from the BNP has been exaggerated. Not Q that any
right-thinking person can feel comfortable at the prospect of the party winning
any seats on local councils. But the lesson is not necessarily what many
supposedly right-thinking people think. It is not enough simply to build more
social housing, but to rebuild local societies in which people are confident
that hard work and responsibility will be rewarded.

The alienation of working-class voters is not really about race

The BNP flourishes where dependency culture is strong

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday

BNP, not UKIP, is protest vote;
Letters

SECTION: HI; Pg. 84

LENGTH: 198 words


Correspondent Richard Reeves is spot on with his diagnosis of the acute
disillusionment felt by Tory and Labour voters alike over the palpable
misgovernment of this country.

Where he errs is in saying UKIP is 'the only alternative'.

Recent council by-elections in England have shown the British National Party
placed far ahead of UKIP as the opposition/protest vote.

Alastair Harper Dunfermline

Gordon Brown should be remembered in political history as the 'Robbing Hood' of
Chancellors.

H. Proctor Aberdeenshire

Bulldog pride is costing us dearly

The Government is having to privatise the search and rescue service because of
its lack of foresight in giving the military the aircraft it requires for the
job.

The Eurofighter is an expensive luxury and was ordered when proven US jets could
have done the job for a fraction of the cost.

Likewise the Merlin helicopter.

Defence ministers have consistently failed to provide the RAF and Navy with a
medium-lift helicopter capable of troop transport and search and rescue.

The American Black Hawk was the answer. But bulldog pride got in the way of
sense and we are losing one of our most historic military capabilities because
of it.

John Stevenson Aberdeen

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 134 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 23, 2006, Sunday

SIR TONY? EUR 'AVING A LAUGH..;
 BLAIR SET FOR TITLE AS 'CASH FOR PEERAGES' ROW RAGES

BYLINE: BY NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 271 words


THE Prime Minister is set to become SIR Tony Blair in a new EU honours system.

But that could be a major embarrassment as Labour's "loans for peerages" row
rumbles on.

Mr Blair will get the title under the planned Grand Knight of Europe honours
system - for people who've made "outstanding contributions to society".

It will mean Mr Blair can call himself Chevalier when in France and Sir Tony at
home. UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage fumed: "I thought it would be impossible to
design an honours system more full of nepotism than that in Britain but the EU
are managing it."

Mr Blair will only get the award when he leaves Number10.

Also up for a title is French President Jacques Chirac, after he retires next
year, and former European President Jacques Delors.

A Brussels Eurocrat enthused: "We now have a European flag and a European
anthem, so it naturally follows we should have a European honours system.

"But given what has been happening in Britain we intend to ensure these honours
are awarded on merit and not for money. We won't be selling them."

The final details will be thrashed out this week by a panel made up of
representatives from all the major European political groups.

The original idea for a European award to span the 25 EU member states came from
Germany to reward its firefighters who tackled forest fires in Portugal last
year.

Meanwhile Scotland Yard is investigating claims that businessmen were awarded
titles in return for loans to Labour.

It has led to the arrest of headmaster Des Smith, a former adviser on city
academies.

nigel.nelson@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                              26 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blooming sense of vilification;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 201  words


POOR misunderstood Godfrey Bloom - vilified just for declaring that prostitutes,
far from being exploited, actually enjoy their work. The Yorkshire Ukip MEP
provoked a political brouhaha when he confessed to visiting knocking shops as a
Hong Kong-based businessman and insisted that in the "flesh trade" most girls
"do it because they want to".

His comments, made in the Brussels-based satirical magazine The Sprout, prompted
Labour Yorkshire MEP Linda McAvan to splutter that Bloom was not fit for office.
But the outspoken Bloom insists the backlash was a fuss over nothing. Writing in
the latest issue of The Sprout, Bloom maintains his was a serious article about
proposals in Brussels to "phase out" prostitution.

He could not understand why politicians and the press turned on him for
"visiting a nookie factory in my distant past".

"Doncha just love fake outrage from political opponents?" he asks. Almost as
much as we love feigned slights, Godfrey.

Bloom was the man who declared that women did not clean behind the fridge enough
and that "no small businessman with a brain would employ a woman of
child-bearing age".

Bloom sits on the European Parliament's Women's Rights and Gender Equality
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Alert over BNP threat to take 'protest' vote

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 38

LENGTH: 563  words


POLITICIANS underestimate the far-Right British National Party at their peril,
an anti-racist campaigner has warned.

The comments by Nick Lowles follow attempts by senior Labour figures to play
down the threat posed by the BNP at the May 4 local elections, despite evidence
in opinion polls of a rise in support.

The social policy think-tank the Joseph Rowntree Trust published a survey which
suggested one in four people "might" vote for the BNP.

Employment Minister Margaret Hodge last week warned that eight out of 10 voters
in her constituency of Barking in east London were thinking of voting for the
BNP.

Home Secretary Charles Clarke insisted that she had overstated the threat, but
said polls should be seen as a wake-up call to mainstream parties.

But Mr Lowles, editor of the anti-fascist magazine Searchlight, warned that
"political parties must not underestimate the BNP's credibility".

The party has put forward a record 356 candidates and aims to add 40 local
council seats across the country to the 15 it already holds.

At the 2005 general election it polled just 4.3 per cent of the vote across 116
constituencies, but recent polls suggest that support has grown to seven per
cent.

The BNP is now threatening to become the home of protest voting, squeezing out
the Liberal Democrats and the UK Independence Party.

Disgruntled Conservative voters could also take flight, with polls suggesting a
three per cent fall in Tory support.

Mr Lowles warned in an article that the party was better organised than ever
before and using the sort of campaigning already harnessed by the mainstream
parties to swing key marginals.

He reported instances of door-todoor and telephone canvassing to pinpoint
potential supporters. Calls are followed up with mailshots that highlight local
issues.

Mr Lowles warned: "Direct mail relies on having the data to target voters, and
few BNP branches have this or appear capable of collecting it in a four-week
campaign.

"However, there is a small but growing number of wards where this is now
possible - principally where the BNP has contested council by-elections and
thrown regional or even national resources at them."

The core of BNP candidates is concentrated in Essex, West Yorkshire, east
Lancashire and the West Midlands.

Key targets for canvassing include Thurrock, Barking, Dagenham, Epping, Bexley,
Stoke-on-Trent, Dudley, Oldham and Manchester. Burnley, Bradford, Kirklees,
Calderdale and Amber Valley are also listed. Searchlight has put together a
database of 33,000 constituents in 42 target wards it will call on to vote and
keep the BNP out.

Research indicates that the battle for middle-class votes by the Liberal
Democrats, Conservatives and Labour has alienated skilled workingclass voters.

The acquittal of BNP leader Nick Griffin on race hate charges came on the day of
protests in London over cartoons showing the prophet Mohammed. The BNP has been
accused of exploiting Islamophobia through its newspapers. A YouGov poll, which
revealed that seven per cent of those surveyed planned to vote BNP, also showed
a rise in antiMuslim sentiment.

Two-thirds of those thinking of voting BNP backed the view that tougher action
should be taken "against Muslims who want to destroy this country".

Mr Lowles said: "Election techniques are simply a means of selling a message.

"For the BNP in 2006, the message is the danger of Islam in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALLIES: BNP leader Nick Griffin, fourth from left, next to French
National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen during his visit to Britain in 2004

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron won't be a winner if he ignores his core supporters

BYLINE: JIMMY YOUNG

SECTION: COLUMNS; 41

LENGTH: 469  words


YEARS ago Mrs Dale, in the long-running and much-loved radio soap, Mrs Dale's
Diary, would confess that she was awfully worried about Jim. I think, currently,
a lot of Conservatives are awfully worried about Dave.

When he overwhelmingly won the party leadership, David Cameron was widely hailed
as the one man who could save the thoroughly demoralised Conservative party.
However, despite the Government being so deep in sleaze that it makes John
Major's administration look pure as driven snow, there has been no surge in the
Conservative poll ratings to suggest that the country at large, or even many
Tories, now see Cameron in that same heroic light.

It is true that Dave, as he prefers to be known, is in the difficult position of
any opposition leader three or four years before an election. If he reveals his
dynamic electionwinning plans his opponents will steal them and declare that
they thought of them first. On the other hand, if he does nothing his supporters
will grow restless and complain that he is not a very inspiring leader.

All the same, I don't think that heading off to Norway to inspect an iceberg and
commune with nature will be seen as making a dramatic political statement. While
it is true that saving the environment for our successors is very important, it
will not be uppermost in people's minds when they vote at the next election.

They will be much more concerned about the state of the NHS, their pensions
(which have been savaged by Gordon Brown), their jobs, and their standard of
living.

In the contest for the party leadership Conservatives decided to back the soft
appeal of Cameron rather than the tougher approach of David Davis, but many may
now wonder whether they made the right choice.

CAMERON'S view is that, having lost three consecutive elections, the
Conservative Party has to change radically enough to be seen to have changed.
And, up to a point, that is true. By overcoming enormous opposition within his
own party and gutting Old Labour of most of its long-held core beliefs, Tony
Blair turned a squabbling rabble of 18-year losers into a party that has won
three elections in a row. Most of his party hate him - but he wins elections.

Can Dave achieve the same miracle for the Tories? He's courting the green vote
although I doubt if he will persuade many Left-wing green voters to vote
Conservative. And he has already alienated Ukip voters, potential targets for
the Conservatives by - quite unnecessarily in my opinion - calling them
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

If he moves much further to the Left he risks looking like Tony Blair just when
the Blair image is past its sell-by date. If he wants to be a winner Dave must
be careful not to alienate traditional Conservative voters by ditching sound
Tory values in his desperate search for votes elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RATINGS WORRY : Is hero Cameron losing his halo?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday

Rise of the right: Polling: Anti-racists identify 18 battlegrounds

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 345 words


The wards most at risk from the British National party in next month's local
elections were revealed last night amid concern about the scale of the threat
posed by the far-right organisation.

Eighteen "key battlegrounds" have been identified by the anti-racist group
Searchlight following the BNP's biggest electoral push ahead of the May 4
elections. It is understood that senior BNP figures believe the party will
increase its councillors by a third after a campaign which has relied heavily on
whipping up anti-Muslim feeling in towns and cities across the country.

However, anti-racist organisations warn that this could be an underestimate,
claiming their research shows a 5% swing in 40 wards could see the party getting
up to 70 council seats. The BNP has 20 elected councillors and four parish
councillors and is fielding a record 364 candidates.

"The threat is bigger than ever before," said Nick Lowles from Searchlight. "But
the campaign being waged against the BNP is also more sophisticated and targeted
than before so it is difficult to assess exactly what will happen." Over the
past week many commentators have predicted a mini-breakthrough for the BNP.

A poll in yesterday's Daily Telegraph found 7% of voters ready to back the BNP
and last weekend Margaret Hodge, MP for Barking, warned that eight out of 10
white working class voters in her east London constituency had expressed
support.

But last night anti-racist campaigners said predictions of an 11th hour surge of
support for the BNP were wrong. That view was supported by internal Labour Party
polling in east London. "This is undoubtedly the biggest threat we have seen
from the far right, but the BNP got 5% in 2004, and then the far right vote was
split because of Ukip, so it is likely there will be some sort of increase,"
said Mr Lowles.

But the anti-BNP campaign had been more sophisticated, with 33,000 people in 42
high-risk wards identified as willing to vote against it. "We are knocking on
all these doors to ensure they come out to vote," Mr Lowles said.

guardian.co.uk/politics/farright >

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Lies, distortions and the need to avoid panic in the face of the BNP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 635 words


Depressingly, the lies and distortions of the BNP appear to be having an effect
in certain parts of the country. Margaret Hodge, the MP for Barking, was the
first to raise the alarm. She claimed last week that eight out of 10 people she
had canvassed in her constituency are considering voting for the BNP in the
forthcoming local elections. Others have since predicted a similar boost in
support for the BNP in other boroughs around the country.

A simplistic explanation for this development has been offered up by a handful
of politicians and commentators. Citing Barking as a case in point, they claim
that the white working classes have been neglected and that asylum-seekers have
been seen to receive preferential treatment in the provision of services such as
social housing. This, we are told, has offended "the working-class sense of
fairness" making an upsurge in support for the BNP inevitable.

The problem with this narrative is that it is utterly false. The idea that the
white working classes have been neglected makes no sense. In its last three
general election campaigns Labour has expended a great deal of effort appealing
to "hard-working families" and currying favour with "Mondeo man". There is
certainly an unhealthy fixation with marginal constituencies at election time -
but the white working classes tend to be as well represented in these areas as
other social groups. The idea that Labour has been falling over itself to help
asylum-seekers also bears no relation to the truth. Since 1997 Labour has pushed
through a series of measures apparently designed to make life harder for
refugees.

We should note that the number of refugees in Barking is not especially large.
The asylum-seeker population is tiny in comparison with the boroughs of
inner-city London, or other comparable population centres in the north. As for
Barking's foreign-born population, it is no larger than in neighbouring London
boroughs. Local factors are more important in explaining Ms Hodge's disturbing
findings. For a variety of reasons, Essex has always been more susceptible than
other counties to race politics. The BNP won 17 per cent of the vote in Barking
in the 2005 general election. What we are witnessing is a continuation of a
trend, rather than an explosion of discontent.

The general tone of national politics also plays a part in the feared national
fillip for the BNP. The present Tory leadership has now, rightly, turned its
back on attempting to make political capital out of the asylum issue. The mooted
BNP breakthrough might well be fuelled by those frustrated with Mr Cameron's new
moderate stance. All this is probably amplified by a general disaffection with
mainstream political parties. We have witnessed historically low election
turnouts in recent years. In this atmosphere, fringe protest groups such as UKIP
and the BNP, and even the Green Party, have all benefited.

It will be regrettable if the BNP, an unpleasant and malicious organisation,
does well in Barking or anywhere else in the country in next month's election.
But such a result must not be a cause for panic. Mr Cameron should not allow
this to frighten him back into the asylum-seeker baiting of the last two Tory
general election campaigns. The country as a whole is far better off with a
liberal Tory party, rather than one that is prepared to pander to such
distasteful attitudes.

As for the Government, it should not interpret BNP gains as a cue to get
"tougher" on immigration. A knee-jerk reaction would only concede to the BNP
that it has a point and that its foul deceits have some basis in truth. All
civilised political parties should be falling over themselves to make it clear
that the very opposite is the case.

As for the Government, it should not interpret any BNP gains as a cue to get
'tougher' on immigration

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

It's about time the elephant found his own home;
Errors & Omissions

BYLINE: by Guy Keleny

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 667 words


A sure sign that what may once have been a lively image has stiffened into a
clichZ is when people start misapplying it. It is too familiar. The writer's
mind simply extrudes it, without thinking what it means.

That seems to have happened to the elephant in the sitting room. This striking
emblem of a large and intrusive problem that people silently agree to ignore has
had a good run of about 10 years, but I think it is all over now. Witness the
opening of Michael Brown's Tuesday column: "The British National Party and the
UK Independence Party are the two elephants in the room for the Labour and
Conservative parties."

Brown was commenting on the big story that broke last Sunday when Margaret Hodge
spoke of her fears that Labour could lose a great many votes to the BNP in
working-class areas that have seen a great deal of immigration. It may well be
that the BNP is a large problem that Labour wishes would go away -and that was
no doubt what Brown meant to convey. But if the BNP was ever an elephant in
Labour's sitting room, it is so no longer, for Mrs Hodge has obviously ended any
silent agreement to ignore it.

Time for the wretched elephant to get out of all our sitting rooms.

Wright stuff: Martin Wright has written in to point out that our old friend the
hanging participle is still intruding on all our lives. A news story on Tuesday
included this: "Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, born in ... 1756, was a musical
prodigy... In 1763, while still learning the violin, his father took him and his
elder sister ... on a tour...."

In Latin, that sentence would work all right. The present participle "learning"
would indicate by its case whether it applied to "his father" or "him". In
English the participle will attach itself indiscriminately to the nearest
available noun or pronoun, in this case "his father".

But Mozart's father, as Mr Wright goes on to say, had surely learnt the violin
some time before. Further measures have to be taken to make clear who is still
learning. Thus: " ... while Mozart was still learning the violin, his father
took him ... on a tour."

Mr Wright concludes his e-mail with a sentence that might stand as the manifesto
for all of us pedants: "The sense is clear enough, but we shouldn't have to
reread it to see what it really means." Well said, Mr Wright. When some atrocity
is pointed out to those who don't care about the precise use of language, they
will mumble, "Well, it's perfectly clear what it means to say." Yes, we reply,
but it fails to say it: that is the maddening thing.

Botched reform: Dictionaries still recognise the meaning of "reform" as "form
again", but we should now regard it as archaic. It is too easily confused with
the more common usage in which the word signifies the correction of faults and
abuses.

On Thursday, a news story began thus: "Efforts to revive the romantic spirit of
Ukraine's 'orange' revolution and reform a pro-Western government have descended
into acrimony." Is the pro-Western government in need of reformation? No,
efforts are being made to re-establish it -and "re-establish" is the word we
should have used.

All at sea: This newspaper displayed its usual tin ear for naval and military
etiquette when reporting, last Saturday, the promotion of the Royal Navy's first
admiral to come from an ethnic minority. The news story reported correctly that
Amjad Hussain had become an admiral, but wrongly that he had been promoted from
commodore to admiral. The rank to which he was promoted was rear-admiral'
admiral is two further steps up, with vice-admiral in between. But admirals,
vice-admirals and rear-admirals are all admirals (of various sorts), so
Rear-Admiral Hussain is indeed an admiral. All clear now?

Mixed metaphor of the week:

On Tuesday's opinion page, Richard Garner wrote: "The reason the academies spark
so much venom from teachers' leaders..." The academies do no doubt provoke a
vindictive fury in the teachers' leaders, but venom is produced in the glands of
poisonous snakes, without the use of sparks.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

Westminster failed the Ryton workers

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 138 words


SIR - Boris Johnson's comments (April 20) on the Ryton workers' future may be
economically sound, although cold comfort to them. What he is forced to overlook
is the inability of the Parliament in which he sits to have acted in this
affair.

It has been pointed out by two of UKIP's MEPs that Brussels delayed an answer to
a British request to put in a mere pounds 14 million of government aid in order
to facilitate a major investment by Peugeot in Ryton. This delay lasted for more
than two years.

By that time, Slovakia was joining the EU and pounds 78 million of EU aid (much
of it originating from British taxpayers) was given by Brussels to build Ryton's
replacement plant in that country. This may be good EU economic management, but
let nobody believe that Westminster governs Britain any longer.

Sir George Earle

Crediton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

Analysis Hodge has done the BNP a big favour

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 891 words


THE British National Party will not achieve a military-style breakthrough in the
local elections next month but YouGov's latest survey for The Daily Telegraph
suggests that the far-Right's present standard bearers will probably make
significant gains.

The BNP is in a stronger position than at any time since it displaced the
National Front as the main post-Fascist party in 1982.

Asked how they would vote if there were a general election tomorrow, seven per
cent of YouGov's respondents said BNP.

That is a higher proportion than the BNP or any of its predecessor parties have
obtained in any national survey.

Its national percentages since last May's general election have seldom risen
above zero and in recent months almost no one told YouGov they would vote BNP.

Margaret Hodge and others who have warned of the BNP threat have probably done
it a favour by reminding voters of its existence.

YouGov's findings suggest that the party draws its support more from the
Conservatives than from Labour, with BNP gains also coming at the expense of the
UK Independence Party and the Liberal Democrats.

Whatever their stated policies, many voters see Ukip and the Liberal Democrats
as essentially anti-Establishment protest parties. In many voters' eyes, Ukip
and the BNP seem interchangeable.

Despite the BNP's gains in recent weeks, Labour has lost only one point - down
from 36 to 35 per cent - since last month. The Conservatives have fallen from 36
to 33 per cent and are now no better off under David Cameron than under Michael
Howard during the last election.

The Liberal Democrats remain in the doldrums. Registering only 17 per cent, they
have lost support in recent months to the Tories and Labour as well as to the
BNP.

The sudden - if possibly temporary - emergence of the BNP as a serious political
force is a remarkable phenomenon. It testifies not merely to Mrs Hodge's success
in drawing attention to the party but to millions of voters' alienation from the
whole political class and their sense that the country is drifting in a
direction they do not want it to take.

YouGov asked respondents whether they had ever voted BNP or seriously considered
doing so. As the chart shows, 24 per cent - the equivalent of three million
people - said they had voted BNP or were thinking of doing so now.

But that percentage, however startling, will not be translated into huge BNP
gains on May 4. It is fielding too few candidates in the local elections and
only a minority of those who said they "seriously considered'' voting BNP will
actually do so on the day. The BNP surge is also likely to encourage the major
parties' supporters to turn out to stop its candidates.

Even so, a figure as high as seven per cent indicates a restless and
unpredictable electorate, one more inclined to shift to the far-Right than the
far-Left. Despite George Galloway's personal success last year, his far-Left
party, Respect, is nowhere.

YouGov asked the 24 per cent of voters who indicated they may vote BNP which of
a number of statements about Britain they sympathised with.

The findings, set out in the chart, suggest that discontent is fuelled partly by
racial animosity but even more by the sense that Britain as a whole is changing
in undesired and undesirable ways.

The impending closure of Peugeot's Ryton plant must reinforce the widespread
sense that the UK is losing control of its own destiny.

In the eyes of almost three quarters of potential BNP supporters, Britain
"almost seems like a foreign country nowadays''. Roughly two thirds said "we
should take tougher action against Muslims who want to destroy this country''.

Palpable anger underlies the sentiment: "I just want to let the people who run
this country know that from now on they will have to pay attention to people
like me.''

Labour's standing under this heading is no higher than the Tories' was at the
end of the scandal-ridden 1990s.

The proportion thinking Labour is sleazy and disreputable today is almost
identical to the 63 per cent who saw the Conservatives in the same light during
the last gasps of John Major's administration.

The Government's handling of the health service is also doing it no favours.
According to YouGov, a mere 16 per cent attribute the NHS's present difficulties
to shortage of cash. Seventy-seven per cent, blame redundancies and closed wards
on poor management.

With a government as ill-regarded as Tony Blair's is, the principal opposition
party should be at least 10 points ahead. At this stage in 1992, Labour led by
19 points.

The core problem for the Conservatives is that, while a party can change its
leader and can announce intended policy changes, it cannot easily shed a
negative image acquired over years.

A substantial majority still believes that "despite having a new leader, the
Tories have not changed all that much'' and "still give the impression of being
out of touch with modern Britain''.

Even more say "it's no longer very clear what they stand for''.

That said, millions of people give the impression of wishing David Cameron well.

Almost two thirds of YouGov's respondents believe he and George Osborne "are
right to put the stability of the economy before tax cuts'' and well over half
believe "the Tories under their new leader deserve another year or two to work
out their policies''.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

BNP set to win seats as support surges

BYLINE: George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words


THE British National Party is on course to make significant gains in the local
elections in England in two weeks time, according to a YouGov poll for The Daily
Telegraph today.

It shows that seven per cent of voters are ready to back the far-Right party and
that 24 per cent have considered voting BNP in the past or are thinking of doing
so now.

In the eyes of almost three-quarters of potential BNP supporters, Britain
"almost seems like a foreign country''.

The poll underlines the recent warning from Margaret Hodge, the employment
minister, that white working-class families felt so neglected by the Government
and angered by immigration that they were deserting Labour and flocking to the
BNP.

Mrs Hodge told The Sunday Telegraph that eight out of 10 white people in her
east London constituency of Barking were threatening to vote for the BNP on May
4.

The surge in support for the BNP - which displaced the National Front as
Britain's main far-Right party in 1982 - could damage the Conservatives in the
local elections, which will be David Cameron's first electoral test since
becoming Tory leader.

The poll suggests that the BNP draws its support more from the Conservatives
than from Labour - and is gaining ground at the expense of the Liberal Democrats
and UK Independence Party.

It confirms that Mr Cameron's brief honeymoon with the voters is over. Labour
remains in the lead despite the damage caused by the "loans for peerages''
scandal and the financial crisis in the NHS. It is on 35 per cent (down one
point since March), the Conservatives on 33 (down three) and the Liberal
Democrats on 17 (down one).

The Tories are now no better off than they were under Michael Howard at last
year's general election and have lost all the bounce in the polls they enjoyed
after Mr Cameron become leader in December.

The poll suggests that the new leader has failed to capitalise on Tony Blair's
difficulties and is vulnerable to Labour attacks that he is a political
"chameleon''.

A majority still believes that, despite having a new leader, the Conservatives
have not changed all that much and even more reckon it is no longer very clear
what the party stands for.

But the "loans for peerages'' row has further damaged trust in Labour. Sixty two
per cent of voters agree that it gives the impression of being "very sleazy and
disreputable'' - putting the party on a similar "sleaze'' rating to John Major's
ill-fated Tory administration.

The strong showing for the BNP, which has already achieved more success than any
other far-Right party, will alarm all the mainstream parties. At the general
election last year, the BNP won 4.3 per cent of the vote across the 116 seats it
contested. It polled 16.9 per cent in the Barking constituency.

The poll confirms the fears of Labour MPs that Mrs Hodge's warning about the
support for the BNP among white working-class voters has given the party a
valuable boost. In recent months, almost no one had been telling YouGov they
would vote BNP, but publicity following her comments has highlighted the party's
existence.

A report by the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust this week said that up to 25
per cent of voters indicated they "might vote'' for the party. It claimed that
support for the BNP from skilled and semi-skilled workers reflected voter
"tension'' about multi-cultural Britain.

The BNP has said it is putting up more candidates than ever before - 356 - for
the local elections. At present it has 15 councillors across England and hopes
to win up to 40 seats on May 4.

Lord Tebbit, the former Conservative Party chairman, in a letter to The Daily
Telegraph today, challenges the widely held view that the BNP is an extreme
Right-wing party. He said that he was unable to find evidence of "Right-wing
tendencies'' in its 2005 manifesto.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

race watch

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: FEATURES; Spy; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 121 words


Ever since a race row stalled his attempt to become the first black Conservative
MP in 1992, Lord Taylor of Warwick has engaged in a tireless battle with the
unreconstructed Right of the party. And he hasn't taken his eye off the ball.
"David Cameron was absolutely right in what he said about UKIP the other day,''
he tells me.

"But there are probably closet racists in the Tory party - there are closet
racists in all parties - and when they are exposed, the people in question
should be expelled. I'm not looking for trouble, but there are one or two MPs
I'm looking at.''

Who, exactly? "I'm not naming names, but you know who they are. If they put
their heads above the parapet again, David will need to show some leadership.''

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

BNP 'may win seats' in surge of support at local polls;
BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY

BYLINE: BRENDAN MONTAGUE

SECTION: ED 3RD 04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 398 words


THE BNP could make big gains in the May elections, according to a poll published
today.

Research reveals almost a quarter of voters have considered backing the
far-Right group at some point, while 7 per cent have confirmed they will vote
for the party.

The YouGov poll comes amid increasing alarm in the Government that white
working-class families have abandoned Labour and have switched to the far-Right.
It also follows a Joseph Rowntree Trust survey earlier this week which found 25
per cent of voters indicated they 'might' vote for the BNP.

The YouGov poll found three quarters of those thinking about voting BNP felt
Britain 'almost seems like a foreign country' while two-thirds expressed the
view that 'we should take tougher action against Muslims who want to destroy
this country'.

The BNP says it has put forward 356 candidates to become councillors, the
largest push to date, and hopes to win more than 40 seats across the country.

At the General Election, the party secured 4.3 per cent of the vote across the
116 constituencies where candidates stood.

Employment Minister Margaret Hodge expressed the concerns of the Labour Party
when she suggested eight out of ten white voters in her Barking constituency
could turn to the BNP. But the latest poll, in the Daily Telegraph, suggests
David Cameron's Conservatives are most likely to lose supporters to the
far-Right.

The BNP now threatens to displace the Liberal Democrats and the UK Independence
Party as the home for protest voters.

The party has 15 councillors. The poll shows support for the Tories has fallen
three points to 33 per cent, having been level with Labour four weeks ago. The
LibDems have dropped to 17 per cent.

The BNP become the biggest far-Right party after the collapse of the National
Front in the 1980s and has sought to make electoral progress by challenging its
reputation as a racist and violent group.

But last night, Home Secretary Charles Clarke said on BBC1's Question Time that
he thought Mrs Hodge had 'overstated' the BNP's impact. 'She is right to raise
the issue, she is right to say they are angry, she is right to say there are
quite genuine concerns about migration,' he said.

'There are serious issues about families being able to get homes for their
children because they don't come top of the priorities list. Personally, I will
be explicit. I think she overstated the BNP issue in this election.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

EDITORIAL&OPINION: Fascism has always had a socialist tinge, which is why it now
threatens New Labour

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1133 words


"When I knock on the door and I say to people 'are you tempted to vote BNP?'
eight out of 10 families say yes." Margaret Hodge's remark, in an interview the
MP for Barking gave to the Sunday Telegraph's Melissa Kite, has been greeted
with a mixture of horror and disbelief.

My first reaction on reading it was that Ms Hodge had been the victim of a
misunderstanding: obviously when she put this leading question to her
constituents they assumed that she was the BNP candidate, and in order to get
her to leave the premises quickly, eight of 10 gave the answer they thought she
wanted to hear.

On further investigation, however, I learned that another Sunday Telegraph
reporter had scoured the streets of Barking, and could not find anyone at all
who would completely rule out voting for the BNP in the forthcoming council
elections. So this column must, I'm afraid, ask the question: why has Barking
gone barking?

The simple answer is that a number of inner-London authorities with insufficient
space for the asylum-seekers in their care have managed to find council homes
for a large number of them in Barking, which has long been a white working-class
area dominated by families traditionally connected with Ford's Dagenham
factories. It is hardly surprising that the BNP has flooded the area with its
activists, and is putting up more candidates than it is anywhere else in
Britain.

In the last local authority elections, the BNP used similar tactics in Oldham
and Burnley, following the Oldham riots. As a parasite upon discontent, the BNP
has no equal in the British body politic - although Conservative and Labour
campaigners would insist that the Liberal Democrats are the true masters of
opportunist pavement politics.

Whichever is the case, it would be wrong to see the BNP as a grave threat to the
established parties nationally. Margaret Hodge, as the MP for Barking (and the
wife of the chairman of the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal), is bound to see
what is fundamentally a local issue in almost apocalyptic terms.

David Aaronovitch of The Times has suggested that "what may be fuelling the BNP
vote is the moderation and commitment to multiculturalism of the Conservative
Party." It is true that David Cameron has described the BNP as "an evil party",
and it may also be true that the Tory leader's current trip to the Arctic Circle
to capture the polar bear sympathy vote is not best calculated to engage the
burghers of Barking.

But the Conservative share of the vote in these parts of Greater London had
declined dramatically long before the impeccably liberal Mr Cameron became
leader. Margaret Hodge is absolutely right about one thing: if the BNP is indeed
a threat, it is a threat to New Labour.

This should surprise no one who has bothered to read the BNP's policy documents:
they are fundamentally Old Labour - very Old Labour, in fact. Here is a
selection: "The BNP will take the railways back into public ownership as a
single company." "It is time to take our soldiers home from America's Iraq war."
"The BNP totally rejects the globalisation scam. Exporting manufacturing
industry and call centres abroad may make big profits for the multinational fat
cats but it is an economic and social disaster for Britain and British workers
in particular."

"We believe that as much of industry as possible should be owned by those who
work in it - the owners should work and the workers should own. Strong Trades
Unions are vital to protect the workers from exploitation." "The BNP pledges to
put the needs of Britain's pensioners first and to restore the link with
earnings abolished by the last Tory government."

So it was equally unsurprising that, in his speech on Good Friday launching his
local election campaign, the BNP chairman Nick Griffin attacked UKIP as "an
extreme right-wing party" which "can only take its votes from old Conservatives.
We can and will take Old Labour votes."

It is certainly true that Old Labour was not overtly racist. But the last Old
Labour Prime Minister, Jim Callaghan, was not just working-class by origin' he
never lost sight of the white working-class fear about competing for jobs and
housing with new immigrants. As Home Secretary, he rushed through the
legislation which prevented British passport holders from coming to this country
if they did not have a British parent or grandparent. This was his response to
the decision by the Kenyan government in 1969 to threaten with eviction Kenyan
Asians who refused to take Kenyan nationality. As a result of Callaghan's
actions, about 150,000 Kenyan Asians were rendered stateless.

The remaining socialists in the British labour movement tend to refer to the BNP
as "fascists." I have no argument with that. But they in turn need to accept
that fascism has never been anything other than a toxic mixture of socialism
with nationalism. Its founder, Benito Mussolini, sprang from the Italian
socialist movement, but broke ranks over the issue of participation in the Great
War, when he founded the Fasci d'Azione Rivoluzionaria.

As FL Carsten wrote in The Rise of Fascism, "Mussolini had a profound contempt
for those whose overriding ambition was to be rich. It was, he thought, a kind
of disease. He declared he was fighting the socialists, not because of their
socialism but because they were anti-national and reactionary."

In power, Mussolini launched a public works programme, building schools and
hospitals on a scale unprecedented in his country's history. A similar policy,
although with roads and railways more to the fore, was Adolf Hitler's answer to
the mass unemployment of the Thirties. National Socialism was not just a label:
it was a description.

In Great Britain, Oswald Mosley left Labour with six colleagues to set up his
New Party, soon to become the British Union of Fascists, precisely because the
Labour Party conference (by a narrow majority) rejected his plan to defeat mass
unemployment with a gigantic programme of public investment.

There is, I think one significant difference between fascists and socialists
(apart from the split between extreme nationalism and internationalism). Whereas
the hard left - of both sexes - give off the impression that they regard any
form of sexual relationship as in some way corrupt, for some reason fascist
leaders and their male activists have always exuded a rank odour of sexual
weird-ness and perversion.

I know that neither Labour nor Conservative MPs have a record to be proud of in
the area of sexual scandal. But in the highly improbable event that Mr Griffin's
party gains a presence in the House of Commons, we might soon learn of practices
that would stop eight out of 10 people saying that they might support the BNP.

This shouldn't surprise anyone who has read the BNP's policies: they are very
Old Labour

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

Britain - Former Tory MP defects to UKIP over Europe

LENGTH: 150 words


Former Tory MP Christopher Gill announced his defection to the UK Independence
Party yesterday in protest at Tory leader David Cameron's approach to Europe.

Mr Gill, who was the Tory MP for Ludlow from 1987 to 2001, was one of the rebels
who voted against then Conservative leader John Major over the 1992 Maastricht
Treaty.

Despite Mr Cameron's recent dismissal of UKIP as "fruitcakes and loonies and
closet racists," Mr Gill insisted that many Tory MPs privately share the party's
views.

He accused Mr Cameron of relying on the advice of europhile "dinosaurs" from the
Major era, such as party chairman Francis Maude, as well as Lord Heseltine, John
Gummer and Kenneth Clarke, who have been appointed to policy groups and task
forces.

"It is clear that no argument will move the Conservative Party's official
position on Europe, despite many of their MPs privately agreeing with UKIP,"
complained Mr Gill.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             April 21, 2006, Friday

David Cameron's description of UKIP

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 86 words


When David Cameron described UKIP as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists",
he probably meant this was a bad thing.

Not everybody seems to have realised. On Nick Ferrari's LBC show yesterday,
Christopher Gill, the former Conservative MP for Ludlow, said that, as a result
of these comments, he now intended to join UKIP himself. Somebody should tell
him.

Bob Spink, the Tory MP for Castle Point, seems similarly confused. "UKIP
supporters are no more racist than the Tories in the last election," he says.

What, "very"?

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday

automotive Unions tell Peugeot they won't go quietly Amicus says it would cost
pounds 5,000 to sack a UK worker but 20 times that in France

BYLINE: Christopher Hope and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: CITY; BUSINESS CENTRE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 591 words


THE cost of sacking 2,300 workers at Peugeot-Citroën's Ryton plant near Coventry
works out at about ?60,000 ( pounds 41,000) each, according to City analysts.
The news emerged as union officials said that they could not rule out industrial
action to fight the closure of the 60-year-old plant, home of the best-selling
206 model.

Peugeot bosses sit down in Ryton for the first time today to start to thrash out
redundancy payments when the workers leave in two stages, by late July and the
middle of next year. The car maker was tight-lipped yesterday about how much it
will offer workers.

However, analysts at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein estimated that the closure
of Ryton would cost the company ?240m, including ?140m to cover laying off the
workers. Peugeot declined to comment.

Dresdner also estimated that the closure would save the company ?100m a year
once it had laid off all the workers, and another ?40m from making 100,000 more
206s.

The analysts said that Tuesday's announcement of the closure, which took unions
and Government ministers by surprise, had come earlier than expected although it
"should improve the sentiment for the company'' among investors.

Meanwhile, union leaders mounted a campaign to try to force Peugeot to reverse
its decision, warning that the company would not get away with a "trouble free''
closure.

Officials demanded talks with bosses and said they were prepared to fight to
keep car production at the site despite a mood of quiet resignation among some
workers.

Jim O'Boyle, Transport and General Workers Union convenor, said he had received
an email from union officials in France saying they were "disgusted'' with the
closure decision. He said: "They are prepared to fall square behind whatever
decision we take to try to get the company to reverse that decision. They are
prepared to take action. I think it's pretty clear it's a commitment.''

There was a show of hands at a mass meeting among workers at the plant about
industrial action but the outcome was unclear.

Dawn McGuckin, a 39-year-old track worker, said: "The unions are talking about
striking but that's not going to do us any good. The unions want to fight but
it's a waste of time, they'll just shut us down sooner. I think there will be
strike action but I don't think it will be everybody.''

Amicus said it was a "travesty'' that British jobs were held so "cheaply'' by
politicians.

The French had a longer notice period of redundancy, workers could appoint an
accountant and challenge a decision in court, and it cost pounds 100,000 to make
a French worker redundant compared to just pounds 5,000 for a worker with 20
years' service in Britain, said Amicus.

The Prime Minister expressed his sadness at the planned closure but insisted
such job cuts were "inevitable'' because of global pressures. He maintained that
the UK had a strong record on jobs and unemployment.

Meanwhile, the UK Independence Party claimed the European Union had delayed a
pounds 14m grant for extra investment at Ryton while using British taxpayers'
cash to subsidise the building of a plant in Slovakia.

Mike Nattrass, Ukip Euro-MP and the party's transport spokesman, said: "British
taxpayers have subsidised the export of their own jobs while the Commission
dragged its feet over a decision which could have saved the livelihoods of
thousands of my constituents.''

The Ryton closure comes a year after 6,100 workers lost their jobs when MG Rover
collapsed in nearby Birmingham. A recent report by the Work Foundation found
that a third of staff are still out of work.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday

Former Tory moves to Ukip in protest at Cameron jibes

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin and Ruth Barnett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 192 words


A FORMER Conservative MP is today expected to join the UK Independence Party in
protest at David Cameron's dismissal of the anti-European Union party as "closet
racists''.

Christopher Gill, MP for Ludlow until 1997, is planning to announce his decision
later today. Ukip will use Mr Gill's decision to claim that the Tory leader
blundered earlier this month when he described the party as a "bunch of
fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists''.

Roger Knapman, the Ukip leader, claims that Mr Cameron has unnecessarily
antagonised Eurosceptic opinion within his own party.

In a sign of unease among Tory ranks, Bob Spink, MP for Castle Point, said: "
Ukip supporters are no more racist than the Tories were in the last election. I
regret very much the personalised political attack on Ukip.''

Despite that, Mr Cameron later refused to withdraw the remark, and Francis
Maude, the Tory chairman, suggested that some of its followers had "some pretty
unsavoury connections with the far-Right''.

Ukip leaders angrily denied the Tory attacks but dropped plans to sue for
slander on the grounds that Mr Cameron's original outburst had actually
benefited the party.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday

It's Slo unfair

BYLINE: Michael Lea, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 396  words


Peugeot move to Slovakia cost 2,300 jobs...and YOUR taxes helped make it happen

BRITISH taxpayers' cash was used to lure Peugeot to Slovakia, it was claimed
last night.

The Slovak government used EU handouts to pump about £ 78million of state aid
into the French firm's new plant.

It will take over production of cars when the Ryton factory in Coventry shuts in
mid-2007 with the loss of 2,300 UK jobs.

Tony Blair yesterday expressed his "sadness and sympathy" for those facing
redundancy.

But UKIP MEP Mike Nattrass said: "Taxpayers have effectively subsidised the
export of their own jobs."

It has also been revealed that the European Commission stalled on a UK
government grant that would have kept car-making at Ryton.

Investment of £ 190million was scuppered because it took two years for Brussels
to approve a state subsidy of £ 14million.

Peugeot had submitted a request for aid in 2002 so it could build the successor
to its 206 model at Ryton.

But it was not rubber-stamped until late 2004 - by which time Peugeot had been
forced to switch production elsewhere.

Mr Nattrass added: "The Commission dragged its feet over a decision which could
have saved the livelihoods of thousands.

"Meanwhile, the British government is nothing more than a helpless bystander."

Britain pays £ 2.8billion a year to Brussels, with chunks of cash going to
poorer countries like Slovakia.

Union leaders yesterday warned Peugeot it would not get away with a "trouble
free" closure of the factory.

But Mr Blair insisted job losses were "inevitable" because of global pressures.

Trade and Industry Secretary Alan Johnson, left, met union officials on a visit
to the area yesterday. He admitted there was a feeling of "disquiet and
despair".

Track worker Dawn McGuckin, 39, said: "The unions are talking about striking,
but that's not going to do us any good. It's a waste of time, they'll just shut
us down sooner." But French unions yesterday pledged to support a campaign to
fight the closure decision.

Jim O'Boyle, Transport and General Workers Union convenor at Ryton, said he had
received an email from union officials in France saying they were "disgusted"
with the move.

He said: "They are prepared to fall square behind whatever decision we take to
try to get the company to reverse that decision.

"They are prepared to take action. What action that takes is a matter for them."

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 20, 2006, Thursday

BNP: beyond the fringes

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 169 words


Sir, The report that one in four people is considering voting for the BNP party
says more about the Conservative Party than about Labour (report, April 17).

There are many critics of new Labour's apparent laissez faire attitude about
immigration, none more so that the indigenous people of Britain.

Where once we had a choice -if a political party had been in power for some
years and had run its course, we could then vote the other party in to balance
things up -we now have all three parties congregating in the centre. Just when
we need a right-of-centre party which has an effective immigration policy, is
tough on crime and stands up for its people, the Tories decide to clone
themselves into "new Conservatives" and shuffle along to the left.

Even though David Cameron is witnessing the unravelling of new Labour, he still
insists on aping it. People are going to put their crosses in the box where his
party should be -a box which, unfortunately, is now occupied by the BNP and
UKIP.

RICHARD REEVES Bromley, Kent

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday

off course

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: FEATURES; Spy; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 140 words


Has Lady Thatcher (right) plunged the knife into David Cameron barely four
months into his leadership of the Conservative Party?

It certainly seems so, if the following anecdote - recounted by Lord Pearson of
Rannoch at a UKIP meeting just before Easter - is to be believed.

"I was in a lift in the Lords the other day with Lady Thatcher,'' he told the
gathering, "when she turned to me and confided, 'I may have made a few mistakes
when I was in power, but at least we all knew where we were jolly well going'.''

When I call Pearson, however, he is swift to scotch any suggestion of a
Thatcherite briefing against Cameron.

"I know I said 'the other day', but the incident actually happened while Michael
Howard was still leader,'' he admitted. "I'm afraid I can't give you her take on
David Cameron.''

I think we can all imagine what it would be.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

LETTER: THE BIG ISSUE - BNP POLL THREAT

BYLINE: LES ARNOTT

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 115 words


EMPLOYMENT minister Margaret Hodge has warned that disenchanted white Labour
voters are turning to the far-right BNP. She was not trying to predict BNP
success but stressing the need to engage voters. Her controversial claim
certainly engaged our readers.

MARGARET Hodge is to be congratulated for her openness and honesty, but some of
us have been warning the three main parties what would happen for a number of
years.

We are hardly surprised. I hope the moderate UKIP, which has a "firm but fair"
immigration policy, will attract these voters who would otherwise be flocking to
extremes and whose votes certainly deserve to be lost by Labour, Lib Dems and
Tories alike.

Les Arnott, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday

In the interests of balance

BYLINE: Lydia Rivlin

SECTION: OPINION; COLUMN IDOL WINNER

LENGTH: 162  words


I'VE had a go at Labour and the Lib Dems, so in the interests of balance local
elections coming up on May 4 -I should have a go at the Conservatives.

David Cameron was wrong to suggest UKIP is full of nutcases, especially in light
of the EU budget, now bloated to more than £ 600billion.

Since our governments are being economical with the truth, we are unlikely to
find out for a while if the overspend really is £ 24billion, or more.

The £ 24billion, by the way, represents £ 4 for every human being on the planet
-and that's only the excess, remember.

I'm standing as a Tory candidate for the diverse ward of Seven Sisters in
Haringey, North London, and definitely worry about the waste, inefficiency and
constitutional minefield of the EU.

UKIP supporters may not be running with the pack, but as I said in a recent
conversation with a communist friend of mine, if we all run in the same
direction together, one day we could find ourselves all running over a cliff
together.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Margaret Hodge is right about the BNP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1123 words


The British National Party and the UK Independence Party are the two elephants
in the room for the Labour and Conservative parties. Neither will ever form a
government, but from time to time they wallow in their 15 minutes of electoral
fame, forcing the main parties into reluctantly commenting on subjects where
silence is the preferred political response. The BNP and UKIP have the capacity
to shock and, since the establishment of the Lib Dems as a serious third-party
contender, they are now the outward and instant methods of choice for voter
disaffection.

Protest votes are often cast in the heat of the moment, with little thought
given to the longer-term consequences. The BNP will not make a breakthrough next
month (there are only 360 BNP candidates out of 4,000 contests), but a dozen BNP
mid-term election gains from Labour in each of only half a dozen councils are
far more likely to shake the body politic than two or three hundred council-seat
gains by either the Lib Dems or the Tories.

In the days when they could squeeze into a taxi, the Liberal Democrats were a
party of protest. Voters would use the op-portunities presented at by-elections
and local elections to vent their frustrations by giving their vote to the third
party. A vote for the Lib Dems now, how-ever, is no longer a vote for protest,
it is a vote for a party with serious prospects of power - at least in local
government. The Lib Dems have consequently become part of the political
establishment at a time when voter disaffection is thought more likely to be
addressed by anti-establishment parties.

So just as the Lib Dems have vacated the role of the dustbin of politics, the
vacuum is filled by the BNP and UKIP. Not for one moment am I suggesting that
the Lib Dems have ever sought to attract, on the basis of fear, the type of
voters currently tempted to vote BNP. But it is a simple statement of fact that
as parties move nearer to power, other new parties will seek to address - and
exploit - the fears of the alienated and dispossessed. There has always been a
protest vote at elections other than general elections (the Greens in 1989 and
UKIP in 2004), and Margaret Hodge clearly thinks that the 2006 local government
elections in east London could be the year of the BNP.

Whether Ms Hodge was right to air her fears publicly is an open question. She
may be tactically talking up the threat in order to increase Labour turnout. But
Labour apparachiks were clearly scared by her public ruminations - so much so
that she appears to be rowing back from her original comments in the weekend
press.

Some will argue that she has merely given the BNP a massive shot of the oxygen
of publicity that their own resources could not achieve. But silence from the
main parties on voter alienation caused by the impact of sudden demographic
change, is probably part of the reason for the growing BNP support in Barking
and Dagenham, where traditional Labour voters feel that no one is listening to
them. And with the overwhelming evidence adduced by the Rown tree Trust of
growing potential for BNP support, along with the research conducted recently by
the Spectator's Peter Oborne, it would seem only sensible for at least one
government minister to speak out publicly about her fears.

Mr Oborne recently observed the BNP canvassing in Ms Hodge's constituency, and
found that potential BNP voters were invariably respectable working-class or
even lower-middle-class voters - and they could give the BNP enough seats to
become the main opposition party. Whether we like it or not, racist politics may
yet be on the march.

This is thanks to the decision of the two main parties effectively to discount
or ignore all voters who are not the 800,000 electors in the target 100 marginal
constituencies. Oborne notes that the neighbouring Dagenham Labour MP, John
Crud-das, blames New Labour's obsession with the preferences and prejudices of
the swing voter in the swing seats for "driving the white Dagenham working and
lower middle classes straight into the arms of the BNP".

The targeting of such a defined voter profile excludes general policies tailored
to the working-class masses. For the Tories, the same game is being played, and
there was a hint of criticism in yesterday's interview on Today by Iain Duncan
Smith - who represents neighbouring Chingford - that the Tory party leadership's
obsession, also, with only swing voters has caused the Tories to vacate the
field in Labour areas of disaffection, leaving the pitch clear for the BNP.

The Tory party's problems in handling the BNP are compounded by their recent
experiences in the last general election. Michael Howard raised the issue of
race and immigration to the exclusion of the rest of his agenda. The swing
voters reacted badly, so now anything to do with race, asylum and immigration
is, like tax and Europe, off the Tory political agenda. To get a front-bench
Tory to muse on the current debate is impossible.

"The Conservatives refused to comment" was invariably the last sentence of every
newspaper article of the past few days since Ms Hodge gave her interview. But as
Ann Widdecombe noted yesterday, race and immigration have often been the sleeper
issues on the doorstep.

Three related issues stand out for the main parties to ameliorate voters'
concerns: health, housing and education. It seems a patently natural response
for voters in areas of sudden demographic change to get hot under the collar if
they now have to wait 10 days for a GP's appointment, if they are denied their
previous place on the social housing list, and if the character of the classroom
is so changed that within two years English is no longer the first language.

I doubt that white Dagenham and Barking voters are any more racist than their
counterparts elsewhere in London where integration has over time proved
successful. But it is inevitably the case that, if local services are completely
overwhelmed, there will be resentment at the ballot box where the shoe pinches
hardest.

The worst response of all is to attack the voters. Ritual denunciations of the
BNP the morning after the night before are usually the best recruiting ground
for a further BNP advance in the future. If normally loyal Labour voter s are
turning to the BNP along with former Tories (because sometimes there are not
even Tory candidates), there is a message to the main parties.

Blaming voters for doing the wrong thing is not usually the best way to win them
back to the mainstream. Listening to Ms Hodge and Mr Cruddas might be a good
starting point - provided they are not silenced by the rest of the political
establishment.

The BNP and UKIP are now the outward and instant methods of choice for voter
disaffection

mrbrown@talktalk.net

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MICHAEL BROWN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                 April 16, 2006

Cameron's deafening EU silence

BYLINE: John Blundell

LENGTH: 759 words


SOCRATES observed that a man's silences can say as much about him as those
topics upon which he is loud.

David Cameron says nothing about the European Commission (EC). His shadow
cabinet is silent too. Oliver Letwin, his genial and clever lieutenant, explains
this baffling elusiveness as "concentrating on mainline issues".

The whips warn backbenchers that to discuss the topic is "unhelpful". But the
imperious ambitions of the European Union (EU) could not be more "mainline".
Cameron is making a mistake. He is missing a huge opportunity.

Apart from dismissing UKIP as "a bunch of fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists" Cameron fails to address EU themes at all. He seems to turn a blind eye
to them. UKIP wants to renounce the UK's subordination to the Commission. It
wants powers shunted to Brussels restored to the Commons. It should be argued
about, not dismissed as Cameron does as merely "loony".

The Tory Party could tear itself apart over these matters. Does it favour
Parliamentary democracy or faceless bureaucracy? Does it favour free trade or
rigged markets? I see direct parallels with the Conservative collapse over
defending the Corn Laws. What is the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) but the
Corn Laws with knobs on?

Superficially, Cameron may be wise. Europe is a bore as a topic. It is marinated
in its alien juice of jargon. Nobody understands it fully. Cameron's focus
groups tell him schools and health themes are what the public thinks it wants
talked about.

In the Yes, Minister episode that has Jim Hacker emerging as prime minister he
leaps over his rivals because of his valiant defiance of the new Euro directive
banning the British banger, the sausage being redefined as "the emulsified offal
tube". I think Anthony Jay's comedy will prove prescient. I predict that some
essentially small but provocative EU innovation will prove a future "tipping
point". Our patience with EU nonsense will finally snap at some point. Cameron
is not exploiting this.

The Conservative Party purports to be an anti-federalist Party. Yet it does and
says nothing. Today the UK has no trade policies of its own. We are entirely
directed on trade matters by the Commission. The fact that Peter Mandelson is
the Commissioner may give the impression that Britain gives a lead, but
Mandelson simply jumps when EU technocrats issue orders - hence this month's new
barrier to cheaper Vietnamese shoes.

Just keeping quiet about the the EC is understandable stylistically. If riding
bicycles, not wearing ties, promoting women and ethnic minorities and youth is
what excites most people, then talk of the CAP must seem both wearisome and so
very unfashionable.

But UKIP may be well ahead of Cameron. Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, says he
wants free trade with all of the planet, not just with our Continental
neighbours. UKIP can be mocked for wearing blazers or nylon ties but they seem
to have a more enlightened policy towards trade and the EU than Cameron's chic
but silent Notting Hill Tories.

There is not a business in the country that is untouched by the EU's propensity
to impose ever more regulation. Nobody will get exemptions from the Commission's
desire to impose a uniform VAT rate of 20%.

I see a public critique of the EU as an excellent vote-seeking practice. The
settled and preponderant view of the opinion polls is hostile to the EU and
Cameron's political antennae should tell him this. The problem is our political
elites will not discuss it. The gravy train metaphor has also become reality.
The cascades of cash buy silence. This subtle corruption cannot endure.

Many topics derived from Brussels seem British. For example, the Conservatives'
intuitive view is opposed to compulsory identity cards yet these are a Euro
obligation. We are citizens of the EU, not the UK.

We should remember that a formative experience for the young Cameron was when
working with Chancellor Norman Lamont in 1992 when the fiasco of fixing the
exchange rate exploded. It's perhaps this that explains why Cameron's silence on
European matters is tempting.

The European Constitution has not gone away. Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and even
Turkey may soon join the EU. Do the Tories have a view on all this? If so, why
are we not told of it?

To make progress, the Conservative Party has to be true to itself. Silence will
only get Cameron so far. A collective shrug is not good enough.

Socrates also said: "Public men should not be silent when they see evil." Is
David Cameron blind as well as mute ?

John Blundell is Director General

of the Institute of Economic Affairs

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

It's Rogers and out for now;
BLACK DOG

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 474 words


FRESH evidence of the fear and loathing between Brown and Blair has emerged
after the unexpected exit of the PM's Principal Private Secretary Ivan Rogers to
financial giant Citigroup after just a year at No 10.

Ex-Treasury aide Rogers was suspected of being too close to old boss Gordon
Brown. 'Ivan had to go,' said an insider, 'but the moment Gordon takes over,
he'll be back.'

Amy Johnson? No, it's Airmiles Margaret

CONFUSION at the Environment Department during a bird flu summit when a mandarin
observed: 'Any ideas what Amy Johnson thinks?' An underling replied: 'Amy
Johnson? The aviator?' No. It is Margaret Beckett's departmental nickname over
her Queen's Flight globetrotting exploits.

UKIP's Brit parade

FED up with frogs legs and overpriced French plonk in Brussels, UKIP leader
Nigel Farage has organised a Cockney-style booze-up for MEPs next month
featuring real ales, whelks, shove ha'penny and a singsong round the 'joanna'.

HOW unfortunate that when the Treasury announced on its website that banker Sir
David Cooksey renowned for his honesty and integrity is to review waste in
health research, it stated in bold letters: 'Chancellor appoints Sir David
Crooksey...' Crooksey? There's enough of those in the Treasury already.

TENSION over Tory chairman Francis Maude's shock-and-awe approach to party
reforms has led to the party's registered treasurer, Gavin Barwell, quitting to
join mega-rich Lord Ashcroft's growing private army of ex-Central Office
apparatchiks. They cheekily refer to predatory Ashcroft as 'the chairman'.

Watch out, Francis he'll eat you for breakfast.

PRINCE HARRY was in hot water with girlfriend Chelsy Davy over his trip to the
Spearmint Rhino Club in Colnbrook, near Slough. It could have been worse if he
had gone to the Ostrich Inn a few yards down the road. Centuries ago, the inn
had a special room where guests were dropped from a bed through a trap door into
a vat of boiling ale.

LABOUR MP Graham Allen says footballers are a bad influence on young people
because of their 'bawling, foul language, immature, spoilt behaviour and
moneymaking' activities. Sounds just like the Commons. Allen wants to ban clubs
signing young players until they get five GCSEs. That's Wayne Rooney out of the
World Cup, then. He has only one.

TORY MP Tim Yeo was mobbed in Peking after being mistaken for Ken Livingstone
following Ken's comments comparing the Tiananmen Square tragedy to the poll tax
riots. 'I told them I was not the Mayor,' said Yeo. 'No one died in the poll tax
riots 3,000 died in the Square.' MORE success for the Rev Ian Paisley's
political dynasty, with a peerage for his wife, Eileen, to add to the growing
influence of son Ian junior, a DUP member of the Ulster Assembly. But daughter
Rhonda is suing her dad for sex discrimination, claiming she was rejected for a
party post because of her sex.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 16, 2006

Life, politics and sheer bitchery

BYLINE: Cosmo Landesman

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 809 words


Joan Collins tells Cosmo Landesman that UKIP and Footballers' Wives were both a
terrible mistake

Joan Collins is proud to call herself a survivor. She claims that "only the
strongest, the cleverest and the most resilient survive". I'm glad to hear it,
because these are trying times for the nation's most glamorous granny, gay icon,
novelist, polemicist, beauty adviser and beloved bitch.

After having been out of work for some time -in the 1980s as Alexis Carrington
Colby in Dynasty she was the highest-earning woman on television -she made a
television comeback last month with her much-trailed appearance in Footballers'
Wives. But alas, even Collins admits she was "ghastly". "I was terrible, awful,
horrible. I've never been so embarrassed."

Then there's the pressure of rehearsing for her one-woman show. "I'm whacked,
I'm exhausted and my brain is chopped liver," she says. And if the prospect of
being savaged by theatre critics isn't bad enough, she has the Tory leader,
David Cameron, branding her and fellow UKIP followers a bunch of "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists".

In the 1980s Collins was well known for her Thatcherite views. Today she is an
unashamed Brussels-bashing English patriot. A year ago she came out for UKIP,
telling the press that she was flattered to be asked by her friend Robert
Kilroy-Silk -then a leading party member -to be a patron of the party. Now she's
about as happy at having appeared at the UKIP meeting as she is at having
appeared on Footballers' Wives.

"One afternoon in Nottingham I was bored and my friend Robert Kilroy-Silk asked
me to come to a UKIP meeting and have my photo taken with him. So I did. And
that was it. I never said I was patron or a supporter."

Yet in an interview with The Spectator last year, Joan describes herself as a
"patron of the party" and sticks up for its policies, calling them "reasonable".

I suspect Collins suffers from a kind of political Tourette's syndrome political
opinions pop out of her mouth almost against her will. "No, I'm not going to
talk about politics," she says, and out it comes. "It's a scandal the way we
treat old people in this country.

"The government cares more about immigrants than old people. They can't afford
heating and look what they're doing -building affordable homes for immigrants
coming from Europe."

Yet try to engage her directly on politics and she becomes incredibly timid,
claiming that "I'm not really a political person" or that "I haven't been in
touch with British politics".

She should really concentrate on her inner bitch. You get the feeling that if
she were to relax and let her guard down a little, you would be in the presence
of one very funny and fabulous-sexy Ava Gardner kind of a dame. I remind her
that she once claimed she and Warren Beatty used to make love seven times a day.
She raises her eyebrows: "Maybe he did, but I just lay there."

Of the great actresses of her generation, she says: "Frankly, I would rather
have my career and my face than Joan Plowright's face and her career."

But I doubt if this is the Collins we will see in her show about her life and
times, with the aid of everything from baby photos to film footage.

But do we want the real Joan Collins, who can be seen on Sunday morning in her
"jeans and hoodie and with no make-up" jogging off to her local newsagent?
Surely we want the eternal glamourpuss, forever bold, bad and bitchy like
Alexis.

She has had a stream of awful husbands -one tried to sell her to an Arab for the
night -and she's been washed-up more times than your dishes. But she is from the
old school of celebrity, the one that believes in mystique. "One of the reasons
people like me is because they don't know everything about me. I read about
these so-called It girls and I think, no, I don't want to know all this! I'm not
a neurotic person, I've never done drugs and I had a happy childhood."

She once tried therapy when she first went to Hollywood in the 1950s. "I only
did it because it was fashionable. I would lie there and talk to my analyst
about my sex life -and see him get excited." She turned down Frank Sinatra, Dean
Martin and Robert Kennedy, but had relationships with Arthur Lowe -Captain
Mainwaring from Dad's Army -Ryan O'Neal and Dennis Hopper. At last she has found
a decent and charming man in husband number five Percy Gibson, 30 years her
junior.

Why doesn't Joan ever marry men more her own age? "Men of my generation aren't
that attractive. Too wrinkly ... I'm as ageist as the next person."

But doesn't Joan ever worry about growing old? "No. You grow older -but you
don't have to become old."

Collins has never gone under the plastic surgeon's knife. Was she against it on
principle? "No, I'm a f****** coward! I hate needles. Besides, I don't want to
end up looking like Melanie Griffith or Farrah Fawcett!" Spoken like a true
bitch.

Welcome back, Joan.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Loony tag's unfair

SECTION: LETTERS; 28

LENGTH: 109  words


SO Mr Cameron thinks the UK Independence Party is full of fruitcakes, loonies
and closet racists.

I'd like to inform him that UKIP had 2.5 million votes in the last local
elections and I am sure it will be getting many more in May.

The Government, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats do not realise the anger
felt by British people. Vast amounts of our money are handed over to asylum
seekers who do not wish to work or contribute to our way of life. I am sure I
speak for many British citizens in saying we are sick and tired of the immigrant
situation.

That does not make us racist. We are realists who wish to make Britain great
again.

Anne Masters, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly. . .

SECTION: LETTERS; 28

LENGTH: 52  words


I AM a member of the UK Independence Party and must declare that we are not
racists.

Neither are we cranks or fruitcakes, although I'll admit to having 'gad-fly'
tendencies. I am exceptionally smug, however, as Cameron with his Labour and
Liberal Democrat chums are clearly scared to death of us.

Les Arnott, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Cameron's no Tory (and nor is d'Ancona)

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 43 words


I was very disappointed to read the snide reference by Matthew d'Ancona to the
UK Independence Party quoting Hitler on its website. He must have been fully
aware that the quote demonstrated the complete opposite to that implied by him.

Bill Jenner

Bexleyheath, Kent

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Admit it, you're a Tory

BYLINE: Nigel Farndale

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 680 words


If David "Dave'' Cameron is to have any chance of becoming prime minister, he
must first pass the David Starkey test. Dr Starkey once said that, as a young
man, he felt more embarrassed about coming out as a Conservative than he did
about coming out as a homosexual.

The test for Mr Cameron, then, is whether he can persuade young voters to
overcome their shame and admit they have Tory tendencies. It won't be easy. You
can just hear the parents: "We always suspected our son was different, then we
caught him wearing a suit without a tie. At first we thought he was drawn into
that world because it seemed dangerous and exciting. He clearly lacked the
maturity to know what he really wanted, so we insisted he talk to someone about
it. The psychiatrist told us he had counselled many young Tories and was
convinced that, in our son's case, it was more than just a passing phase.''

The problem for Mr Cameron, of course, is that the young tend to look to rock
stars for their political lead - and all rock stars, or the pseudo intellectual
ones at least, support Labour. In 1997, for example, Tony Blair had the backing
of Damon Albarn, Noel Gallagher, and Paul Weller. John Major had the Spice
Girls. It was worse for Margaret Thatcher, she had Lulu. At the 1978 Tory
conference, indeed, Lulu sang: "Hello Maggie, well hello Maggie, it's so great
to see you on the way to Number 10.''

The political orientation of the young is also influenced by their favourite
comedians - and since the alternative comedy movement of the early 1980s, led by
Ben Elton and Alexei Sayle, it has been compulsory for ambitious comedians to
have Left-wing sympathies. True, the Tory-supporting Jim Davidson could,
technically speaking, be classified as a comedian, but, as the Antarctic will
freeze over before he gets his own comedy show on Radio 4, he doesn't count.

Radio 4 is, after all, the spiritual home of student comedy - Jeremy Hardy and
Marcus Brigstocke being its finest and most sharp-witted exponents. Mr Hardy
went to Southampton ("the only university that applied to be a polytechnic'')
and is an active supporter of the Socialist Alliance. Mr Brigstocke, a
self-styled angry young man, went to Bristol and, according to his website, "is
committed to non-violence and is an active campaigner for CND and the Campaign
Against Arms Trade''. Radio 4 comedians do attack Labour occasionally, but only
for being too Tory.

The curious thing is, David "Dave'' Cameron seems to have wrong-footed them with
his apparently genuine concerns about global warming and his hilarious comment
about Ukip being full of "fruit cakes, loonies and closet racists''. Brigstocke
seems especially confused. In the new series of the Now Show, I notice, he has
taken to calling Cameron "the young, cycling, Smiths-fan and pretend-Tory David
Cameron''. Come on out, Marcus, and say it loud: "I quite like Cameron and I'm
proud.''

A few days ago, a middle-aged friend of mine went into his local
DVD-store-cum-internet café. As he was browsing the DVDs, he noticed two girls
in their late teens who appeared to be "chatting'' to each other over the
internet, even though one was facing the other, albeit with their faces hidden
by their screens. He knew this because they were using webcams.

Intrigued, he watched the nearest girl tapping away, then surreptitiously walked
around the tables to check the screen of the other one. A message flashed up on
it: "Ohmigod. Now he's standing behind YOU.''

I managed to get an exit seat for a flight to Boston the other day. You have to
pay pounds 50 at check in, but it's worth it for the leg room (I'm 6ft 2in). I
asked if I could pre-book one for the way back but was told I couldn't.

Why's that? "We only release them on the day. It's so that we can inspect the
passenger.'' She looked over her shoulder, and added: "You get these Americans
who weigh 40 stones, you see...'' A few minutes, later I phoned my wife from a
noisy departure lounge. "I got an exit seat.''

"You got an extra seat?''

"No, an exit seat.''

"I was going to say, I don't think you need an extra seat, yet.''

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday

Dave should make the supreme sacrifice SIMON HEFFER on Saturday

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 166 words


What a miserable Easter this will be for Dave, following a crushing put-down
yesterday from his spiritual leader Ming the Merciless. The 114-year-old leader
of the Lib Dems, being frightfully modern and giving an interview on the
internet, said the Tories under Dave hadn't "changed'' and were still
"unpleasant'' and "Right-wing''. Now, neither Dave nor Ming knows what
"Right-wing'' really means, but they both know they hate it and are firmly
against it: so, coming from an expert anti-Right-winger, the criticism will cut
Dave to the quick.

We can expect Dave, in his quest to be ever more like the Lib Dems and Labour,
to engage in further acts of "change'' directly after the holiday, once he has
finished sending UKIP voters to concentration camps. Dave's own resignation in
favour of a leader who is black, Muslim, lesbian, working-class, disabled, a
single parent and completely socially excluded is the obvious way to stop these
cruel attacks, and I would urge him seriously to consider it.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 15, 2006, Saturday

Italians have tied their politicians' hands

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 339 words


Sir, It is wrong to suggest that the only sensible change to have taken pace in
the Italian voting system was to award a bonus to the coalition that won the
most votes. That factor seems to have led to much of the current uncertainty.

Knowing that this bonus prize was on offer, both Centre Left and Centre Right
strove to forge unlikely alliances that are already showing signs of falling
apart. There was a pressing need to scrape together a few more votes at almost
any cost -not to build an arrangement based on shared values or common policies,
as previous coalitions had done. Imagine a centre-right coalition in the UK
needing to bring Veritas, the UKIP, the English Democrats and the Conservatives
together into a harmonious working relationship.

It is quite false to suggest that "proportional representation will return Italy
to political instability" or that the current uncertainty in Italy is anything
to do with voting systems. PR is the norm throughout Europe -instability is not.

Moreover, Italy did not have a "winner-take-all constituency voting system". The
past two elections have been fought on a system of PR, but one similar to that
used for the devolved institutions in Scotland, Wales and London. While that
system is far from perfect, what Berlusconi has instituted is not a change away
from PR but to a list system -the least desirable form of PR, and yet the form
we use to elect our MEPs.

The closeness of the result in Italy may be more to do with a genuinely divided
nation. A similar situation occurred in Canada under the first-past-the-post
system we use in our own elections, and we should not forget the contest between
Bush and Gore in 2000. It is also worth noting that while Berlusconi and Prodi
argue over the outcome of the recent election, both their coalitions gained more
than 49 per cent of the votes. Compare that with Britain, where Labour was able
to form a government on its own in spite of having only 36 per cent of the
votes.

KEN RITCHIE Chief Executive, Electoral Reform Society London SE1

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 14, 2006 Friday

G2: JK Rowling is right about skinny models - but nothing will change while men
still run the fashion world

BYLINE: Maureen Lipman

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1104 words


JK Rowling has pottered forth into the body politic with her views on skinny,
celebrity role models. She is quite right, of course, about these young women
"whose only function in the world appears to be supporting the trade in
overpriced handbags and rat-sized dogs". Never mind the clothes - you need only
look at the mannequins in shop windows to feel obese. Let's face it, clothes
look better hanging from angles rather than from curves - but surely the dummies
of yore never had protruding rib cages, concave hips and nipples that point to
the ceiling?

Of course, some people have been annoyed by Rowling's thoughts on the matter -
after all, household names are not supposed to have opinions. They are supposed
to entertain when they get the chance, show up at the school fete for as long as
they're still on the telly, flash a leg at the entrance to the Ukip "Euroquip of
the year" awards and be gracious and grateful when a posse of hyperactive
photographers calls out: "Maureen! Maureen! Over here, Maureen! Maureen, look at
me. Maureen! Up here, Maureen! Down here, Maureen."

Seriously, you've got to see the camera-wielders at a "do" to believe it. They
have a pack mentality. They've learned the "snapper's chant" from the original
brigade of paparazzi and they're sticking to it, despite the fact that we're all
familiar enough with the routine to do the smiles, looks and leg flashing in our
sleep. But still, they persist: "Maureen! This way! That way! Show us yer
'andbag!" Jack used to stand there in agony, a rictus grin on his face, doing
his level best to disappear up his own dinner jacket. I've seen Gerald Scarfe do
exactly the same routine, when they're hollering "Jane! Jane! Over 'ere, Jane,
can you tell us who made your velvet shrug?"

The last time I ran the flashbulb gauntlet was, believe it or not, at the Oldie
lunch. It was bizarre. There was more white hair than at a sheep shearers'
convention. The smell of Fiery Jack and Dentifrice was pleasantly rampant. John
Mortimer was being hauled up the steps of Simpsons-in-the-Strand in a
wheelchair; Barry Cryer was telling the one about the genie and the map of the
Middle East; Beryl Bainbridge was having a quiet fag behind the potted plants;
Walter Wolfgang, the ancient protester so kindly evicted from last year's Labour
conference, was blinking warily into the straining waistcoat of editor-in-chief
Richard Ingrams - and the Nikon-o-clasts were screaming at us as though we were
Angelina and Brad.

But back to the issue of skinny role models . . . I'm afraid it was always thus
and will be even thus, as long as very creative, and largely male, fashion
designers are they who must be obeyed

What would the point be for fashion houses, if they created a style that looked
good on all women? What would happen the following season? Would they pack up
and move on to a new career in plumbing? That's why the ubiquitous jeans are a
double-edged (and, this year, sawn-off) sword. A pair of jeans could last your
average macho cowboy maybe 10 years - more if Brokeback Mountain's your home and
your jeans get to be folded up outside the tent for a great deal of the time -
and cowboys spend their days roping steer and breaking in stallions as opposed
to slurping lattes and picking up Tallulah from baby yoga in a Hummer.

For some reason, though, women love themselves in jeans. So jeans have to evolve
every season. Stretch, embroidered, flared, studded, cropped, pouchy and so
low-slung as to reveal your natural hair colour. If it were up to me, I'd have
denim discontinued except as a boy's name or a bicycle-seat cover.

All that said, I do have an awful moment in my dressing room each night when I
bend over backwards in front of a long mirror to straighten my seamed stockings
and I see, upside down through my legs, a strange, inhuman and terrifying sight.
It's more information than you need, so I won't dwell on it, except to say just
don't ever do it . It's an alien being, a mess of potage - and I haven't eaten
chocolate or bread since the old King died.

We must all learn to eat like her Royal Majesty and leave some on the plate. But
since we spend our formative years being indoctrinated to clean our plates of
every morsel or they'll die in their squillions in Mesopotamia, and since food
is our reward for good behaviour, our comfort and our form of celebration, how
in hell are we expected to downgrade it whenever it seems to cause us midriff
crises?

I can now admit, frugal Guardian readers mine, to a sybaritic experience. Sunday
saw my first visit to Raymond Blanc's, Le Manoir aux Quat'Saisons, in
Oxfordshire. I notice that, according to Restaurant magazine, I would have been
better to have visited the Fat Duck in Bray, or hopped over to Spain for
something even more huily and truffly. Frankly my dears, I don't give a dram. Le
Manoir, even in the torrential rain, was gorgeous, and a welcome change for an
overworked woman with greasepaint up her nostrils and a tendency to spend all
her waking hours in small, stale, over-heated rooms.

The occasion was the silver wedding of Susan Hampshire and Eddie Kulukundis and
love was in the air, the speeches, the merry coach journey and, oh, the food!
Pan-fried fillet of Cornish red mullet, salted cod brandade and bouillabaisse
jus; caramelised raspberry and Tahiti vanilla millefeuille are flavour bursts
that I hope never to forget. Seven courses might seem a touch more than my
normal Sunday scrambled-egg fare but, astonishingly, I was far less bloated at
the end of the day and managed to see off a nice roast dinner in the evening,
cooked by Natalie, the angel who lives in my attic. I shall not, however, be
bending down to straighten my seams in the mirror until further notice.

I held my Passover Seder night in my producer's office in between a matinee and
an evening show. There were six of us and we told the familiar story and ate the
familiar food, balancing bitter herbs and hard-boiled eggs on our laps, and told
a few jokes, and struggled to remember the tunes to the songs. It was lovely.
Not perfect but neither was the exit from Egypt. A certain amount of expediency
under prescribed circumstances is, after all, what we are celebrating. Happy
Pesach and Happy Easter to prestidigitators everywhere.

This week Maureen listened to a marvellous radio programme about The Secret
Garden and its author Frances Hodgson Burnett, "broadcast, for some reason, at
one in the morning". She is reading Roya Hakakian's biography Journey from the
Land of No about life in Iran before and after the revolution: "A worldly
rites-of-passage tale, set in 'interesting times'."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday

Italian debt rings alarm bells at EU Currency chief fears bond crisis, with
election stalemate adding to problems, reports Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

BYLINE: Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: CITY; business centre; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words


BRUSSELS has warned that Italian government debt is overpriced and vulnerable to
a correction, heightening fears of a possible bond crisis in Europe's southern
tier.

Joaquin Almunia, the EU's monetary affairs commissioner, told a group of City
bankers and fund managers that the markets were "not properly pricing the risk''
of Italian sovereign debt. He also raised concerns about Greek debt.

The comments came as Italy faced political gridlock after the narrow electoral
victory of Romano Prodi, which left him dependent on Communist votes in the
Senate and may have doomed hopes for serious economic reform.

Milan's MIB stock index fell 2.18pc as investors digested the news. The Mediaset
empire of outgoing premier Silvio Berlusconi rose as it became clear that the
new government lacked the power to inflict "revenge''.

Bank of America said the messy result was the "worst possible outcome for
financial markets''.

Ratings agency Standard & Poor's this week threatened a downgrade of Italian
debt unless Rome took "urgent'' measures to tackle Italy's fiscal crisis. "The
long-term rating could be lowered this year if no signs of a sustainable and
coherent debt reduction strategy emerge,'' it said.

The spread between German and Italian 10-year bonds has already jumped from 20
to 31 basis points in recent days as rising global interest rates make investors
more sensitive to risk.

Mr Almunia said the spreads may widen further to reflect the default risk in
Italy, which has the world's third biggest stock of public debt after Japan and
the United States.

The country's public debt is over 106pc of GDP, and rising again for the first
time since the early 1990s. The budget deficit is now 4pc of GDP, though EU
officials say privately that the real figure stripped of "fiscal alchemy'' is
nearer 5pc.

EU officials have long been worried about Italy's failure to adapt to the
rigours of the euro and some say it should never have been let into EMU with a
debt nearly double the Maastricht Treaty limit. But such concerns are usually
kept private.

Mr Almunia's remarks were made in response to a question on Monday night from
John Whittaker, an MEP from the UK Independence Party. "This is surely a signal
for the markets to sell,'' said Mr Whittaker.

"I find it extraordinary that the EU's chief official of monetary affairs,
somebody who knows the inner working of the system, should say such things. It's
like a central banker saying his own currency is overvalued,'' he said.

Mr Almunia's spokesman said yesterday that his remarks may have been
misunderstood.

"What he meant was that spreads are very narrow by historical standards, which
is no different from what market observers have been saying,'' she said

Marc Ostwald, an economist at Monument Securities, said Italian bonds were now a
one-way bet.

"What we're seeing is more credit discrimination within the eurozone, and
there's a risk that the spreads could widen further to at least 40 basis
points,'' he said.

"We're looking at political paralysis. I fear that Italy is not going to face up
to start reform until they reach the point of genuine crisis,'' he said.

Rome has squandered the windfall benefits of joining the euro, which shaved 6pc
of GDP off annual interest costs. It has put off reform and reverted to
inflationary habits.

Italian unit labour costs have soared over 40pc since 1995, while costs have
fallen in France and Germany, according to a study by HSBC.

In effect, Italy is now chronically overvalued against the rest of the eurozone,
with no way out.

The result has been a collapse of Italian exports, still reliant on textiles,
shoes and furniture, which compete directly with China. Growth was zero in 2005,
after 12 sluggish years.

"It is hard to exaggerate the scale of economic problems. The trend growth has
collapsed. If nothing is done, we suspect that the underlying growth rate could
actually turn negative within 10 to 15 years,'' the bank said.

HSBC says Italy's plight is now so dire that it might benefit from leaving the
euro, a move that would trigger a major crisis but allow the economy to find the
right exchange rate.

While interest rates would spike, the effect would be cushioned by a transfer of
extra income to Italian savers, who own most of the public debt. Foreign holders
would nurse the big losses, since treasury bonds would probably be switched into
devalued lire.

Bernard Connolly, global strategist at Banque AIG and ex-head of economic
research at the European Commission, said Italy was now in a worse state than
Argentina in the late 1990s before it was forced off the dollar peg.

He said booming global growth and a weaker euro had given Italy a brief reprieve
since last summer, when the crisis was bad enough to prompt two Italian
ministers to call for a return to the lira. But the underlying picture was still
becoming grimmer by the month.

Mr Connolly said it would be almost impossible for Italy to claw back lost
ground through "disinflation'', since such a policy would lead to rising real
interest rates, mass defaults and an upward spiral in public debt. Even if such
austerity could be imposed, it would be self-defeating, he said.

He said Italy would muddle through for now but may be forced out of monetary
union in coming years unless Germany offers a lifeline by tolerating higher
inflation - an unlikely outcome.

"It will drag on until we see grinding recession and the sheer hopelessness of
it becomes obvious. Then bond spreads will widen dramatically,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday

A case for the PC cops

BYLINE: PETER PATERSON

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 895 words


Dalziel And Pascoe: Death In The Family (BBC1); It's Not Easy Being Green (BBC2)

POLITICS often has a way of seeping craftily out of the news and into where it's
neither wanted nor expected on TV, but it's slightly surprising to find it
regularly rearing its head in a cop show.

The show in question is Dalziel And Pascoe, which strays into politics not
because a desire for topicality allows it in through the back door: in fact, D&P
isn't particularly topical. But anyone who regularly watches this show, which
has now been on our screens for ten years, cannot have helped noticing how big a
part politics plays in its story lines.

Usually, the agenda appears to lean towards the anti-capitalist Left.

This may be because the junior partner, Colin Buchanan's Detective Inspector
Peter Pascoe, is a sociology graduate sensitive to civil liberties issues, and
he's often required to repair some of the damage done by his rampaging,
straight-talking boss, Detective Superintendent Andy Dalziel, played by the
incomparable Warren Clarke.

The political tone of the series, however, is mostly set not by Pascoe but
Dalziel. Partly, this springs from his bluff Yorkshire working-class,
up-from-nowhere background. So if a rich man in a mansion features in these
stories he invariably turns out to be a wrong 'un, whereas a single mother, an
illpaid employee or an immigrant of ethnic background is guaranteed to be found
not guilty.

The tale told over the past two nights, A Death In The Family, was full of
politics but of such a wayward kind as to suggest that Dalziel's instincts owe
more to the type of debates usually associated with the saloon bar than any
party political broadcast.

So we saw his customary open contempt for a group of yuppies who'd been close
friends since their university days, his dislike of their education, morals and
prosperity made perfectly apparent. Yet a clichEd happy ending was arranged for
Pakistani accountant Imad Abdullah (Paul Sharma) who helped his classy white
friends to perpetrate an armed robbery, only to find himself fobbed off with a
smaller share of the loot.

But Dalziel can also portray a Rightwing populist when it's convenient. We saw
him roaring his anger at the lady instructor of a compulsory police diversity
training course (a marvellous cameo by Charlotte Longfield obviously based, for
anyone who knows her, on Polly Toynbee, The Guardian's guardian of all things
politically correct).

Later, he delivered a speech to his entire murder team on the subject of free
speech and the liberty of the individual that could have come directly from a
candidate for the UK Independence Party.

While declaring that he was not racist nor, contrary to popular opinion, sexist
or homophobic, he attacked the 'sanctimonious political correctness' that
wouldn't allow him to address anyone as 'love, petal or mate'.

Since it can be argued that all politics, in the end, comes down to family, it
was significant that the title of A Death In The Family was not about the
nuclear, bloodrelated kind.

First, it concerned Dalziel's torn loyalties over the murder of an old police
colleague now security guard, Dave Compton (Ray Ashcroft), during the robbery
that led to Imad Abdullah being shortchanged. Dave's killing was later followed
by that of one of the incestuously close-knit 'family' of college friends
Dalziel so disapproved of.

Compton had left the police under a cloud five years earlier for drug addiction.
Dalziel now refused, despite abundant evidence, to believe that his erstwhile
friend had been the 'inside man' in the theft by the yuppie gang of Pounds
600,000 in used currency from a warehouse, or that he was a heroin addict.

His death was accidental to the extent that he'd suffered only a light blow to
the head, for show, from a fellow conspirator, and was found to have an
abnormally thin skull.

BUT DALZIEL remembered how he and Dave had joined the force on the same day, and
stood together opposite the pickets in the Miners' Strike in 1983, his friend
offering support when Dalziel's own family would no longer speak to him.

And he was mortified by the truth of the charge from Dave's sister, Pat
Richardson (Gillian Wright), that he'd not stood up for his friend when he was
thrown out of the police, nor kept in touch with him subsequently.

One day, Dalziel may have to make his mind up on what he truly believes - the
pickets or the police, the poor or the prosperous, political correctness or
playground name- calling. But until then, there's really no knowing which
political way he'll jump.

A CERTAIN smugness has overtaken the initially likeable conservation series It's
Not Easy Being Green. Watching the Strawbridge family, one is slightly repelled
by the atmosphere of self-congratulation that overhangs their migration from
Worcestershire to Cornwall.

It's Not Easy To Be Modest might be a better title for a group who could indeed
be conserving the environment, but never stops telling us so.

Whether growing vegetables, generating electricity from a homemade waterwheel or
buying ' rescued' hens from a battery farm, they just can't help bragging about
how simply marvellous they are.

However interesting some of their self-help measures undoubtedly are, they're
not assisting the cause by making the rest of us feel like peasants at the gates
of Louis XIV's Versailles. Send for Detective Superintendent Dalziel.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday

Letters - Fruit calling the fruit cake

LENGTH: 75 words


I'm sure that Dave Cameron is right to describe UKIP as "fruitcakes" and worse.

However, I note that the Tory leader and shadow cabinet were at Lord Ashcroft's
60th birthday party at the Grosvenor House Hotel in London earlier in the week.

I see that, as the birthday cake was wheeled on, Sir Cliff Richard sang
Congratulations while Denise Van Outen sprang from the cake itself. Frankly, it
makes UKIP look quite sane by comparison.

KEITH FLETT, London N17.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Spy

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: FEATURES; SPY; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 631 words


short tempered

She has been described as "a loose cannon with a sense of direction'', and again
Clare Short (right) does not disappoint.

At the London launch of the Anglo-Indian literary festival last week, the
Birmingham Ladywood MP didn't hold back.

"The Commons is one of the most depressing and intellectually unstimulating
places in the country,'' she tells me. "Book festivals are taking the place of
traditional political meetings and I am far more optimistic about them being
places of real debate.''

Following her book, An Honourable Deception, which condemned the Iraq war, the
former minister is preparing her next salvo: "I think Tony wants to stay as long
as he can. All prime ministers do and I'm sure he has breaking Mrs Thatcher's
record in mind.''

BEHIND YOU

Few could be happier at the defection of former Labour Welsh Assembly Member
Alison Halford to the Tories than Monmouth's Tory MP, David Davies.

When the pair served in the assembly, Halford sat behind Davies - 30 years her
junior - and made a famous interjection while he was speaking in a 1999 debate:
"Could I just say that he has one of the nicest bottoms I have seen for a
considerable time?'' she inquired politely.

And Davies - now married with two children - is advising against any further
comments of that nature. "I don't think Alison will prosper in the Cameron-led
Conservatives if she makes any more politically incorrect, sexist remarks like
that,'' he tells me.

toxic hirst

I recently reported that Damien Hirst's popularity in Mexico is prompting him to
build a gallery in the back garden of his beach house there.

But his neighbours in Britain are less enthused by the prospect of his growing
property empire.

The long-since uncontroversial Brit artist has just been granted planning
permission to convert a disused factory in Stroud into an art production studio
- in which he intends to use toxic and hazardous materials.

"I would be concerned if he is using toxic materials in an uncontrolled
manner,'' says Dennis Andrewartha, a local Lib Dem councillor. "I'll be asking
our environmental department, which polices that kind of thing, to make sure he
will be using the chemicals correctly.''

A spokesman for Hirst assures me that this will be the case: "He employs a
health and safety adviser to ensure that everything is safely stored.''

have your cake

David Cameron must rue declaring on LBC radio last week that the UK Independence
Party's members are mostly "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists''.

Conservative activists attending the Tory spring conference in Manchester on
Saturday were welcomed by a UKIP picket led by MEP Nigel Farage, who was
demanding an apology from Cameron for his comments.

No apology was forthcoming, but the protesters did not leave empty-handed - I
hear London Tory activist Andy Peterkin went up to Farage and presented him with
a fruitcake.

"We accepted it gleefully,'' says Farage when I call. "It just goes to show that
some Tories still have a sense of humour.''

sahara-bound

Ever wondered what Victoria Aitken (left) is up to? No? Here goes anyway. The
24-year-old daughter of former jailbird Jonathan has just set sail to the Hamada
desert in Algeria, in an attempt to highlight the plight of displaced African
tribesmen.

"I'm writing a coffee table book about the tribesmen, and I'm heading out there
with a wonderful photographer called Piera,'' she tells me.

"We're going to visit the camps where the Saharawi live. They were displaced to
Algeria from the Western Sahara desert in Africa more than 30 years ago because
of the war with Morocco.''

And the enterprising Miss Aitken isn't letting the lack of an agent or publisher
dampen her ardour:

"We haven't got a deal yet, but, when we do, we'll be giving 10 per cent of the
sales to a charity to help the Saharawi.''

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Tory candidate sorry over race remark

BYLINE: Toby Helm

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 196 words


DAVID Cameron cracked the disciplinary whip yesterday as a Tory candidate was
forced to apologise for saying that she did not want someone from an ethnic
minority to stand in her constituency.

Joan Howarth, who is contesting May's council elections, told Channel 4 that a
black or Asian candidate "wouldn't work'' in the "traditional working class''
constituency of Denton and Reddish near Manchester.

But last night, after Mr Cameron told her that she was in the "wrong party'',
Mrs Howarth withdrew the remarks. "I completely and utterly regret what I
said,'' she said in a statement. "I believe that candidates should be able to
stand everywhere regardless of the ethnic make-up of the constituency in
question.''

Last week Mr Cameron accused the UK Independence Party of being "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists, mostly''.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the European Parliament, said Mr Cameron had
stirred up a row that highlighted his own party's intolerance to ethnic minority
politicians.

Labour's Phil Woolas, the local government minister, said: "David Cameron's warm
words of change are totally meaningless against the harsh reality of Tory rank
and file candidates.''

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Red Ken is a nasty, ruthless political thug with a temper

BYLINE: RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1312 words


KEN Livingstone's behaviour has long since been beyond a joke. But his latest
outburst is more than just stupefyingly crass.

In Beijing, on a taxpayer-funded, Olympics-related jolly, he compared the
Tiananmen Square massacre to the poll tax protests in London.

For the record, in Tiananmen Square in 1989, at least 3,000 were slaughtered and
10,000 injured by the Chinese authorities during a prodemocracy demonstration.

In Trafalgar Square in 1990, 110 people - including 45 Met police officers -
were injured in an antidemocracy riot orchestrated by anarchists, SWP boot boys
and Livingstone's old oppos in the Workers Revolutionary Party. No one died.

(If ever there was a case for sending tanks and flame-throwers into Trafalgar
Square it was during the poll tax riot.) Curiously, in his disgraceful attempt
at moral equivalence, Livingstone failed to mention the police's aggressive
head-cracking on the Countryside Alliance march. No doubt he thought they were
fair game, since middle- class, Middle England represents everything he hates
about his own country.

On the other hand, Livingstone (in common with most on the Left) has never met a
Communist tyrant he didn't like.

Interesting, isn't it, that in his eagerness to accuse people he dislikes of
being concentration camp guards, he never compares anyone to Pol Pot. The evils
of Stalin and Mao are brushed aside, just as Robert Mugabe gets a free pass from
those who think George Bush is worse than Hitler.

Livingstone and the rest of the Neo-Coms are more than happy to overlook mass
murder and human rights abuses in the Muslim world.

Indeed, he even invited to County Hall as an exalted guest an Islamic extremist,
who supports wife-beating, suicide bombing and is an enthusiast for burning
homosexuals alive.

Yet they are quick to accuse Britain of routinely abusing 'human rights' - even
if it involves something as trivial as a serial killer's demand for soft toilet
paper in his prison cell.

In the normal course of events, I try (and sometimes fail) not to bore you with
the parochial political posturing and odious outpourings of London's mayor.

like it or not, Livingstone is a national figure.

He's flown first-class at our expense to Beijing as one of the public faces of
Britain's 2012 Olympic Games.

And on the international stage, he has publicly accused his own country of being
just as bad as the Communist butchers who slaughtered 3,000 of their own people
simply for demanding the right to freedom.

No doubt Livingstone's gormless fan club will be rallying to his defence.

It's only Ken being Ken, they'll insist. Bless.

Contrary to popular myth, Livingstone isn't some Wolfie Smith character-who got
lucky. He's a ruthless, vicious political thug with a nasty temper, especially
in drink.

He poses as the tribune of the people but in reality he's a selfish, opportunist
egomaniac.

Livingstone only ended up in his current job because Tony Blair screwed up.

The Prime Minister didn't have the bottle to back Trevor Phillips for London
mayor and instead press-ganged Del Boy's Uncle Albert, in the form of the
hapless but decent Frank Dobson.

Red Ken sailed home as the anti-Establishment champion and Blair, faced with
further embarrassment, quickly endorsed him in a shameless piece of expediency.

Livingstone should be at home in Beijing. Given half a chance he'd run London
the way the 'appalling old waxworks' run China.

It is London's shame that so many have been taken in by him. But now he's an
international embarrassment, too.

Beyond a joke? Beyond the pale.

Is there anyone guilty in Gitmo?

A LONDONchef being held as a terror suspect at Guantanamo Bay claims, through
his lawyer, he is innocent. He also says he is being tortured. Don't they all?

Ahmed Errachidi swears he was cooking eggs at the Westbury Hotel in Mayfair when
the Americans allege he was training to be an assassin at a camp near Kandahar.

I have no idea whether or not he is telling the truth. Neither does anyone else.
But his version of events is swallowed whole by credulous reporters.

Nowhere in any of the stories I have read is it explained how he came to end up
first at Bagram air base and then at Camp Gitmo.

We are always asked to believe that absolutely no one at Guantanamo Bay is
guilty of anything - except, of course, the Americans.

But there must be some grounds for detaining them.

Ahmed Errachidi must have given his captors some reason for suspicion.

The Americans can be a little over-enthusiastic and have made a few mistakes.
But to the best of my knowledge they haven't yet resorted to sending teams of
CIA agents storming into hotel kitchens and arresting innocent chefs at random.

Otherwise there wouldn't be a curry house left open in Tipton.

THE Man Who Stole Your Old Age has flown to Africa to spend Pounds 8.5 billion
on a publicity stunt. That's how much of our money Great Statesman Gordon is
giving to create school places for every child in the developing world.

Who asked him to do that?

If that money is spent as wisely as the billions Gordon has 'invested' in
Britain, the children of the developing world face a pretty bleak future.

Anyway, what has overseas development got to do with the Chancellor? Isn't that
what Tony Benn's boy is supposed to do for a living?

Gordon's very generous with other people's money. Especially if it means he gets
his picture taken with Nelson Mandela.

As far as he's concerned, it's costfree compassion. Cost-free for him, that is.
While he's coming over all Bob Geldof, perhaps he'd like to tell us how much of
his own money he's giving to Africa?

It's grim up North London . . . just ask Patricia Hewitt ACCORDING to the Mail
on Sunday's MPs' Rich List, Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt's house in North
London is worth Pounds 1.3 million - 'even though it is only yards from a crack
den'.

What is a Cabinet minister doing living next door to a crack den? Topping up her
street cred?

More to the point, if everyone knows it's a crack den, why haven't the Old Bill
steamed in and closed it down?

Probably because Met chief Ian Blair is concerned about finding himself hauled
before the police complaints committee accused of upsetting members of the
crack-smoking community.

Call me old-fashioned, but if you ever wonder how far we've sunk, just ask
yourself why the fact that a government ministerlives yards from an illegal
drugs den barely raises an eyebrow any more.

Excuse me, officer (assuming you can find one on the streets of Islington),
could you tell me the quickest way to Patricia Hewitt's house in Steve Biko
Square?

Certainly, sir. Turn right at the illegal caravan site, walk straight past the
winos, you'll see the aggressive beggars on your left and the dope dealers
outside the Tube station.

When you get to the prostitutes, sorry sex workers, leaning up against the wall
covered in jihadist graffiti, take a left at the burned-out car and Miss
Hewitt's gaff is the one with the Vote Labour poster in the window, next to the
crack den.

CALL Me Dave has been rightly criticised for insulting UKIP members as
'fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

Labelling as 'racist' those who believe Britain should be an independent nation
is the laziest form of abuse.

But after UKIP's leader in the European Parliament, Nigel 'five-times-a-night'
Farage, turned up at the Tory conference in a tank, 'fruitcakes and loonies'
might not be too far wide of the mark.

Magistrates have been told by the Lord Chancellor's office not to wear club
blazers or old school ties in court because they could be perceived to be biased
against some defendants.

Tens of thousands of pounds have been spent on a leaflet advising them on how to
dress appropriately.

Cheerful Charlie Falconer needn't have bothered.

Since the Guardianistas seized control of the criminal justice system, the
chances of anyone with an old school tie or a club blazer actually being
appointed a magistrate are pretty remote.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPALLING OLD WAXWORKS? KEN, AS SEEN AT MADAME TUSSAUDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Politics: U-turn by Tory candidate in race row

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 327 words


The Tories last night hoped to draw a line under an embarrassing race row after
a Conservative candidate who said she would not want an ethnic minority
colleague to stand for parliament made an abrupt U-turn.

Joan Haworth had told a television interviewer that a non-white candidate
"wouldn't work for us" in her constituency and stood by her comments when
contacted by her local newspaper.

The remarks, which came a week after David Cameron claimed that Ukip members
were "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly", threatened to undermine
his attempts to demonstrate that the party is modernising.

The Conservative leader said that Ms Howarth, who is standing for the Tories in
May's local elections, was "absolutely wrong" and "in the wrong party", but took
no disciplinary action against her, prompting accusations of hypocrisy from Ukip
and Labour claims that his promise to change his party was meaningless.

Although it was too late to withdraw her as a candidate on May 4, the Tories
could have suspended or expelled her, but would have risked causing resentment
among local associations keen to defend their independence.

Ms Howarth had told the Manchester Evening News that she was in the right party
and reiterated: "You just pick the best candidate for your constituency. Ashton
has a high ethnic community, and obviously an ethnic candidate would go down
better than one would here."

But last night she demonstrated a change of heart in a statement issued by
Conservative headquarters. "I completely and utterly regret what I said to
Channel 4. It was not what I meant or believe at all," said Ms Howarth, who is
standing for the Tories in Tameside, east Manchester. "I totally support David
Cameron's moves to make the Conservative party more inclusive and to have more
candidates from black and ethnic minority communities. I believe that candidates
should be able to stand everywhere regardless of the ethnic make-up of the
constituency in question."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

TORY RACE SLUR NO2 FOR CAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 115 words


DAVID Cameron was yesterday hit by a new race row after a Tory election
candidate said she did not want a black or Asian person standing in her area.

Joan Howarth said in a Channel 4 interview that an ethnic minority candidate
"wouldn't work" in her working class constituency of Denton West ward of
Tameside, Manchester.

Tory leader David Cameron said married Mrs Howarth, who is standing for the
Conservatives in May 4 local elections, is "in the wrong party".

But Mrs Howarth, 59, said: "It was not what I meant. Candidates should be able
to stand everywhere regardless of the ethnic make up of the constituency." Mr
Cameron last week accused the UK Independence Party of being "closet racists".

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

First crisis for Dave over Tory race row

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 103  words


DAVID Cameron was facing his first big Tory leadership test last night as a race
row erupted.

He was under pressure to axe a would-be Tory councillor who said she would not
want an ethnic minority candidate standing as an MP in her area.

Mr Cameron said Joan Howarth was "in the wrong party".

But it will embarrass the Tory chief who last week branded UKIP "closet
racists".

Mrs Howarth told Channel 4 a black or Asian candidate "wouldn't work" in working
class Denton and Reddish, Manchester.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "This is Cameron's boomerang. He tried to throw a
stick at us and it has come back to hit him very hard."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 11, 2006, Tuesday

Cameron fights to keep his reforms on track

BYLINE: Sam Coates, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 390 words


DAVID CAMERON was fighting on two fronts last night amid signs that his
programme to modernise the Conservative Party is facing increasing opposition.

The Tory leader's attempts to present a "modern and compassionate" party
suffered a setback after a would-be Tory councillor said that it would lose
votes if it put up an ethnic minority candidate in her area at the next general
election.

Mr Cameron was also chided by Michael Portillo, the former Tory leadership
challenger, for surrounding himself with has-beens. Lord Heseltine, the former
Deputy Prime Minister, appeared with the Tory leader at the party's spring
conference on Saturday.

Joan Howarth, of the Denton and Reddish Conservative Association in Manchester,
told Channel 4 that selecting an ethnic minority candidate in her constituency
would be a mistake. "We are a traditional working-class constituency. It
wouldn't work for us."

The comments were an embarrassment for the Tory leader, who last week called
members of the UK Independence Party "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists,
mostly".

Mr Cameron said: "She is in the wrong party. She is unrepresentative of the
modern Conservative Party. At the last election we had more candidates from the
black and ethnic minority communities than any other party."

Mrs Howarth said in a statement last night: "I completely and utterly regret
what I said to Channel 4. It was not what I meant or believe at all. I totally
support David Cameron's moves to make the Conservative Party more inclusive and
to have more candidates from black and ethnic minority communities."

Mr Portillo, the former Defence Secretary, added to Mr Cameron's woes by saying
that he was "handicapped by putting out a message of change when he is
surrounded by people who actually represent the opposite of change.

"One of the difficulties he has got is that the team in the Shadow Cabinet
contains a lot of people who are from the party's past, and so while David
Cameron in his visual images, riding a bicycle for example, clearly represents
something new and fresh and changed, the other people around...look like more of
a throwback to a former period," he said.

* Oliver Letwin, the Conservatives' policy chief, yesterday committed his party
to achieving the Government's target of ending child poverty by 2020. He said
that the commitment was "an aspiration".

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Tories must climb electoral mountain to get back into power

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 152 words


SIR - Francis Maude's comments (report, April 7) might be unwelcome, but they
are realistic. The arithmetic is against a Conservative victory for many
elections.

In the case of my constituency, Ribble Valley, it is of no help that the MP,
Nigel Evans, increases his majority at each election, when the Conservatives
need to regain both of the local Hyndburn and Pendle seats in order to form a
government.

Someone from Central Office should take a drive around the streets of Accrington
and Nelson to appreciate the electoral mountain they have to climb. Frankly, it
seems that many of the Tory MPs are really not hungry for power.

The Tories are alienating their core voters by their perceived liberal attitudes
and general lack of backbone in challenging the Labour Government. I have voted
Tory at every election since 1964, sometimes while holding my nose, I admit. In
2005, I voted UKIP.

I. R. White

Langho, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Now a Cameron ally warns the honeymoon's over;
AS TORIES SHOW FIRST SIGNS OF UNREST, MP BACKS LEADER'S CALL FOR CHANGE

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 583 words


DAVID Cameron's honeymoon period as Tory leader is over, one of his closest
allies confirmed yesterday.

MP Ed Vaizey, a member of Mr Cameron's inner circle, made the admission amid the
first stirrings of internal unrest about the leader's reform agenda and the
party's electoral prospects.

Mr Cameron told the party's spring forum in Manchester at the weekend that it
had a 'massive mountain to climb' and said change must be 'faster, wider and
deeper'.

A leaflet handed out at the conference gave suggestions to activists on how they
could themselves change their behaviour to help transform the party's image.

They included 'take the bus when you can', 'get to know your neighbours better',
'pick up one piece of litter from the street every day', 'fill out a donor card'
and 'don't overfill your kettle'.

The leaflet, produced by community engagement organisation Wave, was endorsed
with a foreword from Mr Cameron, who was elected leader in December.

But opinion polls suggesting the Tories have yet to make a major breakthrough
have led to concerns among activists.

And some MPs on the Right of the party are angry that Mr Cameron has not
capitalised on revelations over secret loans to Labour to greater effect and by
a suggestion from his party chairman, Francis Maude, that the Tories could lose
the next election.

MP Mark Pritchard, a former supporter of leadership rival David Davis, said Mr
Maude's remarks were counterproductive.

'Leadership is about imparting self-belief, not self-doubt,' he said.

'Talk of defeat is unhelpful.' Mr Vaizey, MP for Wantage, told Sky News: 'The
honeymoon is over for David Cameron.

'But I think in a sense, David Cameron wants it to be over and he recognises
it's over.

'And the message that is coming out of the Manchester conference is again to say
to the Tory Party, "Don't just change your leader and then walk away and assume
everything is going to come right". There has to be root and branch change in
the Conservative Party.' Mr Cameron's policy chief insisted yesterday that he
was not ignoring traditional conservative concerns. The Tory leader raised
eyebrows by not mentioning crime, immigration or Europe in his speech to the
conference on Saturday.

But Oliver Letwin, chairman of the party's policy review, said Mr Cameron's
concentration on social justice was fundamentally linked to core Tory concerns.
'Of course crime on our streets is a very important issue, but you and I know
that these things are not unconnected with issues of social justice,' he said.

Speaking on BBC1's Sunday AM programme, Mr Letwin said Mr Cameron was right not
to rush to draw up policies.

'There is an awful lot of people saying, "So they are saying the right things
but where is the policy?",' he said.

'And then, of course, if we went off and produced policies ad lib they would
quite rightly say, "But hold on a minute, these haven't been talked about".

'We are determined not to make that mistake. We are actually spending the time
which opposition gives us, we are not running the country, we have the time, and
we are spending it on working out in serious detail how we can have a properly
coherent policy programme that does address these challenges.' Mr Letwin also
played down Mr Cameron's spat with the UK Independence Party after he branded
them a bunch of 'fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

Mr Letwin said the great battleground of British politics was not between the
Conservatives and UKIP, but in the centre.

Peter McKay Page 17 j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MESSAGE OF CHANGE: CAMERON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Elbow the Glums, Mr Cameron

BYLINE: PETER MCKAY

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1566 words


TORY leader David Cameron's position is described by an anonymous member of the
Shadow Cabinet as 'fragile' and his ' honeymoon' period is said to be over.

Before considering Cameron's 'fragility' the party needs to think about two
other men who are dragging the Tories to inevitable defeat - policy chief Oliver
Letwin and party chairman Francis Maude.

Letwin shouldn't be seen or heard in public. He would be an adornment to any
top-class funeral parlour. He makes you want to climb under the duvet and turn
your face to the wall.

Maude is worse. Why, when he says the Tories may not win the next election, does
he make me think he's happy about this? His cold, shrivelled tone and manner
suggest he hates more about his party than he loves.

What we didn't anticipate about Cameron was that he would concentrate solely on
presentation. From the moment he got the job, by speaking emotionally without
notes, and playing on his relative youth, he has set out to replicate Tony
Blair.

Bringing back Michael Heseltine to suggest ways of rejuvenating inner cities is
an exception to the Cameronian rule that the past is best forgotten and what
voters seek now is softer, kinder, fuzzy options, which require politicians
merely to congratulate, encourage and flatter them.

Under Cameron, the Tories have retreated so far from enunciating policies that
mean something that Foreign Secretary Jack Straw attacked them on TV yesterday
for not addressing law and order at their 'Spring Forum' in Manchester.

HIS CHEEK takes the breath away. Straw and his colleagues have presided over the
nation's sharpest descent into lawlessness and yobbery in living memory, while
at the same time encouraging 'politically correct' prosecutions.

But it's safe for him to torment the Tories because they'll either ignore him or
respond so pathetically that it will damage themselves more. The aren't-we-nice
Cameron mantra - 'We'll oppose the Government only when they're doing things we
don't approve of' - means in reality: 'We think arguing with the Government
makes us sound chippy and negative.' Where has Cameron gone wrong?

He is a nice man, a good husband and an exemplary father. His smile is unforced
and his manner easy. But can he win power by making out that he's a different
species from the normal political animal and promising 'change'?

Surely we also want Her Majesty's Opposition to oppose the government of the day
vigorously and efficiently, deterring it from any course which a majority of us
would find wrong. And it should be prepared, at a moment's notice, to seize the
reins of power.

There is no point in the endless seminars and discussion groups promised by
Letwin. Most of us want our parties to have ready-to-use policies. Nor is there
any point in the party chairman warning us they might not win the next election.
We need them to banish all thought of failure before we'll vote for them in
sufficient numbers.

The Government currently presents daily open goals, like the scandal of the
Blair/Brown struggle for power.

It's as if we are passengers on an airliner in which the captain and copilot
can't decide who's doing the flying. Cameron fails to express the nation's
unease over being governed in this way. His supporters say he is playing a long
game. He's letting Labour tear itself to bits. Waiting to become the fresh,
smiling young man offering himself to voters tired of Labour's chieftains.

As for the hints that he's a bit New Labour himself - 'It's New Labour or Blue
Labour,' says UKIP MEP Nigel Farage - they say that's all for appearances.
Underneath, he's a real Tory. Don't-rock-the-boat Dave, man o' the people,
succourer of the sick, scourge of everything bad and unpleasant, is only
pretending. We'll see the real him after he's elected.

If that's the real pitch, 'fragile' is an understatement about his leadership.

The best hope is that he's feeling his way forward and will come good in time.
And will come to see that the deadly combo Letwin and Maude are best unseen and
unheard.

MARIO TESTINO'S seven-month-old photo of Camilla - knocking about 20 years off
her age - is released to mark the Duchess of Cornwall's one-year-old marriage to
the Prince of Wales. Testino, a favourite of Diana's, said of 58-year-old
Camilla in a recent interview: 'She is a good-looking woman. And very charming.'
And - no doubt he hopes - so susceptible to the Peruvian flatterer that she'll
agree to pose for him alone next time. But not a nude session for Playboy,
perhaps.

Bombing back to happiness

WHY would President George Bush bomb Iran's nuclear facility with his approval
ratings at an all-time low? Perhaps because his ratings are so poor.

As defence analyst John Pike says: 'Americans love a display of firepower.'

So Bush would go to war against Iran because his invasion of neighbouring Iraq
has soured Americans about his presidency?

Not officially. He'd be doing it purportedly to save the world from an Iran with
nuclear weapons.

The Pentagon Papers, the film about how secret military assessments of what was
really happening in Vietnam were published in The New York Times during the
1970s, was shown on TV the other night. They illustrated that the Americans were
being fed a daily diet of lies about how the war was going.

Isn't the same happening in Iraq?

For over three years a torrent of lies has been issued about why Iraq was
invaded and how it was going. Now that the country is on the brink of outright
civil war, Americans are diverted by a new bogeyman, Iran. There's nearly three
years still to run of the Bush presidency. God help us.

TOLD by the Chinese not to perform five of their songs, Rolling Stone Sir Mick
Jagger says: 'We didn't expect to come to China and not be censored.'

Considering some of the lyrics objected to, shouldn't Sir Mick practise
selfcensorship? It's not that ditties about sex, booze and drugs are shocking in
themselves any more so much as this kind of juvenile stuff being warbled by old
geezers.

No votes for lucky Charlie

BARON FALCONER of Thoroton, Lord Chancellor because he once shared a flat with
Tony Blair, rejects on behalf of the Government a measure which would give MPs a
right to vote on Britain going to war.

Plump, prosperous Charlie never sought to put himself before voters. So
confident of his position that he was able to gloat recently that he didn't have
to give the party a loan in order to be ennobled, it's little short of hilarious
- or scandalous - that he has risen so high.

Will he continue to prosper when Blair is gone? If not, he can write for money
about his experiences at the Blair court and profitably use the contacts he made
there.

The Queen: Is there less to HM than meets the eye?

LED BY our own fascinating Richard Kay/Geoffrey Levy series, newspapers and
broadcasters are considering the Queen as she approaches her 80th birthday.

Who is the secret woman we do not know? Were we to find ourselves stranded on a
desert island with Her Majesty, what astonishing opinions and attitudes would
she reveal?

There probably isn't much more to know. She has preserved her mystique largely
by not submitting to the modern inquisitions of the media.

Modest claims about her likes and dislikes emerge from time to time - e.g., that
she likes the TV quiz show Countdown and always listened to Alistair Cooke's
Letter From America - but they are never confirmed.

Sometimes she allows TV to show herself and other members of the Royal Family
behaving naturally - as if this were possible on TV - but at Christmas she opts
for the kind of bland 'count your blessings' public address, written for her by
officials, that is often a feature of tyrannical regimes.

By contrast, her heir, Charles, has let us know in detail about his opinions,
likes and dislikes.

He spoke at length about his private life to biographer Jonathan Dimbleby.

Has this improved his standing, or otherwise?

The Queen may think her reticence vindicated by his experience. May think.

We'll never know, of course.

'Audience' with Blair

WRITING self-importantly about his busy week, Matthew d'Ancona, editor of The
Spectator, notes: 'In the afternoon, I pay a visit to Number 10 for an audience
with the PM. These onetoone encounters are strictly off the record...' An
audience with Blair.

How would d'Ancona describe a one-to-one with the Pope? It's nauseating when
writing journalists seek off-the-record talks with the Prime Minister.

There's only one way of paying back this favour.

PRINCE HARRY was 'the perfect gentleman' during his early-hours visit to the
Spearmint Rhino lap-dancing club on an industrial estate 20 miles from
Sandhurst.

He and four chums drank vodka cocktails and watched naked young women dancing.

The really seedy aspect is him being accompanied by a personal protection
officer, with two Land Rovers full of security staff parked outside. This is how
the privileged in banana republics behave.

KingLouis' sacrifice

THE final words of France's King Louis XVI, guillotined by revolutionaries in
1793, aged 39, were, according to a newly unearthed letter written by his
executioner: 'Gentlemen, I am innocent of everything of which I am accused. I
wish that my blood may be able to cement the happiness of the French.'

Executioner Charles-Henri Sanson said the King withstood his last moments 'with
a composure and a steadyness that astonished us all'.

Good for Louis, and more than can be said for the countrymen whose happiness he
selflessly cemented.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Comment & Debate: In stinky limbo land: David Cameron will become Neil Kinnock
in an open-neck shirt if voters smell a rat or two

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 816 words


The chairman of the Conservative party is right: the Tories may not win the next
election. Voters are "unpersuaded" that they've changed. More time - much more
time - may be necessary. It is not the sort of thing cheerleader politicians
say. It disheartens easily disheartened troops and hands journalists a cheap
chance to score. But give Francis Maude high marks for that rare and precious
commodity, honesty. And admit, too, that his truth comes served with a large
helping of the bleeding obvious.

Of course the Tories are going nowhere fast, still stuck around 35% on the polls
when, at this low, sleazy point in Labour fortunes, they ought to be miles
ahead. Of course the odds against PM Cameron come 2008 or 2009 remain steep
going on daunting. His prime time will arrive in around 2013. But that - as
Maude didn't add - was the point of making him leader in the first place.

This, saving some economic implosion, is a long haul and Cameron, a decade away
from his 50th birthday, is there for that haul. Almost everything he's done
since he got the job - save for routine blah about "fast forwarding" this and
ever "wider and deeper" that - fits that prudent perception. When things don't
add up, they're dissonant for purpose.

A funny thing happened on the way to Manchester's forum. He took on the
"fruitcakes, loonies" and "closet racists" of Ukip, thus raising that murky
monster from the deeps of division and forgetfulness and provoking foes like
Simon Heffer of the Telegraph to still wider and deeper rants about "stupid,
shallow" Dave and "the overpaid teenagers" who write his scripts.Was he serious?
It hardly seems so when you remember that Cameron remains bent on pulling his
MEPs out of the European People's party alliance in Strasbourg and parking them
on some separate bench along with any passing Czechs or Poles - not too distant
from tea with the fruitcakes who follow Mussolini and Le Pen. That doesn't make
sense. And nor do the only specifics of consequence in this weekend's forum
speech.

Is saving the planet (and presumably wooing young voters) the great Conservative
mission now? You can't do that around a dinner table in Notting Hill. You need
alliances, clout, international agreements. If you're Britain, you need to speak
with the weight of 24 other European nations behind you. But how on earth do you
do that when your EPP pull-out has affronted Europe's most powerful conservative
leader, Angela Merkel, and France's rightwing dauphin-select, Nicolas Sarkozy?
It might make sense if your general policy drift was Tebbit-plus or
Heffer-superplus, a paean to market forces and tax reduction blue in tooth and
claw; but that's absolutely not where you're going. Indeed, the mood music of
Manchester - full of care and caution - was pure singalong with Merkel.

David Cameron said he'd scrap ID cards for sure. Really? In 2009 when so many
have paid for the thing and had them recognised across Europe as handy bits of
plastic that wave you through customs? He said he'd junk regional assemblies in
England. Really? In a way that leaves the English totally out of joint with
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - and also with the essential units of EU
regional policy? Again, it does not make sense. It does not even begin to make
sense. And when nonsense swills from an otherwise fragrant fountain of ideas,
you must smell a dead rat in the drain somewhere - unless, that is, there are
two rats down below.

Take Francis Maude at his word. The Tories "could lose" the next election. Since
1997 they've tried one quick fix after another and come unstuck every time. They
need more than another makeover - they need substantial reinvention. If you
doubt that, see Cameron's first bubble of popularity deflate - not because he's
done much wrong, but because his party continues in stinky limbo land.

Thus the two best scenarios on offer are one more heave after a decent showing
(and a second opportunity of the kind that Michael Howard would have got at 44,
not 64) or a statistically probable stand-off where coalitions need to be built.
In either case, Cameron is positioning himself pretty shrewdly. Nothing positive
from Manchester on Saturday will matter a damn in 2013. And, in the meantime,
the prospective coalition chorus could hardly be more obvious. Hate Ukip; hate
Heffer; love the NHS, education, the environment - and surprising quantities of
public spending. Isn't that something, in turn, that Ming Campbell might feel
obliged to love instead of propping up a Labour party whose momentum has gone?
Remember that Ming, a real 64, only has one stab at an HMG Jag. Remember that
positioning matters more than policy when parties elide.

David Cameron isn't the new Tony Blair at all. He's Neil Kinnock in an open-neck
shirt, and with a very open mind. And he's a player for as long as Conservatives
have the nerve to let him play.

p.preston@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Txt us yr views

SECTION: DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 120  words


DAVID CAMERON should apologise to UKIP for his comments about closet racists.

There's nothing wrong with wanting an independent UK.

ANON

FIRST class, Ally Ross. How can ITV pass The Mint off as entertainment? It's
just there to make them loadsamoney.

ANON

GAIL PORTER is a brave woman talking about her

battle with depression and alopecia. It's good to see her still smiling.

KAREN, Tyne And Wear

I DON'T understand how people can pay into a pension fund and then find the
money isn't there. Where does it go?

CAROL, Plymouth

Messages charged at 25p each. Available on all UK networks. For help email help
desk@bluestarmobile.com.

TXT US 61008

Text LETTER and no more than 160 characters to this number. Remember to include
your name.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             April 10, 2006, Monday

For goodness' sake don't mention Europe: it doesn't fit our new image

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 948 words


I USUALLY JUDGE the movement of opinion polls by the zones in which the various
parties are placed, not by movements of single points, which can be almost
random or depend on minor differences of methodology.

For 13 years before David Cameron's election as leader, the Conservatives were
usually stuck in the zone from 30 to 34; at the last general election, they won
32.3 per cent of the United Kingdom vote. Since Mr Cameron became leader, most
polls have shown the Conservatives in the zone from 35 to 39 per cent. A BPIX
poll in The Mail on Sunday now puts the Conservatives on 37 per cent, Labour on
36 and the Liberal Democrats on 17.

At a general election that would not give the Conservatives an overall majority.

It represents a 2 per cent swing from Labour to the Conservatives. Allowing for
the redistribution of constituencies, that would almost certainly result in a
hung Parliament, but with Labour as the largest party. However, this does take
the Conservatives halfway to an election victory. If the Conservatives could
gain a further 5 per cent on election day in three or four years' time, they
would presumably form the next government.

That improvement is the justification of Mr Cameron's broad strategy, and of the
party's democratic choice of Mr Cameron as leader. His liberal Conservatism
appeals to the liberal conservative voters who exist in all three parties. They
welcome his opposition to the Government's identity cards, his advocacy of local
rather than regional government, his proposals for reform of pensions, health
and education, and his concern for the environment. So far, he has managed to
gain additional support without straining too far the loyalties of traditional
conservatives.

However, Mr Cameron and two of his senior colleagues have made a proper muddle
of the issue of Europe, which always has the potential to divide British
politics. Mr Cameron himself started it with his ill-judged observations about
the UK Independence Party. He said that they were a "bunch of fruitcakes and
loonies and closet racists mostly".

At the 2004 European elections, the UKIP got about 16 per cent and pushed the
Lib Dems into fourth place. It won these votes mainly from the Conservatives,
and most of them went back to the Conservatives at the 2005 general election.
When Mr Cameron talks about fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, he is
describing a million or more Conservative voters at the last election and, he
would hope, at the next election too.

The chairman of the Conservative Party, Francis Maude, made things worse on the
Today programme. He said of the UKIP that "some people in the party have some
pretty unsavoury connections with the far Right, and they would like to return
to a world where Britain is all white and Europe doesn't exist". Perhaps such
people exist -not every member of Mr Maude's own party is beyond reproach -but
this generalised smear is offensive and the voters being smeared largely voted
Conservative last May. Most supporters of the UKIP I have met are normal,
patriotic democrats, no bad thing.

Mr Cameron then decided, having done his bit to give the UKIP the publicity it
badly needed, that he would be wise to shut up. He did not refer at all to
Europe in his leader's speech in Manchester on Saturday. This omission, however,
made his speech sound strangely lopsided, since most of his main themes had a
European aspect that he did not mention.

Identity cards arise from European policies, as does the regionalisation to
which he is so strongly opposed, while the environment is largely a European
competence.

Even if he did not wish to discuss the European integration, he should have
recognised the European limitations on British policymaking. More than half of
all our legislation now comes from Europe. Parliament is the rubber stamp for
Brussels.

Yesterday Oliver Letwin further stirred these troubled waters. On the BBC Sunday
AM programme, Andrew Marr asked him why there had been no reference to Europe in
the leader's speech. Mr Letwin replied that the speech had concentrated on
"mainline issues", clearly implying that Europe is not one. If Europe is not a
mainline issue, what is?

No doubt the real motive for avoiding discussion of all European policy is that
Europe does not fit the desired image of Mr Cameron's party. Euroscepticism
could be as embarrassing as a striped polyester bow-tie at a Notting Hill party.
To some people, the mention of Europe sounds obsessive or old-fashioned. But
Conservative Party policy, while it needs a favourable image, cannot merely be a
fashion statement. Europe matters because in wide areas Brussels makes the laws
for Britain. Mr Cameron understands that perfectly well. Any policy without a
European element is only half a policy, if that.

In any case, the European constitution, the grand project that would make
Britain a province of a federal European Union, has not disappeared. The
European constitution, possibly in an amended form, has the support of Angela
Merkel, the German Chancellor, President Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy, the future
leader of the French Right.

The Conservative Party is opposed to European federalism; so is the nation. The
EU already has too much power over British policy; we would prefer our own
democracy.

Mr Cameron asks British voters to trust him on Europe. They certainly cannot
trust Tony Blair or Sir Menzies Campbell. Yet the Conservatives signed the
Maastricht Treaty, and pushed it through with brutal whipping under John Major.
If they are to regain the trust of moderate Eurosceptics, who are among their
own voters, they will have to define their European policy in frank terms.
Silence on Europe will not be good enough.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Conservatives must change at a far faster rate, says Cameron

BYLINE: By Francis Elliott WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 441 words


David Cameron urged activists to "fast forward to the new Conservative Party"
yesterday, amid grumbling that his revival of Tory fortunes had hit "pause".

His first speech to the faithful since his astonishing oration to win the
leadership last autumn showed signs of defensiveness after a torrid week that
has marked the end of his "honeymoon" with the party.

He urged grassroots Tories to make "faster, deeper and wider" changes in areas
such as candidate selection but received some unwelcome advice himself from one
of his most senior advisers.

John Gummer, a member of one of Mr Cameron's policy groups, told his leader to
apologise to UKIP, whom he dubbed "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" in a
radio interview last week. Speaking on Radio 4's Any Questions, Mr Gummer made
public criticisms voiced privately by some senior Conservatives.

The "closet racist" jibe prompted a bizarre riposte from the right-wing party.
As the Tory leader prepared to address delegates inside the Manchester
International Conference Centre, the UKIP MEP Nigel Farage was posing in the
turret of an armoured personnel carrier parked in the street outside. But Mr
Cameron didn't rise to the bait in his first conference speech as party leader.
He concentrated on policies such as helping first-time buyers and reducing the
cost burden of childcare, where he said the Tories had to again "become the
party of aspiration".

The Tories' own aspirations of building a comfortable poll lead over Labour have
failed to materialise despite months of mostly positive media coverage. Behind
the scenes Shadow Cabinet ministers are beginning to express fears for the
"fragility" of the new leader's efforts to turn around his party without the
momentum of a poll boost. An ICM poll found that six out of 10 voters thought
the Tories had "not really changed much", and delivered even worse news on which
man, David Cameron or Gordon Brown, had the qualities to be a good prime
minister. The poll found the new leader trailing the Chancellor by 32 points to
Mr Brown's 37.

There is also dismay at reports of a pounds 270,000 salary paid to Steve Hilton,
Mr Cameron's right-hand man and the brains behind the party's rebranding as
political optimists.

"There's been quite a bit of muttering about that salary. No one is worth that
kind of money," a member of the Shadow Cabinet said.

There is frustration, too, at Mr Cameron's failure "to go for the political
jugular". A senior Conservative said that he had been "tearing his hair out"
over Mr Cameron's failure to inflict more damage over the "loans for lordships"
affair.

Special report

The Tories and the mystery donor

PAGE 18

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron addressing Tory delegates yesterday peter byrne/pa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

All prisoners should serve sentence in full, says Cameron

BYLINE: By Marie Woolf and Francis Elliott WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words


David Cameron pledged yesterday to scrap early release of prisoners and ensure
they serve their full terms behind bars.

Promising that a Tory government would be "tough on crime", the Conservative
leader said: "Prison will not be a deterrent until people serve the sentence
they are given by the courts. It's ridiculous the way people are let out before
their sentences are complete," he said in an interview with the News of the
World.

"The first step would be to scrap Tony Blair's parole reforms, which now allow
30,000 criminals a year to be freed on licence before they have even completed
half their sentence."

Mr Cameron said he would give the courts powers to send people back to prison
and he would put more police on the streets. But he also said that not enough
was being done to rehabilitate prisoners. More effort should be made to cut
reoffending rates, he said.

Mr Cameron urged activists to "fast forward to the new Conservative Party", amid
a certain amount of grumbling that his revival of Tory fortunes had hit "pause".
His first speech to the faithful since his astonishing oration to win the
leadership last autumn showed signs of defensiveness after a torrid week that
has marked the end of his honeymoon with the party.

He urged grassroots Tories to make "faster, deeper and wider" changes in areas
such as candidate selection, but received some unwelcome advice himself from one
of his most senior advisers. John Gummer, a member of one of Mr Cameron's policy
groups, told his leader to apologise to UKIP, whom he dubbed "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists" in a radio interview last week. Speaking on Radio
4's Any Questions, Mr Gummer made public criticisms voiced privately by some
senior Conservatives.

The "closet racist" jibe prompted a bizarre riposte from the right-wing party.
As the Tory leader prepared to address delegates inside the Manchester
International Conference Centre, Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP, was posing in the
turret of an armoured personnel carrier parked in the street outside.

But Mr Cameron didn't rise to the bait in his first conference speech as party
leader. He concentrated on policies such as helping first-time buyers and
reducing the cost burden of child-care, where he said the Tories had to again
"become the party of aspiration".

The Tories' own aspirations

of building a comfortable poll lead over Labour have failed to materialise
despite months of mostly positive media coverage. Behind the scenes, shadow
cabinet ministers are beginning to express fears for the "fragility" of the new
leader's efforts to turn his party around without the momentum of a poll boost.

An ICM poll found that six out of 10 voters thought the Tories had "not really
changed much" The poll also found that the new leader was trailing the
Chancellor by a significant margin, 32 points to Gordon Brown's 37. There is
also dismay at reports of apounds 270,000 salarypaidto Steve Hilton, Mr
Cameron's right-hand man and the brains behind the party's rebranding as
political optimists. "There's been quite a bit of muttering about that salary.
No one is worth that kind of money," a member of the shadow cabinet said.

There is frustration, too, at Mr Cameron's failure "to go for the political
jugular". A senior Conservative said that he had been "tearing his hair out"
over Mr Cameron's failure to inflict more damage over the "loans for lordships"
affair.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

COMMENT & DEBATE: The diary

BYLINE: by Christopher Silvester

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 845 words


Following J K Rowling's remarks about models as "emaciated clones", might I
point out that Rowling herself has hardly done a great service in the defence of
corpulence. In the early Harry Potter books, the baddies tended to be fat, and
Crabbeand Goyle, henchmen of the arch baddy Draco Malfoy, were chunky. Dudley
Dursley, Harry's fat, bullying Muggle cousin, is described as "waddling" and "a
great lump". Hagrid (a goodie, though no elf) notes that "Yer' great puddin' of
a son don' need fattenin' anymore," and magically furnishes him with a pig's
tail. Journo David Aaronovitch once noted, "Did she ever wonder what it would be
like to be a child, teased as being fat, to hear the descriptions of Dudley
Dursley read aloud in the classroom?" Perhaps Ms Rowling should address sizeism
in her books before attacking others.

Last Wednesday, in the course of a gushing interview, 'Daily Mail' writer
Petronella Wyatt told Shadow Chancellor George Osborne that she considered him
"better-looking than David Cameron". "What is it about you and Tory MPs?"
Osborne asked. Indeed. Apart from her role as Boris Johnson's courtesan at 'The
Spectator', Wyatt recently enjoyed a romantic friendship with Bury St Edmunds MP
David Ruffley. However, her response to Osborne's question was puzzling. She
described it as "a mildly impertinent reference to my once having been friendly
with the now scandal-beset Boris Johnson". That caught my attention. For buried
amidst last weekend's 'News of the World' story about Boris's vigorous trysting
with Anna Fazackerley of 'The Times Higher Education Supplement', was the
observation that on 20 March, after a two-hour session at Fazacker-ley's Chelsea
flat, Boris had visited Petronella "at the plush St John's Wood mansion she
shares with her mother Lady Verushka". Then in last Tuesday's Ephraim Hardcastle
column in the 'Daily Mail' there was an item diagnosing Johnson as suffering
from satyriasis, meaning "unusually strong sexual desires". "A pal" suggested,
"Boris is so driven by sex he's quite capable of going from one girl to another
in the space of one evening". And who assists Peter McKay in preparing the
Ephraim Hardcastle column? Why, Petronella Wyatt.

David Cameron has a point about UKIP being a home for "closet racists". Mark
Deavin was expelled from UKIP after it was discovered he was head of research
for the British National Party. Yet after his expulsion UKIP MEP Nigel Farage
let himself be photographed with Deavin. David Abbot, who sits on the party's
executive committee, also attends meetings of American Renaissance, an anti-
Semitic group, with BNP leader Nick Griffin' while Donald Martin, the UKIP
chairman in South Suffolk, runs an anti-Semitic publisher called Bloomfield
Books. And Nigel Farage's election agent last year was Martyn Heale, who used to
be an agent for the, er, National Front.

Is the following further evidence that members of UKIP are "fruitcakes", as
David Cameron says? A UKIP candidate in the local council elections is insisting
he will claim no campaign expenses. Colin Merton, an agreeably eccentric
octogenarian, is standing in the West Endward of Westminster. "My campaign will
have expenses of 0p," says Merton. "I'm not going to bother with leaflets
because they're a waste of time. I will get around by bus to do my canvassing,
and given that I have a Freedom Pass for the elderly that will cost me nothing."
He will not even be buying a rosette. "I still have one from last year's general
election campaign." Merton, who lives in his Mayfair gentlemen's club, is an
unmissable figure in his three-piece Mr Toad-style tweed suits. One of his
advantages when canvassing is that he is pretty deaf and therefore cannot hear
the insults thrown at him by Cameroons.

There has lately been a worrying outbreak of forgetfulness at some London
theatres. The rot started with Jeremy Irons in Embers at the Duke of York's.
Critics noted that Irons, who has a big part, admittedly, had difficulty
remembering his lines. One who saw the play on opening night describes how Irons
kept wandering to one side of the stage, the better to hear the prompter. Then
there was Resurrection Blues, the Arthur Miller play at the Old Vic, another
critical disaster for that theatre's artistic gauleiter Kevin Spacey. Poor
Spacey was ill-served by James Fox, far left (admittedly drafted in late) and
Maximilian Schell, who groped for their lines. The most recent line-fumbler to
hit the West End is Timothy West in the Alan Bennett play The Old Country at the
cramped Trafalgar Studios. Perhaps these thespians should spend more time
rehearsing instead of giving pre-run interviews to the media?

At 3.45pm last Wednesday, a Jaguar drove into a south London park followed by a
Saab estate. A nanny and a toddler with a tricycle emerged from the Saab, while
the man who disembarked from the chauffeur-driven Jag was David Blunkett, there
to spend some time with his son by Kimberly Quinn. It's nice to know Blunkett is
still driven around in the style to which he became accustomed when a cabinet
minister.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

The IRA? Blairwould have caved in to Hitler

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1107 words


A STATE based on lies and lawlessness will rot and rot until it falls.

AI know that nobody cares about Northern Ireland any more, except me, but it
matters because of the way our surrender to gangsters there has polluted our
whole Government.

It is quite obvious that the Provisional IRA murdered Denis Donaldson, the
unmasked informer found shot and symbolically mutilated in his Co Donegal slum
cottage last week.

If the Irish police try to find his killers, they will run into the same blank
stares and shrugs as the old RUC did when they sought to find the butchers of
Omagh.

The 'Real IRA' is a laughable fiction. There is no split, just a device to allow
the Provisionals to continue to kill and strike fear, while the British
Government and media pretend someone else is responsible-If this act were really
in defiance of Republican High Command, the culprits would be tracked down and
murdered as Mr Donaldson was.

Yet everyone has to try to pretend not to know this.

'Nothing,' the politicians bleat, 'must be allowed to derail the "Peace
Process".' Lots of people go on about 'appeasement' these days. The Iraq War
lobby tried to accuse me of it when I said their adventure was wrong and doomed.
They don't do that any more. But the closest modern parallel to Neville
Chamberlain's naive grovelling to Hitler is nothing to do with Iraq.

Anthony Blair's 1998 trip to Belfast, there to surrender to evil and corrupt
criminal gangs, was the modern Munich.

It has everything weakness, complacency, false promises, the betrayal of
peaceful people to the rule of ruffians, disarmament in the face of threats.

But Neville Chamberlain was a far better man than Mr Blair.

When Hitler trampled on his own pledges, and marched into Prague, Chamberlain
did not pretend everything was all right and say that 'nothing must derail peace
in our time'.

He rediscovered his guts and prepared for honourable war.

If Mr Blair had been in Downing Street then, he would have rushed off to some
summit or other to ' save the appeasement process'. He would have done the same
when Hitler invaded Poland.

As the German tanks roared towards the Channel ports, he would still have been
seeking a deal with an implacable, contemptuous enemy. As he does now.

I still cannot understand how this man can go on about a 'war against terror'
without having his words drowned in great gales of mirth.

THE politically correct agenda of University Challenge is now more obvious than
ever. Having referred to BC as BCE, Jeremy Paxman now gives all distance
measures in kilometres rather than miles. Who took this decision?

If Darwin fanatics are right, where's myfins?

DARWINIST fundamentalists this week produced a fishy fossil which, they claimed,
was evidence of their weird and increasingly shaky theory.

From these bones, they claimed to have deduced that large fish spent hundreds of
thousands of years developing shoulders (why would a fish want shoulders? To do
pressups on the beach? How would I develop fins if I wished to reverse the
process?) plus a lot of other contentious, vague, circular waffle.

Should these people be allowed to propagate their bizarre creed in schools?

Should children be exposed to fanatical atheism and unprovable claims dressed up
as if they were proper science? I respect the sincerity of their faith in the
idea that nature happened by accident, but surely it is better suited for
discussion in religious education classes?

THINGS that would once have been jokes constantly escape on to the front pages.
What can I say about the tenyearold put on trial for racism, except this: The
sensible Judge Jonathan Finestein, who rightly objected to this creepy case, has
undoubtedly done grave damage to his career. More 'modern' PC judges will be
found who will put up with this sort of thing.

BRITAIN'S Securitate, the sinister Soca, has an ugly emblem, a leaping, snarling
panther, the sort of thing that would have appealed to Mussolini or Goering.
It's also interesting that the crown on the badge looks like something off a
cereal packet, and nothing like the Crown of England and Scotland. That's
because this nasty body is a deeply unBritish organisation, a Government-run
national police force.

Cameron, the closet loser . . .

DAVID CAMERON insults UKIP something I have been known to do myself, for
different reasons. What interests me is his use of the term 'closet racists'.

Long ago, the word for a racial bigot was 'racialist'. Over the past two decades
this has been replaced by the word 'racist'.

It is, of course, easier to shout or scrawl on walls than 'racialist'.

In my experience, it also means something quite different. You can be a 'racist'
even if you have no racial prejudice. The word is applied to those who seek to
preserve their national culture.

In its most advanced form, 'institutional racism', it can be used to smear
people, especially the police, when there is no evidence of bigotry.

The Tory chairman, Francis Maude, is right to predict that the Tories won't win
the next Election. They won't win the one after, or the one after that, either.

I wonder why?

My new political party? It's None of the Above

THANKS to those of you who wrote to me about my column last week. I am sorry I
cannot reply to you all. I am ceaselessly asked if I will form a new political
party. I have now done so. It is called the 'None of the Above' Party. It has no
funds, no donors and one objective, the undermining of the disgraced parties now
in existence. Membership is achieved by going to the polling station and
writing, in a clear, legible and literate hand 'None of the Above' on the ballot
paper. If enough of us do this, often enough, we can show these people the door.

No wonder Condi looks grim, she's seen the real Iraq

HOW often we scoffers and negative types are told to stop saying that Iraq is a
bloody mess and Baghdad a dangerous hellhole.

These admonitions tend to come from politicians or grand journalists whose only
encounter with 'liberated' Iraq is a quick helicopter ride from the airport to
the walled Green Zone.

I wonder if we will be hearing quite so much about Iraq's noble transition to
democracy in future from Jack Straw or his friend Condoleezza Rice, who were
forced to make the journey from Baghdad airport to their secure bunker by road
when thunderstorms grounded their helicopters.

They both looked deeply uncomfortable as their armoured vehicles traversed this
dangerous highway. I think everyone who says that Iraq is a success should
likewise be compelled to take this trip.

Our brave, misused troops would be out of there in weeks if Mr Blair and Mr Bush
were ever to experience the reality of their supposed triumph.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIDE TO REALITY: RICE AFTER HER DRIVE THROUGH BAGHDAD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

QUOTES of the week

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 244 words


I can almost feel

Mrs Blairs knees

stiffening when I

come into the room.

What the Queen has joked,

according to Palace insiders,

about the Prime Ministers

wife refusing to curtsy to her

I dont want them to

be empty-headed

emaciated clones. Id

rather they were

interesting, idealistic,

funny... a thousand

things, before thin.

Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling,

on the pressure on girls, like her

two daughters, to be slim

Hes a nut.

Hollywood star Meg Ryan on

Michael Parkinson, with whom she

famously clashed on his chat show...

The most boring bore

Ive ever met. To be

called a nut by her is

a compliment.

Parkys response

What kind of

country is this?

Richard Taylor after two youths

became the sixth and seventh

people to be cleared of the

murder of his son, Damilola

She looks exactly

like him which we

are hoping is not

permanent.

GMTV presenter Kate Garraway

jokes about her new

baby Darceys likeness to her

husband, Derek Draper

I support gay marriage.

I believe they have a

right to be as miserable

as the rest of us.

Kinky Friedman, singer and

candidate for the Texas governorship

Fruitcakes, loonies

and closet racists.

How Tory leader David Cameron

described the UK

Independence Party

Lazy Frogs.

How airline boss Philip Meeson

described French strikers

who disrupted his flights

Sorry, the air

traffic controller is

on his tea break.

Pilots announcement to passengers

after his airliner was forced to

circle Cardiff airport for 25

minutes before touching down

Great when peeled.

Eating suggestion - on

Sainsburys bananas

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Cameron hires UKIP 'fruitcake' as adviser

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS

SECTION: FB; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 379 words


DAVID Cameron has recruited a foreign policy adviser from the party he has
condemned as ' fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

Stephen Sobey, a former media adviser to the UK Independence Party, has been
given the job of advising Mr Cameron's foreign affairs team on international
issues, including Europe.

The disclosure comes days after UKIP threatened to sue the Conservative leader
for his attack on it in a radio interview.

Until he became a Tory adviser just weeks ago, Mr Sobey was promoting fierce
personal attacks on Mr Cameron and the Tory front bench on behalf of UKIP,
branding them 'hypocrites, bullies and Little Englanders'.

In addition, he defended one of UKIP's most controversial Euro MPs, Godfrey
Bloom, who claimed 'no self-respecting small businessman with a brain would
employ a woman of childbearing age'. In an article on the UKIP website, Sobey
praised Mr Bloom as a 'man of action'.

Shortly before joining the Conservatives, Sobey issued a Press release for UKIP
leader and MEP Roger Knapman, accusing Mr Cameron of trying to silence Tory
supporters who want to leave the EU.

'Cameron is the greatest offender,' said the statement. 'His silence on the
subject speaks volumes.' The Press release also tore into Shadow Home Secretary
David Davis for the way he 'bullied and armtwisted' Tory MPs into supporting the
Maastricht Treaty during John Major's administration. 'Davis orchestrated the
single greatest transfer of sovereignty to Brussels,' it said.

And it claimed that Shadow Defence Secretary Liam Fox, with whom Mr Sobey will
now work closely, was 'astonishingly naive', saying: 'He shows how the
Conservatives are a Party of Little Englanders. They are living in a political
never-never land where no one ever grows up.' Mr Sobey told The Mail on Sunday
that he had been employed by the Independent Democratic group in Europe, which
includes UKIP. He said: 'I have never been a member of UKIP though I did work
for some of their MEPs. I fully support David Cameron.' Mr Cameron's claim that
UKIP is not to be taken seriously is given credence by the description of Mr
Sobey as 'the Hon Stephen Sobey-Nevill' on the UKIP website, where he describes
a trip to Washington with UKIP MEPs.

Mr Sobey said the name was a ' practical joke' by a colleague.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW ALLEGIANCE: SOBEY AND HIS 'JOKE' NAME ON UKIP'S WEBSITE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 9, 2006

Business & Media: Media: Press and Broadcasting: Only the really sniffy detect a
bad pong

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 993 words


There are silly rows and supremely silly rows - but we'll deal with Gordon and
Tony in a moment. The week's supremely silly spat features 'Caribbean freebies,
shameless back-scratching and undeclared interests', plus a 'faintly unpleasant'
pong.

No, forget David Cameron on Ukip. Here's Cristina Odone (of this and other
parishes) snarling at Julia Hobsbawm (legendary PR daughter of Eric) and tearing
Julia's latest wizard notion to shreds amid a flurry of resignations from the
project by the editors of the Spectator and New Statesman - and from the most
saintly figure in ethical journalism, John Lloyd. 'Saints and Sinners' is your
obvious title of choice.

A few months ago, Hobsbawm had the bright idea of starting a magazine called
Editorial Intelligence , which she hoped could bridge the information gap
between PR consultants and newspaper columnists by letting them write about
their respective trades, and occasionally staging meetings to discuss topics of
common concern - such as her latest effort on royal family image-making. The
money to fund this modest venture came from 40 assorted organisations (including
the Cabinet Office and Scotland Yard), though very little reward, bar the odd
bottle of wine, seems to have gone to Julia's helpers in journalism, let alone
to her 'advisory board', featuring the aforementioned Matthew d'Ancona, John
Kampfner and John Lloyd (among others).

Anyway, Odone smelled a rat when the second edition dropped on her mat. 'A link
to a PR firm should spell suicide for a journalist rather than a place on some
highfalutin advisory board,' she declared with resounding fury in a Guardian
column. 'Journalists should meet PR in a spirit of hostility - treating the
information passed on as suspect, scrutinising possible motives and
investigating possible links.'

Enter the Sunday Times , chronicling a 'catfight of the backscratchers' and
quoting Melanie Phillips of the Mail and Rod Liddle of the Spectator . 'I don't
think that journalists and PRs should be in a jolly boat together', said Mel.
'It is a disgusting idea which suggests journalists might be up for hire,' raged
Rod. Exit the board our two weekly editors, muttering excuses, plus three top
BBC men, plus the new Reuters Institute director of journalism studies at Oxford
University, making a more explicitly principled case.

Lloyd declared he was going because the institute (once up and running this
autumn) might cause a 'perceived' tangle of interest: but actually 'I don't
believe that being a reporter, or even an editor, conflicts with serving on the
EI board - because of the specific nature of EI and its purpose'.

Thus saints and supposed sinners departed, professing purity with varying
degrees of certainty. And thus, as doors slammed, the debate came back to the
familiar barricades, where hacks and spinners fume in ritual hostility.

But forget 1914-18 battlegrounds; think of the real world of media manipulation.
Who's that just appointed to head 'corporate relations' for Lehman Brothers in
the City? Andrew Gowers, lately editor of the FT . And here's his predecessor,
Richard Lambert, moving in as director-general of the CBI (grand vizier of PR
for British industry). Business editors zip off to burnish bank images without a
second thought. One former editor of both the Independent and the New Statesman
fronts for BAA. This is top-of-the-range stuff now, an accepted career move
across a lofty landscape.

Once upon a quite recent time, to be sure, newspapers were painfully slow off
the self-publicising mark; but the Independent , from its somewhat pious debut
on, hired PR professionals to puff its wares, found it worked a treat - and now
everyone plays that game. Sir Nicholas Lloyd, former editor of the Express ,
serves both the Mail and the Telegraph , ready to promote Phillips or Liddle on
demand. Guy Black, former director of the Press Complaints Commission, has an
office inside Telegraph Towers. News International and the Guardian (and
everyone else for that matter) are the same. The chief lobbyist on BBC charter
renewal spent £ 12,000 on taxi fares alone last year.

So let's not get too grand or too sniffy. PR professionals raise cash for Oxford
University and the Reuters Institute. They organise launches of new books by
Phillips and Lloyd. They work for Prime Ministers, marry Chancellors of the
Exchequer, puff the Beeb shamelessly and often - in turn - write columns and
memoirs themselves. It's silly, going on asinine, to portray them as dark-side
marauders.

I don't hold any particular brief for EI (and am not, saving Odone's
occasionally febrile way with facts, a member of its benighted board). But the
idea of a bit of an open dialogue wasn't a bad one, and the meetings so far seem
worthy enough. It won't be a tragedy if the enterprise founders, but it will be
a trifle sad. The guy at the end of the phone, after all, may be your last
editor but one. The guy pushing David Beckham tomorrow will, in fact, be the guy
pushing the BBC's greatest hits only yesterday.

There isn't a thick black line of probity here; more 1,000 thin grey lines of
reality and duty and obligation that are surely better discussed out in the open
rather than drawn in silence or decked in simplistic moralising. Forget the
story of gallant journalists taking on spin doctors in some ultimate battle of
good and evil. It is self-serving and self-deluding garbage. It pretends that
one lunch at the Ivy obliterates independence, that crusaders' swords turn
cardboard at the sight of a free drink, that one quote from Liddle settles all
arguments. It forgets the unobtrusive inquiry or prompt that helps secure
stories in every paper. It is brain dead, and suffocatingly pompous to boot: a
parody of the real world that journalists and their readers need to understand
better. In that world, there are mostly deadlines, not weeks in Tobago. In that
world, the unpleasant pong is probably only shibboleths left to rot too long.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 9, 2006

7 DAYS: THEY SAID WHAT?: Quotes of the week ...

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 292 words


'My capacity to have interesting opinions was removed by the BBC.'

Edward Stourton , the Today presenter, claims once to have had some.

'Ukip is a bunch of fruit cakes and loonies and closet racists mostly.' David
Cameron seeks to put clear blue water between it and the Tories.

'The other day, I turned on the first episode of Rome and I was just appalled by
the lack of censorship.'

Kelly Brook , right, is a delicate flower, when not starring in sexually charged
movies, photoshoots and advertisements of her own.

'I have to say he is incredibly impressive.' Ken Livingstone breaks the habit of
a lifetime and says something nice about someone, even if it is Sir Ian Blair.

'I once had a guest who tried to put his penis in another guest's ear. He's
actually rather famous.' Ed Victor , literary agent to the stars, is proud of
his connections.

'They are unwatchable, have no plot, are utterly incomprehensible, full of
gadgets and usually gratuitously violent.' Tim Rice , who doesn't very often
make it to his local cinema, on the state of modern film.

'I was repeatedly called fat at school. Does this amount to a criminal offence?
It's crazy.' Judge Jonathan Finestein criticises the CPS's decision to prosecute
an 11-year-old boy for allegedly making a racist remark in the playground.

'There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be fixed by what is right about
America.' Senator Hillary Clinton spoke some familiar words in a speech; they
were first used by husband Bill in his 1993 inaugural address.

'I suggest people don't take tips on marital bliss from Jerry Hall.' Padma
Lakshmi suggests she's much more than a decorative presence when asked if she
subscribes to Ms Hall's mantra for happy marriage - cook in the kitchen, whore
in the bedroom.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 134 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 9, 2006, Sunday

CAMERON'S 'FRUITCAKE' RANT PROVES HE SHOULDN'T BE PM;
 LETTER OF THE WEEK WINS £50, THE OTHERS £10

BYLINE: PETER ROWLEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 54 words


TORY leader David Cameron isn't fit to take charge of Britain after his stupid
outburst about the UK Independence Party being "closet racists" and
"fruitcakes".

If he wants people to respect him he shouldn't resort to lashing out in such a
way. It's hardly the behaviour of a potential PM.

Peter Rowley, Newcastle

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                              83 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 0 Star Edition

PAST FORWARD;
TORIES IN A SPIN AS CAMERON TRIES TO ZOOM INTO FAST LANE

BYLINE: BY VINCENT MOSS ACTING POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 401 words


EMBATTLED David Cameron vowed yesterday to speed through huge changes to the
Tory Party - in defiance of his critics.

He admitted that some of the Tory faithful had sent him angry letters about his
planned reforms.

In his first conference speech as leader, Cameron insisted that now was the time
to "press the accelerator" to transform the party forever.

The pledge came despite warnings that the Tories will lose dozens of seats in
next month's local elections.

Cameron warned his party it had a "massive mountain to climb" to win the next
election and urged "faster, wider, deeper" change to take on Prime Minister Tony
Blair.

He told the Tory spring forum in Manchester: "We must fast forward to the new
Conservative party.

"There's so much we need to change in our country we can't afford to waste time
going slow on changing our party.

"So now is not the time to put our foot on the brake. Now is the time to press
on the accelerator."

But Cameron disclosed how his plans had infuriated Tory right-wingers who have
criticised his attempts to copy Tony Blair's success as "Labour-lite".

Tackling the party rebels head on, he said: "I know some of you think we've had
quite enough change for the time being. I read the letters asking me to slow
down. Britain cannot wait while we take it easy."

His words were a clear sign that Cameron - whose lookalike seven-times F1 racing
champ Michael Schumacher's career has also stalled - recognises his honeymoon
period as Tory leader is over.

A survey this weekend found four out of 10 Tories believe his leadership was
more "spin than substance". Cameron said that if the party failed to change,
Labour could be in power for another nine years.

The UK Independence Party had parked an armoured personnel carrier outside the
conference - because Cameron refused to apologise for branding UKIP "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists".

Cameron also outlined plans to turn true-blue Tories green with an environmental
crusade. He said: "For our generation, the environment isn't on the fringes of
politics."

Labour derided Cameron's promise to change his party. Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott said: "David Cameron cannot continue going month after month without
saying anything of substance.

"His speech demonstrates why people are beginning to say he is all talk and no
action."

..AND YOUR LOOK ALIKE'S CAREER IS IN REVERSE, TOO, DAVID

vincent.moss@mgn.co.uk

COMMENT: Page 14

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP gunning for Tories' In the race ..Cameron yesterday and his double
Schumacher (below)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 9, 2006

Go for the jugular

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 652 words


In his speech at the Tory spring forum yesterday, David Cameron gave what is
becoming a familiar assured performance. He contrasted his youthful energy with
a "tired and weary" Labour government. He praised David Davis, his main rival in
the leadership contest, and William Hague, whose return to the front bench has
been popular. He spoke eloquently on childcare, the environment -rapidly
emerging as his keynote theme -and the need to help young people onto the
housing ladder. He urged his party to go with him on his journey of change, to
"fast forward to the new Conservative party". It was a smooth performance for a
leader still learning.

Was it too smooth? Mr Cameron, from his years in public relations, knows the
importance of branding. "Brand Tory" has to be seen as modern, concerned about
the issues that matter to ordinary people, socially liberal and trustworthy.
This is what he calls "the spirit of the new Conservative party". Mr Cameron,
who falls easily into grisly marketing-speak, is upfront about this. But good
branding, as he should know, slips gradually into the public's consciousness.

When the Tory leader dispenses with his tie or climbs on his bike, the imagery
is deliberate. When he described Gordon Brown as "an analogue politician in a
digital age", he was saying: "I'm modern, he isn't." Many Tory voters, however,
are happy being analogue -once it is explained to them what that means. When he
described the UK Independence party as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists",
he was saying to the many Tory voters who have flirted with it that there is no
place for them in his party. It might have been better to have ignored or damned
with faint praise an outfit which needs the publicity.

Given the ease with which he won the Tory leadership, Mr Cameron is finding it
harder to break through outside the confines of the Westminster village than he
might have expected. Although he claimed a 40% local election vote share in his
speech yesterday, the true picture is that the Tories are achieving a national
equivalent vote of just 33%, according to Professors Colin Rallings and Michael
Thrasher of Plymouth University. This is lower than the party achieved in local
elections between 2002 and 2004, under Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard. An
ICM poll this weekend found that Mr Brown scores better than Mr Cameron on
toughness and understanding people's needs and most people think that while the
leader has changed, the party has not.

Mr Cameron should not be judged too harshly. The party, despite grumblings
within its ranks, now understands the need for change. The candidates being
selected at constituency level in the run-up to the next election will present a
very different face. He concedes that the Tories have "a massive mountain to
climb" to win the next election. Part of his problem will be to convince voters
that he, not Mr Brown, represents the true alternative government.

The Blair-Brown saga, in its 12th year, is dismissed by both its central
characters as "soap opera". Why, they ask plaintively, don't the media
concentrate on the important things that the government is doing? They are being
disingenuous.

The saga has been good for both prime minister and chancellor. As long as every
political story is reported through the prism of Blair-Brown differences, they
get away with it. It was true last week with pensions and it is true for the
abject failings on public service delivery. The saga has diverted attention from
Mr Blair's involvement in the loans-for-honours scandal.

Mr Cameron has to break through this with tough, detailed and incisive criticism
of the government's failings. He has to expose the spin and the lies. He has to
show that he is aware of the anger of voters about paying record taxes for
third-rate public services. He has made a good start at rebuilding his party. He
needs to demonstrate that he is also good at opposition.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 9, 2006

Honeymoon's over David, get nasty with the party

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1380 words


Subliminal advertising flashes a word on to a screen so briefly that you do not
know you have seen it, but it enters your mind nonetheless. When David Cameron
rose yesterday to make his first speech as leader to a Conservative party
gathering, he did not rely on such subtleties. He stood in front of the word
"Change" written in block letters that dwarfed him.

In almost his first sentence, he remarked that every day in his morning meetings
he has "David Davis on my right and William Hague on my left". Apparently, the
irony was lost on Cameron. He sits flanked by the man who contested last year's
leadership election as the "no change" candidate, and by the former leader who
fought the 2001 election on narrow nationalist slogans such as "Save the pound"
and "Come with me and I will give you back your country".

If the contradiction is unclear to Cameron, it is apparent to the public. As the
Tories journeyed to their mini-conference in Manchester, opinion polls showed
that while electors recognise that the new leader is a fresh face, they are
unconvinced that change has occurred any deeper in the party.

At the moment of his triumphant election as leader Cameron made a choice. He
passed up the opportunity to signal a complete break with the past, which he
could have done by giving the top jobs to a new generation of Tory politicians.
He blinked at the prospect of making explicit the division that exists in his
party between the modernisers and those who have resisted change despite three
crushing general election defeats. Now he is paying the price.

It is not just that Cameron has been magnanimous to Davis and Hague, who might
conceivably have a political future. He has pulled in Iain Duncan Smith, Kenneth
Clarke and John Gummer, giving each of them a role in policy-making. Lord
Heseltine has returned to the Today programme thanks to being appointed by
Cameron to study inner cities, and the former big beast was given a starring
role on the platform in Manchester.

Voters find it hard to believe that the party is undergoing a revolution when
they see it represented by the faces that lost those three elections. They hear
"change" but the subliminal images tell them something different.

This matters particularly because Cameron lacks other opportunities to
demonstrate that the party has moved forward. Tony Blair offered proof that
Labour had become something new when the party repealed Clause 4 of its
constitution, which had committed it to nationalisation. The Tories have no
equivalent policy shibboleth that can be jettisoned.

Their new leader has set about changing the way in which parliamentary
candidates are selected, in the hope that the party will in future be
represented at the polls by personalities who properly reflect their community
and their country. But even if the new process is a perfect success, those
candidates will not be in evidence until the next election and will not reach
the upper echelons of the party for some time after that.

Cameron faces a quietly sceptical response from many in his party. Noisy
opposition would suit him better. If he could be seen to battle the forces of
reaction and win, that at least would provide proof of progress. But the party's
right seems to have cottoned on to that. After making a helpful assault on
Cameron during his first weeks as leader, Lord Tebbit and others of like mind
have gone quiet. They are not going to help Cameron to create an illusion of
painful and irreversible change, nor are they going to attract blame for
undermining the duly elected leader.

In his speech in Manchester, Cameron skilfully delivered counter-intuitive
messages. He knows that every day he must say what people do not expect a Tory
to say on subjects that they would not expect him to choose. He has to demolish
the pigeonhole in which his party has been imprisoned for many years. Yesterday
he spoke about helping those who care for disabled relatives, and people
struggling to get on to the housing ladder. He declared that the party should
not dictate social norms but rather help people to make their own choices on
whether to use childcare in order to go out to work. He called for a green
revolution.

What he did not say was as important. He avoided tax, immigration and Europe.

His careful choice of subjects makes still more surprising two mistakes that he
has made. Early on, he promised that marriage would be recognised within the tax
system.

The pledge unhelpfully suggests a harking back to the old Tory party.

It can offend single parents, people who live together without marrying, gay
people and single people, for whom life is particularly expensive.

The other error is to persist with disengaging the Conservatives from the
European People's party (EPP) in the European parliament. It is true that this
transnational grouping with which the Conservatives are allied has views on
European integration that the Tories do not share. But a dog that has been
allowed to sleep during the leaderships of Margaret Thatcher, Hague, Duncan
Smith and Michael Howard could surely be left to slumber some more.

The Conservatives are now trying to cobble together a new grouping with fringe
right-wing parties. It makes the Tories look ideological and marginal. It will
cast a shadow over Cameron's efforts to strike up friendships with European
leaders, which otherwise would be simple for a man of his urbanity and charm. It
has blunted Cameron's attack on the UK Independence party, which he called "a
bunch of fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists mostly".

It was a curious statement from one who had promised to forswear name-calling,
but at least it distanced the Tories from their past. I hope the Tories are
carefully checking that the continental parties with whom they now intend to
link are fruitcake, loony and closet racist-free.

Another danger for Cameron is that he will be driven from his path. I do not
expect for a moment that he will follow his three predecessors in a dash to the
right. They made the fatal error of confusing a political party with a popular
newspaper. Observing the success of the right-wing tabloids that attract
millions of readers, past leaders reasoned that if they could sound like their
banner headlines and reactionary leading articles, triumph at the polls must
follow. But a paper is entertainment and people enjoy reading there a reflection
of their unspeakable prejudices. They expect something better from a party that
aspires to govern.

Cameron knows that. He will avoid that Scylla but risks being lured towards the
Charybdis of premature policy-making. Now that he has raised the hopes of
carers, first-time buyers, working parents and environmentalists, the media will
be on to him to know what exactly he proposes. Then they will ask how it is all
compatible with his promise to grow public spending at a slower rate than
national income.

Not all those questions are hostile. There are many right-of-centre journalists
who long for Cameron to roll out radical policies. They want him to accept that
the National Health Service is a busted flush and prescribe a new mixed economy
in health care.

Why, they wonder, does he not get on with announcing a Tory policy on education
vouchers?

If a political party is not the same as a tabloid newspaper, it is also quite
different from a think tank. Brilliant intellectuals are constantly dreaming up
solutions to our problems and (who knows?) they might even work. But their ideas
are theories that would scare the public rigid and confirm every horrid
suspicion that they still harbour about the Tory party. Indeed, when in
"private" conversations with sympathetic journalists Conservatives are taunted
with having no policies, they succumb to the torment and soon start confessing
to a vast secret agenda of radical change.

Cameron must stamp on such indiscipline, just as he should have obliged his
party to announce who had lent it money much faster than it did. He should have
ratted on whatever promises he had given during the leadership contest to pull
out of the EPP and create a married couple's allowance.

He should have dropped yesterday's men from the shadow cabinet.

Still, he has done much more right than wrong. I blame him only for not yet
being forceful enough.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 9, 2006

The Tory leader, David Cameron, has described UKIP as "a bunch of fruitcakes...

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 196 words


The Tory leader, David Cameron, has described UKIP as "a bunch of fruitcakes and
loonies and closet racists, mostly". And, with impeccable comic timing, Nigel
Farage, the boss of UKIP, replied thus: "We're not racists at all!" So far as I
can see, Farage has not challenged the assertion that his party consists of
nutters.

He balked only at the racist bit.

There was further evidence of our progressive sensibilities last week, in the
treatment meted out to a 10-year-old boy who called a classmate "Bin Laden" and
"Paki". He was not clipped around the ear or enjoined to apologise: he was
prosecuted. This seems to me a tad excessive, as indeed it did to the judge
before whom he appeared.

Meanwhile, we await Cameron's abrupt U-turn on the (congested, these days) road
to Damascus. Like his three predecessors, Hague, Duncan Smith and Howard, he has
begun his stewardship of the party championing fashionable causes -sodomy,
giving more food to African people, windmills on the side of one's house etc.
Sooner or later he will go the way of the others and end up snarling at gypsies
and demanding an end to immigration. He will be tugged back towards those
fruitcakes and loonies.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Don't be a fruitcake, David;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 34

LENGTH: 237  words


IS David Cameron in the right political party? Judging by his present
performance, the Greens or the Lib Dems might suit him better. There are times
he even sounds like new Labour in its earliest, earnest days.

We do not castigate him for being a caring politician, for showing the Tories'
human face, or even for being cool.

But he is riding roughshod over Conservative core beliefs of low taxation and
low spending.

He is failing to attack the socialist excesses of Gordon Brown who has taxed us
by stealth to create a state bureaucracy which has failed to deliver on so many
fronts.

Indeed, frighteningly, Mr Cameron seems unconcerned by taxfunded waste. He looks
set to plough some of the same, extravagant furrows as Labour.

Mr Cameron should be speaking up for the majority.

Instead has labelled UK Independence Party members as mostly fruitcakes, loonies
and closet racists. But they are natural Conservative supporters with legitimate
grievances, the very people he should be courting. The central plank of their
policy - that Britain should quit the wasteful bureaucratic machine that is the
EU - is supported broadly by a vast swathe of the public.

After the appalling record of Tony Blair's Government, the Tories should be a
shoe-in. But on current showing, the electorate would have little to choose
between Conservative and Labour. Mr Cameron had better put Britain and the
majority first, or he will be a fruitcake.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron has to offer a true Tory alternative for voters;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 34

LENGTH: 273  words


IS David Cameron in the right political party? Judging by his present
performance, the Greens or the Lib Dems might suit him better. There are times
when he even sounds like New Labour in its earliest, earnest days.

We do not castigate him for being a caring politician, for showing the Tories'
human face or even for being cool.

But he is riding roughshod over Conservative core beliefs of low taxation and
low spending.

He is failing to attack the socialist excesses of Gordon Brown, who has taxed us
by stealth to create a state bureaucracy that has failed to deliver on so many
fronts.

Indeed, frighteningly, Mr Cameron seems unconcerned by tax-funded waste. He
looks set to plough some of the same, extravagant furrows as Labour.

Mr Cameron should be speaking up for the majority.

Instead, he has labelled UK Independence Party members as mostly fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists. But they are natural Conservative supporters with
legitimate grievances, the very people he should be courting.

The central plank of their policy - that Britain should quit the wasteful EU -
is supported broadly by a vast swathe of the public.

It is not racist to want controlled immigration and that is what nearly eight
out of 10 of us would like. Yet worryingly, Mr Cameron seems to share another
trait with Mr Blair - the arrogant belief that he is right and what we want does
not count.

After the appalling record of Mr Blair's Government, the Tories should be a
shoo-in. But on current showing the electorate would have little to choose
between Conservative and Labour.

Mr Cameron had better put Britain and the majority first, or he will be a
fruitcake.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Toothless Tories

SECTION: LETTERS; 36

LENGTH: 141  words


LABELLING Gordon Brown as 'analogue in a digital age' or calling Ukip 'fruit
cakes and racist' keeps David Cameron in the spotlight but does little to
convince people to vote Conservative.

The honeymoon period is over. He has made a good start but must offer more than
name-calling. At the moment he appears to be the leader of a sniping - but
toothless - party.

Voter apathy is keeping New Labour in power and unless the modernised
Conservatives can show they have an unshakeable and radical vision for the
future of the country they are wasting a golden opportunity.

Mr Cameron has successfully promoted himself but the electorate is unaware of
what he or the Conservatives stand for.

Sleaze-ridden New Labour is destroying itself but for the Tories to win
convincingly they must start to put some of their cards on the table.

Alan Aitchison, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Cameron cracks whip as Tories grow restive

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 475 words


DAVID CAMERON faced the biggest challenge of his leadership last night as senior
party figures, including a former leader, Iain Duncan Smith, voiced fresh doubt
about the Conservatives' electoral prospects.

The Tory leader saw his first party conference speech overshadowed by a series
of rows and claims that his reform agenda has run out of steam.

Mr Duncan Smith argued that people across the country were still disenchanted
with the party and he urged Mr Cameron to guard against being "superficial''. He
said the Tories still did not look like a party who can "govern for Britain
across the board''.

Mr Cameron was forced to issue an ultimatum to activists at the Conservative
Spring Forum in Manchester to stay with his programme of change or lose the next
general election.

He said: "Now is not the time to put our foot on the brake. Now is the time to
press on the accelerator.

"I know some of you think we've had quite enough change for the time being. I
read the letters, asking me to slow down. But I have to tell you all this:
Britain cannot wait while we take it easy. We have a massive mountain to climb
if we're to win the next election.

"If we falter then Labour will win again. And that means not another two or
three years of Labour government. It means another eight or nine years.''

But, in an interview with the Sunday Telegraph, Mr Duncan Smith, who heads the
party's social justice policy group, said voters - especially in the inner
cities - were "still very cynical about what we are about''.

He said: "To break through that we have got to do extraordinary things ... there
is a huge amount [to do]. I don't underestimate that to my colleagues. This is
not a piece of clothing you put on. Everything you do, politically, has got to
be focused on this. It's tough.''

Although voicing his backing for the new leader, he said: "Who are we in the
minds of the public? Are we people who care about the way they live their lives,
or are we people who don't give a damn and are selfish? We haven't shown them
enough that we are people who can govern for Britain across the board.''

Mr Cameron also faced criticism from backbench MPs, one of whom broke ranks to
say that the leadership was damaging the party's chances at the forthcoming
local elections. Mark Pritchard, MP for The Wrekin and a former supporter of
David Davis, said suggestions last week by the party chairman Francis Maude that
the party would lose the next general election were counterproductive.

"Leadership is about imparting self-belief, not self-doubt. Talk of defeat is
unhelpful,'' he said.

The Tories have now lost their narrow lead over Labour, with the latest opinion
polls putting the two main parties level on 35 per cent.

Outside the conference, members of the UK Independence Party protested at Mr
Cameron's description of them as "loonies'' and "closet racists''.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Yes, the Tories could lose. It's why they need Cameron

BYLINE: Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1121 words


As the Blair era draws to a close, it is easily forgotten how much pain was
necessary to make it possible in the first place. In a recent Guardian
interview, Peter Mandelson admitted that he gravely underestimated the scale of
the task. "In the 1980s, I tried to effect these changes by means of a spray
job,'' he said, "putting out the red rose instead of the red flag, changing the
colours, the communications, the style of the party with words rather than
deeds. And the country saw through it.''

The message of the Conservatives' spring forum - explicitly so - was that the
modernisation of the Tory party is also in its infancy. Since David Cameron's
election on December 6, all Conservative energies have been devoted to the
(absolutely essential) task of transforming public perceptions of Tory motives.
There is no point calling for low taxes, robustness in Europe or a new
immigration policy until the voters believe that your reasons for doing so are
public-spirited, rather than selfish, bigoted, or otherwise dodgy. And credit
where it is due: most polls - public and private - suggest that Mr Cameron has
gone a long way in a short time to decontaminating the Tory brand.

The problem, however, is that, while the public like what they see of the young
Conservative leader, they are much less persuaded that his party has changed. As
Francis Maude, the Tory chairman, said on Friday, the Conservatives cannot
"expect David Cameron to carry the entire burden of persuading people that we've
changed'' and "contract it all out to the leader''. Or as one of Mr Cameron's
intimates put it to me: "People ask: is he just a Brazilian signing that's been
brought in to prop up Millwall?''

It is Mr Maude's allotted role in the Cameroon project to air the tough
questions, to "pass round the suicide pills'' in the words of one Shadow Cabinet
colleague. In fact, the chairman is the opposite of a pessimist. But he has been
a moderniser long enough to know that there is no point in evading harsh
electoral realities.

And they are as follows: the Tories presently have fewer seats than Michael Foot
after the 1983 election. Mr Cameron is doing considerably better in the polls
than any of his predecessors since Black Wednesday - a fact always ignored by
the reactionary Right - but he has yet to achieve the breakthrough that would
herald victory in the next general election. "If we falter on the way,'' Mr
Cameron said in his speech yesterday, "then Labour will win again.''

To say, as he and Mr Maude did, that the Tories might not win, was not defeatist
or treacherous but - at the deepest level - an act of courageous common sense.
Unless the Conservatives grasp how far they still have to go, they stand not the
slightest chance of ultimate success. Even now, they must consider the bleak
fact that they may not win the next election, and ask whether - in such
circumstances - they would ditch the modernisation project, as Labour nearly did
in 1992. These are questions worth pondering now, rather than later.

This is the context in which Mr Cameron's remarks last week about the UK
Independence Party should be seen. When he was leader, Michael Howard denounced
Ukip as "cranks and political gadflies''. But Mr Cameron went much further on
Tuesday when he accused its members of being "closet racists''. I am told that
this high-risk comment - made in an interview with LBC radio - was not
premeditated, but accurately reflected what Mr Cameron thinks about Ukip and was
planning to say sooner or later.

I do not know whether Ukip is composed of "closet racists'', although it is the
only party I know of that simultaneously claims to be mainstream while quoting
Hitler on its website. What is certainly true is that many of its members seem
to hold some fairly detestable views on asylum seekers and immigration, and to
be more animated, shall we say, by those issues than by specific animosity to
the European Union. At any rate, I find it amusing that the people who talk
about "political correctness gone mad'' when others object to certain forms of
pejorative language go so completely berserk when unpleasant labels are applied
to them.

The greater importance of the Tory leader's remarks concerns political strategy.
Mr Cameron's predecessors have tended to dismiss the Ukip leadership, but wooed
those tempted to vote for it by blowing what Mr Howard's poll guru, Lynton
Crosby, called the "dog whistle''. Mr Howard's slogan was: "It's not racist to
impose limits on immigration.'' Before him, William Hague had gone further in
his notorious speech, warning that Britain could become a "foreign land''. These
nudge-nudge tactics reflected the belief that there was a huge tranche of white,
working-class Tories who were abstaining but would flock back to the
Conservative Party if only it presented a tough enough face.

Mr Cameron, in contrast, believes that the Tories' best electoral hope lies in
scooping up Lib Dem voters in Labour marginal seats - and he has sound reasons
for thinking this, given that the Conservatives are second in 88 of Labour's 100
most marginal seats. Hence, his uncompromising campaign not only to scorn
reactionary parties but to condemn them, and to woo Lib Dem voters with an
emphasis upon the environment, global poverty and social justice. His Shadow
Cabinet colleagues donned T-shirts and jeans on Friday to join in voluntary
work: this is new terrain indeed.

The price Mr Cameron pays for this is the noisy sneer of the reactionary Right,
the Tory infantilists who believe that the party's defeat in the past three
general elections reflects only the alleged timidity of its message and a
prolonged bout of false consciousness among the British people. His reward in
the past two days has been a party gathering which has conspicuously lacked the
ill temper and spikiness that Mr Cameron's enemies have tried to nurture.

Never forget that it was the Conservative rank-and-file, not the media, that
chose Mr Cameron. He may be a darling of the metropolitan elite, but he is a
creation of the power-hungry Tory grass-roots. That is his strongest card, and
one he will have to play judiciously at the moment of greatest disappointment
and deepest vulnerability.

What if the local elections do not produce a respectable bounce? What if -
further down the line - Gordon Brown proves to be a popular Prime Minister? For
the Tories, this is a season of high hopes but also of rude awakenings. To win
power in a political system such as ours, when you have lost the habits of
victory, is incredibly hard. As Mr Cameron's party is finally beginning to
grasp, that awesome battle, with all its setbacks, anxieties and exhaustion, has
only just begun.

Matthew d'Ancona is Editor of The Spectator

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Not all the loonies are in UKIP, Dave SIMON HEFFER on Saturday

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 632 words


You won't believe this - no, really, you won't - but there are people now
running the Conservative Party who think it was brilliant of Dave to describe
UKIP as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly''. One of them is his
own party chairman, Francis Maude, who was clearly on something yesterday
morning when, with no regard at all for the truth, he described UKIP as wanting
an "all-white Britain''. These two "loonies'' regard this smear on thousands of
decent, harmless and patriotic people as a masterstroke in Dave's desire to
"reposition'' the party.

More in sorrow than in anger - I can't take Dave and Francis sufficiently
seriously to get angry about them - I feel I must offer some advice. They are
repositioning their party in much the same fashion as Senator Ted Kennedy used
to reposition cars after a night's boozing. It's all very well abusing your core
vote, provided you can find others to vote for you instead: but the UKIP blunder
has simply served to remind everyone of Dave's inexperience, stupidity and
shallowness, and that is hardly going to help drum up support.

Two years ago, a friend who is also a Tory MP - indeed, who is now a member of
Dave's shadow cabinet - asked me to speak at a dinner in his constituency. I
delivered a speech about the wickedness of the European constitution, then not
the dead duck it is today. It was a month before the European elections.
Afterwards, streams of people queued up to tell me the same thing: that, despite
being members of the Tory party, they would all be voting UKIP in the euros.

Dave would like to pretend to the contrary, but a sizeable proportion of those
activists on whom his candidates will depend to run their election campaigns in
2009 or 2010 are regular UKIP voters. That is because they regard the Tory
party's position on Europe as dishonest and unrealistic. They are right to do
so. This does not make them either loonies or fruitcakes, and by no stretch of
the imagination does it make them racists, closet or otherwise. And they will
this week have heard what their leader said about them, and been horrified.
Indeed, their horror has been eloquently expressed on the letters page of this
very paper.

The more one thinks about what Dave did, the more idiotic he seems. If he finds
UKIP's position so appalling, why is he proposing to shift his own MEPs towards
it by withdrawing them from the EPP grouping in the European Parliament? It
couldn't be because he needed to say that to win the backing of Right-wing MPs
during his election campaign, could it, and that, since he has no principles, it
was an easy promise to make?

More stunning even than that, though, is the failure of this man - whose friends
are always telling us how clever he is - to apologise for what has universally
now been recognised as a damaging and stupid mistake. With that smug,
self-righteous arrogance we have come to expect of a man whose only training for
high office was to be a PR spiv, Dave has not only failed to do that, but he has
also compounded his offence by attempting to defend himself. The overpaid
teenagers who work for him and write his jokes will have told him that this
makes him look decisive, resolute and tough. In fact, as older and wiser hands
in his own parliamentary party readily concede, it makes him look a little
plonker.

Well, Dave, old boy, if you want to continue this strategy of cleaning out your
core vote, here are a few more suggestions. Use a keynote speech at your
conference this weekend to attack the Women's Institute ("bigots''), the Brigade
of Guards ("fascists''), the Salvation Army ("paedophiles''), the Guide Dogs for
the Blind Association ("Nazis'') and Her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Queen
Mother ("crackhead''), just to liven things up a bit. And enjoy your retirement!

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Ukip drops its threat to sue in 'racists' row

BYLINE: George Jones and Graeme Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 556 words


THE UK Independence Party yesterday dropped its threat to take legal action
against the Conservative Party over David Cameron's claim that its members were
"closet racists''.

The party said it could not sue the Tories for slander because it would have to
prove damages - and the Tory leader's outburst had benefited Ukip.

Roger Knapman, the Ukip leader, said the attack by an "inexperienced and naive''
Mr Cameron had resulted in a flood of calls of support, including many from
Conservative Party members.

Sir Richard Body, a former Tory MP and now Ukip member, said the party had
raised enough funds to launch a class action by its members against Mr Cameron.

But it was going to be impossible to prove damages because "on the contrary,
Ukip has gained by this''.

As a result of the row, Ukip has decided that it will contest every Conservative
marginal seat at the next general election.

Some leading figures in the party had not wanted to put up candidates against
Eurosceptic Tories. However, Mr Knapman said that while Mr Cameron was leader,
they were no longer prepared to countenance any such deal with any
Conservatives.

He claimed that Ukip's intervention at the last election cost the Tories 27
seats.

Ukip leaders called a hastily arranged press conference at Westminster to
capitalise on the publicity they had received since Mr Cameron described the
party as a "bunch of fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists mostly'' in a
radio interview on Tuesday.

Francis Maude, the Tory chairman, yesterday defended Mr Cameron's refusal to
apologise for the "racist'' charge, even though Ukip has said that it accepts
the "fruitcake and loonies'' barbs as part of the normal "rough and tumble'' of
politics.

He told Radio 4's Today there were some people in the party who had "some pretty
unsavoury connections with the far-Right''.

"It is a bit of a party that just wants to turn the clock back, that doesn't
like the fact that Britain is a multi-racial country, a multi-faith country,
would like to return to a world where Britain is all-white and Europe didn't
exist - well, that's not the real world,'' he said.

Asked later if he had overstepped the mark, Mr Maude insisted that his comments
were perfectly fair. "They are not a bunch of people who are comfortable with a
multi-cultural, multi-faith Britain,'' he said.

The row with Ukip is threatening to overshadow the Conservative Party's spring
conference in Manchester, where Mr Cameron will today make his first major
speech to the party faithful since becoming leader in December.

Although Mr Cameron had not intended to pick a fight with Ukip, the Tory
leadership has decided to face down demands for an apology.

Privately, Tory officials concede that the party leader probably went too far by
branding Ukip as racists after being caught off guard.

But they believe that he cannot now retreat from his position without being seen
to have handed a public relations victory to Ukip. Tory officials hope that he
can turn the row to his advantage by using it to demonstrate that the party is
changing under his leadership and moving away from extreme policy stances on
issues like Europe.

Ukip claimed that the attack had backfired because it had raised their profile
in the run-up to next month's local elections and offended Euro-sceptic Tories
who shared many of the party's objectives.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Throwaway line that turned into a political storm

BYLINE: Graeme Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 486 words


IT WAS shortly before nine on Tuesday morning and David Cameron was coming to
the end of an hour-long phone-in on LBC radio.

The Conservative leader's mind was probably already turning to his trip that day
to meet party activists and councillors in Gosport, Hants, when the presenter,
Nick Ferrari, asked him about the UK Independence Party's plans to use the
Freedom of Information Act to expose the identities of the wealthy supporters
who had given the Tories millions of pounds in loans.

Caught momentarily off his guard, Mr Cameron dismissed Ukip as an irrelevance,
pausing briefly before adding that they were a collection of "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists, mostly''.

Within hours his comments - in particular the reference to closet racists - had
whipped up a minor political storm, with Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the
European Parliament, indignantly demanding an apology and threatening legal
action.

Privately, senior officials at Conservative Central Office admit they winced,
too, at their leader's throwaway remark.

One insider said: "The minute he said it, I thought 'Oh dear. Did he really want
to say that?' It just strayed a bit over the line.''

As Mr Cameron left LBC's studios with a press officer, Gaby Bertin, by his side,
officials at CCO were already plotting how to handle the potential fall-out.

The leader was unrepentant. He had been deeply irritated by Ukip's attempt to
force the Tories to disclose the identity of their lenders and according to one
aide was glad that he had given them "both barrels''.

Francis Maude, the party chairman, strongly agreed, arguing that such attacks
could only help to emphasise the huge gulf that lay between Ukip and a Tory
party led by Mr Cameron.

Some in his team disagreed. They felt that the leader, blind-sided by an
unexpected question, had played into Ukip's hands.

Despite this, a consensus quickly emerged that once the words had been said,
there could be no backing down.

Mr Cameron's press secretary, George Eustice - coincidentally a Ukip candidate
in the 1999 European elections - made clear to officials that the leader was
standing by his comments.

Within hours, Henry McCrory, the veteran Fleet Street journalist who heads the
Tory press office, was touring the Commons press gallery and telling anyone who
would listen that there would be no apology.

In Gosport, Mr Cameron was delivering the same message to cameras from both the
BBC and ITN.

Some - notably the party chairman - argued that the Tories should go on the
offensive.

When the chance came yesterday morning, Mr Maude happily stoked the embers of
the row into life again by accusing Ukip of being a party that wanted an
"all-white'' Britain and had "unsavory connections with the far-Right''.

'What David said on LBC was not part of some devious premeditated plot,'
insisted one senior aide last night. "But equally we stand by every word. We're
not going to run away from it.''

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Sorry, Mr Taylor, but Britain's not THAT bad

BYLINE: AMANDA PLATELL

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1078 words


WHAT kind of country is this?' asked Damilola Taylor's father, moments after two
brothers were cleared of murdering his son.

His frustration is understandable. But is his outrage fair?

Mr Taylor sent his wife Gloria, sons Tunde and Damilola, and daughter Bemi from
their home in Nigeria to Britain, to get medical care for the severely epileptic
girl.

Almost immediately, Bemi was admitted to King's College Hospital, one of the
finest in the country, while their other two children were placed in local
schools.

They were granted residence here because two of the children had been born in
Britain.

So what kind of country is this? One that opens its arms, its schools and its
health service free to a family from another country.

A country that rightly spends Pounds 10 million trying to track down Damilola's
killers and will continue to search for justice. A country that does not convict
child- suspects from sink estates without incontrovertible evidence.

Which is a far cry from the Nigerian justice system, where sharia courts order
amputation of limbs for trivial offences, where gays are stoned to death, where
corruption is endemic and torture commonplace.

In Nigeria, wife-beating is legal, child labour widespread, health care
nonexistent, and the criminal justice system is deeply corrupt.

So it is little wonder Mr Taylor chose to send his family here - what loving
father would not, if he had the chance?

Britain is a country where education and healthcare - though very far from
perfect - are nonetheless free at the point of use (or abuse). And while police
incompetence played a large part in the failure to catch Damilola's killers, at
least our forces try to uphold the rule of law.

I have the greatest sympathy for the Taylor family. But the tragic murder of
Damilola does not condemn the whole of this nation. Britain remains a beacon in
a bleak world for people seeking a better life - just as Mr Taylor did.

JK ROWLING attacks magazines for creating a ' skinnyobsessed' world, saying
she'd rather her own daughters were 'independent, interesting, kind, funny, a
thousand things before thin'.

I admire her message. But young girls' preoccupation with being slim will change
only when they have plump or fat female role models. And no one is better placed
to effect that change than the most powerful woman in publishing today - JK
Rowling. So why is it, then, that apart from the giant Hagrid, the only fat
characters in Harry Potter are the repulsive, deeply unsympathetic Dudley
Dursley and his ghastly mother Petunia, plus thick fatso Neville Longbottom?

The main female character, Hermione, is ravishing and trim - especially as
played in the Potter films by Emma Watson (left). The moment Ms Rowling puts an
independent, kind, funny and fat girl as her heroine in Harry Potter's world is
the moment we'll know she's serious about wanting to change this
'skinny-obsessed' world.

WHOPPER of the week: Calista Flockhart has lived with Harrison Ford for years
and says of rumoured wedding plans: 'We're just very happy the way things are.
To be honest, I could go either way.' Oh really? Give me a 41-year-old single
mum in a long-term relationship who doesn't care about marriage plans, and I'll
show you the Man in the Moon.

INITIATIVE of the week: At last, an inspired idea from Tony Blair.

He has sent Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt on lightning visits to sort out
debtridden hospitals.

What quicker way to free up hospital beds than patients waking up to find Ms
Hewitt looming over them.

CREEP of the week: Tom Cruise says of his plans for girlfriend Katie Holmes:
'First the baby, then the film, then in the summer we get married . . . I won't
let this woman get away.' The real Mission Impossible will be reviving Cruise's
reputation after what has fast become the creepiest pregnancy in Hollywood since
Rosemary's Baby.

AMERICA'S biggest TV network has given its top news presenting job to the hugely
experienced Katie Couric, paying her a record $15million a year.

If she had been a presenter in Britain, 49-year-old Ms Couric would have been
replaced by some useless, young, simpering starlet (who had just won a
non-celebrity dancing competition) faster than she could say Natasha 'Spangles'
Kaplinsky.

It's in the jeans

VICTORIA BECKHAM'S new line of jeans for Rock & Republic was getting rave
reviews from the fashion press . . . until Coleen McLoughlin squeezed her bottom
into them, thereby proving that you can't fit a watermelon into an eggcup.

If I was Posh Spice, I'd sue Coleen for malicious intent.

YOLANDE BECKLES - of the BBC's Don't Mess With Miss Beckles fame - teaches
children about trust and honesty, yet ran a business that went bust owing Pounds
120,000, failed to pay staff for months and was shrouded in secrecy.

With those qualifications, she could always apply for a job in the Treasury.

WOMEN have finally owned up. We now spend an estimated Pounds 180,000 on
cosmetics and beauty products in the course of a lifetime.

Will somebody now please tell Nancy Dell'Olio that we don't have to wear it all
at the same time.

Lunatics? Look around you, Dave

DAVID CAMERON, the man who leads what used to be the Tory Party, uses the eve of
the local government elections to attack UKIP supporters.

According to Dave, they are ' fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

The last time a Tory leader attacked UKIP was just before the European
elections. Michael Howard's description of them as 'gadflies and nutters' so
incensed the Eurosceptics in his own party that they defected, handing UKIP a 16
per cent gain in the polls.

But far from learning from history, party chairman Francis Maude yesterday
insisted UKIP 'wanted a return to a Britain which is all white and where Europe
didn't exist'. This is a disgraceful misrepresentation of the Eurosceptic
position.

To cap it all, Maude conceded the Tories may not win the next election.

Which is a bit like Sven Goran Eriksson saying to his England World Cup squad:
'We'll be slaughtered lads, but chins up!

You're in with a chance next time.' In any other line of work, he'd be sacked.
In the new Death Wish Tory party, I suspect he'll prosper.

I'M NOT sure what saddens me more, Kate Moss dodging criminal charges for drug
abuse (despite filmed evidence), or the fact that, after a slight blip,
publicity over her cocaine habit has taken her earnings to Pounds 9million a
year. Isn't it time we all sent a message to the morallybankrupt fashion
industry by boycotting anything this cokehead endorses?

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

UKIP claims victory in row over 'fruitcakes and loonies'

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words


THE UK Independence Party declared victory in its war of words with the Tories
yesterday revealing that David Cameron's attack on it as 'closet racists' has
boosted its popularity.

UKIP leaders withdrew their threat to sue for defamation because they could not
prove the allegations had actually damaged them.

They had demanded an apology after Mr Cameron branded them 'fruitcakes, loonies
and closet racists' earlier this week.

Mr Maude stepped up the attack yesterday, saying that UKIP want an all-white
Britain a claim fiercely contested by the party.

The lawyers were called in, but former Tory MP Sir Richard Body now a member of
UKIP revealed that the party have received support from the public.

In a bid to hurt the Tories at the ballot box, however, UKIP will now launch an
allout attack in marginal Tory constituencies.

They had previously agreed to a nonaggression pact in key seats where the
sitting Tory is a eurosceptic. In the 2005 General Election, it was estimated
that UKIP cost the Tories 27 seats by attracting three million voters who might
otherwise have backed the Conservatives.

Sir Richard said yesterday: 'A group of people had volunteered to provide
whatever money was necessary to bring a case of defamation against David
Cameron.

'It would be a class action, and although that would be feasible, one has to
prove damages. And from the discussion this morning we had with the lawyers, it
is going to be impossible to prove damages because UKIP seems to be gaining
ground as a result of this.

'There has been a very strong reaction, almost overwhelmingly from
Conservatives, against what Mr Cameron has said, offering support for UKIP.'

UKIP will today deploy Rusty Lee, the black former daytime TV chef, on a 'tank'
emblazoned with their party colours outside the Manchester convention centre
where the Tories are holding their spring conference Mr Cameron's first as
leader.

A Eurosceptic Tory MP also criticised Mr Cameron, saying: 'This has created a
lot of heat and will serve only to alienate voters we need to win over.'

The announcements followed a day of increasingly intemperate verbal volleys
between the parties.

In an apparently calculated act of provocation, Mr Maude said: 'There are some
people in UKIP who have some pretty unsavoury connections with the far-right.

'It is a bit of a party that just wants to turn the clock back, that doesn't
like the fact that Britain is a multiracial country, a multi-faith country,
would like to return to a world where Britain is all-white and Europe didn't
exist well, that's not the real world.' Nigel Farage, leader of the UKIP MEPs,
hit back: 'We have never, ever said that we want an all-white Britain.

We are not backward- looking, we are not prejudiced in any way at all. This is
an outrageous slur.' UKIP's leader Roger Knapman, also a former Tory MP, said Mr
Cameron had 'blundered into a minefield' because of his inexperience.

He added; 'Whether he is capable of walking out of it alive is a different
matter.

I am just sorry that a once great party could descend into that gutter in which
they have now put themselves.'

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Cameron defiant over reform of Conservatives: Public would prefer Brown as PM,
says poll: Ukip drops legal threat as Maude doubts prospects

BYLINE: Will Woodward, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 633 words


The Conservative leader, David Cameron, will today deliver a defiant pledge to
accelerate changes in his party in the face of a poll which suggests that the
public is yet to be convinced by him and would prefer Gordon Brown as prime
minister.

Mr Cameron will tell the party's spring conference in Manchester that his reform
programme "has to get faster; it must go wider and deeper. It's not enough for
the leader to change. We all have to change."

But the findings of an ICM poll for Channel 4 News, released last night, suggest
his own leadership is a cause for concern. The chancellor - Mr Cameron's likely
opponent at the next election - is regarded as the best-qualified to be prime
minister by 37% to 32%.

Mr Brown is also ahead of the Tory leader when voters were asked which one
"understands the needs of people like me" - by 44% to 34%; and "is tough" - by
61% to 29%.

Fifty-eight per cent of those surveyed agreed that although Mr Cameron was a
"new face", the Conservative party "hasn't really changed much at all". This
view is in line with accepted wisdom at Conservative HQ. But perhaps more
worrying for the Tory leader was the 40% who said that Mr Cameron was "more
about spin than substance".

The poll put Labour and the Conservatives level on 35% - in line with other
recent polls - with the Liberal Democrats on 21%.

Mr Cameron will tell members today: "There's so much that we need to change in
our country, we can't afford to waste time going slow on changing our party. So
now is not the time to put our foot on the brake. Now is the time to press on
the accelerator. We must fast forward to a new Conservative party."

Yesterday's opening day of Mr Cameron's first conference as leader offered
signals to the direction he wants to go with words such as Optimism, Change and
Hope replacing the word Conservative on the platform.

Mr Cameron was greeted with a standing ovation as he arrived to chair a panel
with representatives of voluntary groups who work in urban communities.

There was no dissent from the platform and little grumbling offstage from the
faithful. But the leadership believes some members are still nervous about Mr
Cameron's decisions to downgrade the party's commitment to tax cuts, support an
NHS free at the point of delivery, and oppose the creation of more grammar
schools.

The conference mood has been dampened by an admission from Francis Maude, the
party chairman, that the Tories may not win the next election. Mr Cameron stood
by his man yesterday but others regarded it as unhelpful.

Similarly, a row continued to rumble on about a remark earlier in the week by Mr
Cameron in which he described the UK Independence party as "fruitcakes, loonies
and closet racists, mostly".

Yesterday Ukip dropped its threat to take legal action but said it would contest
every Conservative marginal, a move which could prove far more damaging in the
long run.

The shadow home secretary, David Davis, and shadow chancellor, George Osborne,
offered standard Labour-bashing speeches. But Andrew Lansley, the shadow health
secretary, broke relatively new ground for the Tories by quoting approvingly
work done by a lesbian and gay group in public health.

Damian Hinds, a former parliamentary candidate, told the conference: "Let's be
honest, we have a bit of an image problem. A lot of people out there think we
are a bit odd, we're a bit posh, we don't care very much for people like them."

Lord Heseltine, the head of Mr Cameron's regeneration task force, rounded off
the day with his first speech to a Conservative conference for 10 years. He
became visibly emotional as he told delegates: "If we let large parts of our
cities become the preserve of the low skilled and the elderly and the dependent,
have no doubt that one day society will pay the price of dereliction and decay."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Britain - Labour and Lib Dems win early council by-elections

LENGTH: 153 words


The Labour Party and the Lib Dems gained in the latest council by-elections on
Thursday night, with the May 4 main polls less than a month away.

Labour's Hugh Branney snatched an independent seat at Cleator Moor in Cumbria's
Copeland borough.

And the Lib Dems' Roger Styring won from Tories at Alnmouth and Lesbury, Alnwick
district, Northumberland.

There were close calls for Tories at North Whetstone, Blaby district,
Leicestershire and Liberal Democrats at Shadforth and Sherburn, Durham City.

The United Kingdom Independence Party, whose members were accused this week by
Tory leader David Cameron of being "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists,"
came second in county and borough contests at Boston, Lincolnshire.

Analysis of seven comparable results, from mainly Tory-held wards, suggested a
projected nationwide 8.8 per cent Conservative lead, which would bring
widespread overall Labour losses if repeated in May.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Britain - Cameron sticks by his UKIP analysis

LENGTH: 116 words


Tory leader David Cameron remained unrepentant yesterday about his analysis of
UKIP as a far-right party.

Asked by the BBC if he regretted his remarks, he said: "No, I don't.

"I think UKIP has some issues to address.

"They know they have, not least because their founder Alan Sked actually left
the party because he thought it had been infiltrated by the far-right," he said.

"I gather they are actually dealing with some of the issues."

Mr Cameron added: "An interesting thing happened today. I gather, from listening
to the Today programme, there was a remark by Adolf Hitler on the UKIP website.

"I gather because of this furore that remark has now been removed, so people are
making some progress."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 8, 2006, Saturday

Sorry, but I wouldn't vote for a drag queen in the White House

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 855 words


THIS WEEK WE GOT to see how Americans think it would be to have a woman in the
Oval Office. In the new TV drama Commander in Chief, which has just started in
Britain, Madam President is more than 6ft tall, talks in a gravelly voice and
has a mouth so inflatably large and laden with lipstick that voters would never
have any trouble reading her lips. In short, Geena Davis does not play the first
woman to lead the free world, but the first drag queen.

Of course the show makes great play of this girls-on-top fantasy. There is a
sharp exchange between Davis and a rival who questions her ability to lead.
"Well, not only that," she mocks him, "but we have that whole 'once a month will
she or won't she press the button' thing."

He responds nastily: "Well, in a couple of years you're not going to have to
worry about that any more."

And there is a rather nauseating moment when the President's young daughter
spills her drink over mommy on the way to the inauguration speech. You know, the
average pressures of balancing work, life, the national budget and your baby's
Ribena.

But never once in the tumultuous process of taking office does Davis betray any
emotion. She remains cool, clipped, aloof and vaguely unlikeable. Although the
programme-makers do their feminist best to show a woman succeeding at being in
charge, in doing so they unwittingly identify the problem of being a female
politician. They are drag queens of a sort, their femininity a mask, their
humanity hidden.

Take the lunch I had with a minister when I started to cover politics. Here was
a woman I had never met, but found irritating on television. She seemed cold, at
best a little "nannyish" and dull, at worst patronising. I am hardly giving away
clues to her identity here -how many women in government can you think of who do
not fit this description? So imagine my surprise when she approached, swearing
like a trooper at her lateness, a smile making her almost unrecognisable. On
every point I had got her wrong: she was warm, very funny and surprisingly
passionate about her cause.

I came away disturbed by my bad judgment of character. How could I have been so
turned off by her public persona, but so bowled over by her in private? Yet the
more female politicians I met, the more I encountered the same mystery -alter
egos so different and so much more likeable that it was difficult to understand
why they were kept concealed. When the demeanour of these women was criticised
in conversation with friends, I would try to persuade them that really,
underneath, they were fantastic. They didn't believe me. It was, as I observed
those suffocatingly safe performances in the Commons, hard to believe it myself.

Now, everyone separates their home and work selves to some degree. But the
change is normally subtle: when you see a male politician droning on in public,
it is a near certainty that he is a dullard in private. For many women in power
the opposite is true -their work selves are the kind of disguise that would give
Oscar-winner Geena Davis a run for her money.

I know why they do it. Their gender means their status is more in doubt, the
scrutiny upon them greater, the margin for error smaller. They cannot afford to
do a Mo, or an Edwina -careers sunk on a surfeit of "character". So they keep to
the line, and keep their jobs. But it also keeps them back. When David Cameron
this week mouthed off about the UK Independence Party ("fruitcakes, loonies and
closet racists"), it made him seem strong. Tony Blair, as his advisers at the
election realised, is at his most convincing when sweating with panic among a
hostile studio audience.

For a leader to be truly engaging, it is not enough to be good at his or her
job.

They have to reveal something of themselves, something for their public to
connect with on an emotional level. That is why Bill Clinton is such a
consummate politician, and why his buttoned-up wife Hillary -the current best
chance of a real Madam President -is not.

We will have true equality when the word charisma is used about women in power,
not just men. One day we won't just aspire to have a woman in the White House,
but a human too.

* JOURNALISTS often get flak for unfairly giving people a bad press. At last
now, someone else to blame -the Apostles. For the past two millennia Judas has
been cast as some kind of bad guy whose cowardly betrayal led to the death of
the Messiah, when in fact, according to a translation of an ancient text
released this week, he was Jesus's best mate, carrying out his wishes to help
him die. On behalf of those not around to say it, apologies for any
misunderstanding caused.

* I SHARE J. K. Rowling's concern, voiced on her website this week, that her two
daughters will grow up in a world of diet-obsessed "talking toothpick"
celebrities. That said, my 12-week-old baby, although as plump as a pillow,
spends much of her time barfing up her feed and scratching herself. One
acid-tongued friend observed how advanced she was for her age: "Other parents
have to wait until their daughters are in their teens before they start dealing
with food issues and self-harming".

We are so proud.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 8, 2006, Saturday

UKIP 'fruitcakes' step up war against Tories

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 258 words


THE UK Independence Party has retaliated against being called "fruitcakes" by
David Cameron by pledging to stand in every Conservative marginal at the next
election (Philip Webster writes).

But the party dropped its threat to take legal action against the Conservatives
after Mr Cameron's claim that they were "closet racists".

The UKIP said that it could not take action because it would have to prove
damages while, on the contrary, the party had benefited from the Conservative
leader's outburst that they were "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

The party, which strongly denies being racist, maintains that it cost the Tories
27 seats at the last general election.

And although it has a policy of contesting every seat, it said that it would be
particularly targeting Tory marginals. Despite repeated UKIP requests for an
apology and threats of legal action, the Conservatives refused to back down,
with Francis Maude, the party chairman, insisting that some UKIP members "have
some pretty unsavoury connections with the far Right".

"It is a bit of a party that just wants to turn the clock back, that doesn't
like the fact that Britain is a multiracial country, a multifaith country,would
like to return to a world where Britain is all-white and Europe didn't exist
-well, that's not the real world," he told the Today programme on BBC Radio 4.

Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, said that the Tories' comments were "disgraceful
.

. . decrying a party which seeks to re-establish the supremacy of the British
Parliament at Westminster as racist".

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Tories must attack Labour and form a credible opposition

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 31 words


SIR - In view of David Cameron's attack on UKIP, what does he think of the Tax
Payer's Alliance, which is a far more courageous opposition than the Tories?

D. S. A. Murray

Dorking, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

There's more to a necktie than meets the eye

BYLINE: ANDREW ALEXANDER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 823 words


THOSE of us who deplore the decline of the necktie - with suits, that is - are
regarded by some as making a fuss about nothing.

But I wonder. The issue seems to me to go deeper.

The basic signal which the opennecked shirt sends out is: 'I can't be bothered.'
It is not an admirable attitude of mind generally. What else can't you be
bothered with?

Punctuality, perhaps, or other of the modest virtues hitherto regarded as good
manners?

One well-known category of nontie wearers carries this approach to extremes by
going to great trouble to demonstrate that they can't be bothered - David
Cameron and the likes. When a tieless Tory Chairman Francis Maude appeared on
TV, unkind commentators speculated on whether the bulge in his pocket was a
carefully removed tie.

It is certainly odd that many of the tieless are happy to buy an expensive suit
and shirt only to balk at the tie for which both were designed. Cameron, I
gather, wears expensive trainers.

A fair question for the tieless might be: would you attend a dinner party in
your pyjamas? No doubt they would answer that this would show a lack of respect
for their hosts and fellow guests.

Elementary politeness would demand some formality.

in that case it would seem logical to display a comparable courtesy when
appearing on TV. Well, we must appear sympathetic to the young, various tieless
politicians will drone. And if possible, actually look young (which certainly
doesn't work).

The young are, in fact, fussy about dress. They spend remarkable sums on jeans
with the right label, on the most fashionable trainers, on T- shirts with the
right logo - manufactured, one might add, for pennies in the Third World and
sold for many pounds here.

I am not knocking casual dress. I wear it much of the time. But there is a
connection between how people dress, how they behave and how important they
think the moment is.

A dinner jacket indicates a recognition of a major occasion.

Totally casual dress will normally indicate that the moment is of no
consequence. Which is the conclusion TV viewers may reach from tieless
performers.

This fashion is also a loss to politician watchers because of what ties may say
about their wearers. It is interesting if someone has no apparent sense of
colour or design.

And if the tie is wild, then you have been warned.

ENTERTAINING as the Brown vs Blair tussles may be, we must preserve a sense of
proportion. One hears wild claims from commentators that the conflict is making
the country ungovernable. But I haven't noticed any riots, looting or great
breakdowns in public services.

Again Whitehall is said to be demoralised, uncertain what it should be doing
next. If only! A halt to the outpouring of new measures and regulations would be
worth celebrating. But, sadly, the flood goes on.

We are witnessing in Downing Street an age- old phenomenon.

Eden, as Foreign Secretary, seethed because Churchill so delayed his promised
handover of power (rings a bell?). Macmillan and Rab Butler, his No 2, disliked
each other intensely.

Wilson fell out with Roy Jenkins, who left to start the Social Democrats.

Ted Heath generated animosity almost by rote.

Margaret Thatcher fell out with Geoffrey Howe as Deputy Premier and with Nigel
Lawson as Chancellor - both stalking out in anger.

In Ancient Rome, there was regular bitterness between the elected consuls.

Power promotes rivalries. Twas ever thus.

UKIP has no fruitcake monopoly

CAMERON'S audibly overexcited comments about the UK Independence Party are a
tactical blunder and not just because it has provided UKIP with so much
publicity: 'Cranks and gadflies . . . fruit cakes and closet racists.' It may
prove a pretty good way to help cajole UKIP members to go to the polls.

As for the charges, the political party which does not gather into its ranks
eccentrics and loonies has yet to be invented. And they will try to rise in the
party. That applies to the Tories, too, of course. Some digging in the entrails
of the party would undoubtedly uncover some very odd people.

The charge of madness in politics indicates one of two things. The more
respectable reason is that the abuser genuinely believes an individual (or
group) has wholly abandoned rational thought. The other, as in this case, is
that he simply wants to bring serious argument to a halt.

Being a fully paid-up, cardcarrying fruitcake, I know. The charge of madness was
one I regularly encountered when calling for the pound to float, for the
abolition of exchange controls, for the privatisation of state industries, for
avoiding the ERM (which nearly all respectable opinion wanted) and for not
joining the euro from the start.

Today's fruitcakery is so often tomorrow's orthodoxy.

The charge that UKIP is heavily composed of 'closet racists' is intriguing.

We are entitled to ask how, by definition, could Cameron know?

Tories may well fear that his abuse could be a preliminary to yet another
rethink - on the party's hitherto critical attitude to the EU.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Mandy's call to resurrect the EU charter

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 466 words


PETER Mandelson yesterday called for the EU constitution to be revived.

The EU Commissioner said the blueprint for a federal state should be resurrected
even though it was rejected by voters last year.

'Rules and institutions' are needed to ensure the enlarged EU runs smoothly,
added Mr Mandelson, increasing suspicions that EU leaders are plotting to revive
the constitution.

French president Jacques Chirac and German chancellor Angela Merkel are also
involved in attempts to reopen the debate about its future less than a year
after it was thrown out by the French and Dutch.

Mr Mandelson said the constitution 'contained the elements of future and
necessary constitutional change' but admitted: 'In its present form it needs
changing.' He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: 'As we enlarge Europe then
we have to create rules, we have to create institutions that accommodate a
growing population and a growing number of member states.

'The solution in our institutions does not lie in creating a new sort of closed
Europe.

'I think that the present constitutional treaty in the eyes of very many does
not provide the right solution.

'I think it was a very good basis and in many respects it has ideas and
proposals which we should not lose sight of.

'But I don't think people are ready to adopt, let alone rush to embracing it at
this stage.' Tony Blair was forced to scrap plans for a British referendum after
the French and Dutch votes effectively left the constitution dead in the water.

In July EU leaders agreed they need a 'period of reflection' before deciding
what to do.

Conservative MEP Chris Heaton-Harris said: 'The French and Dutch people
categorically rejected the European constitution less than a year ago and
several other countries, including Britain, would have rejected it too.

'What part of "No" does Peter Mandelson not understand?

'Mr Mandelson's calls for more rules, regulations and expensive institutions
just goes to show how much more out of touch he has become since moving to
Brussels.

'Most people in Britain want the EU to be doing less, not more.' The
constitution cannot come into effect unless it is ratified by all 25 EU members.

So if it is to be resurrected, France and the Netherlands will have to vote
again. This is not likely until after elections due in both countries in
Austria, which holds the revolving EU presidency until July, has been charged
with stimulating a discussion on what to do with the constitution plans.

A spokesman for the UK Independence Party, which favours Britain's withdrawal
from the EU, said parts of the rejected constitution had already been introduced
'piecemeal' into European rules.

Tory Europe spokesman Graham Brady said: 'A bigger EU needs to become more
flexible, not more tightly bound by Brussels.' k.walker@dailymail.co.uk 2007.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHANGE: PETER MANDELSON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TEXT MANIACS

SECTION: LW; 39

LENGTH: 734 words


why should there be more gay police? as far as im aware there are enough bent
cops! the realist it seems u av 2 b gay non british and disabled 2 get into the
police force. Giv us a chance! ambrum something has to be done with the house
buying system. We've just been gazumped. Lost almost 1K along with the stress,
time and effort and there's nothin we can do as the vendor just changed their
mind. Anyone else feel the same? PETER WIDNES all u bleatin' smokrs: if tbacco
hdnt bn intrduced 2 ths cntry, there wd still b pubs. u r not b all and end all
of em! ignrnt prats! col i mind beef drippin an salt on toast.

still eat it. do you no harm. nomad bank/credit card charges have been seen 4
what they are - profitmaking schemes! So the HALIFAX up their charges to GBP 39!

Rob dogs! mac b'ham Bush not representative of born again Christians or church
or Jesus or uk or usa (dodgy election, concentration camps - sound familiar -
WW2! ) Y our ppl dyn 4 his oil & arms? anon i love drinkin n smokin to my
heart's content. whatever rules pervert this i will find a way around it. camden
town posse ode 2 workin class: it's ok 2 b one of them but never 4get ure one of
us. bluecollerpaddy What ever happened to frank sidebottom, the papier
mache-headed manc off tele? ! BAMBI HURLEY wot ever happened 2 fry's 5 centres
and does anybody else miss them?

Marky Re big tony Tues: Victoria Beckham's bare feet r ace! Would luv to see her
play footsy with Geri H!

MO calling all landlords and publicans:

if you all hate the trade so much then why do it? Get off your lazy butts and do
something else. sharpster i go out drinkin every weekend and end up in bed with
a fat bird. is it normal? is there a weight limit 4 single beds? rudi lad ov
rosey Anyone notice Pinhead from Hellraiser has become a P.E. Teacher for Direct
line ads? BIG H My local: C*rlsb**g lager GBP 1.40 a pint.

Where? It's a secret. H. Mids.

2 AL U TEXTERS OUT THERE AL THESE TXTS BOUT ROC MUSIC NOT 1 BOUT DEEP PURPLE WHO
INVENTED ROCK SMOKE ON WATER BEST TUNE EVER. SAND BOY GENE PITNEY: THANX 4 THE
MUSIC. LUV & RESPECT.

aqueduct that little piece of filth Damien French named & shamed had been taught
a lesson! ! Ive got good lesson for him. Come to Tranmere and i teach you it:
its called do animals feel pain pts 1-7.

smokey Rob Enfield: spot on mate.

elderly defended this country against them who now tell us how 2 run it. now
being treated like 2nd rate citizens. Grateful ROB of ENFIELD: I wish the whole
of UK was full of OAPs.

Imagine wot a safer place it would be instead of the now generation scum.

Justin, pontypool Our oaps need more respect, my grandma worked during the war
to save our country and she's bein sh*t on by the government. FJM ST HELENS ANT:
WHY SHOULD I WORK? MY 3 KIDS GET EVERYTHIN THEY NEED OFF YOUR TAXES FELLA!

CHEERS! HIFIEY most parents use their kids as an excuse not to work and expect
every1 else to pay for them! Instead of bleeding the taxpayer dry with useless
excuses why not try a little effort if u wanted to work that bad ude find a way!
working parent The reason that the single workers r taxed so much is because we
have 2 pay 4 the child breeders such as PAUL the ANT who just sponge of the
state & r 2 bone idle 2 work. This country is headin 4 financial meltdown thanks
2 them. We have all had enough havent we?

Frank The law has had long enuf 2 sort yobs out. Time 2 take streets back & put
respect back in2 britain. anon can you tell me why i pay council tax when the
cops don't show up when my house gets broken into? not very happy right now. Tom
hereford Global bloody warming? i aint took me longjohns off for months! LEEBOY
1st time on da txt new reader. D star rules! Gooners rule! Ne1 else think boost
best choc ever? DAN J SOUTH LONDON CAMPBELL IS RITE - WE UKIP MEMBERS R NUTS.

NUTS ABOUT AN IND UTD ENGLAND. GB PATRIOT y the hell should the troops b brought
out of iraq the army r meant 2 fight wars idiots! daren Spy murdered in Donegal
- Any 1 seen Harry's Game?

Identical. J.T.

watched crimewatch. about time we saw an mp gettin scammed. its usually the
other way round. blunkett haha what goes around comes around: ) khurst phil woo
anyone else think ruth from the apprentice looks like matt lucas in a wig?

koomey I am a 76 yr old man and i have seen several labour goverments come and
go and each one of them has f**ked this country up. please can we try to get
them out? ASAP. Senior citizen

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Cameron must tempt back UKIP voters, not insult them

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 68 words


SIR - I resent being associated with closet racists. I voted three times for
Norman Tebbit and Mrs Thatcher for obvious reasons.

Now I will support UKIP, the only party with a leader who puts loyalty to the
nation and its people above party politics and the unelected politburo in
Brussels. Mr Cameron may have made a good start but he will never get my vote
until he puts Britain first.

R Brady

Wurtulla, Queensland

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Cameron must tempt back UKIP voters, not insult them

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 157 words


SIR - I have always voted Conservative but, since his election, Mr Cameron has
ditched many of the things I believe in.

He recently categorised as "nimby'' those of us in the South-East who don't
agree with the policy of building more and more houses here. In this area, our
roads are gridlocked, our trains overcrowded at peak times and our courts
overstretched by the volume of crime. To see a GP I have an option of seven days
to see any doctor in the practice or "ring again tomorrow'' for an emergency
appointment. And we have a hosepipe ban because we are short of water. The
infrastructure in the South-East cannot cope with the current population, let
alone the thousands more to be added. That is our objection.

I'm sure it won't worry him that he has lost my vote - I am too much an
old-fashioned Conservative for the modern party. But if too many of us are
turned away, he may deny himself the victory he seeks.

Sue Eagle

Maidenhead, Berks

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Cameron must tempt back UKIP voters, not insult them

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 32 words


SIR - Perhaps the greatest collection of political fruitcakes and loonies are
those members of the Tory party who elected a closet socialist as their leader.

Edward Jackson

Sunbury-on-Thames, Middx

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Tory MP defends Ukip in racist row

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 183 words


A CONSERVATIVE MP sprang to the defence of the UK Independence Party yesterday
after David Cameron branded the Eurosceptic party's members as "closet
racists''.

Bob Spink, MP for Castle Point in Essex, insisted that Ukip members were "very
good people'' who were simply trying to defend their country against
"over-bearing'' legislation from Brussels.

The rebuke came as Roger Knapman, the Ukip leader, said that his party would sue
the Tory leader for slander unless an apology was received.

"Mr Cameron has called us closet racists and to be a racist is a criminal
charge.

"So we will take legal action unless we get an apology from Mr Cameron,'' Mr
Knapman told BBC Radio 4's PM programme.

Mr Knapman, a former Tory MP, has now written to Mr Cameron to demand an
apology. He added: "Ukip is most definitely not a racist party.''

Last night, there was no sign of Mr Cameron backing down on his apparently
spontaneous description in a radio interview of Ukip as "fruitcakes and loonies
and closet racists, basically''.

Mr Spink suggested that his leader should sort out the row "over a pint'' with
Mr Knapman.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Cameron must tempt back UKIP voters, not insult them

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 106 words


SIR - David Cameron describes members of (and presumably voters for) UKIP as
"fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists'' (report, April 5). What folly! They
are mostly former Conservative voters who need to be tempted back to voting for
his party. Such insults will ensure that they stay away.

What Mr Cameron needs to do is to open discussion with UKIP and offer such
manifesto commitments as will ensure an electoral pact at the next general
election.

Think of the marginals that would then swing to a UKIP/Conservative alliance
against a totally discredited Labour Party and the irrelevant Lib Dems.

Christopher D Taylor

Thetford, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Cameron must tempt back UKIP voters, not insult them

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 45 words


SIR - Is David Cameron a closet recruiting sergeant for UKIP?

If he continues to ignore or dismiss the concerns of serious-minded, right-of-
centre Conservatives in the way he is doing, then UKIP will be the major
beneficiary at the next election.

Peter Young

Tamworth, Staffs

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Scots MEP in cover-up row over probe into expenses

BYLINE: STUART NICOLSON

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 659 words


A SCOTTISH Euro MP accused of falsely claiming hundreds of thousands of pounds
worth of expenses was at the centre of a cover-up row last night.

An independent investigation into David Martin's cash claims has ended after two
years but the findings will remain a secret unless Mr Martin agrees to make them
public.

The astonishing decision was last night branded a 'disgrace' and sparked claims
of a coverup culture at the heart of the European Union.

European Parliament officials ordered an independent investigation into the
allegations following claims in 2004 that Mr Martin had been fraudulently
siphoning off money via his expenses.

The probe began after documents alleging fraud were handed to Labour Party
bosses by the family of Mr Martin's then wife Margaret while the couple were in
the middle of a bitter divorce battle.

Mr Martin, a former European Parliament vice-president, had left his wife who
worked as his office assistant and set up home with former TV reporter and
Labour spin doctor Lorraine Davidson.

The documents, allegedly revealing that Mr Martin had for years been wrongly
benefiting from expenses claims amounting to Pounds 2,000 a month, were then
passed to European Parliament officials.

Labour's 2004 Euro election campaign was overshadowed by the allegations.

Mr Martin was only allowed to stand after he promised to resign if the
independent probe discovered any evidence of wrongdoing.

It was revealed yesterday that the report has now been completed and is in the
hands of senior officials.

But a European Parliament spokesman said the question of whether the findings
would be made public would be up to Mr Martin himself.

He said: 'It is a report about his office finances, so once it has been finished
with internally it is up to Mr Martin to decide what to do with it.'

But Scottish Tory European spokesman Phil Gallie claimed the case highlighted
the differing standards of openness between the UK and Europe.

He said last night: 'We have a situation in the Scottish parliament where, with
freedom of information laws, this kind of report would almost certainly be made
public there would be no choice in the matter.

'To have a report prepared at public expense into what is certainly a matter of
public concern and then say they can withhold publication on the advice of the
person at the centre of the claims is absolutely disgraceful.

'Obviously, if there is nothing within the report to concern Mr Martin, he would
want it to be published that is normally the situation if someone has nothing to
hide.'

Mr Gallie added: 'The European Parliament is forgetting whose money paid for
this report. I will be talking to my MEP colleagues to ask them what they can do
about it.

'I would like to find out what the grounds are for withholding the report.'

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said: 'It must be in David Martin's
interests for this document to see the light of day.

'How can anyone work as an MEP if they are prepared to support the European
Parliament principle of hiding facts from the public?'

Mr Martin, who has served in Brussels and Strasbourg since 1984, is one of the
most senior MEPs.

Before the last Euro elections he served as a vice-president of the European
Parliament.

Officials at the parliament have never revealed the identity of the outside
experts called in to investigate the fraud claims.

And repeated inquiries by the Scottish Daily Mail into the progress of the
investigation were hit by an official wall of silence.

Mr Martin's divorce was finally settled late last year after a lengthy legal
battle in which Mrs Martin had demanded a Pounds 150,000 settlement in addition
to a monthly allowance of Pounds 1,000.

The two parties eventually agreed an out-of-court settlement but only after a
court order had been granted which banned Mrs Martin from harassing the MEP and
his new partner.

Mr Martin, who has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, was unavailable for comment
last night.

s.nicolson@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EX-WIFE: MARGARET MARTIN PARTNER: LORRAINE DAVIDSON UNDER
INVESTIGATION: SCOTS MEP DAVID MARTIN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Murder that mocks the peace process

SECTION: ED SC1 04; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 583 words


TERRORISED, mutilated and shot in the face, former Sinn Fein official and
British spy Denis Donaldson becomes another terrible symbol of a peace process
going nowhere.

Presumably he believed IRA assurances on his safety, much as politicians always
seem to believe the terrorists' promises of good behaviour.

Indeed, unlikely though it may seem, it may even be that the IRA wasn't directly
responsible for this murder. After all, it is desperate for its apologists in
Sinn Fein to return to government in the Province.

But why should anyone believe its innocence? It lied about helping Colombian
narco-terrorists. It lied about robbing the Northern Bank and about the killing
of Robert McCartney. It still lies about its racketeering and beatings.

Today, Tony Blair and Ireland's Bertie Ahern travel to Armagh in a 'trust
building' attempt to revive the Ulster assembly. Both men deserve credit for
their persistence and endless patience.

But in the absence of trust, real peace will always be an illusion. The
slaughter of Denis Donaldson even if not ordered by the IRA is a grim reminder
of the terrorists' brutality and bad faith on both sides of the sectarian
divide.

We wish the peace process well, while having huge sympathy for the Unionist
majority who have every reason to believe the IRA can't be trusted.

The politics of envy

THERE can be no greater testament to the power of family love and concern for
the welfare of future generations than the age-old practice of grandparents
leaving modest sums in trust for their grandchildren's education.

They aren't always wealthy, just people trying to do their best. But now, buried
in the details of the Budget, is a measure that discourages the very human
instinct to provide for future generations.

According to outside experts, the Treasury's plan to impose more charges on
family trusts doesn't just affect the rich: it is another stealth tax on Middle
Britain, blighting the inheritance plans of countless ordinary people.

Now all their prudent and perfectly legal planning on behalf of their own
families is thrown into confusion. Wills may have to be rewritten.

Insurers have frozen new trust business, fearing that thousands of customers
could fall foul of the new rules.

Skandia Life, for example, warns that 4.5million policies could be affected, if
they are tied up in trusts.

No wonder they want Mr Brown to reconsider. Under his plan, trusts will be taxed
every 10 years. People who thought they were guaranteeing their grandchildren's
school fees must think again.

Inheritance Tax is already a disgraceful impost on millions of modestly earning
people who are taxed to the hilt all their lives and must pay even more when
they die. Now the screw is tightened again.

Yet the Treasury claims the sums raised will be small. It is hard to avoid the
conclusion that this is a piece of class warfare motivated by the politics of
envy.

No need for insults

YOU don't have to be a supporter of the UK Independence Party to find something
gratuitously offensive in David Cameron's description of it as 'a bunch of
fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

Yes, UKIP is a nuisance to him because it tends to attract traditionally-minded
Conservatives. But doesn't it owe its very existence to the honourable and
indeed well-founded belief that all parties including the Tories patronise and
deceive voters on matters European? To oppose a federal Europe isn't racist.

The job of a Tory leader should be to win disillusioned voters back to the fold
not insult them.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

No need for insults;
Comment

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 100 words


YOU don't have to be a supporter of the UK Independence Party to find something
gratuitously offensive in David Cameron's description of it as 'a bunch of
fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

Yes, UKIP is a nuisance to him because it tends to attract traditionally-minded
Conservatives. But doesn't it owe its very existence to the honourable and
indeed well-founded belief that all parties including the Tories patronise and
deceive voters on matters European? To oppose a federal Europe isn't racist.

The job of a Tory leader should be to win disillusioned voters back to the fold
not insult them.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

We just can't trust Europe

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 502 words


By Nigel Farage

UK Independence Party

MEP YOU could write a history of the European Union by referring almost
exclusively to its subterfuge. From the secret funding of the European Movement
by the CIA in the 1950s and 1960s to the present day, it is a history that just
keeps repeating. Since 1999, when the biggest-ever cover-up brought down the
entire European Commission, they carry on apace.

In the past few weeks a new case has arisen; that of a pointless and almost
unknown body called the Committee of the Regions (CoR), which has as one of its
more august members Jack McConnell, Scotland's own First Minister.

It could act as a template for how the European institutions collude in covering
up evidence of wrongdoing.

A couple of years ago, the committee's internal auditor, career Eurocrat Robert
McCoy, discovered that there had been serious irregularities in payments to MEPs
on their travel expenses.

As is his job, he wrote an internal report that pointed this out. For his
professionalism he was rewarded with removal from his post and in a deft and oh
so familiar touch was then classified as mentally exhausted and put on permanent
sick leave.

The following year, his replacement found evidence of a scam that allowed civil
servants to increase their wages by claiming residence or financial interest in
third countries.

This auditor also found that his contract was not to be renewed.

When this case was brought to the attention of the European Parliament's
budgetary control committee, whose job it is to scrutinise the accounts, Nils
Lundgren, a Swedish MEP from my Independence/Democracy group, took the report
and asked for a private inquiry.

The inquiry was to take place without journalists present and would include only
the MEPs, the CoR itself, the two former auditors and OLAF the EU's own '
fraudbuster' unit.

A campaign of lobbying was launched by the German head of the CoR which soon
managed to persuade the Labour and Tory groups that an inquiry would be
unnecessary.

The parliament's federalist majority then voted to reject the inquiry. In a
comment that was almost beyond satire, one MEP said: 'I have been told that one
of the auditors is on sick leave and it would be wrong to have a sick person
talk to the committee.' As if honesty might actually be contagious and the
European Parliament might finally do its job.

The problem is that most MEPs believe in what I was once told by a former CoR
chairman in regard to an earlier cover-up, the Eurostat scandal.

He said: 'What you don't understand is that we in the European Parliament have
to defend the good name of Europe.

'So we have to learn to say "No" to the electorate.' case of David Martin, a
good, old-fashioned socialist and a true believer in the project, highlights the
appalling lack of openness in Europe.

The report into his alleged expenses scandal has been written.

But there are no guarantees that it will ever see the light of day.

This addiction to secrecy goes some way to explain why so few now trust a word
that Europe says.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

G2: Thequestion: Is it possible to libel a political party

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 349 words


Dapper Dave Cameron dropped an uncharacteristic clangerette this week. On LBC
radio he dismissed the UK Independence Party (which took a handy 2.38 % of the
vote in 2005) as "fruitcakes and loonies - and closet racists mostly". Ukip duly
took offence at the suggestion that it might be racist (it doesn't seem to mind
the fruitcake stuff) and consulted lawyers over a possible defamation suit. But
can you sue a political party for libel or slander? This was the question on the
lips of Nigel Farage, leader of the Ukip group in the European parliament, as he
vented his views on Cameron's outburst. So what do the experts think?

The general view seems to be that it's a tricky one. The rule of thumb used to
be that one couldn't libel a group of more than 12 people. There is apparently
doubt as to that; and anyway, Ukip's detractors would argue that its propensity
to split - as Robert Kilroy-Silk did soon after becoming a Ukip MEP - is such
that there may only be half a dozen paid-up Ukippers left. So yes, it might be
possible to libel them.

Tory-turned-Ukip leader Roger Knapman MEP is still fulminating. In a letter to
Dave, who was barely six when Knapman lost his seat in 1997, he graciously
conceded: "We have all made mistakes due to our inexperience . . . but most of
us have the grace to apologise for them immediately." He added: "Few of us
manage to cram quite so many into such a short period of time."

One cunning plan available to Ukip is that one of its grandees (chairman David
Campbell-Bannerman, for instance) might claim to be so personally maligned that
he sues Dave in person.

Anti-fascist groups such as Searchlight, however, suggest a crossover between
Ukip votes and BNP votes, something Ukip might like to mull over before taking
anyone to court.

Of course, Dave didn't plan to get quite so mouthy about Ukip, but he has
decided that the Tories must take a tough line against fringe parties that pinch
their votes and undermine their chances. As it was, libel or no libel, his LBC
utterance sounded a bit like an Old Etonian deploring the oiks at the
tradesman's entrance.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cameron can learn from Morrissey

BYLINE: Janet Street-Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 201 words


Insulting people is a dangerous occupation. Ken Livingstone lurches from one
personal jibe to the next, and now Mr Cameron is in the doghouse.

The UK Independence Party is threatening to issue a libel writ after he
described them as, "fruitcakes and loonies - and closet racists mostly".

Shock, horror: old Etonian toff talks like the man or woman in the street - but
to the motley bunch of arrivistes in UKIP this malicious, damaging untruth
requires a full apology in a court of law! Meanwhile, Philip Meeson, whose
budget Jet2.com airline was grounded this week when striking students sat on the
runway at Chambery, is in equally deep water. His website declared, "Jet2.com
... calls for lazy frogs to get back to work!". Distressed French air traffic
controllers deemed these comments "not acceptable".

Perhaps Mr Cameron should take lessons in insults from the singer Morrissey and
Silvio Berlusconi. They are both masters of the slag-off, focusing on an
unlovely bit of the male physique. Mr B described anyone voting against him as
coglioni (meaning testicles or someone with few brain cells). And Morrissey, who
lives in Rome, told an interviewer: "I'd rather eat my own testicles than reform
the Smiths."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

AND SO TO THE FIVE BIG QUESTIONS OF THE WEEK?

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 121 words


1 THE hordes outside The Vatican praying that the deceased Pope John Paul II be
made a saint. Don't they reckon God knows him well enough to decide on his own?

2 IS every boy who is given the name Aaron destined to be given an Asbo?

3 SURELY one way of beating water shortages in the south of England is to get
Prince Charles's servants to follow him around with buckets catching his tears
of self-pity?

4 CELEBRITY Love Island producers lining up Michelle Mc Manus and Jono Coleman
for the next series. Is this a cruel ploy to help global warming sink those
precarious island seven quicker?

5 DAVID Cameron calling UKIP members "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

Shouldn't someone tell him Robert Kilroy-Silk left last year?

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THAT SINKING FEELING: Jono

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

CAM TOLD: SAY SORRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 91 words


TORY leader David Cameron was yesterday threatened with legal action unless he
apologised for calling the UK Independence Party racists.

Ukip leader Roger Knapman told Radio 4's PM programme: "Mr Cameron called us
closet racists and to be a racist is a criminal charge."

He said Mr Cameron should have the "good grace" to say sorry.

Mr Knapman added: "We will take legal action unless we get an apology."

In an interview on LBC radio on Tuesday, the Tory leader said: "Ukip is sort of
a bunch of... fruit cakes and loonies and closet racists mostly."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

UKIP MEPs held a "tea and fruitcake" party

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 28  words


THE WHIP is told that as a result of David Cameron's comments when he called
UKIP members "fruitcakes", UKIP MEPs held a "tea and fruitcake" party yesterday
in Strasbourg.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

UKIP deserves better

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 335 words


We cannot know if David Cameron's decision to insult the UK Independence Party,
on a morning radio programme yesterday, was a spur-of-the-moment remark or part
of a considered strategy. Either way, it was a mistake.

If the Conservatives have a strategy to denigrate UKIP, in the hope of halting
the erosion of their own vote, they should remember Michael Howard's blunder
before the 2004 European elections. When he called UKIP leaders "cranks and
gadflies'', their vote climbed appreciably. Given the commendable cussedness of
the British, Mr Cameron's suggestion that party members are "fruitcakes, loonies
and closet racists'' will almost certainly have the same effect.

Some UKIP members are no doubt mad and bad. So are some Conservative, Labour and
Liberal Democrat members. Mr Cameron's real error, however, is that while UKIP
has supporters from across the political spectrum, all equally disenchanted with
the bland centrism of the main parties, the fact is that UKIP takes its votes
overwhelmingly from the Tories. There is a reason for this. Conservatism has
never been a pan-national movement; its origins are in the proud patriotism of
Pitt, Disraeli and Churchill. Without being narrowly insular, the Tory party has
traditionally believed the basis of politics to be the self-government of the
United Kingdom. Voters who jump ship because they feel the party has been
insufficiently true to this tradition deserve solicitation, not scorn.

Rather than a strategic move, it is more likely that Mr Cameron's remark was an
off-the-cuff expression of what he considers a normal and unobjectionable view.
This bodes ill for the cause of the Conservative Party at the next election.
Westminster types, to be sure, may regard single-issue fringe parties as strange
fruit, a distraction from the task of gaining the "centre ground'' and so
winning power. But it is precisely this sneering indifference to people's
passionate concerns that makes them so fed up with politics. The Tory leader
should apologise.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Off-the-cuff Cameron accuses Ukip of being 'fruitcakes and closet racists'

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 440 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday branded the UK Independence Party "a bunch of fruitcakes
and loonies and closet racists''.

His apparently spontaneous remarks are the Tories' most outspoken attack on the
Eurosceptic party. Michael Howard, Mr Cameron's predecessor, dismissed them in
2004 as "cranks and political gadflies''.

Mr Cameron's comments, in an LBC radio interview, came a day after Ukip
threatened to use Freedom of Information laws to force the Tories to disclose
the names of people behind pounds 5 million of loans hastily repaid by the
party. Despite threats of legal action from Ukip leaders, Mr Cameron refused to
back down and went further on the offensive. "I don't think I'm saying anything
that hasn't been said before,'' he said on a visit to Leeds.

Mr Cameron - whose press aide, George Eustice, was a Ukip European parliamentary
candidate in 1999 - also claimed that Alan Sked, Ukip's founding member, "left
the party because he thought they had been infiltrated by the far-Right''.

The Tories later issued a list of alleged links between Ukip and the far-Right
British National Party. Ukip leaders were last night consulting lawyers over
whether a political party could collectively sue for libel.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the European Parliament, dismissed the Tory
allegations out of hand and demanded an apology from Mr Cameron.

He said: "For Mr Cameron to resort to this combination of petty name-calling and
disgraceful smears is hardly a statesmanlike approach for someone who hopes to
become the next-but-one Prime Minister.

"We are a non-racist, non-sectarian party whose offence, in Mr Cameron's eyes,
has been to attempt to force his party to disclose its sources of finance.''

Mr Farage, who secured a correction from The Times in 1999 for claiming that he
had had contact with BNP political extremists, added: "He should apologise, not
just to us, but to the 2.7 million voters who supported us in the European
elections in 2004. We have a sense of humour but we draw the line at his
accusation.'' Ukip, which has only 20,000 members, is a lesser threat to the
Tories now than in 2004 when it came third in the European Parliament election
with 16.1 per cent of the vote.

But despite® polling only 2.3 per cent of the vote at the last general election,
Ukip claims it prevented the Tories from winning 26 more seats. There appeared
to be mixed reactions last night on the conservativehome.com website, with one
applauding Mr Cameron for "showing some edge''.

But a South-West Tory warned that at the rate he was going, the Cameron-led Tory
party would be "concentrated around tavernas and wine bars in Notting Hill''.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron stands by UKIP 'racist' jibe

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN

SECTION: ED 3RD 04; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words


THE UK Independence Party was branded a collection of 'fruit cakes, loonies and
closet racists' by David Cameron yesterday.

The racist charge and Tory claims that UKIP has harboured figures from the far
Right were furiously denied.

UKIP chiefs demanded an apology last night and said they are consulting lawyers.

The Conservative leader's comments show his desire to occupy the middle ground
and distinguish his party from hardline anti-Europeans.

Rubbishing UKIP, which beat the Liberal Democrats into fourth place at the last
European polls, may also help win back former supporters.

Mr Cameron told LBC radio listeners in London: 'UKIP is sort of a bunch of fruit
cakes and loonies and closet racists mostly.' Senior Tory sources said that the
attack was not premeditated. But UKIP claimed the move was in return for a
threat to use the Freedom of Information Act to try to force Mr Cameron to
reveal his party's secret donors.

Mr Cameron was unrepentant about the comments.

Asked later about his statement as he entered a meeting in Leeds, he said: 'I
don't think I'm saying anything that hasn't been said before.

'UKIP have some issues not least that their own founding member Dr (Alan) Sked
left the party because he thought they had been infiltrated by the far Right.'
Mr Sked, who quit the party in 1999, had also alleged that Nigel Farage, UKIP's
leader in the European Parliament, once told him: 'We will never win the nigger
vote. The nignogs will never vote for us.' Mr Farage said the story was
'absolute lies'.

A Tory dossier issued yesterday also quoted Ashok Viswanathan, of Operation
Black Vote, who said in 1999: 'We know that a number of candidates who have
stood for UKIP have British National Party links.

'It's not just about anti-Europe. It's anti-black, it's antiminority,
anti-migrants, antiasylum seekers.' Mr Farage denied that UKIP is racist. He
added: 'I don't mind him (Mr Cameron) calling us loonies I don't mind him
calling us fruit cakes. We are big enough and ugly enough and we have a sense of
humour.

'But what you cannot do in the 21st century is to lob about accusations of
racism. That is an absolute disgrace. We are a non-racist, non-sectarian party
and we always have been.' UKIP leader Roger Knapman dismissed Mr Cameron's radio
interview as 'a sad, silly stupid affair'.

UKIP admits throwing out 11 BNP infiltrators in 2004.

Mr Cameron's press secretary, George Eustice, stood for the party in the 1999
European elections.

t.shipman@dailymail.co.uk

BACKLASH OVER ELECTION FUNDING PLAN

TONY Blair and David Cameron face a backlash against plans to make taxpayers
foot the bill for their election campaigns.

The Prime Minister and Tory leader met last night to discuss Conservative
proposals to give more than Pounds 15million of public funds to the major
parties each year.

But campaigners condemned the plans. Mr Cameron and Mr Blair want to extinguish
the allegations of sleaze surrounding the parties' decisions to secure secret
loans to avoid scrutiny by funding watchdogs.

The Tories have proposed an annual limit of Pounds 50,000 from each donor and
funds levied at the rate of 60p for every vote that parties win at the previous
election.

By this formula, Pounds 16.2million would have been taken from the public purse
after last year's election.

However, the Taxpayers' Alliance pressure group said taxpayers should not pay
for political propaganda. Meanwhile, Tory MP Nigel Evans said a majority of
people had 'reservations' about using money that could be spent on the NHS on
political parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Ukip threatens to sue over Cameron's 'racist' remark

BYLINE: Michael White and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 574 words


The Conservative leader, David Cameron, was last night threatened with a libel
action by the UK Independence party (Ukip) after accusing his rivals for
rightwing Eurosceptic votes of being "fruitcakes and loonies - and closet
racists mostly".

Allies of the Tory leader, who is determined to win back votes lost to Ukip at
the last election, insisted there was no reason for him to apologise.

But Ukip, which has always been sensitive to charges that it is a tactical
alternative to the British National party (BNP), angrily denied the "closet
racist" accusation and claimed that Mr Cameron's remarks were a response to
Ukip's move this week to publish names of the Tory party's secret financial
backers.

Nigel Farage, leader of the Ukip group in the European parliament, said: "You
cannot go round in the 21st century lobbing accusations of racism at a political
party that got 2.7m votes 18 months ago.

"It is unacceptable. "We are big enough and ugly enough to put up with being
called fruitcakes or loonies or gadflies. But this we will not put up with. We
are talking to lawyers. There is this question: can a political party be
libelled? To call someone racist in modern Britain is to accuse them of being
criminal. We will not take this lying down."

Mr Cameron's remarks were made during a phone-in on the London radio station LBC
four weeks before local elections where the two parties will fight for votes on
the political right. The most conspicuous exception to Mr Cameron's move to the
centre ground since December has been Europe where he is threatening to leave
the main conservative bloc because it is too pro-European.

Mr Cameron declined to apologise yesterday: "I don't think I'm saying anything
that hasn't been said before. Ukip have some issues - not least that their own
founding member Dr (Alan) Sked left the party because he thought they had been
infiltrated by the far right."

The Tory deputy chairman, Eric Pickles, MP for Brentwood and Ongar on the Essex
fringes where Ukip polled 4.1% of the votes in 2005, reinforced his leader's
defiance. "A number of organisations . . . accuse Ukip of spreading hate and
bigotry and they say it's not just anti-Europe, it's anti-black, it's
anti-minority, anti-immigrants, anti-asylum seekers," he said.

Ukip demanded this week that the Electoral Commission release all details of
gifts and loans made by anonymous donors to the Tory party before the last
election. Mr Cameron is keen to make a clean breast of past funding issues, but
wants to retain confidentiality for supporters who made it a condition of their
cheque-writing.

The row is all the nastier because some Tories used to belong to Ukip and vice
versa, including Mr Cameron's press officer, George Eustace, who was a past Ukip
candidate. Roger Knapman, Ukip's leader and former Tory MP, said: "It was a sad,
silly, stupid affair by . . . Mr Cameron who is inexperienced as party leader
and as a politician generally."

Mr Farage cited Ukip's recent expulsion of one of Silvio Berlusconi's coalition
partners from its grouping in the European parliament. The Italian Northern
League's four MEPs were thrown out after one of its ministers wore a T-shirt
printed with cartoons satirising the prophet Muhammad. He said: "We thought the
Italian Northern League were OK. But they have become Islamaphobic to an extent
we find unsettling . . . We adopt a firm line on immigration and asylum. But you
haven't got to be racist to do that."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron attacks UKIP as 'fruitcakes and loonies'

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 219 words


David Cameron branded the UK Independence Party "a bunch of fruit cakes and
loonies and closet racists" yesterday. UKIP leaders described Mr Cameron's
remarks as "sad, silly, stupid", and suggested that they were a sign of the
Conservative leader's inexperience

The exchange suggests Tory strategists are anxious about the drift of potential
supporters to UKIP, which advocates outright withdrawal from the EU and strict
immigration controls.

Mr Cameron's comments came after UKIP said it wanted to use the Freedom of
Information Act to force the Tories to name wealthy backers who have loaned the
party money. Asked on LBC radio for his reaction, Mr Cameron replied: "UKIP is
sort of a bunch of fruit cakes and loonies and closet racists mostly."

Mr Cameron later claimed UKIP's founder, Alan Sked, had left UKIP because "he
thought they had been infiltrated by the far right." He added: "I was making a
general point that they are the 'stop the world, I want to get off 'party.'
UKIP's leader, Roger Knapman, said: "We got nearly three million people to vote
for us at the last European elections and by implication he's saying they are
supporting a racist organisation. We are not.

"It was a sad, silly, stupid affair by Mr Cameron who is inexperienced as party
leader, " he told BBC Radio's World at One programme.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

FRUITCAKES, LOONIES ..AND CLOSET RACISTS;
DAVID CAMERON TELLS IT LIKE IT IS ABOUT UKIP

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 131 words


IN an astonishing moment of clarity, David Cameron yesterday branded the UK
Independence Party "fruit cakes and loonies and closet racists".

The Tory leader attacked Ukip after it said it would use the Freedom of
Information Act to force him to reveal backers who had secretly lent the
Conservatives money.

Mr Cameron said on LBC radio the party was just trying to make mischief. He
added "Ukip is sort of a bunch of... fruit cakes and loonies and closet racists
mostly." But the Tory toff's outburst will be a little uncomfortable for his
chief spin doctor George Eustice, who once stood for the party. Ukip Euro MP
Nigel Farage fumed: "He should apologise. "Fruit cakes and loonies we can live
with, we have a sense of humour, but we draw the line at his unfounded
accusations of racism."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTRAGED: Farage' TOFF TALK: Cameron on air yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Britain - Tory leader brands UKIP 'fruitcakes' and 'closet racists'

LENGTH: 169 words


Enraged UK Independence Party members demanded an apology from Tory leader David
Cameron yesterday after he branded them "fruitcakes" and "closet racists."

Mr Cameron lashed out at the erstwhile Conservatives after UKIP said that it
would use the Freedom of Information Act to try to force him to reveal backers
who had secretly lent the Tories money.

He claimed that it was just trying to make mischief, telling LBC radio: "UKIP is
sort of a bunch of fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists mostly."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage angrily accused the Tory leader of "petty name-calling and
disgraceful smears" and demanded an apology, "not just to us but to the 2.7
million voters who supported us in 2004."

Mr Cameron's outburst caused further embarrassment for his chief spin doctor
George Eustice, who once stood for UKIP in the European elections.

But his own party has not escaped the taint of racism. In 2004, Tory MP Ann
Winterton had the whip withdrawn after she made a sick joke about the Chinese
cockle-picker tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron jibe at UKIP 'fruitcakes'

LENGTH: 135  words


DAVID CAMERON waded into a storm last night by branding the UK Independence
Party "closet racists" and "fruitcakes".

The Conservative leader snapped after UKIP called for him to reveal his party's
secret financial backers.

He told LBC radio: "UKIP is a bunch of fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists
mostly."

Mr Cameron's chief spokesman George Eustice once stood as a UKIP candidate.

In a rare show of temper Mr Cameron let slip his unease about the Tories' secret
loans.

He later added: "I was making a general point that they are the 'stop the world
I want to get off' party. I don't think they've got anything to say to a modern
country."

But Euro MP Nigel Farage hit back: "For him to resort to petty name-calling and
disgraceful smears is hardly a statesman-like approach for someone hoping to be
Prime Minister."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 5, 2006, Wednesday

Cameron airs his loony party piece

BYLINE: Tim Martin

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 102 words


A GRAND showing by David Cameron on Nick Ferrari's LBC radio show, discussing
the UK Independence Party's threat to make the Tories reveal donor names under
the Freedom of Information Act.

"UKIP," reflected Cameron, "well, you know, it's just a bunch of, well,
fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists, basically."

How did these comments go down with George Eustice, Cameron's spin-doctor, who
stood as a UKIP candidate in the 1999 European elections? Is George a fruitcake
and a loony and a closet racist too?

"Um...no," says Eustice. "I was only in UKIP about six months. We don't disagree
about this." Just as well.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 4, 2006

Blair and Cameron discuss party funding

LENGTH: 392 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tony Blair and David Cameron are today holding private face-to-face
talks on party funding, following the sleaze rows that have engulfed both their
parties over their secret loans.


Tony Blair and David Cameron are today holding private face-to-face talks on
party funding, following the sleaze rows that have engulfed both their parties
over their secret loans.

On the agenda is some form of state funding for parties, after it was revealed
that Labour and the Tories received around 40m in confidential loans ahead of
the last general election.

Today the Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, demanded to know why
the loans had been accepted, and what the lenders had expected to gain from
them.

Campaigning in Manchester for the local elections, Sir Menzies said: ""It may be
that these loan arrangements conform to the letter of the law, but they do not
conform to the spirit of the law and to the principle of transparency on which
it is based."

Last Friday the Tories - after a week of pressure - published the names of 13
lenders who had given the party money, although an unknown further number were
kept anonymous because the party agreed to repay their 5m of loans.

Some of those lenders have been based abroad.

Mr Cameron has previously suggested a 5,000 cap on individual donations and a
ban on non-bank loans.

Labour has made public the identities of 12 businessmen who secretly loaned it
almost 14m in the run-up to the general election.

Labour MP Ian Austin - a former spokesman for the chancellor, Gordon Brown -
said today's meeting was an opportunity for the Conservative leader to be open
about his party's finances.

"The Tories have taken all sorts of cash from murky sources in the past and it
seems as if they still haven't cleaned up their act.

"They have come up with all sorts of crafty scams to get around the rules we
thought all the parties had signed up to.

"David Cameron must use his meeting with the prime minister to come clean and
tell us the truth about his party's reliance on secretive trusts and who
controls them. Refusing to do so will show the British people there is nothing
new about David Cameron's Tory party."

He said if Conservatives did not name their lenders, the Electoral Commission
should investigate and compel the Conservatives to disclose the details.

The UK Independence party has vowed to use the Freedom of Information Act to
unmask the secret Tory backers who lent the party 5m to bankroll its general
election campaign once the details have been passed to the Electoral Commission.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              131 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 4, 2006

Ukip demands apology from Cameron

LENGTH: 265 words



HIGHLIGHT: The UK Independence party today demanded an apology from David
Cameron after he described them as 'fruitcakes', 'loonies' and 'closet racists'.



The UK Independence party today demanded an apology from David Cameron after he
described them as "fruitcakes", "loonies" and "closet racists".

The Tory party leader's remarks came after Ukip threatened to use the Freedom of
Information Act to force him to reveal the names of individuals who have
secretly lent money to the Conservative party.

"Ukip is sort of a bunch of ... fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists
mostly," Mr Cameron told LBC radio.

Nigel Farage MEP, Ukip's co-founder, described the remarks as "disgraceful. We
demand an apology".

"We don't mind name-calling, it's politics, but in this day and age there are
things you can't call people and racist is one of them," he said. He demanded to
know "where and when" Mr Cameron was accusing the party of racism.

"We haven't said or done anything remotely racist. We've just elected Delroy
Young [who is black] to our NEC." He said the party had many black members who
would be offended by the allegation.

"Unless he apologises, we're not ruling anything out." The party was "not going
to dash straight to the lawyers" but it would not let the matter drop, Mr Farage
added.

One of Mr Cameron's advisers, George Eustice, stood for Ukip in the 1999
European elections and went on to lead the No campaign against British entry to
the euro. "We're waiting for his call," Mr Farage said today.

Ukip wrote to the information commissioner yesterday to ask for the details of
the Conservative loans to be released. Henry Campbell Bannerman, the party
chairman, argues that the disclosure of the information would be in the public
interest.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              132 of 134 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 4, 2006

Cameron refuses to apologise to Ukip

LENGTH: 403 words



HIGHLIGHT: David Cameron today refused to apologise for describing the UK
Independence party as 'fruitcakes', 'loonies' and 'closet racists'.


David Cameron today refused to apologise for describing the UK Independence
party as "fruitcakes", "loonies" and "closet racists".

The Conservative leader's remarks came after Ukip threatened to use the Freedom
of Information Act to force him to reveal the names of individuals who have
secretly lent money to the Conservative party.

"Ukip is sort of a bunch of ... fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists
mostly," Mr Cameron told LBC radio.

Ukip's leader Roger Knapman said the attack on his party was a "sad, silly,
stupid affair by ... Mr Cameron who is inexperienced as party leader and as a
politician generally."

Nigel Farage MEP, Ukip's co-founder, described the remarks as "disgraceful. We
demand an apology".

"We don't mind name-calling, it's politics, but in this day and age there are
things you can't call people and racist is one of them," he said.

"Fruit cakes and loonies we can live with - we have a sense of humour - but we
draw the line at his unfounded accusations of racism." He demanded to know
"where and when" Mr Cameron was accusing the party of racism.

"We haven't said or done anything remotely racist. We've just elected Delroy
Young [who is black] to our NEC." He said the party had many black members who
would be offended by the allegation.

"Unless he apologises, we're not ruling anything out." The party was "not going
to dash straight to the lawyers" but it would not let the matter drop, Mr Farage
added.

But Mr Cameron defended his remarks before a meeting in Leeds today. "I don't
think I'm saying anything that hasn't been said before. Ukip have some issues -
not least that their own founding member Dr [Alan] Sked left the party because
he thought they had been infiltrated by the far right ... I was making a general
point that they are the 'stop the world I want to get off' party."

One of Mr Cameron's advisers, George Eustice, stood for Ukip in the 1999
European elections and went on to lead the No campaign against British entry to
the euro. "We're waiting for his call," Mr Farage said today.

Eric Pickles, the deputy chairman of the Conservative party, backed Mr Cameron,
saying he had a "legitimate point" and Ukip had had "too easy a deal".

Ukip wrote to the information commissioner yesterday to ask for the details of
the Conservative loans to be released. David Campbell Bannerman, the party
chairman, argues that the disclosure of the information would be in the public
interest.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              133 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             April 4, 2006, Tuesday

Voters ask: what more can Blair do in No 10?

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words


WHAT is the point of Tony Blair? Answering that question will determine how long
Mr Blair remains in 10 Downing Street. Forget the stories about a new low in
Blair-Brown relations, the poisonous activities of various courtiers, and the
remarks of the Blairite "outriders" (aka Alan Milburn and Stephen Byers, the
boys from the North).

That is surface noise, which most people ignore. The real question is much
simpler. Can Mr Blair achieve much more as Prime Minister?

In a finding that will worry the Blairites, the latest Populus poll for The
Times, undertaken over the weekend, shows that nearly three fifths of the public
(57 per cent) think that he has "run out of steam and is unlikely to achieve
anything else as Prime Minister". Only 37 per cent think there are "plenty of
things" he can still achieve before he stands down.

But Mr Blair remains determined to fight back. In interviews yesterday, he
emphasised the "massive amount" he still had to do: addressing anti social
behaviour, health, welfare and pensions reform etc. And you could add Iraq,
Iran, nuclear energy and a successor to Trident.

But does he any longer have the authority to push through such changes?

It is always unwise to write off Mr Blair. One of his central political
qualities is resilience. He also now has a clear idea about reform of public
services. And he has been impatiently peppering ideas and notes to allies and
advisers.

Mr Blair does not face pressure from Labour supporters, as opposed to some MPs
and activists. Two thirds of Labour voters believe there is a lot he can still
do, with just a third saying he has run out of steam.

While there has been a four-point rise since January to 28 per cent in the
number thinking that he should step down this year, 50 per cent of Labour voters
say he should not go until just before the next election, a rise of eight points
since January. By contrast, nearly half of all voters (47 per cent) believe Mr
Blair should go this year.

Moreover, for all the feverish atmosphere at Westminster, Labour's poll ratings
have held up, at level-pegging with the Tories. Labour is up one point since
last month at 36 per cent, with the Tories down one point at 34 per cent. There
has been a small, but steady, drop in Tory support since January. The Liberal
Democrats have continued their post-leadership crisis recovery, gaining one
point to 21 per cent. Others are 10 per cent, up one point. The figures do not
add up to 100 per cent because of rounding. (For more details see
www.populuslimited.com, which also explains a small change this month in the
weighting of the sample.) The poll also underlines how instractable the party
funding mess is. Voters reject both the current system of big donations and the
main alternative of increased state funding. Nearly four fifths (79 per cent)
think that there should be a limit on the amount of money an individual,
company, organisation or trade union can give to any party; just 19 per cent
disagree. However, by a narrower margin of 53 to 43 per cent, voters also oppose
funding of parties by the State.

The only option that gains majority support is tax relief on "relatively small
individual donations" so as to reduce reliance on big donations. This is backed
by 54 per cent and opposed by 42 per cent.

A third of the public say that they would give money to a party if tax relief
were given, though two thirds would not. The Tories and Lib Dems have backed a
cap on donations and tax relief, leaving Labour with the dilemma of its link
with the unions and their big donations.

Overall, Labour remains relatively strong, and the Tories have all the hard work
still to do. But Mr Blair remains vulnerable. He will require all his willpower
to counter this self-feeding frenzy.

David Cameron is to be challenged under the Freedom of Information Act by the
United Kingdom Independence Party to reveal the names of the donors who had £ 5
million of secret loans repaid to guarantee their anonymity.

Leading article, page 17

IS HE RUNNING OUT OF TIME?

When should Blair go?

(% change since last January in brackets)

All voters. Labour voters

Now

34 (+6). 14 (+1)

By the end of this year

13 (no change). 14 (+3)

Next year

9 (no change). 14 (-1)

Just before the next election

33 (-1). 50 (+8)

Don't know

10 (-5). 8 (-11)

What can Blair still do?

All voters. Labour voters

There are plenty of things that Blair can still achieve before he stands down as
PM.

37. 66

Tony Blair has run out of steam and is unlikely to achieve anything else as PM.

57. 32

Source: Populus for The Times, based on interviews March 31 to April 2.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 134 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CROSS BENCHER;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 69  words


NO ONE tell Robert Kilroy-Silk, but Ukip is on the lookout for a new leader.
Current party boss Roger Knapman plans to stand down in September. Nigel Farage,
the outspoken leader of the party's MEPs in Brussels, is a dead cert to stand.
"But, as David Cameron himself said when he stood for the Tory leadership, "
says Farage, "anyone who wants to be leader of a political party must have a
screw loose somewhere."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
